BUILDING A BOLD AND SUSTAINABLE FUTURE A N N UA L REP ORT 2017 WELCOME TO ROTORK Rotork is a market-leading solution provider for the actuation, flow control and industrial markets. We have over 3,800 talented employees who work across a global network of local offices and established manufacturing facilities to provide a world-class service to our customers. Our flow control products are used extensively in the oil and gas, water, power and industrial markets, amongst others. Our customers rely on us for innovative, high quality engineered products and services, many of which are used in mission-critical applications. The Group comprises four actuation and flow control divisions along with our cross-divisional Site Services team. We deliver a high return on capital and strong sustainable margins from our diverse end markets and wide geographic spread. Why invest in us We are taking steps to return the Group to the higher levels of organic growth and margins previously delivered. See our investment case on page 6 Our strategy We deliver a high return on capital with strong and sustainable margins, consistent growth in revenues and profits and strong cash generation. See our strategy on page 14 Our business model Our capital efficient model, combining the benefits of global expertise and local service, positions us well to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders. See our business model on page 16 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Overview OUR PERFORMANCE Revenue Profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax* Strategic Report £642.2m £80.6m £124.8m +8.8% -11.5% +5.8% 17 £642.2m 17 £80.6m 17 £124.8m 16 £590.1m 16 £91.1m 16 £117.9m Adjusted operating profit* Earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share* £130.2m 6.4p 10.6p Governance +7.9% -16.9% +6.0% 17 £130.2m 17 6.4p 17 10.6p 16 £120.6m 16 7.7p 16 10.0p • Market outlook improving CONTENTS • Increasing order book OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE 2017 highlights 01 Board of Directors 54 • Growing contribution from new products At a glance 02 Corporate Governance Report 56 Financial Statements and service Executive Chairman’s statement 04 Audit Committee Report 62 Our investment case 06 Nomination Committee Report 66 • New Chief Executive appointed Directors’ Remuneration Report 68 STRATEGIC REPORT • Growth acceleration programme initiated Our strategic framework 10 Report of the Directors 84 • Initial opportunities actioned Our market environment 12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our strategy 14 Independent auditor’s report • Balance sheet strengthened, with cash Our business model 16 to the members of Rotork plc 88 Consolidated income statement 94 conversion of 109.1% How we manage risk 18 Principal risks and uncertainties 22 Consolidated statement Viability statement 25 of comprehensive income 94 Operating review 26 Consolidated balance sheet 95 –– Operational performance Consolidated statement of changes in equity 96 –– Rotork Controls Consolidated statement –– Rotork Fluid Systems of cash flows 97 Company Information –– Rotork Gears Notes to the Group –– Rotork Instruments financial statements 98 Financial review 32 Rotork plc Company Key performance indicators 36 balance sheet 132 Corporate social responsibility 38 Rotork plc Company –– Our people statement of changes * References to adjusted performance measures throughout this –– Corporate social responsibility in equity 133 document relate to statutory results adjusted to exclude –– Ethics and values Notes to the Company amortisation of acquired intangibles and other adjustments (see –– Community involvement financial statements 134 note 2). –– Helping the environment COMPANY INFORMATION References to organic constant currency (OCC) or underlying –– Health and safety Ten year trading history 140 results throughout this document are the 2017 figures restated at 2016 exchange rates, excluding the incremental contribution Share register information 141 from acquisitions. Corporate directory 142 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 01 AT A GLANCE Our customers rely upon Rotork for innovative, reliable solutions to manage the flow of liquids and gases. OUR DIVISIONS We have four product divisions and a service group, Rotork Site Services, which works across all four divisions, providing planned and emergency services for all of our flow control products worldwide. ROTORK CONTROLS ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS ROTORK GEARS ROTORK INSTRUMENTS Rotork Controls’ products include Rotork Fluid Systems Rotork Gears is a specialist Rotork Instruments manufactures the Group’s electric valve actuator manufactures and supplies a manufacturer and supplier of and supplies instrumentation and ranges and network control comprehensive range of gearboxes, adaptations and control products for flow, systems for all applications, and pneumatic, hydraulic and accessories to the international pressure, temperature and it is the largest independent electro-hydraulic actuators and valve and actuator industry. Its position measurement manufacturer in its sector. It offers control systems that are used in products offer solutions for light applications. Its diverse portfolio electric solutions for on/off and a wide range of applications, duty industrial applications provides many different solutions process applications where a high including emergency shutdown through to the harshest across a wide range of industries. degree of accuracy is required. and protective service. environments, including subsea. Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue £325.2m £150.1m £83.9m £100.6m +9.0% +3.3% +15.9% +10.4% 17 £325.2m 17 £150.1m 17 £83.9m 17 £100.6m 16 £298.4m 16 £145.3m 16 £72.4m 16 £91.2m Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit £92.9m £9.0m £15.7m £20.5m +6.4% +45.9% +11.9% +1.6% 17 £92.9m 17 £9.0m 17 £15.7m 17 £20.5m 16 £87.3m 16 £6.2m 16 £14.1m 16 £20.1m Revenue by division n Controls49% n Fluid Systems 23% n Gears13% n Instruments15% See the divisional reviews on pages 28-31 02 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview OUR END USER MARKETS OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Strategic Report Our products and services are used extensively in the A global business with over 3,800 employees, we serve oil and gas, power, water and industrial markets customers in more than 168 countries through our around the world to improve efficiency, assure safety network of 65 offices, 25 manufacturing facilities and and protect the environment. The development of our our relationships with local agents. Our 480 service product portfolio allows expansion into new and engineers are based throughout our network providing diverse markets. maintenance, repair and upgrade services. OIL AND GAS POWER Our global footprint allows us to capitalise on our investment in Rotork products are used on Rotork products are found in technical and sales support at a local level, close to the customer, applications for upstream, conventional power stations, while leveraging Group wide resources and expertise in fostering midstream and downstream emission reduction plants, such our reputation for excellence in innovation and the quality of our activities including offshore as flue gas desulphurisation, products and services. and onshore production and renewable energy plants, facilities, refining, processing, such as solar collecting power We are currently reviewing our manufacturing footprint to ensure Governance transportation, storage stations. Rotork products are we make the most efficient use of our resources. and distribution. also certified for use on nuclear power stations, both inside WATER and outside containment. Water treatment and distribution offers significant INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER opportunities for Rotork Other industries served by through modern state-of-theRotork include mining, HVAC art processes which maximise and marine and any other existing resources, such as industry where you are trying desalination plants and water to control flow, for example, re-use projects, together with food and beverage. Manufacturing conventional water and facilities wastewater plants. Financial Statements UK x6 Italy x3 Manufacturing facilities Offices Employees Americas 7 11 721 Europe, Middle East and Africa 13 25 2,159 Asia and Australia 5 29 955 Company Information Revenue by Revenue by end user market end destination n Oil and gas 50% n Americas25% n Water13% n Europe31% n Power  15% n Rest of World 44% n Industrial and other 22%  See our operating review See our operating review on pages 26-31 on pages 26-31 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 03 EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT We are committed to building a bold and sustainable future for Rotork, returning the business to higher growth and margin levels, despite a lower growth market environment. I am pleased to report that, in a period of change We have seen a return to more favourable market conditions following a stabilisation of the for the Group, Rotork has delivered another solid oil price and improving macroeconomic trends in set of full year results with growth in order intake, a number of our geographic markets. Within the Group’s oil and gas markets, representing around revenue and adjusted operating profit. Despite half of the Group’s revenues, customers’ inflationary pressures the adjusted operating investment in existing facilities, both in respect of maintenance and upgrades, has returned to margin has been maintained above 20%, more normal levels, providing more consistency demonstrating the resilience of our business. to order input. Investments in major new projects remains patchy and although still below historic highs, increased levels of quotation activity point to a generally improving position as the break-even point for new well construction continues to reduce. Notwithstanding this generally lower investment climate for our oil and gas markets, we are committed, over time, to returning the business to the higher growth and margin levels previously delivered by the Group. The lower oil price has focused our customers on the need to embrace smarter, more efficient technologies in driving down the cost of production, and encouraged the use of the latest predictive maintenance tools in Revenue minimising process downtime. Rotork is £642.2m exceptionally well placed to capitalise on these trends, and we plan to increase significantly our investment in innovative new technologies, and expand our service capabilities. This +8.8% additional investment will be funded by a reshaping of our sales and operating infrastructure, concentrating Adjusted operating profit* resources to drive critical mass £130.2m and upgrading our management systems. Working in partnership with a +7.9% number of external consultants, we are engaged in a series of reviews to fully understand the impact of the changing market dynamics on our innovation funnel, and to examine ways to better align our commercial infrastructure to our customers’ needs and routes to market. In addition we are also undertaking a detailed review of our operating footprint, global supply chain, IT infrastructure and talent base. Outputs to date already provide considerable assurance around our long-term growth and margin ambitions. These ongoing reviews are expected to contribute significantly to 04 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 the growth acceleration plans being developed We also announced the appointment of Peter We expect the cost environment to be generally Overview by our newly appointed Chief Executive, Kevin Dilnot to the Board as a non-executive director more inflationary with pressure on wages and Hostetler. Initial opportunities arising from the with effect from 1 September 2017. He is a commodities. The pricing environment appears to early analysis are already being actioned, with member of the Audit, Nomination and have stabilised in most end markets albeit pockets consolidation of operations in Germany and Remuneration Committees of the Board. Peter is of intense competition exist in more Italy presently underway. Chief Executive Officer of Renewi plc, the commoditised product areas. Together with international waste-to-product company significant value engineering activities and a more Financial highlights created in 2017 by the merger of Shanks Group integrated approach to procurement, we would Order intake increased by 15.6% on the prior plc and Van Gansewinkel Groep B.V.. We are expect to maintain the status quo. year, or 8.2% on an OCC basis*, reflecting an delighted to welcome Peter to the Board. improvement in several of our end markets, Adjusted operating margins are expected to be with increased activity in upstream oil and gas The Board currently comprises two executive similar, with contributions from higher volumes and power and good progress in water and directors, four independent non-executive offset by increased investments in new products, industrial processes. Midstream oil and gas directors and myself as Executive Chairman. expansion of our service infrastructure, and remained challenging while downstream started Rotork has complied with the UK Corporate accelerated investment in our systems and IT to improve in the second half of the year. Governance Code (the Code) in all respects, save capabilities. These investments represent the first Strategic Report that, following Peter France’s resignation as Chief steps in our ambition to return the business to Revenue increased by 8.8% to £642.2m with Executive in July 2017, I have acted as Executive higher levels of underlying growth, with priority currency contributing 5.6% and the Chairman. We are in compliance with our stated areas emanating from the strategic reviews contribution from acquisitions being 0.9%. On aim that at least 25% of our independent undertaken to date. an OCC basis, revenue increased by 2.3%, non-executive directors are women. reflecting the traditional lag in order activity One off costs associated with the ongoing flowing through to revenue. The annual performance review of the Board strategic reviews, and any initial rationalisation took place during February and March 2017; opportunities arising from those reviews, are likely Adjusted operating profit increased by £9.6m see page 60 of the Corporate Governance to be at similar levels in H1 to H2 last year. We will to £130.2m (OCC: up £3.0m) with adjusted Report for further details. update the market on likely costs for H2 in August operating margin 10 basis points lower at alongside more detail around our plans for 20.3%. Although our gross margins held up Corporate governance growth acceleration and business transformation. well, the increase in revenue was offset by The Board continues to be committed to the inflationary cost increases. highest standards of governance. During the We expect 2018 to be a busy year for Rotork, year, the Board and Audit Committee were following the appointment of our new Chief Governance Board composition and performance involved in work related to risk appetite and Executive, as we embark on our ambition to On 28 July 2017 we announced the resignation monitoring and disclosure of risk, building on return the Group to its former growth and of Peter France as Chief Executive. The Board the work that was done during 2016. margin trajectory. asked me to assume the role of full time Executive Chairman on an interim basis until a Further details of this work and its outputs, our MARTIN LAMB successor could be appointed. approach to governance and our compliance Executive Chairman with the Code are contained in the Corporate 5 March 2018 The announcement followed a period of Governance Report on pages 56 to 61. reflection by the Board, together with Peter, on the steps required to foster a return to higher Employees * References to adjusted performance measures growth and margin levels in what is likely to be I would like to thank all of our employees for throughout this document relate to statutory results a generally lower growth macro environment. their continued high level of commitment and adjusted to exclude amortisation of acquired The Board thanks Peter for all his efforts and professionalism during 2017, particularly during intangibles and other adjustments (see note 2). achievements throughout a long and this period of change. I have been impressed References to organic constant currency (OCC) or successful career with the Company and by their ability to deal with the different underlying results throughout this document are the Financial Statements wishes him every success in the future. demands placed on them as we undertake this 2017 figures restated at 2016 exchange rates, series of reviews of different areas of our excluding the incremental contribution from We were delighted to announce in January the business, while still delivering the high levels of acquisitions. appointment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief quality and service that our customers expect. Order intake represents the value of orders received Executive. Kevin joined the Board on during the year. 12 February 2018 and will assume the role of Dividend Chief Executive from 12 March 2018, when I will The Board recommends a final dividend of revert to my role as Non-Executive Chairman. 3.35p per share, a 6.3% increase over the 2016 final dividend. Taken with the 2017 interim OUR PEOPLE Kevin has an impressive track record of dividend, the total dividend is 5.40p per share delivering profitable growth in a number of (2016: 5.10p), representing a 5.9% increase in highly respected and innovative global the total dividend on 2016. The final dividend engineering businesses, with significant will be payable on 23 May 2018 to shareholders experience in the flow control sector. He on the register on 6 April 2018. We aim to be a ‘great place to work’ with adopts leading edge practices and processes strong, consistent values across all of our Company Information honed at Ingersoll Rand, and has delivered Outlook business units. transformational growth for shareholders at Our revenue forecasts for 2018 currently reflect IDEX Corp, a flow control business with highly improving order momentum, pointing to mid We invest in our people and encourage engineered products and strong customer to high single digit organic revenue growth internal development. We are currently service requirements serving similar end year-on-year. However reported results will be engaged in a talent development markets to Rotork. Kevin has recently impacted by currency movements. Based on programme to assess the needs of our concluded a successful exit after leading a current rates we can expect a 4-5% headwind people and ensure we are providing the three year turnaround at FDH Velocitel, a on both revenues and profits compared with best career enhancement and support. private equity backed telecoms business in the last year. USA, and is in the process of relocating from Chicago to Bath, where he has received a warm welcome from the whole Rotork team. See our ethics and values on page 42 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 05 OUR INVESTMENT CASE Our investment case is underpinned by our strategy of delivering a high return on capital and strong sustainable margins from our diverse end markets and wide geographic spread. ACCELER ATED GROW TH STRONG MARGINS TRACK RECORD OF GROWTH HIGH MARGINS Group revenue £m 800 Adjusted operating margin 700 600 500 512 578 595 546 590 642 20.3% 17 20.3% 448 400 16 20.4% 300 200 100 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 See our strategic objectives on pages 14-15 HIGH RETURN ON CAPITAL INVESTMENT IN EMPLOYED (ROCE) FROM OUR INNOVATION ASSET-LIGHT MODEL ROCE* R&D spend 24.9% £14.0m 17 24.9% 17 £14.0m 16 23.4% 16 £11.8m Increased spend in 2017 18.9% 17 18.9% 16 5.9% See our financial review on pages 32-35 * KPIs are defined on pages 36-37 06 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview “We plan to significantly increase our investment in innovation and our service infrastructure, funded by reshaping our sales and operating infrastructure.” MARTIN LAMB Executive Chairman Strategic Report SUSTAINABILIT Y DIVERSE END MARKETS Revenue by Oil and gas revenue by end user market sub-sector n Oil and gas 50% n Upstream34% n Water13% n Midstream 19% n Power15% n Downstream47% Governance n Industrial17% n Other5% See our markets on page 3 GLOBAL REACH, LOCAL PRESENCE STRONG BALANCE SHEET Cash conversion* Financial Statements 109.1% Revenue by end destination n Americas25% n Europe31% 17 109.1% n Rest of World 44% 16 130.1%  Net debt reduced by £42.4m 17 £12.6m 16 £55.0m Company Information STRONG CULTURE WHERE SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS See our corporate social responsibility on pages 38-51 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 07 STRATEGIC REPORT 10 Strategic review  26 Operating review 32 Financial review 38 Corporate social responsibility 08 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES HOW WE CREATE AND SHARE VALUE 12 Market environment  16 Business model  HOW WE MA XIMISE VALUE HOW WE MEASURE VALUE Strategic Report 14 Our strategy  36 Our key performance indicators  18 Our risk management HOW WE DELIVER VALUE HOW WE PERFORMED 38 Corporate social responsibility  26 Operating review  42 Our values 28 Divisional reviews  32 Financial review  Governance INNOVATION CENTRE Financial Statements We are investing in our Bath facility to develop new innovation labs, a purpose-built factory and head office. In order to stay at the forefront of product development it is important that we create the right environment to allow us to attract and retain the best talent, allowing creative and technical skills to be developed. Revenue Company Information £642.2m +8.8% ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 09 Strategic review OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our aim is to deliver a high return on capital with strong and sustainable margins and accelerated growth in revenues and profits which will deliver strong cash generation. The customer experience is at the heart of everything we do. We use our resources and relationships and competitive advantage to create value for all stakeholders. OUR VISION STR ATEGIC RESOURCES AND OBJEC TIVES VALUE CREATION To be the leading solution provider Our aim is to deliver a high return on The customer experience is at the heart of of innovative, high quality engineered capital with strong and sustainable everything we do. We use our resources products and services in our targeted margins and accelerated growth in and relationships and competitive segments of the global flow control and revenues and profits which will deliver advantage to create value for all automation markets across diverse strong cash generation. stakeholders. industries and geographies, meeting customer needs through global expertise delivered locally. See our strategy See our strategy See our business model on page 14 on page 14 on page 16 10 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Strategic Report OUR STR ATEGIC FR AMEWORK OUR VISION Leading provider of high quality engineered products and services in the global flow control and Governance Our aim is to deliver a high automation markets We use our resources, return on capital with strong relationships and and sustainable margins and competitive advantage accelerated growth in revenue to create sustainable STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES and profits which will deliver value for stakeholders. strong cash generation. ON Accelerated Strong Sustainability growth margins TI OR ISI GA QU NI AC RESOURCES C Expertise Innovation Brand Leading quality and Skilled employees, Strong balance Financial Statements reliability winning culture sheet VALUE CREATION Broad product Independent Capital Global Global reach, Diverse end Geographic portfolio solutions efficiency operations local presence markets spread provider BUSINESS SYSTEMS Company Information CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE The customer experience is at the heart of everything we do. n Strategy n Business model ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 Strategic review OUR MARKET ENVIRONMENT Our products and solutions play a critical role in ensuring the safe and efficient operation of global infrastructure in energy, power, water and industrial markets. Increased demand for our products arises from population growth and greater urbanisation supported by pressure for greater automation, improved information using digital technology and greater efficiency and effectiveness. DRIVERS OIL AND GAS WATER 1 Demand for oil and gas remains strong, particularly in faster growing emerging markets. Shifts in energy mix will dampen In emerging markets, the population growth and trend towards urbanisation is driving investment in the water growth for oil and gas in the longer term. infrastructure. POPUL ATION In developed markets, capacity GROW TH, ONGOING expansion and scarcity of conventional URBANISATION water sources requires investment in new technology. The oil price appears to have stabilised Water markets are typically highly 2 around the $50-$60 per barrel range but is regulated with pressure to limit price still considered likely to remain ‘lower for increases to end customers providing longer’ as lower cost US onshore good opportunities where we can provide production places a ceiling on price. more cost effective solutions. LOWER COST, GREATER Oil price reduction and continued pressure Ageing water infrastructure is driving EFFICIENCY on refining margins has placed cash cost spend on maintenance and replacement. reduction at the top of the agenda across the value chain. Many operators are becoming more willing to adopt new technology as a result. We differentiate by engineering cost out of the system and providing innovative, efficient solutions and aftermarket packages. Many players across the value chain Technology development is currently 3 have developed ambitious digital agendas focused on monitoring leakages, in order to reduce cost and improve however, water shortages are driving productivity. The data gathering and continued evolution in smart grids with analysis capabilities of our solutions and automated valves, which will stimulate service offerings enable us to respond well increased demand for our solutions, and REAL TIME DATA AND to this growing requirement, particularly investment in water reuse and FAST RESPONSE regarding predictive maintenance, desalination technology. assisting customers to minimise downtime and improve process optimisation. Operators are aiming to reduce energy Regulation is evolving on a number of 4 consumption and methane emissions. We are developing a number of new solutions that will lower energy consumption. We fronts across different geographies regarding reuse, sludge treatment and water quality, requiring more processing have recently launched new fugitive and additional capital expenditure. REGUL ATORY OR emissions monitoring technology as part of our solutions portfolio. ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE AND STRUCTUR AL CHANGE 12 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Strategic Report Adjusted operating profit* £130.2m POWER INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER Population growth and the trend towards Organisations continue to seek greater urbanisation is driving global growth in automation to respond to the lack of +7.9% power demand. The shift from coal and availability of labour, reduce costs and gas to renewable energy sources drives improve efficiencies and safety. Greater Operating profit £86.0m the requirement to supplement automation drives demand for flow control intermittent renewable sources with and measurement. responsive gas generation. This requires Governance higher quality, more responsive actuation. -11.5% There is continual cost pressure between Inflationary pressures on labour and other competing generating technologies. This operating costs are driving manufacturers to Adjusted earnings per share* 10.6p gives rise to a focus on lower operating invest in process improvements, maximising expenses and continuous improvement production efficiency and plant uptime. Our in efficiency which provides further solutions can play an important part in this. opportunities for new, more efficient technology. +6.0% Financial Statements To date the digitalisation in the power Digital automation is underway across the value industry has been largely focused on the chain and is at a more advanced stage of power block but it is likely this will extend development and acceptance than in our other to the remainder of the power plant to markets. Real-time monitoring of plant allows drive maintenance efficiency gains and problems to be fixed before they escalate, improve the ability to respond quickly to improving safety, productivity and performance peaks in energy requirements which and optimising asset life. Wireless control and requires more sophisticated actuation. predictive maintenance are growing trends to which we are responding. Company Information Environmental regulation encourages the Key regulatory changes are largely around shift to renewables and an increased the use of power and emissions. Our requirement for desulphurisation plants innovation funnel includes solutions to lower which are actuator intensive. energy consumption and reduce leak rates. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 Strategic review OUR STRATEGY In order to accelerate growth and return to higher margin levels we are engaged in a strategy review of our routes to market, innovation funnel, operations footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC INITIATIVES PROGRESS IN 2017 ACCELER ATED GROW TH • Sales growth – Deliver profitable sales growth by leveraging our product • We delivered revenue growth of 8.8% and have seen a gradual increase in the level of • Deliver accelerated year-on-year growth in portfolio, reputation for reliability and project activity. revenues and profits through a our customer relationships. • We have introduced a number of new, combination of organic growth and • Innovation – Invest in the development of intelligent products such as a smart position acquisition. new technologies that enhance performance indicator and fugitive emissions monitoring. • Maximise our return on capital through for our customers. • We increased the number of service engineers optimising manufacturing and supply • Service growth – Further develop our by 10% and the number of actuators under a chain processes. aftermarket service capability and maintenance agreement increased by 8%. coverage including the Client Support • We continued to pursue a number of Programme (CSP). acquisition opportunities, however none were • Acquisitions – Consider growth by considered appropriate. acquisition to expand into new geographic markets, market sectors or new products. STRONG MARGINS • Manufacturing excellence – Consolidate operations and develop efficient, effective • We consolidated two sites into one in Italy. We have developed plans for a new • Maintain strong and sustainable margins world-class manufacturing facilities. manufacturing facility and global through our market-leading position and • Cost management – Continued cost headquarters in Bath, UK. innovative products and services. management, reflecting current market • We delivered annualised cost savings of condition and development of the global £5.2m in 2017 from sourcing initiatives. supply chain. • We completed the successful ‘go live’ of the • Global business systems – Develop and rollout first Microsoft Dynamics AX manufacturing our global business systems to enable more site in Bergamo, Italy. efficient operations. SUSTAINABILIT Y • Positive customer experience – Enhance our customer facing processes to reflect current • We maintained our focus on our customers having a positive experience, focusing on • Maintain our track record of strong cash market requirements. response times and providing the appropriate generation to strengthen our balance sheet • Employee development – Invest to support level of support. Our aftermarket service team and ensure we have sufficient resources for our growth strategy and promote diversity assists customers in resolving any issues as investment in innovation and acquisitions. and inclusion throughout the Group. they arise. • Be the supplier of choice for our customers, • CSR – Communicate best practice throughout • In addition to continuing to develop our sustaining our revenue streams. the Group, training those responsible and, global sales training programmes, we initiated • Be the employer of choice, developing and where appropriate, verifying adoption in a gender diversity project during the year and retaining our talented employees. each subsidiary. commenced implementation of a new global HR information system. We are in the process • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). of recruiting a new Group HR director. • Our CSR sub-committees continued to promote improvements in health and safety, monitor initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions, provide training on ethical behaviour and our employees gave their time and money to many charities around the world. 14 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview HOW WE MEASURE PROGRESS FOCUS FOR 2018 LINK TO RISKS Strategic Report • The Board has ambitions to return the • Increased competition on price or product Sales revenue growth business to higher growth and margin levels. offering leading to a loss of sales globally or 8.8% • We are currently reviewing our routes to market share. market, including our sales channels and • A decline in government and private sector sales coverage. confidence and spending will lead to 17 8.8% • We are also reviewing our innovation cancellations of expected projects or delays funnel and the need for additional to existing expenditure commitments. 16 8.0% investment in new product development • Increasing social and political instability in response to changing market drivers and results in both disruption and increased Return on capital employed customer needs. protectionism in key geographic markets. 24.9% • We expect to expand our service activity • Major in field failure of a new or existing both in terms of coverage and capability. Rotork product potentially leading to a • Acquisitions will be considered where product recall, major on-site warranty appropriate to supplement our capability programme or the loss of an existing or 17 24.9% potential customer. and support the above plans for growth. Governance 16 23.4% • Failure of an acquisition to deliver the growth or synergies anticipated, either due to unforeseen changes in market conditions, or failure to integrate an acquisition effectively. • Continue to develop high added value, • Volatility of exchange rates would impact Return on sales differentiated products for mission Rotork’s reported results and competitive 19.4% 17 19.4% critical applications. • We are currently carrying out a review of our operations. We aim to optimise the manufacturing footprint, better leverage position. • Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a supplier causing disruption to manufacturing at a Rotork factory. our global supply chain, simplify the • Failure to provide, maintain and update 16 20.0% organisational structure and accelerate the systems and infrastructure required the introduction of new systems. by the Rotork business. Earnings per share growth • We have paused the rollout of our global • Failure to protect Rotork operations, sensitive 6.0% Financial Statements business system while this exercise is or commercial data, technical specifications underway, however we expect this to be and financial information from cyber-crime. a key enabler of future growth once the review is finalised. 17 6.0% -3.8% 16 • As noted above, we are engaged in a review • The nature of Rotork’s core business and Cash conversion Employee satisfaction of our routes to market which will include geographical locations involves potential 109.1% N/A our approach to key account management risks to the health and safety of our and how we best service our customers’ employees and other stakeholders. requirements. • Failure of our staff or third parties who we 17 109.1% 17 N/A • As one of the enablers of our programme for do business with to comply with law or accelerating growth we have commenced a regulation or to uphold our high ethical Company Information 16 130.1% 16 3.6 talent development review to assist us in standards and values. formulating personal development plans. • Failure to recruit and retain the talented We are also reviewing current and future staff needed to deliver to our core Lost time injury rate Carbon emissions Group training needs. 0.24 -23.3% strategic challenges. • We will continue to drive safety improvement • UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit and deliver the CSR strategy. The CSR Report can be volatile due to changes in financial is on pages 38 to 51 of this report. assumptions which might lead to a 17 0.24 17 19.2 TnCO2e requirement for the Company to increase cash contributions to the schemes. 16 0.36 16 25.0 TnCO2e See full key performance indicators and definitions See full risks and uncertainties on pages 36-37 on pages 22-25 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 Strategic review OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model, combining the benefits of global expertise and local service, positions us well to generate sustainable value for our stakeholders. HOW WE CREATE VALUE We use our unique resources and relationships in our chosen flow control that form our competitive advantage and automation applications OUR RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS WE PROVIDE high quality, Expertise Skilled employees, winning culture technically advanced and With a 60 year history and a wealth of Attracting, developing and retaining outstanding innovative industrial valve long-standing, experienced employees, we offer talented people, many of whom have been with our customers a superior level of service. the business for a long time, is key to our success actuation and flow control Innovation as we aspire to be the employer of choice. Our equipment, and a superior open and transparent culture and our values of Our understanding of our customers and the respect, integrity and focus on the customer are level of service to support our markets we serve allows us to continue to develop embedded throughout our business units to customers’ activities wherever new products and lead the evolution of actuator ensure that our customers receive a consistently and flow control products. We are focused on they are in the world. We do high quality service throughout the world. solutions to reduce the power consumption of our See our people this in a sustainable way with products, improve their efficiency and minimise their environmental impact in response to our on page 38 corporate social responsibility customers’ requirements. (CSR) values being entrenched Strong balance sheet in our business processes. Brand Our strong net asset position and our ability to Rotork products have a reputation for convert our profits into cash allows us significant technological excellence. scope for investment in innovation and WE COMPETE in targeted acquisitions to deliver consistent growth and Leading quality and reliability returns for shareholders. segments of the global flow Our products meet or exceed international control and automation markets technical and performance standards and have a reputation for quality and reliability. across a variety of industries and geographies where we can command above average margins. SOURCES OF COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Many of our products are used in Broad product portfolio Global operations critical applications in challenging We have the broadest range of actuators on the Rotork’s worldwide geographic base provides a environments and involve the market and a growing range of complementary resilient business portfolio. Local relationships flow control instruments. The breadth of our with customers not only means that we have supply of fundamental resources offering ensures we have the appropriate clear sight of value generation in the long term, such as energy, water and power. product for the widest range of applications but also the ability to recognise customers’ within a site or a project and can access increased evolving requirements. cross-selling opportunities. Global reach, local presence Independent solutions provider We are able to use our global expertise and Our products sit between the pipeline valve and resources to meet our customers’ needs, the distributed control system (DCS). We offer delivered through local offices offering local best in class solutions that are independent of technical support and dedicated aftermarket the ‘one stop shop’ providers with whom our service support. customers are often in competition. Diverse end market exposure Capital efficiency Our actuators and flow control products are used Most of our factories receive finished most intensively in the oil and gas, power and components and assemble to order allowing us water markets, but our products are also used in flexibility to react to changing market conditions many other markets. Wherever fluids or gases are and improving our return on capital. being moved and the process requires automation, or to contain failsafe controls, actuators and flow control products are required. Geographic spread The broad geographic spread of our end users reduces the risk of exposure to any particular location or economic area. 16 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview HOW WE MA XIMISE VALUE to create value for stakeholders Our strategic objectives Strategic Report WE SELL through a network Shareholders We return money to our shareholders of 65 regional offices around through dividends and, through the the world supplying the full execution of our strategy, we grow the range of our products. These value of their investment over time. offices are supported by our four divisions which are Employees We provide development opportunities and responsible for product a rewarding place to work and create a safe management, innovation working environment for our employees. ACCELER ATED and manufacturing. For more details see page 38 GROW TH Governance Suppliers Our suppliers are supported by the procurement of goods and services that we require. Customers We provide innovative solutions in response to our customers’ requirements and aftermarket service support. Communities We support local jobs and skills and contribute to, and engage positively with, STRONG the communities in which we operate. MARGINS Financial Statements For more details see pages 44-45 Governments Through paying taxes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we support the development of public infrastructure and public services. Revenue by division n Controls49% n Fluid Systems 23% n Gears13% SUSTAINABILIT Y n Instruments15% Company Information See our divisional reviews on pages 28-31 See our strategy on pages 14-15 Reinvestment in organic growth and acquisitions ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 Strategic review HOW WE MANAGE RISK Managing the risks of our business is essential to our long-term success and sustainability of the Group. Our approach to risk is intended to protect the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Consideration of execution risk will be a key part of our growth acceleration programme. ESSENTIAL TO LONG-TERM SUCCESS RISK APPETITE FRAMEWORK APPROACH Managing business risks Risk appetite framework As with all businesses, there are certain risks The Board is responsible for determining the IDENTIFY KEY and uncertainties that may impact Rotork’s nature and extent of the risks it is willing to DECISIONS AND ability to achieve its objectives. take in achieving its strategic objectives. Our UNDERLYING Group Risk Appetite Statement is designed to PARAMETERS The assessment and management of risk is the set the right tone from the top and support responsibility of the Board, and the continuous decision making: improvement and execution of a comprehensive and robust system of risk Risk appetite statement management is a high priority for Rotork. Rotork is a growth company and will continue Managing the risks of our business is essential to pursue both organic and acquisition led to the long-term success and sustainability of initiatives to drive future growth. Growth will the Group and our approach to risk is intended lead to greater diversification in our product to protect the interests of shareholders and all portfolio, geographic coverage and end EVALUATE POTENTIAL stakeholders. The risk management process is market exposure. However, in pursuing growth DECISIONS AGAINST an established way of identifying and our preference will be to maintain the current GROUP RISK APPETITE managing risk and is part of our governance levels of operational risk and our existing framework as set out in our Corporate business model and not to dilute the core Governance Statement, see page 56. values associated with the Rotork brand. We will also not risk the financial stability of the The Board’s role in risk management involves company through the pursuit of development promoting a risk-aware culture that emphasises opportunities. integrity at all levels of business operations. This includes: The RAF provides qualitative and quantitative • Setting the Group’s risk appetite in insight on key risks and supports proactive accordance with the Risk Appetite mitigation planning. The RAF consists of: Framework (RAF), as set out below; 1. Risk Appetite Dimensions EVALUATE SPECIFIC • Determining the principal risks; 2. Risk Appetite Statements RISK APPETITE • Setting, maintaining and communicating the 3. Risk Appetite Preferences DIMENSIONS overall policies for risk management; and 4. Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) • Ensuring that risk management is embedded within the core processes of During 2017, we revised the RAF to reflect the Group. changes to the nature of Rotork’s business and its operating environment. We updated the Effective communication of policies and Board’s risk appetite dimensions, statements standards across our global locations is crucial and preferences, which inform the KRIs to ensuring a consistent risk management monitored by the Board. approach across the Group. The risk appetite statements provide guiding ASSESS AND REFINE 2017 has seen the continued development of principles to support decision-making at both a RISK APPETITE the risk management framework, including Board level and throughout the wider Group. FRAMEWORK investment in technology to support further The Board sets the Group’s risk appetite improvement in the Group’s risk management preference for each dimension, stating approach. whether we are tolerant, neutral or averse to a particular risk dimension. These preferences guide the Group’s approach to managing risk. 18 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview We have applied the RAF throughout 2017, incorporating this into Board decision making and measuring business decisions Strategic Report against our appetites through a quarterly Executive Risk Summary. The approach taken by the Board is summarised below: For a given Board decision, underlying parameters are identified and Who: Group Finance Director and considered alongside the likely impacts of the decision: Head of Risk & Internal Audit • Potential decision points and outcomes; and • Impact types (e.g. financial, reputational). See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 Governance Potential decisions are evaluated against the over-arching principles Who: Board articulated through the Group Risk Appetite Statement. Potential decisions are assessed against the detailed Group risk appetite metrics, for example: • Do the forecast returns justify the additional risk taken on? See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 Potential decisions are evaluated against the specific risk appetite Who: Board dimensions, statements and KRIs, considering: Financial Statements • The key risk appetite dimensions related to the decision; • How the KRIs are expected to be impacted by the decision; and • Whether the impact supports our desired appetite for the given risk(s). See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 The RAF is continuously refined in light of the decisions made. Who: Group Finance Director and We then use the RAF to determine: Head of Risk & Internal Audit, with Board sign-off • Where we are willing to take on additional risk; • Where further action is needed to manage risk within Company Information our appetite; • Whether decisions expose us to additional risk dimensions not currently identified; and • How the RAF could better support the Board’s decision-making process in the future. See principal risks and uncertainties on pages 22-25 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 Strategic review HOW WE MANAGE RISK CONTINUED Risk appetite dimension Statement KRIs Acquisitions We will pursue suitable acquisition opportunities and Total value, size and number of acquisitions within the review each on its individual merits. last 12 months. Control environment We will invest in order to further strengthen the control Number of significant control breaches identified by environment of the business, including in second and third internal audit. lines of defence. Control environment – We will continue to review current external and internal Number of successful cyber-events. cyber cyber threats so that the business is protected from these Critical system uptime %. threats and ensure that we have appropriate processes in place to respond to a successful cyber-attack. Earnings volatility We have limited appetite for volatility in earnings in Level of hedging cover for currency exposures. the long term, but would consider opportunities that Current year adjusted operating profit. would increase the risk of earnings volatility, if the upside opportunity could be proven. Order book coverage of in year revenue forecasts. Geopolitical We will continue to operate a geographically diverse % of Group revenue from risky countries by: business and we want to be as geographically diverse as • Subsidiary location – forecast; possible in the future. • End destination location – actual. Risky countries are defined in the AON Political Risk Map 2017. Health and safety We are fully committed to ensuring the safety of all our LTIR incidents leading to absence. employees. Health and safety audit scores. Promotion of open health and safety culture. Market / We will, in the long term, move to greater diversification in % of Group revenue by industry. industry concentration the end markets we serve. Operational We will continue to have a preference for an asset-light Number of critical components which are business model and will evaluate dual supply for critical single sourced. long lead-time items. Operating model, We will have a strong regard to our culture when Consideration of our culture and our talent culture and behaviours considering the evolution of the organisation or its development is a key part of the strategic review. management structure or the integration of acquisitions. Operational – We will take on sales projects, including complex, Major contracts approved. sales projects extended scope and long-term maintenance contracts, but will only do so on commercially acceptable terms and under strict terms and conditions. Operational – We will invest in our IT systems and infrastructure in order Progress reporting for IT system implementation and IT systems to ensure that we operate consistently and efficiently. investment. People – We want to maintain appropriate succession plans for our We are reviewing our talent development. Succession succession planning key people at a Board and divisional management level. planning will be a key consideration of this workstream. Product We will invest in R&D in order to retain a differentiated Actual R&D investment. product portfolio and will support this by providing a Market opportunities and competitor actions. leading service element to our offering. Quality We will maintain robust quality control procedures over Cost of significant product recalls. components purchased and over our finished product in all of our manufacturing locations. Legal and regulatory We have zero tolerance for non-compliance with relevant Number of confirmed significant regulatory compliance laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate. breaches/external investigations/notification or approach from a regulator. Tax We do not pursue aggressive tax planning schemes. Monitoring of Group effective tax rates. Number of tax audits carried out against the Group. This framework enables Rotork to have better visibility of which risks potentially need additional mitigation, which risks are potentially over managed, and where we have appetite to accept additional risk. 20 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The risk management process is summarised as follows: STAGE 6 Monitor, assure and report on robustness of risks and risk assessment processes STAGE 5 Strategic Report Top down risk assessment Top down risk assessment Ongoing risk mitigation reviews STAGE 4 and controls testing Ongoing – Quantify the net risk divisions and businesses manage and monitor risks STAGE 3 Governance Identify risk mitigations and controls STAGE 2 Quantify the gross risk Bottom up risk assessment STAGE 1 Risk identification, bottom up risk assessment Financial Statements Major risks are first identified (Stage 1) and considered by the Divisional Risks are monitored, assured and reported in a number of ways and Group Executives during their regular meetings. Each division values (Stage 6). An example of each is below: the gross likelihood and impact of each risk (Stage 2) on their divisional • Monitoring – Divisional management and the Board monitor, business, assuming no specific mitigations or controls. Divisions then manage and reassess risk, maintaining risk registers as live consider the strength of mitigations and controls in place for each risk documents. (Stage 3) before giving a net likelihood and impact score (Stage 4). There • Assurance – The work of internal audit and others tests the are a range of potential impacts including financial, reputational and effectiveness of mitigations and controls in relation to Rotork’s risks. health and safety. For financial impacts, valuation limits are tailored so • Reporting – The quarterly Executive Risk Summary reports KRIs that each division has an appropriate benchmark. giving an indication of how Rotork is being affected by risks. Consolidated Group risks are formally updated and presented to the Identified risks are discussed and the progress reviewed at both Rotork Board at half year. An annual Risk Assessment Workshop is then Management Board and Divisional Board meetings during the year. facilitated by the risk function for each division and the plc, to promote Senior management, in association with the Board, meets twice a year consistency and challenge to the bottom up process. Once the Risk to consider the Group risk register and progress with mitigating actions. Assessment Workshops are completed by each division, the risks are Company Information then consolidated at a Group level. This consolidation process is subject to top down input and challenge from the Rotork Management Board, Audit Committee and Board (Stage 5). The consolidated risk scores are used to determine which risks are most important at a Group level and these are defined as our principal risks. Each principal risk is ultimately owned by a member of the Rotork Management Board. Risks which are not considered to be principal risks, are owned and managed by members of the Divisional or plc Boards. The principal risks are set out on pages 22 to 25. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 Strategic review PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES A) GROWTH ACCELERATION PROGRAMME As detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 51, we are assessing options for a growth acceleration programme which will aim to return Rotork to the higher growth and margin levels previously delivered by the Group. We have initiated a programme of work to assess our sales and operating infrastructure (including our supply chain) and the readiness of our people and systems. The present activities, which are being driven by appropriate steering groups and working teams, are focused on analysing the current state and options and so do not present a significant risk to ongoing business activities. Implementing such a programme will present a variety of challenges and risks, but will ensure that Rotork continues to thrive in a rapidly changing market environment. We will only pursue change where the level of risk exposure is consistent with our risk appetite and we will invest in mitigations and controls to ensure net risk levels are managed appropriately. Our risk management processes are dynamic and will continue to assess and prioritise the risks related to growth acceleration and their impact on the principal Group risks which are detailed below. These risks are the result of the robust, top down and bottom up risk assessment process previously described. These risks include those that would threaten the Group’s business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. B) PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Economic and market conditions A decline in government and • Product development and innovation to address new markets and • Accelerated private sector confidence new applications in existing markets. growth and spending will lead to • Geographic and end market diversification provides resilience to a • Strong margins cancellations of expected projects reduction in any one area or market but, as we have seen this year, or delays to existing expenditure may not fully mitigate a change in the larger end markets. commitments. • Increased focus on service offerings, to capitalise on increased This lower investment in Rotork’s demand for product maintenance. traditional market sectors would result in a smaller addressable market, which in turn could lead to a reduction in revenue from that sector. Increased competition on price or • Rotork already has production or sales and service operations in many • Accelerated product offering leading to a loss low cost countries. growth of sales globally or market share. • Global strategic sourcing team secure lower prices for components. • Strong margins • R&D investment and organic product development, or acquisition of companies with new products, to maintain differentiation from the competition both in terms of the quality of our products and the services we provide. • A Group wide project has been established to focus on an improved customer experience and delivering the required market driven specifications to the end user. Increasing social and political • Regular review of global markets considering social and political risks • Accelerated instability results in both and contingency plans and market exit strategies developed and growth disruption and increased implemented as appropriate. • Strong margins protectionism in key • Key Risk Indicator monitoring % of revenue from high risk markets geographic markets. reported quarterly to the Board. This includes the risks posed • The geographic spread of Rotork’s operations and customers limits by Brexit. the impact of any one market on the results of the Group as a whole. Business disruption would impact • Group Treasury policy sets cash limits for overseas businesses, our sales and might ultimately restricting our exposure to any one market. The Treasury Committee lead to loss of assets located in assesses compliance with these limits. the affected region. 22 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Risk trend Increasing No change Decreasing Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Financial UK defined benefit pension Strategic Report • Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new members. In 2018, • Sustainability scheme deficit can be volatile due the UK defined benefit scheme will be closed to future benefit to a number of factors including accruals and all members of this scheme are being offered alternative investment returns, long-term pension arrangements. interest rates, price inflation and • The Group and trustees monitor the performance of the scheme. members’ longevity. • Actuarial and investment advice is taken with a view to reducing This in turn might lead to a volatility and the overall cost of provision of this employee benefit. requirement for the Company to increase cash contributions to the schemes. Volatility of exchange rates • Rotork’s Treasury Hedging Policy addresses short term risk and • Strong margins would impact Rotork’s reported this works together with the natural hedging provided by the results and competitive position. geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers. • The Hedging Policy continues to be reviewed annually to ensure it Governance remains fit for purpose. Health and safety The nature of Rotork’s core • Compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice. • Accelerated business and geographical • Robust health and safety policy and training included in all staff growth locations involves potential inductions, in addition to regular refresher training. • Sustainability risks to the health and safety of our employees and other • Regular health and safety audits, site checks and reporting. stakeholders. • Regular communications about accidents at work and visible KPIs. • Appropriate training is provided for known safety risks. • Third party provider of international support and travel advice in all markets and regions. See Health and Safety Report on pages 50 to 51. Financial Statements Product quality and reliability Major in field failure of a new • Extensive product design review process pre-launch reduces the risk • Accelerated or existing Rotork product of product failures occurring in the field. growth potentially leading to a product • Rotork has experience of launching many products and enhanced the • Strong margins recall, major on-site warranty process based on this experience. programme or the loss of an • Sustainability existing or potential customer. • Comprehensive set of quality control procedures over suppliers. These include supplier visits, audits and a scorecard system to measure their performance. • Our global service coverage ensures that any product failure issues should be dealt with quickly and efficiently to minimise any reputational impact. • Fitting and commissioning products wherever possible by Rotork engineers to ensure current operations. Company Information Failure of a key supplier or • Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible provides • Strong margins tooling failure at a supplier mitigation for key suppliers. causing disruption to • A Key Risk Indicator measures single sourced critical components and manufacturing at a is reported quarterly to the Board. Rotork factory. • Maintaining safety stock levels sufficient to protect against short term disruption. • Regular monitoring and replacement of our tooling at all suppliers reduces the risk of a tooling failure. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 Strategic review PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk description and Summary of Strategic Risk importance to Rotork mitigation and controls priority trend Acquisition risk Failure of an acquisition • Forecast market conditions are considered during the due • Accelerated to deliver the growth or diligence process. growth synergies anticipated, either • Due diligence processes will provide information to assist due to unforeseen changes in management and minimise likelihood of unknown surprises. market conditions, or failure to integrate an acquisition • During the due diligence process a 100 day plan is prepared to effectively. Significant financial manage the important initial stages of integration. underperformance could lead to • Effective integration and communication of Rotork’s policies and an impairment write down of the procedures. associated intangible assets. • Careful consideration and negotiation of acquisitions by senior management to ensure the purchase price represents value for money. IT security, continuity and system implementation Failure to provide, maintain • Thorough business process reviews and use of flexible testing • Strong margins and update the systems and environments to address functional issues. • Sustainability infrastructure required by the • Post system implementation, each business is monitored. Rotork business. • Dedicated implementation resource provided by experienced Failure to protect Rotork Rotork team. operations, sensitive or commercial data, technical • Robust security systems are in place to monitor and protect the specifications and financial Rotork network. information from cyber-crime. • We continually review the effectiveness of our key IT security controls, including a Key Risk Indicator to monitor the number of successful cyber breaches reported quarterly to the Board. • Regular cyber-security and cyber-fraud awareness training and guidance. • A disaster recovery solution (supported by third party service level agreements where applicable) is in place for all critical systems. Compliance with law, regulation or ethical standards Failure of our staff or third • Tone from the top, a ‘no tolerance’ culture to reinforce our high • Sustainability parties who we do business with ethical standards and values. to comply with law or regulation • Commitment to compliance embodied in Rotork culture. or to uphold our high ethical standards and values. • Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided to all relevant staff. • We continue our programme of communication to, and education of, agents. • We are currently undertaking a Group wide review of our arrangements with all agents and distributors. • Use of WorldCheck for agents and acquisition targets before engaging in business relationships. • Availability and promotion of the Whistleblowing Policy and Hotline. • We are fully committed to reduce our environmental impact and comply with all legal and regulatory requirements. People Failure to recruit and retain the • Benchmarking of salaries to ensure they remain competitive. • Sustainability talented staff needed to deliver • Continued focus on employee performance management. to our core strategic challenges. • Identification and motivation of existing talent. • We are aware of human rights and act in accordance with them. 24 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview VIABILITY STATEMENT The directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period taking account of the Group’s current position and the potential impact of the principal risks as documented above. A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business was conducted through the year with the review of the risk appetite framework and executive risk summaries contributing to a fuller consideration of those risks which might impact the business model or future performance. Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, three years is considered an appropriate period over which a reasonable expectation of the Group’s longer-term viability can be evaluated and is aligned with our planning horizon at both Group and divisional level. The Board has considered whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three year horizon and confirmed that there are none. The growth acceleration programme which has been initiated during the year is expected to further Strategic Report strengthen the Group’s longer-term performance and financial position. In coming to this view, the Board has considered the inherent volatility in exchange rates and oil prices, the nature of the industry and the business cycles involved. The Group works closely with its customers on projects ranging from several weeks to several years, discussing operational plans and longer-term capital expenditure programmes. In making this statement, the directors have considered each of the principal risks, individually and some in combination, and the potential impact they could have in severe but plausible scenarios. The scenarios contained significant one off financial shocks and significant profit erosion as a result of external actions impacting the Group’s revenue. Financial sensitivity modelling was carried out to assess the impact of these risks on the Group’s three year plan. Assumptions were made concerning market activity levels, the impact of the scenarios on working capital cycles and the mitigating actions that could be taken to reduce the cash and financial impact of the stress-test scenarios. Given the current position of the Group and the likely effectiveness of mitigating actions, the Board has assessed the impact these would have on the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period and have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period. Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 Operating review OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE We are undertaking a detailed review of our cost base and the shape of our sales and operating infrastructure to ensure we are well positioned to respond to customer needs and accelerate growth. During the year, the market environment started to improve. We saw share across our customer base requires a fresh perspective on our modest recovery in certain markets and geographies in the first half of the approach to our business. Such an approach will include increased year with a continued improvement during the second half. The oil industry investment in new product development and a significant enhancement of appears to be stabilising around a lower oil price, with a return to more our service offering. Both represent fertile territory, with oil and gas normal levels of project activity (albeit that projects are generally smaller in customers, for example, demanding much greater innovation from their scale). We saw steady progress across the water and industrial process supply chain as they seek to regroup around a lower oil price; while service markets with power remaining flat. Geographically we saw growth in the represents an area of competitive advantage for the Group, being a reliable Middle East, parts of Asia, North America and Europe while Latin America and profitable growth engine even in a downturn. remained subdued. The investment in new product development and our service offering will Full year order intake increased by 15.6% and by 8.2% on an organic be funded by a reshaping of our sales and operating infrastructure. We are constant currency (OCC)* basis, while revenue increased by 8.8%, (+2.3% re-examining our cost base, which has grown in scale and complexity over OCC), reflecting the improvement in the market environment. Adjusted the years, a natural consequence of sustained growth, extensive product operating profit* increased by 7.9% to £130.2m (+2.5% OCC). The and geographic diversification and an active acquisition programme over a improvement in revenue and our material cost saving initiatives offset the long period. We are engaged in a series of reviews across all aspects of our impact of inflationary pressures, with adjusted operating margins remaining business to examine our routes to market, innovation funnel, operations constant at 20.3% (2016: 20.4%). footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems. The order book at 31 December 2017 was £192.5m, 6.5% (9.5% OCC) Our initial hypothesis, that we can accelerate growth through investing in higher than at 31 December 2016, giving good visibility into 2018. innovation, service and routes to market, funded by savings generated from rationalisation of our cost base, has been validated by the work completed Overall, oil and gas represented 50.5% (2016: 52.4%) of revenue with an to date. increase in the percentage of upstream and downstream sales but a decrease in midstream. In upstream, which accounted for 17.0% of revenue, positive sentiment in the USA and the Middle East has provided support for new onshore drilling activity. Midstream remained challenging, although we saw benefits from an increase in gas pipeline activity and the extension of some LNG projects. During the second half of the year we started to see an improvement in activity in downstream and we are well positioned to take advantage of any recovery in this market which we expect to be driven by emerging markets, low raw material costs and new environmental legislation. In the water, power and industrial markets, revenue increased over the prior period by 10.9%, 5.0% and 25.4% respectively, reflecting improving macroeconomic conditions. This illustrates the growth opportunities across our other end markets. The Middle East and Africa showed good growth across all our end markets while we saw positive sales momentum in North America in oil and gas, industrial and water, although the power market remained subdued in the USA. In Europe, growth in the upstream oil and gas and industrial process markets was strong, while the Latin American market remained difficult. We remain well positioned internationally to benefit from opportunities in all our key markets. Strategic progress The long-term drivers of our markets remain positive with population growth, urbanisation and automation continuing to drive increased demand for flow control products and services across all our end markets. Evolving regulations regarding safety improvements and emissions reduction will also drive growth. The changing oil and gas environment has driven a much greater focus by our customers on cost and margins, giving rise to opportunities for those solution providers who can respond to these needs and we are focused on assisting our customers to increase efficiency, reduce power consumption and maximise cost reduction through innovation in new solutions and enhancements to our service offering. Delivering high quality, innovative engineered solutions and services to our customers across diverse end markets and geographies remains the key element of our strategy. Our commitment to ensure we are well placed to accelerate growth in revenues and margins and to increase our market 26 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview We commenced the data capture and analysis phase of these reviews in industry on cost reduction and efficiency and the drive across all end 2017 and have made good progress across each workstream. The changes markets to increase connectivity and digital automation and reduce power to our market drivers have been assessed and validated along with the consumption. We are developing solutions that have a number of implications for the Group. See pages 12 to 13 for further details. applications across our end markets, using several common technologies. Strategic Report We have completed a high level review of our innovation funnel, having As already announced, we are making a major investment in Bath to developed a framework for analysing opportunities against changing replace our factory and corporate headquarters and develop a state-of-themarket drivers and are now examining the areas of most interest art R&D centre, to be completed by 2020. Innovation and organic product more closely. development remains a key part of our strategy for growth. The workstream to review the operating footprint and supply chain is well Corporate social responsibility (CSR) underway, with phase one (data capture and consideration of first steps Corporate social responsibility values continue to be an integral part of our and early opportunities) having been completed. We have already business model. We take our responsibilities to our stakeholders very implemented a number of these first steps, including the closure of our seriously and continuously look for ways to improve our performance. The Melle factory and relocation of three businesses in Italy. Actions in early work in this area is led by our CSR Committee and sub-committees who 2018 are likely to be procurement related. Investigation of strategic options met throughout the year. for the longer term has commenced. We supported WaterAid and Sightsavers again in 2017 and The Forever We have completed the first wave of our talent development programme Friends Appeal (Royal United Hospitals Bath, UK), donating a total of Governance with our senior team and are now widening this to include a broader group £90,000. Our employees also gave support to their local communities with of people. the Group contributing a further £175,000 to support these causes. This brought the total Group contributions in the year to £265,000 (2016: The review of our routes to market has also now commenced. We will use £259,000). the output from the route to market work and the review of our operations to assess the impact on our business systems and ensure these are able to For more information about the CSR Committee and sub-committees and support the business in the future. the work they carry out see pages 40 to 51. The outcome of the analysis will contribute significantly to the growth Our people acceleration programme being formulated by our incoming Chief Executive, Our culture and values are key to Rotork’s success. See pages 38 to 39 for Kevin Hostetler and the management team and we expect to be in a further information. position to give further details of our plans with the announcement of our half year results. We are delighted that Kevin Hostetler is joining us as Chief Executive and look forward to the fresh insight and leadership skills he will bring We will keep stakeholders informed as our programme progresses and to the Group. Financial Statements once we are in a position to lay out the detailed plan we will also set out key metrics. We will be very transparent around our achievements, We recognise that to implement our business strategy we need highly splitting out the underlying trading performance from the restructuring trained and motivated staff. We invest in our people and encourage internal costs, the investment in the customer offering and how these are development and operate a recruitment policy that supports our future funded by cost savings. growth plans. As noted above, we are currently engaged in a talent development programme to assess the needs of our people and ensure we Rotork Site Services (RSS) are providing the best career enhancement and support. Our global service network is a key differentiator for us. Our highly trained service team provides service and support to our customers around the We aim to be a ‘great place to work’ with strong, consistent values across world through preventative maintenance contracts, onsite and workshop all of our business units and clear adherence to our published Group service, retrofit solutions and through the Client Support Programme which ethics policies. Our entrepreneurial, open culture is an enabler to getting offers maintenance contracts tailored to our customers’ specific needs. In the job done. 2017, we continued to invest in our aftermarket business with 480 directly employed service engineers, an increase of 10% on the previous year Rotork’s total employee number in 2017 was 3,835, broadly in line with the (2016: 430). In future we expect to continue to accelerate this growth and previous year. Company Information expand and enhance our service offering, both in terms of geographic spread and number of service engineers and also in terms of additional Rotork’s success is due to the dedication and hard work of our employees. I services to assist our customers in reducing costs and maximising uptime. am sure they will rise to the challenges ahead as we embark on our growth acceleration programme. Research and development (R&D) In 2017 our R&D spend increased by 18.9% to £14.0m and focused on MARTIN LAMB enhancements to our existing product range. As noted above, we are Executive Chairman currently carrying out a review of our innovation funnel and in future expect 5 March 2018 to concentrate on responding more rapidly to changing customer requirements, particularly given the increased emphasis in the oil and gas * Definitions are shown on page 5. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 Operating review BUSINESS REVIEW – ROTORK CONTROLS Enhancing the resilience of our supply chain has strengthened our business. Revenue £325.2m +9.0% Adjusted operating profit* £92.9m +6.4% Order intake was £333.0m, a 12.8% increase geographies and although our market compared with the prior year, with revenue up exposure declined slightly year-on-year we will 9.0% to £325.2m. On an OCC basis order continue to focus on expanding in certain intake and revenue increased by 6.9% and sectors of this market. Positive growth was also 3.3% respectively. Adjusted operating profit of delivered from service activities. £92.9m was up 6.4% with an adjusted operating margin of 28.6%, down 70 basis We saw positive sales momentum across North points on the prior year, with gross margin America, Europe and the Middle East and Africa. maintained but overheads impacted by Latin America had its challenges although power inflationary increases. and industrial grew in that region. Oil and gas revenues remained stable in 2017 In 2017 we enhanced the resilience of our and represented 44% of divisional revenues. supply chain by working with a number of our Whilst both upstream and midstream revenues suppliers to improve the reliability of their declined this was offset by an increase in manufacturing processes. We continued to downstream business. Increased revenues were invest in additional tooling to reduce delivered from water, wastewater and manufacturing bottlenecks, improving delivery industrial process markets which are seen as performance. We have also been developing being steady growth sectors. The power new products which will be launched through market remained slow across a number of 2018. IQ3 With the revolutionary dual-stacked display, the IQ3 allows unparalleled data analysis of the condition and operational status of the valve; data analysis that enables accurate asset management of the plant. GRANT WOOD Managing Director – Rotork Controls 28 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS REVIEW – ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS Overview Fluid Systems has benefited from material cost savings and operational gearing as volumes have started to increase. Revenue £150.1m Strategic Report +3.3% Adjusted operating profit* £9.0m +45.9% Governance Order intake was up 18.9% to £160.1m (up revenues from the Middle East. We saw 11.7% OCC), with revenue up 3.3% to growth across the water and industrial process £150.1m (-2.8% OCC). Adjusted operating markets, with industrial particularly strong in profit was up 45.9% to £9.0m (+33.0% OCC) Europe. Exposure to power reduced slightly and adjusted operating margin increased by due to lower activity in North America, 170 basis points. partially offset by an increase in the Middle East. Overall, the reduction in activity in North Fluid Systems is the division with the highest America was offset by increases in Europe, proportion of oil and gas sales, at 67%. Latin America and the Middle East and Africa. Upstream increased significantly due to an increase in project activity in Eastern Europe Fluid Systems delivered significant material cost and the Middle East. However, this was offset savings, benefiting from value engineering efforts by a reduction in midstream, predominantly in on our core products, supported by our ongoing North America, in relation to both Liquefied low cost country sourcing programme which have Financial Statements Natural Gas (LNG) activity, as we completed benefited both our European manufacturing projects started in 2016, and pipeline projects, facilities and also enabled our regional China and which were generally smaller in size than those India manufacturing operations to better address in 2016. Downstream was mixed, with their regional markets. increases arising from new builds in China, India and Korea offset by a reduction in SKILMATIC Skilmatic actuators offer a unique, Company Information reliable solution for quarter-turn and linear valves and dampers. The actuator combines all-electric simplicity with the precision of hydraulic actuation and the reliability of mechanical failsafe operation. DAVID LITTLEJOHNS Managing Director – Rotork Fluid Systems ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 Operating review BUSINESS REVIEW – ROTORK GEARS The integration of Mastergear into our existing operations positions us well for the future. Revenue £83.9m +15.9% Adjusted operating profit* £15.7m +11.9% Gears performed well over the period, with We saw growth across water, power and order intake increasing 22.1%, including industrial process markets with particularly contributions from the recent acquisition, strong growth in industrial in North America. Mastergear. Revenue grew 15.9% including Asia grew overall, mainly due to an increase in contributions from Mastergear and currency activity in China across all end markets, while tailwinds. On an OCC basis, order intake and Europe and North America also experienced revenue increased by 6.1% and 3.3% good sales growth. respectively. Adjusted operating profit increased 11.9% to £15.7m (OCC +6.5%) with The acquisition of Mastergear was completed an adjusted operating margin of 18.7%, down in June 2016 for £16.3m and, with a well 70 basis points due to a change in the regarded portfolio of manual and motorised geographic mix following expansion of our gearboxes, enables us to offer our customers a Chinese activity and integration costs in more comprehensive range of products and relation to Mastergear. services. During 2017, we moved the Mastergear Italy operation into our existing In the division’s largest market, oil and gas, Cusago site and also brought the North upstream remained flat, but midstream and American operation into our Houston facility. downstream both grew, mainly in Asia and This proved to be a longer and more complex also North America, benefiting from the process than originally envisaged but the acquisition of Mastergear. Houston team, under our new general manager, have worked through the issues and made a number of process improvements. SMART POSITION INDICATOR In a typical refinery, 90% of valves are manually operated, a potentially dangerous problem if the valves’ real time positions are not known. Our Smart Position Indicator displays the valve position locally and signals it to the control room. PAMELA BINGHAM Managing Director – Rotork Gears 30 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS REVIEW – ROTORK INSTRUMENTS Overview The successful consolidation of businesses and implementation of our new ERP system into our Bergamo, Italy site provides a blueprint for further consolidation. Revenue £100.6m Strategic Report +10.4% Adjusted operating profit* £20.5m +1.6% Governance Order intake increased 13.0% to £104.5m, other markets we are now serving include a with revenue up 10.4% to £100.6m. Excluding wide variety of geographies and end markets, currency tailwinds, OCC increases were 8.8% including industrial automation, commercial and 6.1% respectively. Adjusted operating vehicles, rail and life sciences. profit increased by 1.6% to £20.5m (OCC -4.4%) while the adjusted operating margin During 2017 we consolidated our M&M and decreased by 180 basis points to 20.3% due to Soldo businesses into one site in Bergamo, a change in the mix of products sold with Italy. This integrated site was also the first operating margins further affected by manufacturing facility to which we rolled out inflationary cost increases. our new ERP system, which continues to drive a number of operational improvements in both The overall mix of Instruments sales shifted processes and reporting. While the rollout to towards industrial process markets. In oil and further sites has been paused pending our gas, upstream was strong in North America, operations footprint review, we learned a Financial Statements however growth in this market was offset by number of valuable lessons through this softness in Europe. Midstream held up well implementation. We continued to leverage our and downstream grew in North America and product range, with good growth in sales of Asia. The division recorded double digit our positioners product range and other new growth in the water, power and industrial products developed by our Bifold business. process markets across Asia and Europe. The YTC POSITIONER Our YTC Smart Positioners, Company Information designed for extreme temperatures, hazardous areas and high vibration conditions, enable technicians to use autocalibration and simple diagnostics to commission and monitor entire systems at the push of a button. ALAN PAINE Managing Director – Rotork Instruments ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 Financial review FINANCIAL REVIEW In 2017 we saw a return to growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit and further strengthened our balance sheet through strong cash generation. The Group delivered strong revenue On an underlying basis, order intake increased in the second half of the year, although was broadly consistent with the first half on a reported and profit growth supported by an basis due to the way the exchange rates moved. Full year order intake of £666.5m was up 15.6% on a reported basis and 8.2% on an OCC basis. improvement in the market Although second-half weighted, full year revenue of £642.2m was 8.8% higher than the prior year (+2.3% OCC) with an increase in the closing environment. Strong operating order book of 6.5% to £192.5m. cash flow resulted in a reduction Underlying gross margins increased 60 basis points to 44.9% (remaining in net debt of £42.4m to £12.6m. broadly flat at 44.2% on a reported basis once currency and the Mastergear acquisition is included). The cost of components used in our products was the largest element of cost of sales and once again this improved, this year by 130 basis points. Material cost savings initiatives delivered annualised savings of £5.5m, comfortably ahead of the £4m Revenue savings targeted at the start of the year. However these savings were £642.2m partly offset by inflationary increases within labour and factory costs which grew faster than the rate of revenue growth. +8.8% Operating profit £86.0m -11.5% Adjusted* operating profit £130.2m +7.9% 32 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Adjusted operating profit was £130.2m, an increase of 7.9% over the prior year, with the adjusted operating margin maintained at 20.3% (2016: 20.4%). On an OCC basis adjusted operating profit increased 2.5% to £123.6m, a margin of 20.5%. The increase in reported gross profit was partially offset by an increase in overheads of 9.1% (+4.3% OCC) with a general increase in salary costs and an increase in employee bonuses and benefits following the improvement in results. Average salary per head increased by 3% at constant exchange rates. Strategic Report Net finance costs rose £2.7m to £5.4m with higher currency losses (£1.8m) and a higher interest charge in respect of the pension schemes (£0.8m). This resulted in adjusted profit before tax of £124.8m, a 5.8% increase on the prior year, and a 6.0% increase in adjusted earnings per share to 10.6p. Adjusted items Adjusted profit measures are presented alongside statutory results as the Directors believe they provide a useful comparison of business trends and performance from one period to the next. The statutory profit measures are adjusted to exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles and other adjustments, comprising the release of contingent consideration, goodwill impairment and restructuring costs. Adjusted earnings reconciliation Statutory AcquisitionRestructuring Adjusted £m results Amortisation related costs results Operating profit 86.0 27.2 11.6 5.4 130.2 Governance Profit before tax 80.6 27.2 11.6 5.4 124.8 Tax (25.0) (6.7) – (1.2) (32.9) Profit after tax 55.6 20.5 11.6 4.2 91.9 Further details of the adjustments are provided in note 4. The acquisitions charge comprises a £21.6m impairment charge, largely related to Bifold, and a £10.0m release of contingent consideration also in relation to Bifold. Organic business growth We also present organic constant currency (OCC) figures to exclude the impacts of currency and acquisitions. Organic business at Constant 2017 at 2016 2016 2017 as currency exchange Remove exchange 2016 as £m reported adjustment rates acquisitions rates reported Financial Statements Revenue 642.2 (33.4) 608.8 (5.4) 603.4 590.1 Cost of sales (358.1) 20.9 (337.2) 4.6 (332.6) (328.4) Gross profit 44.2% 284.1 (12.5) 44.6% 271.6 (0.8) 44.9% 270.8 44.3% 261.7 Overheads 23.9% (153.9) 5.9 24.3% (148.0) 0.8 24.4% (147.2) 23.9% (141.1) Adjusted operating profit* 20.3% 130.2 (6.6) 20.3% 123.6 – 20.5% 123.6 20.4% 120.6 * Adjusted is before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other adjustments (see note 4). Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 Financial review FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Acquisitions Return on capital employed (ROCE) The Mastergear acquisition, completed in June 2016 for £16.3m, expanded Our capital-efficient business model and strong profit margins mean our Gears portfolio, making our gears product range one of the most Rotork generates a high ROCE. Our definition of ROCE is based on comprehensive in the industry. The integration of the business into existing adjusted* operating profit as a return on the average net assets Rotork facilities in China, Italy and the USA is now complete. excluding net debt and the pension scheme liability net of the related deferred tax. This means that as we make acquisitions our capital base The increased value of acquisitions over the last three years led to a rise grows when the associated intangible assets and goodwill are in the amortisation charge related to acquired intangible assets to recognised. The average capital employed increased year-on-year by £27.2m (2016: £26.8m). In order to adjust the income statement to 1.2% to £522m as there were no acquisitions during 2017. This, show a like-for-like period for each acquisition, 2017 revenue has been combined with the higher adjusted operating profit, resulted in an reduced by £5.4m. There is no adjustment at the operating profit level. increase in ROCE to 24.9% (2016: 23.4%). The acquisition of Bifold in 2015 included a stretching £10.0m earn-out Taxation which did not become payable therefore the related provision has been The Group’s effective tax rate was impacted this year by changes in US released in the year. In addition, following our annual goodwill corporate tax rates and the adjustments to operating profit. The headline impairment review and changes in our assumptions regarding the likely rate therefore increased from 26.2% in 2016 to 31.0% in 2017. Removing speed of recovery of some of Bifold’s traditional markets, we have the impact of the non-recurring adjustments to profit that weren’t present written down the related goodwill by £19.8m. in 2016, the effective tax rate returns to 26.3%. Were it not for the changes in US corporate tax rates, this would have been 90 basis points lower at We continue to seek acquisitions that meet our stated acquisition criteria 25.4%, as the change in rates triggered a reassessment of the US deferred and support the diversification of our portfolio. tax assets and a £1.2m tax charge in the year. This deferred tax charge will not repeat in 2018. The benefit arising from the lower US corporate tax rate Currency is likely to generate an approximate 100 basis point reduction in the 2018 The income statement once again benefited from a significant currency adjusted effective tax rate. tailwind in 2017. The major currencies impacting the income statement were universally stronger against Sterling. The US$/£ average rate of The Group’s approach to tax continues to be to operate on the basis of $1.29 (2016: $1.36) was a 7 cent tailwind whilst the euro/£ average rate full disclosure and co-operation with all tax authorities and, where was €1.14 (2016: €1.22), an 8 cent tailwind. These were the main possible, to mitigate the burden of tax within the local legislation. contributors to the £33.4m or 5.7% benefit reported in revenue. Cash generation The impact of currency on the Group is both translational and Our strong cash generation resulted in a reduction in net debt of transactional. Given the locations in which we have operations and the £42.4m to £12.6m at the end of the year. Our cash conversion KPI international nature of our supply base and sales currencies, the impact shows a conversion of 109.1% of adjusted operating profit into cash. of transaction differences can be very different from the translation This allowed us to invest £12.5m in capital expenditure although this impact. We are able to partially mitigate the transaction impact through was lower than anticipated as having originally expected to start matching supply currency with sales currency, but ultimately we are still redevelopment of the Bath factory site during 2017, we are now looking net sellers of both US dollars and euros. It is the net sale of these at options for further expansion of this facility. We also realised £2.5m currencies which we principally address through our hedging policy, from the sale of assets including vacated sites in Italy and the USA. covering up to 75% of trading transactions in the next 12 months and Dividends of £45.2m and tax payments of £28.2m were the two other up to 50% between 12 and 24 months. major outflows. In order to estimate the impact of currency, at the current exchange Control of working capital as defined in the cash flow statement, using rates we consider the effect of a 1 cent movement versus sterling. average exchange rates and excluding acquisitions, is key to achieving A 1 euro cent movement now results in approximately a £300,000 our cash generation KPI. The high levels of revenue in the last quarter (2016: £250,000) adjustment to profit and for US dollar, and dollar saw trade receivables grow £13.2m and when measured as days sales related currencies, a 1 cent movement equates to approximately a outstanding1 increased from 61 to 63 days. Inventory also rose, by £400,000 (2016: £450,000) adjustment. £7.4m, but trade payables grew by £6.9m offsetting the other movements. In total, net working capital in the balance sheet decreased Towards the end of 2017 we saw a reversal in currency movements as to 29.3% of revenue2 compared with 30.2% in December 2016 but was the US dollar weakened in the fourth quarter. The rates used to translate a £11.0m outflow in the cash flow statement. the balance sheet are therefore different, with the US$/£ closing rate of $1.35 (December 2016: $1.24), 11 cents (8.7%) weaker than the start of the year. This reduces the closing balance sheet values in US dollar denominated assets but it also results in a currency headwind as we start 2018. 1. Days sales outstanding is calculated on a count back method. The sales value including local sales taxes is deducted from the year end trade receivables to calculate the number of days sales outstanding. 2. Working capital as a percentage of revenue is calculated as inventory plus trade receivables, less trade payables, divided by revenue. 34 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Credit management The most recent triennial valuation for the UK scheme took place as at The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to trade receivables, with 31 March 2016 and showed an actuarial deficit of £32.5m and a funding the risk spread over a large number of countries and customers, and no level of 82%. The update to this actuarial valuation at 31 March 2017 significant concentration of risk. Creditworthiness checks are showed the deficit had grown to £44.4m and funding level decreased to Strategic Report undertaken before entering into contracts or commencing trade with 79%. A continued reduction in gilt yields, which is the key driver behind new customers and in companies where insurance cover operates, the the value of the scheme’s liabilities and higher inflation expectations authorisation process works in conjunction with the insurer, taking were the main changes since the 2016 valuation. A recovery plan was advantage of their market intelligence. We actively expanded the agreed with the Trustees following the 2016 valuation resulting in coverage of the credit insurance policy during the year and have cover in required annual contributions from the Company of £5.5m during 2016, place for 88% of receivables in those companies now using the policy. 2017 and 2018, at which time the next valuation will take place. Where appropriate, we use trade finance instruments such as letters of credit to mitigate any identified risk. On an accounting basis the deficit on the schemes decreased from £58.5m to £48.2m during the year and the funding level increased from Treasury 75% to 80%. The Company paid total contributions of £9.0m in the The Group operates a centralised treasury function managed by a year and the scheme assets increased by roughly this value whilst Treasury Committee chaired by the Finance Director and also comprising liabilities remained broadly unchanged over the year. the Group Financial Controller and Group Treasurer. The Committee meets regularly to consider foreign currency exposure, control over The accounting deficit is higher than the actuarial deficit as on an deposits, funding requirements and cash management. The Group accounting basis we are required to use AA corporate bond rates to Governance Treasurer monitors compliance with the treasury policies and is value the liabilities. The actuarial valuation uses gilt yields since this most responsible for overseeing all the Group’s banking relationships. A closely matches the investment strategy which is designed in part to Subsidiary Treasury Policy restricts the actions subsidiaries can take and hedge the interest rate and inflation risks borne by the scheme. Cash the Group Treasury Policy and Terms of Reference define the contributions are driven by the actuarial valuation. responsibilities of the Group Treasurer and Treasury Committee. Dividends The Group uses financial instruments where appropriate to hedge The Board is proposing a 6.3% increase in the final dividend to 3.35p significant currency transactions, principally forward exchange contracts per share (2016: 3.15p). When taken together with the 2.05p interim and swaps. These financial instruments are used to reduce volatility dividend paid in September, the 5.40p represents a 5.9% increase in which might affect the Group’s cash or income statement. In assessing dividends over the prior year. This gives dividend cover of 1.2 times the level of cash flows to hedge with forward exchange contracts, the (2016: 1.5 times) using statutory earnings per share or when using maximum cover taken is 75% of forecast flows. The Board receives adjusted earnings per share 2.0 times (2016: 2.0 times). Our dividend monthly treasury reports which summarise the Group’s foreign currency policy is to grow core dividends in line with earnings and supplement hedging position, distribution of cash balances and any significant core dividends with additional dividends when the Board considers it changes to banking relationships. appropriate to do so having considered the near-term expected cash Financial Statements requirements of the Group. The Group now has two committed facilities with two different lenders comprising a £75m three year facility which has been extended to expire JONATHAN DAVIS in August 2019 and a five year £60m facility expiring in August 2020. A Finance Director £20m facility expired in August 2017 and the three year facility was 5 March 2018 reduced by £15m during the year. At year end £75m of the committed facilities were drawn, resulting in £60m being available. Retirement benefits The Group accounts for post-retirement benefits in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits. The balance sheet reflects the net deficit of these schemes at 31 December 2017 based on the market value of the assets at that date, and the valuation of liabilities using year end AA corporate bond yields. We have closed both the main defined benefit pension schemes to new entrants; the UK scheme in 2003 and the US scheme in Company Information 2009, in order to reduce the risk of volatility of the Group’s liabilities. During 2017 we completed a consultation process with members of the UK scheme and will be closing this scheme to future accrual of benefit from April 2018. The active members of the scheme will be offered membership of the UK defined contribution plan. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 Financial review KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FINANCIAL KPIs Growth of the business, quality of earnings and efficient use of resources are crucial target areas for Rotork and we employ a number of performance measures throughout Rotork to monitor them. The KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are set out below. Revenue Return on sales Cash conversion Return on capital employed 8.8% 19.4% 109.1% 24.9% 17 8.8 17 19.4 17 109.1 17 24.9 16 8.0 16 20.0 16 130.1 16 23.4 -8.1 15 15 22.5 15 115.4 15 28.6 14 2.8 14 26.2 14 97.4 14 47.6 13 13.0 13 26.0 13 99.6 13 59.1 REASONS FOR CHOICE This is reported in detail for This measure brings together the This is used as a measure of We aim to use our capital operating segments and is a key combined effects of procurement performance where a target of efficiently and reporting this ratio driver for the business. This costs and pricing as well as the 85% is regarded as a base level of internally helps management at measure enables us to track our leveraging of our operating assets. achievement. Cash generation is Group level monitor our overall success in specific project It is also a check on the quality of also one of the constituent parts adherence to this philosophy. activity and our progress in revenue growth but is heavily of the senior management increasing our market share by influenced by divisional mix. reward system. product and by region. HOW WE CALCULATE Increase in sales revenue Adjusted profit before tax (after Cash flow from operating Adjusted operating profit as a year-on-year divided by prior year financing and interest) shown as a activities before tax outflows, percentage of average capital sales revenue. percentage of sales revenue. payments of restructuring charges employed. Capital employed is and the pension charge to cash defined as shareholders’ funds less adjustment as a percentage of net cash held, with the pension adjusted operating profit. fund deficit net of related deferred tax asset added back. The calculation is shown on page 34. COMMENTS ON RESULTS An improved backdrop in some of Whilst adjusted operating profit Overall cash generation remained With no acquisitions in 2017, an our key end markets, aided by a margins were held close to prior strong and the reduction in net increased dividend payment and currency tailwind, resulted in sales year levels, an increase in finance debt in the year was £42.4m. The growth in adjusted operating profit growth in the year. Growth was not charges, principally related to weighting of sales to the fourth this has resulted in an improved consistent across all markets but our increased foreign exchange losses, quarter meant net working capital return on capital employed. geographic spread and diverse end resulted in a 60 basis point grew but despite this cash market exposure allowed us to reduction in this KPI. conversion remained above 100%. focus on growth areas. 36 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview NON -FINANCIAL KPIs We monitor non-financial areas in our businesses, particularly in the environmental, health and safety and quality control areas, and we place strong emphasis within our organisation on improving our performance here. Earnings per share growth Lost time injury rates (LTIR) Carbon emissions Employee satisfaction Strategic Report 6.0% 0.24 -23.3% N/A 17 6.0 17 0.24 17 19.2 17 N/A -3.8 16 16 0.36 16 25.0 16 3.6 -21.0 15 15 0.42 15 22.8 15 3.6 14 5.4 14 0.62 14 19.2 14 3.6 13 14.3 13 17.9 13 3.6 Governance The measurement of earnings per LTIR is used as one measure of the This KPI compares this year’s We have historically performed share (EPS) reflects all aspects of effectiveness of our health and carbon emissions stated as a an annual employee satisfaction the income statement including safety procedures. function of revenue with last survey to enabled the Group to management of the Group’s year’s and is a broad measure of obtain feedback from across the tax rate. our impact on the environment. businesses on how we relate to our employees and what we can do better. Financial Statements Increase in adjusted basic EPS The formula we have used for Energy usage data (scope 1 and 2) Employees scored their (based on adjusted profit after calculating our LTIR is the number is collected and converted to responses directly into a tax) year-on-year divided by the of reportable injuries resulting in equivalent tonnes of CO2 and then prepared survey with 1 being prior year adjusted basic EPS. lost time divided by the number reported as a function of revenue. very dissatisfied and 5 being of hours worked multiplied Further details are contained in very satisfied. by 100,000. the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 48. A small increase in the adjusted Our investment in health and The consolidation of sites and As we are currently carrying Company Information effective tax rate and an increase safety combined with training and upgrades in some of our facilities out a review of a number of in finance expenses have diluted auditing of our sites to monitor have resulted in the overall different aspects of our the increase in adjusted operating compliance with procedures has reduction of our Scope 1 and business, including our talent profit of 7.9%. resulted in a further reduction in Scope 2 emissions. development, we did not LTIR in 2017. perform the survey this year. We will redesign the survey for 2018 to reflect our revised ambitions and implement a number of other initiatives to obtain employee feedback and buy-in. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 Corporate social responsibility OUR PEOPLE Rotork aims to be a ‘great place to work’ with strong core values in all of our business units and clear adherence to our published Group ethics policies. Our entrepreneurial, open culture is an enabler to getting the job done. Employee engagement We believe that motivated and engaged MEET K ATIA people value their own health and safety and that of their colleagues, drive greater Divisional Training and NPI Manager, Lucca, Italy productivity and aspire to deliver higher I love the practical and hands-on aspect of engineering levels of customer satisfaction. and having achieved a PhD in Chemical Engineering I joined Rotork in 2004 as an Inside Sales Engineer then To seek employee views, we run employee moved to the technical training department to manage suggestion schemes and several locations have product training, allowing me to fully use my technical employee forums where employees can raise background and travel all over the world. I currently issues to be further considered by management. also manage new product introduction for the Fluid We have historically performed an annual Systems division, working closely with the divisional employee satisfaction survey to obtain feedback R&D department. I remember that when I was at from across the businesses on how we relate to university, the slogan was ‘Join engineering, you will our employees and what we can do better. As we be a technician and travel the world.’ This truly applies are currently carrying out a review of a number of to me and I enjoy every single day of my job. different aspects of our business, including our talent development, we did not perform the survey this year. We will redesign the survey for 2018 to reflect our revised ambitions and We recognise that to implement our business considerations. All locations participate in implement a number of other initiatives to obtain strategy we need highly trained and motivated employee bonus schemes and many in profit employee feedback and buy-in. staff. We are investing in our people and linked share ownership schemes which give encouraging internal development. We are also staff a financial interest in the Group and Employees are briefed by management on various working to enhance employee engagement to stimulate their performance. We also provide matters, including the Group’s performance and enable our people to reach their full potential, various pension arrangements, designed to the employee bonus performance, at regular so they can do their best work with us. Our provide retirement benefits, based on local intervals. This communication takes place either recruitment policy supports our future laws and practices. through team briefings, our intranet, Konnect, growth plans. our newsletters or employee forums. Attracting and recruiting talent We are currently reviewing our talent We want to be the first choice for potential Diversity and equal opportunities development programme to assess the needs recruits with skills that match the needs of We are committed to creating a diverse and of our people and ensure we are providing the our business. inclusive workforce, where people from all best career enhancement and support. backgrounds and genders are welcomed, We support apprenticeship schemes for young respected and thrive in our Company. We know Developing and supporting our people people which helps to increase access into all that a diverse workforce will improve our We are committed to supporting our people’s aspects of our business. We also belong to the innovation, our customer alignment and our wellbeing and development. Many of our Manufacturers Standardization Society (MSS), ability to attract and retain talent. offices provide health checks for our a committee that offers undergraduate and employees, we also encourage participation in graduate scholarships. We have an objective and fair recruitment process sports teams and our people are enthusiastic which promotes equal opportunities across the participants in charitable events. More details We have built a strong partnership with the Group in line with the ‘Respect at Work and regarding charitable activities can be found in Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) to Equality of Opportunity’ policy. We are the Community Involvement section (see support its engineers in gaining Incorporated committed to the principle of equal opportunities pages 44 to 45). and Chartered accreditation. We continue to in employment to ensure that no employee or job work with IMechE in Leeds and their Industrial applicant receives less favourable treatment We are committed to the development of Liaison team which supports members of the because of their age, race, nationality, ethnic our employees. We recognise that for the Institution, helping to promote it internally and origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion, Group to be successful, we need highly trained to the wider engineering community. belief or marital status. All employees have a and motivated employees and also to responsibility to ensure that the policy is encourage internal development. We are We are also reviewing our recruitment policies, successfully implemented. This includes ensuring reviewing how we invest in the skills and processes and approach to ensure we create a that work allocation and selection for hiring, career progression of our staff, from diverse and inclusive workforce. promotion and training is carried out in a operational upskilling programmes to non-discriminatory manner. We work wherever management development. We regularly feature in Management Today’s possible to overcome any obstacles for employees top ten Most Admired Companies in Britain, with disabilities by, for example, improving access Rewarding and retaining employees winning the ‘Quality Goods and Services’ or restructuring responsibilities. Our reward and benefits arrangements are category in 2017. benchmarked in each country in which we operate, taking into account cost 38 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Board of Directors Total employees by gender by gender n Male4 n Male3,052 n Female2 n Female788 Gender reporting Strategic Report The table below shows the gender breakdown of the Group’s directors and employees as at GENDER PAY GAP MEET NA ZRI 31 December 2017. Male Female Board directors 4 2 Senior managers 102 16 Mean gender pay gap across Other employees 2,946 770 all Rotork employees in the UK 7.4% Total 3,052 788 Overall women currently represent 20% of our employees. Increasing the number of women in our business and moving towards a more even distribution of men and women at all levels is a Median gender pay gap across key goal. We are making progress on this in all Rotork employees in the UK Governance 5.6% various ways, such as increasing our intake of female apprentices and implementing actions as described below to address the imbalance. As required by UK legislation we share the Area Sales Manager, Malaysia gender pay gap data for our two reportable UK’s national gender pay gap I started my career in Rotork Site Services entities that have more than 250 employees. for all employees in Malaysia in June 2003, maintaining oil We have also reported the total UK workforce 18.0% & gas plant onshore and offshore facilities because from our perspective it is every throughout the Peninsular and West employee that we should count and every Coast sea of Malaysia. I later became a person, male or female, that will benefit from sales engineer, receiving great support the actions we take today. We fully embrace and exceptional mentoring from the challenge to create a better gender management, before being promoted to balanced workforce. Area Sales Manager in 2010. Financial Statements The table opposite shows our gender pay gap. We fully accept the challenge to improve the My team and I support each other to secure This is a snapshot taken as of 5 April 2017 to number of women across the business. We have major projects, including some international show the difference between the average hourly prioritised a number of actions to tackle this projects with the assistance of our pay levels of all females and males in our challenge head-on and make us an employer of colleagues overseas. With a truly global organisation. This is shown as a percentage choice for women: market presence, Rotork people speak to figure of men’s average salary, irrespective of role • Introducing checks and balances on each other all the time and I feel as if I have or level in the organisation. Our figures show pay decisions; friends everywhere in the world! that the mean pay of all of our women across • Training all supervisors and managers to the whole of the UK organisation is 7.4% lower be alert to ‘unconscious bias’; The experience that I have gained during than that of men and the median pay is 5.6% • Implementing more family friendly and my career with Rotork has been priceless, lower than men’s pay. To put this into context flexible working arrangements; helping me to build confidence and the UK national pay gender pay gap in 2017 • Building our talent pipeline through develop my skills and make new friends stands at 18.0% for all employees whether part supporting STEM initiatives, promoting our around the world. or full time. apprentice programmes to woman and building a ‘return to work’ programme for Company Information The ‘gender pay gap’ is an average figure and is mid-career female engineers; distinct from ‘equal pay’, which looks at the • Reviewing our recruitment policies, processes individual level of pay to ensure that men and and approach; women are paid the same for carrying out the • Setting up internal mentoring programmes same work. The evaluation of our gender pay to support and nurture women in their data indicates that the difference in average pay careers; and is due to proportionately more men being in • Measuring and reporting the impact of this senior higher paid roles. At Rotork we are action plan on our gender balance. confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business and we actively review decisions around annual performance, pay and bonus to help ensure this fairness and parity continues. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 Corporate social responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We believe that being a responsible business through the effective management of social, ethical, health and safety and environmental matters is key to our success. It benefits our operational effectiveness, builds on the trust of our stakeholders and protects our reputation. Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and strategy. Achieving a positive impact around the world lies at the heart of our commitment to CSR and it represents a valuable opportunity to ensure CORP OR ATE SOC IAL RESP ONSIB IL IT Y that Rotork continues to be successful in the long term. We are COMMIT TEE committed to embedding CSR values across all our processes and ways of working. Rotork has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and continues to be included in the FTSE4Good index where we maintain an E THICS COMMIT TEE above average score in the global rankings, UK rankings and industry sector rankings. We believe that the approach that we take to CSR helps to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and contributes to the success of our SOC IAL ISSUES COMMIT TEE corporate strategy by promoting an effective and sustainable business. Our Executive Chairman chairs the CSR Committee and reports on progress to the Board. The CSR Committee is a management committee which has four sub-committees with each representing one of the areas ENVI RONMENTAL COMMIT TEE of CSR described opposite. Presentations or reports are given by the chairs of the four sub-committees to the Board on activity and progress in their areas of CSR during the year. The diagram opposite sets out our CSR Committee structure. HE ALTH AND SAFE T Y COMMIT TEE Employees worldwide 3,835 Countries with a direct presence 38 40 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview OUR GROUP’S APPROACH IS FOCUSED AROUND FOUR MAIN AREAS: Strategic Report ETHICS AND VALUES COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Ethics and values are fundamental to the way we in which we do business. We consider it important to contribute and engage positively in the Respecting internationally proclaimed human rights, promoting an open an communities in which we operate and to be a good community honest culture, having a zero tolerance to bribery and corruption worldwide, neighbour around the world. One of our corporate values is to produce and selecting suppliers with sound reputations in the marketplace are a positive and beneficial impact in the areas in which we operate. important principles for the Group to adhere to. More details of the Group’s Further details on community involvement can be found on pages ethics and values can be found on pages 42 to 43. 44 to 45. Governance Completed E-Learning courses Donations to charity 5,998 See our ethics and values £265,000 See our community involvement on page 42 on page 44 Financial Statements THE ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Rotork is fully committed to reducing its impact on the environment by The health and safety of all employees and contractors is of paramount preventing pollution in all countries in which it operates and to make sure it importance in providing a safe working environment. Our fundamental is compliant with any legal and regulatory requirements. Our compliance principle, ‘If you cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job’, is actively contributes to sustaining the environment and brings cost savings by promoted to everyone. This ensures that our people remain safe and we reducing the consumption of energy, water and waste and recycling. The enhance the effectiveness of our workforce by reducing the risk of injury environmental programme is described in more detail on pages 46 to 49. and costs associated with injury or illness. The Group’s approach to health and safety can be found on pages 50 to 51. Company Information Carbon emissions Lost time injury rate -16.6% 0.24 See our environmental programme See our approach to health and safety on page 46 on page 50 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 Corporate social responsibility ETHICS AND VALUES Our ethics and values are central to the way we do business. They are set out in Rotork’s Ethics and Values Statement which was updated in 2017 and can be viewed on our website. The whistleblowing reports received covered a broad range of potential issues related to human resources, employment and dishonest behaviour. Rotork continues to take steps to publicise and promote the hotline and the Whistleblowing Policy. Bribery and corruption Rotork has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption worldwide, irrespective of country or business culture. Rotork’s Ethics and Values Statement makes it clear that our employees will never offer, pay or solicit bribes in any form. The updates to the statement include additional wording on bribery and corruption. A new Group Gifts and Hospitality Policy was approved by the Board at the end of 2017 and was published in 2018. Rotork makes use of detailed background checks provided by specialist bribery and corruption due diligence consultants before dealing with unknown third parties (including agents and on prospective acquisitions), particularly where they are operating in higher risk jurisdictions or market sectors. Rotork also makes use of objective guidance on country risk, such as the Corruption Perception Index by Transparency International. When working with unknown third parties, after the initial detailed background checks, Rotork continues Overview and proposed steps for 2018. Rotork’s to screen these third parties via a large number It is essential to us that our business is run in an commitments in 2018 include rolling out an of international sources, which can detect ethical way, with fair dealing and the highest online training module for modern slavery. unethical behaviour, using its due diligence standards of integrity. Rotork has high ethical consultants’ proprietary databases. standards and expects all employees and those Whistleblowing Policy with whom it does business, including suppliers, Rotork recognises that an open and honest In 2017, Rotork completed a comprehensive to meet the same standards. culture is key to understanding concerns within bribery risk assessment. As part of this process the business and will investigate any potential general managers across the Group responded Human rights and ethical business wrongdoing. Rotork recently updated its to a questionnaire covering bribery and Rotork is fully committed to supporting and Whistleblowing Policy and process. The Policy corruption risk issues. The results of the respecting human rights as defined in the can be found on the Rotork website questionnaires were analysed and the results Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the (www.rotork.com/en/master-record/6675). The of each business unit plotted against the five International Labour Organisation’s standards. Policy encourages the reporting of any potential main risk areas identified by Ministry of Justice Rotork does not accept any form of child or wrongdoing, anonymously if required, by all Guidance to the Bribery Act 2010. The risk forced labour and embracing the UN Global individuals working within, for, or with Rotork. assessment identified agents as a principal risk Compact principles in our updated Ethics and The Whistleblowing Policy gives whistleblowers for Rotork. As a result, our internal audit team Values Statement and throughout the business, various ways to alert senior management to any produced a paper on agents, investigating how is a demonstration of this commitment. suspected wrongdoing, including an to mitigate against the risk agents present independent external whistleblowing hotline to from a bribery risk perspective. In addition, we Rotork has published its Modern Slavery Act assist in facilitating the reporting of any are currently conducting a review of our third Statement for the 2017 financial year, which concerns confidentially. party selling arrangements which will be can be found on the Rotork website at completed in the first half of 2018. The final www.rotork.com/en/investors/index/ All whistleblowing concerns, however received, report will contain recommendations to further modernslaverystatement. Rotork’s 2017 are investigated thoroughly and reported to the mitigate the risks that our agents present. Modern Slavery Statement sets out steps Audit Committee. During 2017, the Rotork has taken during the 2017 financial year whistleblowing hotline received eight calls and At the end of 2017, the Audit Committee to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not five concerns were raised through other channels. received a full report on all 2017 activity for taking place in its business or supply chains anti-bribery and corruption, both developments and improvements. 42 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Rotork has developed and delivered anti-bribery Strategic Report and corruption training to all employees working in sales and purchasing roles, as well PROGRESS as to senior accountants, all managers and directors (including the Board). The training is delivered as an e-learning module. All employees who completed the course over • Membership of FTSE4Good and UN Global 12 months ago are also required to do a refresher course. Both courses have been made Compact was maintained. available in numerous languages. Rotork agents • An updated Whistleblowing Policy was published. receive a bribery and corruption booklet which is required to be read by all employees of the agent • A Supplier Code of Conduct was published. working on the Rotork account, and signed to • A comprehensive bribery risk assessment was confirm the booklet has been read and understood by their manager. completed. • An updated Group Ethics and Values Statement Governance Suppliers was published. We have a global supply chain for goods and services that supports our businesses around • 2017 Modern Slavery Act Statement was the world. This includes the suppliers that published. produce the components for our products. Many of our suppliers have a long-term working relationship with the Company. We expect our suppliers to meet our high ethical standards and in 2017 we published a Supplier Code of Conduct which sets out our expectations. This can be found on the Rotork website at: http://www.rotork.com/en/ about-us/index/codeofconduct. Our suppliers must adhere to the core values contained in 2018 TARGETS Financial Statements the code and require their own supply chain to adhere to them too. We undertook a supplier assessment survey in • Implement updated Whistleblowing Policy and 2017, which included CSR themed questions associated with modern slavery, equal rights process and continue to promote the Policy. and equal pay, anti-bribery and corruption • Complete third party selling arrangements review policies, charitable giving, environmental and commence implementation of the impact and child labour practices. Further details are contained in our 2017 Modern recommendations. Slavery Statement. • Publish and implement Group Gifts and Hospitality Policy. Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK Limited, the Group’s main UK trading companies, and • Continue to ensure online bribery and corruption Rotork plc, are signatories to the Prompt Payment training is provided for employees. Company Information Code. This ensures suppliers are paid according to the terms agreed and encourages good practice to be passed down our supply chains. Rotork is preparing for compliance with the new Prompt Payment Regulations which were introduced in the UK in April 2017. Under these, Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK Limited will be required to report on their supplier payment practices. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 Corporate social responsibility COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Rotork considers it important to contribute to and engage positively with stakeholders in the communities in which we operate, and to be a good community neighbour around the world. Overview • Our business in South Africa has made We regard this as part of our ongoing donations to The Hope Factory, a charity responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. that utilises enterprise development to This links into our corporate values which dramatically impact and improve the lives of include producing a positive and beneficial previously disadvantaged unemployed impact in the areas in which we operate. South Africans, by providing them with an opportunity to be trained and empowered One of the ways Rotork does this is by having and thus become financially productive. local charity committees at each of our sites which donate to local charitable causes. This In addition to these local charitable and empowers local employees to decide how to community activities, Rotork has supported distribute the funds in their local communities. two major charities in 2017, Sightsavers and Rotork aims to contribute 0.1% of profits to WaterAid. We have been supporting both local charitable causes. As a global these charities for a number of years. organisation Rotork also commits to annually supporting global charities from head office funds of 0.1% of profits. Teachers to receive additional training 550+ In addition, our employees around the world have been generous in their support of local causes with volunteer work, fundraising and making donations. Rotork is encouraging of these efforts. Local community involvement highlights from the year include: Sightsavers is an international charity that • In Bath, UK, employees were involved in works with partners in the developing world to volunteer work with a local community combat avoidable blindness. In 2017, we special needs school to clear an overgrown focused our support on the Education for All area of their gardens to make way for an project in the Bombali district in northern interactive sculpture for the students. Sierra Leone. This five year project supports • In the USA, employees have supported the children with disabilities, with a particular North Carolina Fire Relief efforts, various focus on girls, to access education. Under the children’s charities and the Salvation Army. project, 45 schools will be made more inclusive They also volunteer tutored at risk children and accessible for children with disabilities and and assisted with food banks. more than 550 teachers and 750 trainee • In Germany, employees have volunteered as teachers will receive additional training in members of the official examination board inclusive education. of the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in the field of industrial mechanics and Rotork’s donations to WaterAid have been industrial clerks giving volunteer days used to support a project in Ethiopia which will during the year to help support reach people in three wards of the Oromia examinations of official German Region in Central Ethiopia, who have the apprenticeship schemes. poorest rates of access to water and sanitation. • In The Netherlands, an employee As well as delivering access to water, sanitation participated in a two day cycle ride to raise and hygiene this project will improve water money, supported by Rotork, for children source protection, food production and with drug addictions. income generation. This in turn will contribute • In Russia, employees donated to an to poverty reduction and the sustainable orphanage in the South of Russia and development of the communities. bought and shipped various items such as tables and benches for the children’s Additionally, we have agreed a three year playground, an air conditioning system and donation programme with the Royal United two printers with toners. Hospitals, Bath, UK, to support their building of a • Our Singapore employees have supported new Cancer Unit via their Forever Friends Appeal local cancer charities by raising money (the hospitals’ fundraising charity). To date, through sponsored runs and making food Rotork has donated £24,000 as part of our three bag donations. year commitment to donate £50,000. 44 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Strategic Report PROGRESS • £46,000 contributed to WaterAid. • £35,000 contributed to Sightsavers. • £12,000 contributed to The Forever Friends Appeal (RUH) Bath, UK. • Variety of donations made to charitable causes relevant to the local communities of Rotork’s operating sites. Governance 2018 TARGETS Financial Statements To continue donations to charitable causes. Rotork will: • Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotork’s nominated international charities. • Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes local to Rotork’s operating sites. • Review our charitable contributions and align these with our organisational culture and aims. Company Information • Review our community involvement to identify ways of working more closely with the communities we operate within to become better corporate social partners. Sightsavers ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 Corporate social responsibility HELPING THE ENVIRONMENT Rotork is fully committed to the prevention of pollution, to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and to reduce our environmental impact by targeting key areas such as energy consumption, water consumption and waste. Introduction Corporate objectives We continue with our assembly only A number of improvement activities through philosophy in the majority of our business units the year have helped reduce the energy where we use specialist suppliers for most of consumed at our subsidiaries. Upgrades to our manufactured components and equipment and infrastructure have contributed assemblies. This philosophy has resulted in the to a reduction in our overall consumption. majority of our energy being used on lighting, heating and cooling and IT systems. As a The significant reduction in our emissions has responsible global entity, we continue to come from the overall site consolidation influence the environmental performance of strategy that has occurred through the year our supply chain through our supplier across the Group. assessment programme. Organisational boundaries Strategy The environmental report covers all operations • We will improve our operational efficiency and processes within the physical boundaries and enhance our environmental of the facilities and business transportation by performance in order to secure the company cars or vans or any private cars and continued sustainability of the Group. hire cars used for business purposes only. • We will work as a business and in the local Transportation of products by third parties are communities where we operate, to ensure not covered by the report. that the environment on which we depend is maintained for future generations. Where energy consumption cannot be verified, • We will encourage all employees to behave normally due to the size of the facility, then an in an environmentally responsible manner estimation on the energy use per square metre by supporting the businesses in reducing of floor space occupied has been made. This waste, saving energy and water and using estimation is based on The Chartered technology to reduce travel. Institution of Building Services Engineers • We will continue to work in partnership (CIBSE) Guide F – Energy Efficiency in Buildings. with our regulatory bodies and respect the This estimation equates to 0.56% of total regulatory framework in which we work. emissions declared. • As an environmentally responsible business, we will be open and transparent and report The baseline year remains at 2012. regularly to all relevant stakeholders on our environmental performance. 46 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Strategic Report PROGRESS A number of key activities have occurred during the year that have impacted on our emissions: • The consolidation of our sites within the Instruments division in Italy has delivered a saving of 113 tonnes of CO2. • The installation of solar panels in our Chennai factory has generated approximately 13% of the Governance site’s electricity consumption, whilst stabilising the supply and reducing the need for back-up generators to run. This improvement has delivered a saving of 62 tonnes of CO2. We continue to target electricity as part of our energy efficiency programme with 12 sites reducing electricity consumption by more than 5%. 2018 TARGETS Financial Statements To support the increase in the number of energy related projects that are occurring across our business, the following targets have been set for all of our large energy consuming sites: • Promote energy efficiency throughout the business with focus on high impact projects to deliver a 2% saving on electricity. • Further reduce gas consumption on heating normalised on degree days by 2%. Company Information More stringent local targets can be set where needed to support the energy reduction programme of the Group. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 Corporate social responsibility HELPING THE ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Energy consumption Water consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) Overall electricity consumption has decreased Absolute water consumption has decreased by reporting by 0.5% on the previous year and increased by 22.1% on the previous year and has increased In January 2018, EEF (the UK manufacturers’ 46.9% on the baseline of 2012. by 27.7% on the baseline year of 2012. This is organisation) undertook an assurance audit of mainly due to the site consolidation activities the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report. The Absolute gas consumption decreased by 4.1% that have occurred in Italy and in the USA. business reports on GHG emissions are in line on the previous year but increased by 26.7% with the GHG Emissions Protocol developed on the baseline year of 2012. The decrease is Waste and recycling jointly by the World Business Council for based on managing heating and the The amount of waste that our sites generate Sustainable Development and the World consolidation of businesses around the Group. has increase don the previous year by 9% and Resource Institute. No significant issues were When considering gas consumption for only the amount of hazardous waste generated has identified during the assurance audit. the heating of buildings normalised on degree increased by 3% on the previous year. When days, the overall consumption of gas has normalised with turnover, waste has increased Greenhouse gas is measured across three reduced by 4.2%. by 0.2% on the previous year. Recycling has different scopes: increased from 76% to 77%. Scope 1: Emissions that are direct GHG emissions In 2017, Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) from sources that are owned or controlled by consumption increased by 1.9% on the Environmental incidents Rotork. These include emissions from fossil fuels previous year and increased 1% on the There have been no reportable environmental burned on site, emissions from owned or leased baseline of 2012. The increase in LPG is in line incidents during 2017. Systems are in place to vehicles and other direct sources. with expected consumption rates. address any environmental incident that occurs at our subsidiaries and the robustness of these Scope 2: Emissions that are indirect GHG Overall oil consumption has decreased on the emergency systems are reviewed as part of our emissions resulting from the generation of previous year by 21.7% and also decreased on internal audit programme. electricity, heating and cooling, or steam the baseline year of 2012 of 45.7%. The main generated offsite but purchased for heating. reasons for this reduction are the removal of Extreme weather events did impact on the the generator and upgrading of the electrical business on a number of occasions during Scope 3: Emissions that are indirect GHG system at Bifold Marshalsea (UK) and the use 2017. The site in Bergamo, Italy, flooded due emissions from sources not owned or directly of solar power in Chennai which has further to high rainfall. The flooding incident did not controlled by the entity but related to the reduced the use of the back-up generator. impact on production as emergency plans entity’s activities. Scope 3 GHG emission were immediately activated. Actions have been sources currently required for GHG reporting To support the continued focus on energy taken to reduce the risk of the site flooding in include transmission and distribution, losses management, our UK businesses continue to the future. associated with purchased electricity and be certified to ISO50001. During the year we steam, and well-to-tank emissions for all are pleased to report that the Bifold Hurricane Harvey impacted on our operations energy, business travel and transport. Marshalsea site in Taunton and the Bifold in Houston, USA, which forced the closure of Chadderton site were certified to ISO50001. the site for a period of three days. The site Absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions have Surveillance audits were conducted through itself was unharmed by the flooding that decreased by 16.6% on 2016 and increased on 2017 with no major instances of nonoccurred in the greater Houston area, however, the baseline year of 2012 by 25.2%. Emissions conformance identified. The internal audit there were restrictions on travel due to roads per £million turnover has decreased from process ensures that those sites that are not being flooded and a number of employees 25.0TnCO2e to 19.2TnCO2e, a decrease certified to ISO50001 are managing their being land locked. of 23.3%. energy and are looking at ways to increase their energy efficiency. Conclusion We continue to focus on reduction in As we develop new sites or upgrade our electricity consumption across the business existing sites, we will continue to build energy that have provided greater energy efficiency. efficient solutions into the design. Where The consolidation of the sites and upgrades in viable we will also look at the generation of some of our facilities have resulted in the power from renewable sources, which will overall reduction of our scope 1 and scope 2 help to reduce the environmental impact of emissions by almost 17%. our business. 48 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Water usage Carbon emissions -22.4% -16.6% Strategic Report Water (1,000 m3) Oil (litres) 17 45 17 15,902 16 58 16 20,315 15 44 15 30,893 14 40 14 10,445 13 36 13 23,470 12 35 12 29,305 Electricity (MWh) Waste generated (tonnes) 17 16,438 17 2,972 Governance 16 16,514 16 2,723 15 13,992 15 2,782 14 12,605 14 2,801 13 11,184 13 2,435 12 11,193 12 2,579 Gas (1,000 m3) Waste recycled (%) 17 1,135 17 77 16 1,177 16 76 15 885 15 79 Financial Statements 14 769 14 76 13 761 13 71 12 594 12 74 LPG (1,000 litres) Scope 1 and 2 emissions (TnCO2e) 17 287 17 5,645 6,683 16 282 16 6,973 7,802 15 355 15 5,725 6,741 14 338 14 5,231 6,182 13 300 13 5,024 5,317 12 279 12 4,448 5,396 Company Information Scope 1 Scope 2 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 Corporate social responsibility HEALTH AND SAFETY Rotork is fully committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees and contractors. We ensure compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and strive to continuously improve our health and safety performance. Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.24 Overview Policies, procedures and systems of safe working are in place, supported with training to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees during their working day. Health and safety training for all employees who join Rotork is included in their induction programme. Additional training is conducted that focuses on hazard identification and mitigation, risk assessment and action planning and is refreshed when applicable. The fundamental principle of ‘If we cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job’ is maintained and communicated to all those who work for or on behalf of Rotork. Across the Group, HS&E teams are engaging in continuous improvement activities to improve our safety performance. This includes obtaining a greater understanding of the root cause of incidents. Following a lost time injury or a near miss that had a potential high consequence, a safety alert is issued to all subsidiaries so they can learn from the events and avoid a repeat of the event occurring. Progress The objective for 2017 was to have a Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) below a target of 0.47. The LTIR for 2017 was 0.24 which is a decrease on the previous year and significantly below the target. The LTIR is a calculation of accidents resulting in one day lost time, divided by the average hours worked, multiplied by 100,000. Our proactive approach is aimed at continuously identifying weaknesses in our safety processes and removing or mitigating risks when they are identified. This drive for continuous improvement and the openness of the culture has shown a further 40% increase in near miss reporting across the organisation. Occupational health There have been no occupational diseases reported during 2017. Rotork continues to promote the wellbeing of its employees. This includes both physical health and mental wellbeing. 50 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Awards and recognition Strategic Report To ensure high standards of health and safety performance, a number of businesses within PROGRESS the Group have gained or have maintained certification to OHSAS18001. These include facilities in Bergamo, Italy, Leeds, UK, Wolverhampton, UK, and Singapore. • The 2017 LTIR of 0.24 represented a decrease on the prior year and was significantly below Assurance activities the target. Our subsidiaries continue to embrace the challenge for the continuous improvement of • A number of other sites have gained or maintained our health and safety standards. The assurance certification to OHSAS18001. process continues to develop to highlight and mitigate significant risks in the business. The assessment looks at significant risk areas and identifies gaps in our processes or 2018 TARGETS Governance improvements that can be made. Whilst there has been a slight decline in the overall score across the manufacturing sites this year (83% down from 88% in 2016), this is predominantly due to the restructuring of our sites that • The method adopted to set the LTIR target is the occurred during the year. Additional support calculated average of the previous three years has been given to these sites to improve their LTIR results. This sets the LTIR target for 2018 at safety performance. Our sales and service subsidiaries continue to show improved below 0.34. performance, from 84% to 88%, which has resulted in the overall audit score equalling last year’s score of 87%. The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Conclusion Throughout the year, health and safety STEPHEN RHYS JONES Financial Statements continued to be a priority for employees and contractors. This can be seen by the significant Company Secretary reduction in lost time injuries that have 5 March 2018 occurred across the business and increase in near miss reporting. We continue to learn from events, audits and inspections which enables us to continually improve our health and safety performance. As we move forward, we will be looking at innovative practices to improve our health and safety performance. Lost Time Injury Rate 0.7 0.6 Company Information 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 LTIR Actual ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 GOVERNANCE 52 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview CONTENTS Governance 54 Board of Directors 56 Corporate Governance Report Strategic Report 62 Audit Committee Report 66 Nomination Committee Report 68 Directors’ Remuneration Report 84 Report of the Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. 2. 3. 1. Martin Lamb 2. Jonathan Davis 3. Lucinda Bell Executive Chairman Finance Director Non-Executive Director EXPERIENCE Martin has extensive experience Jonathan joined Rotork in Lucinda was Chief Financial in the global engineering 2002 after holding a number Officer of the British Land sector. He worked for IMI plc of finance positions in listed Company PLC until January for over 33 years in a number companies. He gained 2018. She served on the board of senior management roles, experience of the Rotork of British Land from 2011 and joining the Board in 1996, and business initially as Group has held a range of finance roles serving as Chief Executive from Financial Controller, and then as in the real estate industry. 2001 to 2013. He has served Finance Director of the Rotork on the boards of a number of Controls division, and in 2010 engineering businesses in a nonwas appointed Group Finance executive capacity, both in the Director. public and private equity arena. APPOINTED TO THE BOARD 2014 2010 2014 EXTERNAL Chairman of Evoqua Water APPOINTMENTS Technologies Corp Member of the European Advisory Board of AEA Investors (UK) Ltd COMMITTEE   MEMBERSHIP  Nomination  Audit  Remuneration Denotes Chair of Committee 54 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 4. 5. 6. 7. Strategic Report 4. Gary Bullard 5. Peter Dilnot 6. Sally James 7. Kevin Hostetler Governance Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Executive Director Gary previously held senior Peter is the Chief Executive Officer Sally was appointed as Senior Most recently Kevin was the CEO management positions, including of international waste-to-product Independent Director of Rotork of FDH Velocitel, a private equity sales and marketing roles, at company Renewi plc (formerly plc on 27 February 2017. Sally backed telecommunications and IBM and BT Group plc and was Shanks Group plc). Peter has an previously held senior legal roles engineering consulting business in a non-executive director of engineering background and in investment banking in London the USA. Prior to this, Kevin was Chloride Group plc. Gary held before joining Shanks Group, he and Chicago, including Managing an executive advisor to private the position of President Logica was a senior executive at Danaher Director and EMEA General equity firms. His roles included UK until October 2012 and Corporation, a leading global Counsel for UBS Investment CEO of a speciality private valve was a member of the Executive industrial business listed on the Bank. She has also held the manufacturer and executive Committee of Logica plc. NYSE. Prior to Danaher, Peter position of Bursar of Corpus chairman of an engineered highspent seven years at the Boston Christi College, Cambridge. pressure vessel company. From Consulting Group (BCG) based 2005 to 2012, Kevin was in various in both London and Chicago, senior executive roles at IDEX Financial Statements working primarily with industrial Corporation, including leading and pharmaceutical clients. their Asia and Emerging Markets businesses. From 1997 to 2004, he held a number of leadership positions and senior strategic and business development roles at Ingersoll Rand. 2010 2017 2012 2018 Founder and CEO of Catquin Ltd CEO of Renewi plc Non-executive director of Chairman of New Model Moneysupermarket.com Identity Ltd Group PLC Company Information Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Bank of Spirent Communications plc America Merrill Lynch International Non-Executive Chairman of Non-executive director of Hermes Gooch & Housego PLC Investment Management Trustee of Legal Education Foundation     ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction from the Executive Chairman The Board has regard to the interests of other stakeholders of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce Rotork’s Corporate Company in its decision making, in addition to its shareholders. Details Governance Report for 2017. The aim of this report is to provide a clear of how we have considered the interests of our employees during the and comprehensive explanation of Rotork’s governance framework and year are set out on page 38. In addition, the Chair of our Remuneration how it was applied day-to-day during the year under review, with Committee met with employee representatives in 2017 to discuss particular emphasis on explaining how the principles of the UK executive pay and remuneration more broadly across the Group. Details Corporate Governance Code have been applied across our Group. of how we interact with the communities in which we operate, and our environmental impact, are set out in our Corporate Social Responsibility As I highlighted earlier in my report on pages 4 to 5, 2017 was a period Report (see pages 44 to 45 and 46 to 49). In addition, details of our of change for the Group with further changes expected in 2018, with relationships with our suppliers are set out on page 43. the appointment of a new Chief Executive, and as we commence implementation of our plans to accelerate growth. I believe that strong As reported last year, John Nicholas retired from the Board in February corporate governance has a key role to play in protecting our business 2017. Following this, Sally James was appointed Senior Independent and its long-term success, particularly during periods of change. It is Director and Lucinda Bell was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee important for good governance to resonate throughout our entire to replace Sally James. Peter Dilnot joined the Board on 1 September organisation and at Rotork we seek to apply it across all our activities 2017 as our fourth independent non-executive director and has joined around the world in a consistent and unified way to create and maintain each of the three principal Committees. Finally, Kevin Hostetler joined the right culture throughout the Group. the Board as an executive director on 12 February 2018 and became a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 March 2018. Kevin will As previously reported, there has been a strong focus by the Board on assume the role of Chief Executive on 12 March 2018. broader strategic issues this year as we consider ways to accelerate our revenue growth and return to higher margins. The Board has overseen As a Board we regularly review and discuss our ways of working and our the strategic reviews of our routes to market, innovation funnel, effectiveness. Useful Thinking Limited facilitated a Board effectiveness operations footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems review in early 2017, following on from the comprehensive review that and will continue to do so in 2018. was conducted in the previous year. Further details are set out on page 60. Our robust risk management processes, which were further enhanced in 2017, ensure that the Board’s risk assessment and risk appetite are fully Rotork is subject to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, and I am considered, both in the development of strategy, and in action plans in happy to report that throughout 2017 Rotork has complied with the furtherance of new business opportunities. Code in all respects, save that, following Peter France’s resignation as Chief Executive in July 2017, I have acted as Executive Chairman. Details The Board received a number of presentations on improving diversity of the changes made to the governance structures of the Board in across the Group during the year. These have followed on from the response to my temporary change in role are set on page 58. publication of the Hampton Alexander review in November 2016, and follow up review in November 2017, which focused on gender diversity MARTIN LAMB at Board and senior management level for FTSE 350 companies. There Executive Chairman was also the Parker report, which was published in November 2016, 5 March 2018 which focused on the ethnic diversity of Boards. We provided our gender data for the Hampton Alexander follow up review. We have also recently published our gender pay report. The Board is committed to fostering greater diversity at Board and all other levels of Rotork and this will remain a focus for the coming year. 56 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Dates of Board meetings Overview Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec ✔ ✔ ✔✔ ✔✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔✔ ✔ BUSINESS REVIEW AND STRATEGY FINANCIAL • Received regular performance and business updates from the executive • Received regular financial performance updates from the Finance Director. directors. • Approved 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and Annual General Meeting • Set the Group’s strategy and vision. (AGM) business. • Received presentations from divisional and Group business function • Approved 2017 interim report and trading updates. Strategic Report managers to consolidate understanding and awareness of activities and • Approved 2016 final dividend recommendation and 2017 interim dividend performance within the relevant divisions and business functions. declaration. • Received a presentation in relation to the competitive landscape. • Approved 2018 budget. iew s rev gy Fin s te ne stra an ci Bu d an si al Governance BOARD ACTIVITY 2017 Go v d s er na nce Oth tak er e h old ers an In t e rols a n d r n al c o nt e nt Financial Statements ris k m a n a g e m INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK OTHER GOVERNANCE AND STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT • Approved appointment of Martin Lamb as • Approved entry into an internal audit and risk • Series of meetings undertaken between the Executive Chairman. partnership with PwC. Executive Chairman, Finance Director and key • Approved appointment of Peter Dilnot on • Received regular reports on risk including shareholders following Board changes. recommendation of the Nomination Committee quarterly Executive Risk Summary. • Received regular updates from the Director of and Sally James as Senior Independent Director • Received regular reports on litigation and Strategy and Investor Relations on investor and Lucinda Bell as Chair of the Audit regulatory matters. relations. Committee. • Adopted revised board protocols following the Company Information • Received regular financial controls self• Approved closure of UK defined benefit scheme assessment confirmations from global locations. appointment of Martin Lamb as Executive to future accrual. Chairman. • Reviewed effectiveness of risk management and • Received a presentation from the Chief internal control systems. • Reviewed feedback from institutional Information Officer on a major review of the IT shareholders. systems, including cyber-security. • Risk appetite workshop. • Approved 2016 and 2017 Modern Slavery • Received presentations on diversity and gender • Received reports on a third party selling Statements. pay gap reporting. arrangement review and agreed a process to rationalise this sales channel. • Reviewed and discussed the ICSA and Investment Association paper on the proper • Approved revised Ethics and Values Statement, consideration of stakeholder interests in the updated Whistleblowing Policy and new Gifts boardroom. and Hospitality Policy. • Received regular updates on health and safety. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement Following a rigorous review, the Board considers all non-executive The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the Code) is the standard directors to be independent in character and judgement from Rotork. against which we measured ourselves in 2017. The Code is available to Details of the length of tenure of the independent non-executive download at www.frc.org.uk. directors is set out below. Gary Bullard is the longest serving nonexecutive director and as he will have been in office for nine years in Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, Rotork plc fully complied 2019, the Nomination Committee have started to plan for the with the Code, save that from 28 July 2017 it was not in compliance with appointment of a replacement non-executive director and Chair of the Code Provision A.2.1, which provides that the roles of the Chairman and Remuneration Committee. Chief Executive should not be performed by the same person. Rotork’s female representation on the Board was 33% as at 31 Martin Lamb assumed the full time role of Executive Chairman on an December 2017. With the appointment of Kevin Hostetler, female interim basis following the announcement of the resignation of Peter representation now stands at 29%. The Board is cognisant of the France on 28 July 2017. Following Martin Lamb’s appointment, Sally updated Hampton-Alexander Review target of 33% female James, the Senior Independent Director, has taken an increased role at representation on the Board by 2020. Board level, including chairing the majority of discussions at meetings, in particular those aspects relating to direct review and constructive The biographies of the directors and details of Board committee challenge of the work of the executive directors. Sally James has also membership are set out on pages 54 to 55. taken greater responsibility for the setting of Board meeting agendas, as described below. All directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in line with the Code. The Nomination Committee commenced work in August 2017, with the appointment of external executive recruitment consultants, to identify and recruit a new Chief Executive. The appointment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive was announced on 4 January 2018. Kevin joined the Board on 12 February 2018 and the Nomination Committee on 1 March 2018, and will assume the role of Chief Executive from 12 March 2018. Length of tenure of Martin Lamb will revert to his role as non-executive Chairman from this independent non-executive date and Sally James’ additional responsibilities will also cease. directors as at 31 December 2017 The following section on pages 58 to 61 contains a summary of the n 0-3 Years system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork. n 3-6 Years n 6-9 Years The Board The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of Rotork for its shareholders; accomplished by entrepreneurial leadership, within a framework of prudent and effective controls and with proper consideration of wider stakeholder interests. Its role therefore includes approval of strategy, risk reviews, finance matters and internal control Balance of independent and risk management. non-executive directors and executive directors The terms of appointment of the Directors are available for inspection as at 31 December 2017 during business hours at the registered office of Rotork plc and will also n Non-executives be available at the AGM. n Executives Board composition Rotork is led by an effective Board which currently consists of seven members: the Executive Chairman, the Finance Director, Kevin Hostetler (who will become Chief Executive on 12 March 2017) and four independent non-executive directors. The non-executive directors are Balance between male appointed for an initial term of three years. Upon the completion of this and female directors term, the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, extended. on the Board as at 31 December 2017 Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional backgrounds n Male including engineering, legal, accountancy and international sales and collectively possess significant managerial experience, as well as n Female experience of being company directors of other public limited companies. The appointment of Peter Dilnot as a non-executive director in September 2017 has further strengthened the mix of skills on the Board, in particular given his background in engineering and extensive international business experience. 58 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings How the Board operates effectively during 2017 Board activities As part of Rotork’s Board effectiveness, day-to-day responsibility for the No. of meetings running of the Company is delegated to executive management. Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee However, there are a number of matters where, because of their importance to the Group, it is not considered appropriate to do this. The Lucinda Bell(i) 11/12 5/6 3/5 3/5 Board therefore has a formal and documented schedule of matters Gary Bullard 12/12 6/6 5/5 5/5 reserved for its decision. This schedule can be found on the Company’s Jonathan Davis 12/12 6/6 0 0 website at www.rotork.com/en/investors/index/theboard. Peter Dilnot(ii) 4/12 3/6 3/5 3/5 Strategic Report Peter France(iii) 6/12 2/6(v) 2/5 1/5 In 2017, there were nine main Board meetings and three other meetings. Sally James 12/12 6/6 5/5 5/5 The Chairman (and the Senior Independent Director, following Martin Martin Lamb 12/12 5/6(v) 5/5(v) 5/5 Lamb’s appointment as Executive Chairman), through the Company John Nicholas(iv) 1/12 1/6 1/5 0 Secretary, ensure that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board members sufficiently in advance of the meeting. Maximum number The format and content of management reporting packs are kept under of meetings 12 6 5 5 review to ensure that the non-executive directors receive focused, (i) Lucinda Bell missed the meetings of Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration concise and timely information from executive management. The Committee and Nomination Committee in December for medical reasons. Chairman (together with, following Martin Lamb’s appointment as (ii) Peter Dilnot was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2017. Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director) and the Company (iii) Peter France resigned from the Board on 27 July 2017. (iv) John Nicholas retired from the Board on 24 February 2017. Secretary discuss the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and hold (v) By invitation. a review meeting ahead of each Board meeting. Roles and responsibilities At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at one of Rotork’s Governance There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between the locations other than its head office in Bath. This allows the Board, and, Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a balance of in particular, the non-executive directors, the opportunity to gain a power and authority between leadership of the Board and executive deeper understanding of other Rotork businesses and their markets and leadership. As set out on page 58, Martin Lamb has been carrying out to interact with local management and staff, as well as to view new the Chief Executive role on a temporary basis following the resignation capital investments and acquisitions. In June 2017, the Board visited of Peter France in July 2017. He will resume his role as non-executive Rotork’s operations in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, and met with, and Chairman when Kevin Hostetler becomes Chief Executive on 12 March received presentations from, local management. Whilst there, they 2018. Sally James, the Senior Independent Director, has taken on visited a large oil tank terminal in the Rotterdam Europort area, which additional responsibilities during this period. has about 700 Rotork units installed, to see Rotork actuators in operation. In September 2017, the Board met at Bifold’s office in All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice at the Manchester, UK, where they received a tour of the site and local Company’s expense, and arranged by the Company Secretary, in order management presentations. to discharge their responsibilities as directors. Rotork maintains appropriate directors’ and officers’ insurance cover. Board meetings held outside the UK in past five years Financial Statements Company Information Location of Board meetings ■ 2017 – Rotterdam, The Netherlands ■ 2016 – Lucca, Italy ■ 2015 – Shanghai, China ■ 2014 – Winston-Salem, USA ■ 2013 – Lucca, Italy ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED All non-executive directors constructively challenge executive Risk management and internal controls management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access The Board is responsible for Rotork’s system of risk management and to information and management across the Group. Rotork’s executive internal control and the Board’s review of the system’s effectiveness is directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive completed with the assistance of the Audit Committee. managers and as Board directors. During 2017, the Board regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the At Board meetings, the Board receives presentations from senior Group’s risk management and internal control systems and can confirm management (including all Divisional Managing Directors during the year) that no significant failings or weakness were identified in relation to regarding that senior manager’s area of responsibility. The principal purpose these reviews. The systems which were in place for the year under of the presentations is to consolidate the Board’s understanding of the review, and up to the date of approval of the report, are in accordance Group’s operations, and in particular current strategic and operational with the Code and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal issues facing divisional and business functional management. The Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting. presentations are structured so that the Board has the opportunity to ask questions and constructively challenge senior management at their Main features of the Group’s risk management process presentations. Management presentations normally take place at the start An established risk review process at a divisional level results in a of the meeting so that any issues raised in them can be considered in wider ‘bottom up’ assessment of the risks facing the Group. These are Board discussions, particularly around strategy and risk. consolidated before the ‘top down’ review is performed by management and then by the Board to ensure the risk population is The executive directors present to the Board the content of preliminary complete and adequately assessed. and half year results announcements and the Board also considers trading updates. An Executive Risk Summary is presented to the Board on a quarterly basis. This includes a set of Key Risk Indicators which provide a means of Induction and development monitoring the Group’s risk exposures and focusses the Board on risks New Board members receive a suitable tailored induction, facilitated by where the Group exceeds, or will potentially exceed, risk appetite. the Company Secretary. This includes a combination of reading Quarterly reporting is supplemented as necessary by more detailed materials, external and internal training, meetings with senior monthly reporting to the Board by the executive management team on management and site visits. new or evolving risks, the effectiveness of existing mitigations and plans to further strengthen mitigations. Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional skills and knowledge. During 2017, development activities for the directors included Main features of the Group’s internal control systems participation in external training seminars. All the non-executive directors All members of the Board receive Audit Committee papers and prior are members of the Deloitte Academy which provides a wide range of meeting minutes, which contain the Audit Committee’s assessment of the training opportunities for FTSE 350 board directors. effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems. All non-executive directors are members of the Audit Committee and the The level and nature of training given to the Board is considered at least executive directors attend Audit Committee meetings. annually by the Chairman. Key elements of the framework which enables Rotork to respond Performance evaluations appropriately to financial, operational, compliance and any other risks, The Board is self-critical, and is continuously looking to improve its include: performance. In this respect, the appointment of new members to the • Group wide policies and procedures, including authority levels and Board in recent years has provided a valuable opportunity to review and division of responsibilities; refresh the approach to achieving best practice. • Training of staff on policies and procedures relevant to their roles; • Ongoing monitoring of business performance, Key Risk Indicators The formal performance evaluation of the Board in accordance with Code and levels of compliance with procedures; Provision B.6 took place in early 2017. Following the full, interview-based • A formal schedule of reserved matters for the Board, including Board performance evaluation in 2016, the Executive Chairman asked responsibility for reviewing Group strategy; Useful Thinking Limited, an independent external consultancy, to facilitate a • A formal whistleblowing policy (revised in 2017) with an external review in 2017 focusing on the key points previously raised and assessing whistleblowing hotline; the Board’s satisfaction with the follow up to the 2016 Board evaluation. • Robust assurance processes and controls over financial reporting and This was done by way of written questionnaire. health and safety procedures; and • Regular controls confirmations from the business. Building on specific feedback from the Board’s 2016 effectiveness review, Board workshops were held in March 2017 to consider the acquisition At the start of 2017, Rotork’s internal audit function comprised a process and the Group’s Risk Appetite Framework and in June 2017 on dedicated central team supported by a team of in-house accountants succession planning, personal development and recruitment. and Head Office staff. Unfortunately both members of the central team resigned during the year as they wanted to relocate with their families. The Senior Independent Director annually arranges a meeting of the As a result, PwC have been retained to cover these roles. The function is non-executive directors to appraise the Chairman’s performance. This now led by an experienced Head of Risk and Internal Audit from PwC. feedback is used by the Senior Independent Director to discuss with the Staffing of the central risk and internal audit team will be kept under Chairman his performance. This review took place in December 2017 and review during 2018. related to Martin Lamb’s performance as Chairman not Executive Chairman. During the year, the internal audit team identified improvement recommendations as a result of their work. Management are charged with implementing the required improvements to controls. The status and effectiveness of actions are monitored by internal audit and regularly reported to the Audit Committee. 60 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Further details of the Group’s internal control and risk management Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to communicate with systems and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the its shareholders. All shareholders have been asked whether they would principal risks faced by the Group during 2017, including the Board’s risk like to receive the Annual Report and Accounts in electronic form rather appetite, are contained on pages 18 to 24. than in hard copy form. Any shareholders wishing to receive corporate documents electronically can do this by registering for the service at Relations with shareholders www.shareview.co.uk and clicking on ‘Register’ under the ‘Shareview Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and the Portfolio’ section. Rotork also makes available electronic proxy Company openly engages in a regular dialogue with its major appointment for shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy online to shareholders. In 2017, the Board, and in particular the Executive vote at the Company’s AGM. Strategic Report Chairman and Finance Director, have engaged with shareholders in a number of ways including: Board Committees • Hosting and participating in roadshows, both in the UK and The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Each internationally; Committee has formal, written terms of reference which are available to • Hosting webcasts; download from the Rotork website at www.rotork.com/en/investors/ • Attending shareholder events; index/committees. All Committees have at least three independent • Hosting investor site visits; non-executive directors within their composition. The Company • Attending conferences; Secretary advises and acts as secretary to the Committees. • Hosting conference calls; and • Arranging ad hoc one to one and group meetings and calls In addition to the principal Committees outlined above, the Board also with shareholders. maintains a Disclosure Committee to ensure that Rotork complies with its obligations in relation to the control and disclosure of inside A Director of Strategy and Investor Relations was appointed in January information under the EU Market Abuse Regulation. Membership of the 2017 to increase the resources available to support existing and potential Disclosure Committee currently comprises the Executive Chairman, the shareholders and enhance our reporting to shareholders. Finance Director and the Company Secretary and it operates under Governance formal, written terms of reference. During the year we have reviewed our programme of events and expanded our investor communications programme to include greater participation The Committees have authority to take external, independent with a wider range of shareholders, hosting additional site visits and professional advice at Rotork’s expense for matters relating to the roadshows, and attending additional conferences. We have communicated discharge of their duties. with all major shareholders regarding the change of Chief Executive and progress regarding our growth acceleration plans, and will keep Chairman of the Board and Chairs of the Committees as shareholders updated on a regular basis as this develops. at 31 December 2017 In January 2018, MiFID II (made up of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (2014/65/EU) and the Markets in Financial PLC Board Instruments Regulation (2014/600/EU) became effective which impacts Martin Lamb how investment fund managers receive research from analysts and how they arrange access to corporates. We have assessed the likely implications for our wider communications with shareholders and will Financial Statements keep this under review as the investment industry’s response evolves. The Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major Audit Remuneration Nomination shareholder issues and concerns by ensuring the Board receives reports Committee Committee Committee on meetings with analysts and fund managers as well as shareholders. In Lucinda Bell Gary Bullard Martin Lamb addition, the Board receives reports from its brokers which give anonymised feedback from investors. Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity for the Board to communicate with, and answer questions from, shareholders who attend in person. The entire Board is normally available during the meeting, and for lunch following the meeting, to allow direct interaction between the directors and the shareholders. This year, Rotork will again adopt automatic poll voting at its AGM in order to better reflect the views of shareholders; previously voting on resolutions was generally Company Information undertaken on a show of hands at the AGM itself. Automatic poll voting ensures that all votes cast in person or by proxy are taken into account on a particular resolution. Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors including current webcasts, presentations and press releases as well as annual interim reports. The website can be accessed at www.rotork.com/en/investors. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the year The Audit Committee maintains an annual schedule of work which is ended 31 December 2017. This year the key areas of focus for the Audit kept under review and forms the basis of its principal meetings Committee have been: throughout the year. The annual schedule is supplemented by • Appointing the new Head of Risk and Internal Audit via the consideration of specific issues as and when they arise. cosourcing arrangement with PwC; • Reviewing the activities of internal audit and the effectiveness of risk The Audit Committee met six times during the year. There were four mitigating controls for principal risks; main Audit Committee meetings and two other meetings to approve the • Scrutinising the carrying value of intangible assets, including the trading statements in April and November. Details of attendance are set goodwill on acquisition of Bifold; and out on page 59. Meetings of the Audit Committee are arranged to • Monitoring the quality, consistency and integrity of the Company’s co-ordinate with the Group’s financial reporting timetable to ensure financial reporting, including assessment of whether the Annual appropriate scrutiny by the Audit Committee of such announcements, Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable. including review of year end and interim financial reports, in addition to other trading updates made during the year. Committee composition and governance All Audit Committee members are independent non-executive directors. The Chief Executive, Chairman, Finance Director, Group Financial John Nicholas retired from the Audit Committee on his retirement from Controller, Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives of the the Board on 24 February 2017. On 27 February 2017, I was appointed external auditor (including the principal audit partner) also regularly Chair of the Audit Committee, replacing Sally James who became the attend meetings by invitation. Senior Independent Director. I would like to thank Sally for her thorough chairing of the Audit Committee. Peter Dilnot joined the Committee on As Chair of the Committee, I additionally hold regular meetings with the his appointment as a Director on 1 September 2017. Finance Director and other members of the management team. These meetings provide me with a better understanding of key issues and I hold professional accounting qualifications and am deemed to have identify those matters which require meaningful discussion at Audit recent and relevant financial experience. Biographies of each member of Committee meetings. I also meet with the Head of Risk and Internal the Audit Committee can be found on pages 54 to 55. Audit and the external audit partner to discuss any matters of concern that they may have. The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and were last updated in December 2017. A copy During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from of the terms of reference is available on the Rotork website at management, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and the external www.rotork.com/en/investors/index/committees. auditors. These reports have allowed the Audit Committee to scrutinise and ask questions where further clarification or discussion was required. The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to review and Further details of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee during report to the Board on: 2017 is set out opposite. • The integrity of financial reporting; • Significant accounting policies and judgements; • Internal control and risk management systems including monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit; • The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the external auditor; • The external auditor’s remuneration; and • Whistleblowing and other Group policies as relevant. 62 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Dates of Audit Committee meetings: Overview Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔✔ ✔ Members1: Lucinda Bell, Sally James, Gary Bullard and Peter Dilnot 1 As at 31 December 2017 FINANCIAL REPORTING INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT • Reviewed the Annual Report and • Reviewed the half year accounts • Reviewed internal controls and risk • Meetings with the Head of Risk Accounts including whether they including material judgments, management, including and Internal Audit without are fair, balanced and estimates and draft half year results consideration of processes and management present. understandable and the governance announcement. procedures for risk management, • Reviewed anti-bribery and report and draft results effectiveness of internal controls Strategic Report • Reviewed the external auditor’s corruption procedures, including announcements. report on the year end accounts and fraud risk. training and communication, and • Reviewed the material judgments and the proposed full year external • Reviewed significant internal recommendation of a new gifts and estimates and going concern audit scope, key risks, materiality control reports, findings and and hospitality policy to the Board. assumption and the viability and year end issues. management responses. • Reviewed Whistleblowing Policy, statement in the Annual Report and • Reviewed trading updates. • Reviewed internal audit the Whistleblowing Hotline and Accounts. programme, its remit, resourcing procedures including training and and effectiveness. communication, and received reports on whistleblowing matters. an Int al d ci g ris e Governance F tin re ina ols nt ntr po n e co gem r al na rn ma k AUDIT COMMITTEE ACTIVITY 2017 Ex Financial Statements te r k na wor au er l di h t Ot EXTERNAL AUDIT OTHER WORK • Considered and reported to the • Reviewed non-audit services • Considered accounting and • Reviewed revised Ethics and Values Company Information Board on the external auditor’s undertaken by the external auditor corporate governance Statement and recommendation of independence, objectivity and and considered of policy on developments. statement to the Board for effectiveness including the annual non-audit work. • Reviewed Audit Committee approval. audit. • Considered audit fees, engagement effectiveness and Terms of • Considered resourcing required for • Reviewed the external auditor’s terms and risk of external auditor Reference. Risk and Internal Audit team, representation letter, views on the leaving the market. • Received presentations from the including the appointment of PwC control environment and fraud risk • Considered re-tendering the Group Tax Manager and following departure of the central management. external audit contract. Group Treasurer. team. • Meetings with the external auditor • Reviewed policies on the without management present. employment of ex-employees of the external auditor. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Financial reporting The assessment considers: A key role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to • Any issues arising from the prior year external audit; review the quality and appropriateness of the half year and yearend • The proposed external audit plan, including identification of risks financial statements with a particular focus on: specific to Rotork; • Accounting policies and practices; • External audit scope and materiality thresholds; • The clarity of disclosures and compliance with International Financial • Staffing continuity and experience; Reporting Standards, UK company law and the Code; • The delivery of the external audit in line with the plan; • Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or • Matters arising during the external audit and the communication of where there has been discussion with the external auditor; and these to the Audit Committee; • Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on whether the Annual • Feedback from executive management; Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and provide • Private meetings with the external auditor and the Head of Risk and the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s Internal Audit without management being present; performance as a whole. • The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the external auditor; and To assist the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and the Group Financial • The FRC audit quality review report on selected audits undertaken Controller present a detailed report outlining significant matters on the half by Deloitte. year and yearend financial statements and the external auditor presents a report on the work they have undertaken. They also present on the scope Having completed this review, the Audit Committee agreed that for the next full year audit for consideration by the Audit Committee. the audit process, independence and quality of the external audit were satisfactory. The principal matters of judgment considered by the Audit Committee in relation to the 2017 accounts and how they were addressed were: Consideration was given to the possibility of re-tendering the external • Goodwill impairment testing. The year end balance sheet includes work during the course of the year but given it is only the fourth year the goodwill of £228.0m, this represents approximately 30.9% of the decision was made not to re-tender. The Audit Committee has Group’s assets. The Audit Committee reviewed the carrying value of recommended that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed auditors for the 2018 goodwill by examining a report from the Group Financial Controller financial year and Deloitte’s continuing appointment will be subject to which set out the values attributable to each cash generating unit, the shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM. expected value in use, based on projected cash flows and the key economic assumptions related to growth and discount rates. The report The 2018 year end audit will be the last year under the Financial included a detailed impairment review paper for Bifold as this was the Reporting Council’s APB Ethical Standards that Nigel Thomas will be able cash generating unit identified as being most sensitive to changes in the to hold the role of Senior Statutory auditor. We will therefore be key assumptions. The Bifold paper was reviewed by the Board in considering a transition plan during the coming year. December 2017 and finalised in February 2018. The Audit Committee discussed the appropriateness of the assumptions used, compared Statement of compliance expected growth rates to historical averages and relevant market data The Company confirms that it has complied with terms of The Statutory and compared the discount rates to the Group weighted average cost of Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory capital and appropriate risk premiums. Following the discussion, the Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Audit Committee were satisfied with the approach taken by Responsibilities) Order 2014 (the Order) throughout the year. management which resulted in the impairment of the Bifold (£19.8m) and Tulsa (£1.6m) cash generating units. The Audit Committee also Non-audit services considered the impact of any reasonable change in assumptions that In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external might further increase or reduce the impairments recorded and whether auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit services which any reasonable change would result in any other cash generating unit restricts the work and fees available to the external audit firm, and the requiring to be impaired. The Audit Committee reviewed the sensitivities policy is reviewed by the Audit Committee annually to ensure it remains and impairment disclosures in note 10 and were satisfied these are appropriate and in line with applicable requirements. balanced and fair. • Retirement benefit schemes. The Group operates two defined benefit The policy specifies certain activities which the external auditor may retirement plans which were still open to future accrual at the balance not undertake such as work related to the internal audit function and, sheet date. The UK scheme is in the process of being closed to future from January 2017, work related to certain tax activities. accrual. The valuations are prepared by an independent qualified actuary. The Audit Committee considered the report from the Group The policy is compliant with EU legislation on permitted non-audit fee Financial Controller and were satisfied the assumptions used were services which came into effect on 17 June 2016. The policy contains appropriate. The detailed disclosure for these schemes under IAS19 are restrictions on the scope of permissible non-audit work; and a cap on shown in note 24 and the Audit Committee is satisfied they are fees for permissible non-audit work (which may not exceed 70% of the complete and accurate. average audit fees paid in the last three consecutive years). External auditor For work that is permitted under the policy, authority has been The year under review marks the fourth year during which Deloitte LLP delegated to the Finance Director to approve. This is for fees of up to has been the Group’s external auditor following a formal tender process £10,000 per project or £40,000 in aggregate for general work, and in 2014. Nigel Thomas is the lead audit partner, taking over from Nicola £10,000 for acquisition related work that is permitted under the policy. Mitchell during 2017. Nigel has been on the audit team since Deloitte’s Non-audit work above these levels requires the prior approval of the appointment as auditor and therefore the transition between lead audit Chair of the Audit Committee or the Audit Committee as a whole. partners has been very smooth. The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process, the scope of the Group audit An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte, including the split between audit and the quality of the audit work throughout the year. and non-audit is included in note 8 of the report and accounts. The statutory auditor’s non-audit related fees reduced from £41,000 in 2016 to nil in 2017. 64 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Risk management The 2018 audit programme has been scoped to include a number of risk The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring based audits related to the Group’s Principal Risks as well as financial the effectiveness of the Group’s control environment, risk management audits across a wide range of locations. Sites to be audited are selected and internal audit process. During 2017, the Key Risk Indicators have based on a thorough assessment using a number of relevant risk factors. been updated and enhanced, technology has been introduced to The Audit Committee reviewed the programme at its December 2017 support the facilitation of the risk management process and there has meeting. The PwC team are also in the process of reviewing the been increased focus on divisional risk mitigations. development of the internal audit function, an update of work they first performed in 2015. This exercise will not only note areas of progress Following the resignation of the Head of Risk and Internal Audit in July since the first report but identify the appropriate next steps as the Strategic Report 2017, the Audit Committee oversaw the appointment of PwC to provide internal audit function continues to mature. external support and specialist skills to the internal audit and risk function including the provision of a Head of Risk and Internal Audit. Other matters PwC are currently undertaking a risk maturity assessment, looking at all In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee carried aspects of the Groups risk management processes and the connections out a review of its effectiveness by way of a questionnaire and between those various processes and the day to day operations of the discussion facilitated by the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, including Group. Any recommendations arising from this review will be considered how it discharged its responsibilities. There were two main areas for during the coming year and be used to enhance the current risk improvement identified by the review: Audit Committee induction and management framework. on-boarding for new members; and Audit Committee meeting agendas and papers management. These will be addressed in 2018. Internal controls The Audit Committee has continued to monitor the effectiveness of Throughout the year, the Audit Committee also considered relevant internal controls, supported by internal audit. The internal audit team accounting and corporate governance developments, in addition to report and follow up on controls weaknesses, providing support to those in relation to risk and internal controls discussed above. management in making operational improvements where needed. Governance Areas of focus for 2018 Other means of assessing the internal control systems include annual Key areas of focus for the coming year are: letters of assurance from the divisional leadership team, a regular • External audit partner transition in preparation for 2019; and process of collating controls confirmations from operating sites and the • A core plan of financial and risk-based internal audits. The teams will risk assessment process. These controls sit alongside our effective focus on embedding improved working practices across risk and system of governance, including key committees that monitor our internal audit. processes and controls, such as the Audit Committee and CSR There will also be flexibility in the use of internal audit resource during Committee and its sub-committees. the year as business transformation activities are expected to impact the Group’s risk profile. During the year, the Audit Committee considered reports on internal control from the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, as well as reports on LUCINDA BELL procedures to prevent bribery and corruption and whistleblowing events Chair of the Audit Committee from the Group Legal Director. 5 March 2018 Internal audit Financial Statements The Group continues to use Rotork staff to undertake audits, and this arrangement encourages the sharing of best practice and provides career development for the staff involved. Quality assurance procedures ensure consistency both in terms of audit approach and remedial actions. The Rotork internal audit team is now led by PwC internal auditors, as part of a co-source arrangement, which will bring an independent perspective to our audits and methodology. Where an audit raises a number of higher risk recommendations which require significant management action, internal audit will perform a follow up audit to ensure actions taken are effectively mitigating the risks. During 2017, the scope of internal audit was expanded to cover some risk based audit areas as well as the financial audits. The risk based audits focused on the controls which are in place to mitigate some of the principal risks identified during the Group risk review process, as Company Information well as areas where an independent review of operational processes and procedures was considered beneficial. The areas reviewed during 2017 under the risk based audits included aspects of health and safety, business continuity planning and third party sales channels including agents and commission. In 2017, a key controls confirmation process was also introduced which is now completed monthly in the larger manufacturing sites and quarterly in the smaller locations. The Audit Committee continues to receive reports at the main meetings on internal audit activity, any significant matters arising and the management response. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee appointed Spencer Stuart as external search consultants (with which the Company has no other connection) to assist with this process. In formulating the candidate profile for the appointment, the Nomination Committee had particular regard to the need for a growth orientated Chief Executive with an engineering background and a strong technical appreciation and international experience. They also looked for a diverse gender and ethnic list of potential candidates. The Nomination Committee received a long list of potential candidates from Spencer Stuart. Following review and discussion, prioritised candidates were identified for interview. The Nomination Committee were unanimous in their recommendation of the preferred candidate to the Board for approval. Kevin Hostetler’s appointment as executive director, from 12 February 2018, and Chief Executive, from 12 March 2018, was announced on 4 January 2018. During the year, the Nomination Committee was also responsible for recommending Peter Dilnot as a new non-executive director and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees following a search The Nomination Committee is responsible for: for a replacement non-executive director which was commenced in 2016. • Leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board; Succession planning • Ensuring succession planning is in place for appointments to the Succession planning for the Board is continuous and the Nomination Board and senior management; Committee considered during the year the need to maintain an • Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on its balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and experience and making the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board. As Gary recommendations as appropriate; and Bullard will have been in office for nine years in 2019 the Nomination • Making recommendations concerning the membership of the Audit Committee have started to plan for the appointment of a replacement and Remuneration Committees (in consultation with the Chairs of non-executive director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee. This those Committees). will be progressed during 2018. A copy of the Nomination Committee terms of reference is available on Diversity policy the Rotork website at www.rotork.com/en/investors/index/committees. The Board seeks to attain a diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and background. In considering diversity, gender will play an important John Nicholas retired from the Nomination Committee on his retirement role but the Board will take account of ethnicity, nationality, from the Board on 24 February 2017, Peter Dilnot joined the Nomination background, profession and personality. Committee on 1 September 2017 and Kevin Hostetler joined on 1 March 2018. A majority of the Nomination Committee members are The Board has formally adopted a diversity policy to encourage diversity independent non-executive directors. Biographies of each member of at all levels within the Group. At Board level, this includes a number of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 54 to 55. voluntary actions to improve diversity, including only using external search consultants (where such consultants are engaged to make an Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year appointment) which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct There were five formal Nomination Committee meetings during the for Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice. The year. The Nomination Committee also met at other times during 2017 in diversity policy also sets out other actions that will be taken to connection with the recruitment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief Executive contribute to a more diverse pool of employees throughout the Group. and Peter Dilnot as a non-executive director. A summary of principal Details of further actions to improve diversity are set out on page 38. activities is set out opposite. The Nomination Committee received a presentation from the Group HR Board appointments Director on improving diversity across the Group during the year. This Following the resignation of Peter France as Chief Executive in July 2017, followed on from the publication of the Hampton Alexander review (on the Nomination Committee commenced work on the recruitment of a gender diversity) and Parker review (on ethnic diversity) in November new Chief Executive. This process was led by Sally James (Senior 2016. This will remain a focus for the coming year. Independent Director). A structured timetable was adopted for the process and regular Nomination Committee discussions and updates Details of the proportion of women on the Board, in senior leadership held throughout. positions and within the Group can be found on page 39. We also provided our gender data for the Hampton Alexander follow up review which was published in November 2017. MARTIN LAMB Chair of the Nomination Committee 5 March 2018 66 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Dates of Nomination Committee meetings: Overview Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔✔ Members1: Martin Lamb, Lucinda Bell, Gary Bullard, Sally James and Peter Dilnot 1 As at 31 December 2017 APPOINTMENT PROCESS SUCCESSION PLANNING Strategic Report • Approved the appointment of external search consultants for new Chief • Discussed Board composition and succession planning, including Executive search. consideration of balance of skills and experience and diversity. • Considered the candidate profile for the Chief Executive role. • Approved offer to new Chief Executive. • Recommended Peter Dilnot for appointment as a non-executive director and member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. ss Su Governance ce lanning pro Appoint np me sio nt es NOMINATION COMMITTEE cc ACTIVITY 2017 Financial Statements Other wo r k OTHER WORK • Discussed gender pay gap reporting requirements. Company Information • Discussed diversity following presentation from Group HR Director and consideration of the Hampton Alexander Report on gender diversity and Parker review on ethnic diversity. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Martin Lamb assumed the full time role of Executive Chairman on an interim basis from 28 July 2017 until the new Chief Executive assumes the role and has received additional remuneration (structured as a fixed allowance) to reflect the increased time commitment involved. He has not received any additional benefits or participated in the executive bonus or LTIP during this period. Martin elected to invest the additional net remuneration that he receives in Rotork shares and to hold them for a minimum of two years following purchase. Sally James, Senior Independent Director, also assumed additional responsibilities during this period and has received an additional fee for her services. She also elected to invest the additional net fees in Rotork shares and to hold them for a minimum of two years. Full details are set out on page 77. Variable remuneration in 2017 Bonuses for 2017 were based on annual profit, cash generation, accident frequency rate and individual strategic targets. In line with our pay for performance philosophy, we set ambitious targets for the annual bonus, particularly in relation to profitability. The Group has made good progress in 2017 and as a result, the bonus for Jonathan Davis for 2017 paid out at 71.6% of salary. Full details of the bonus targets and performance against them are set out on pages 77 to 78. Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2017 has been a year of considerable change for Rotork. Peter France left However, despite the strong progress in 2017, the 2015 LTIP awards the business in July and Martin Lamb, our Chairman, assumed the role of (which were based on earnings per share (EPS) and total shareholder Executive Chairman whilst the search for a new Chief Executive took place. return (TSR) performance over the three years to 31 December 2017) In December 2017, the Board were delighted to announce we had recruited failed to meet the threshold levels of performance required and the Kevin Hostetler to lead the business as it embarks on its accelerated growth awards will lapse on 6 March 2018. plans. Kevin is a US citizen and has relocated from Chicago for the role. His remuneration arrangements, which are in line with the remuneration policy Variable remuneration for 2018 approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, are summarised below and set The variable pay arrangements for 2018 are unchanged from those out later in this report; so too are the interim arrangements for Martin Lamb operating in 2017. Bonuses will continue to be based on profit, cash and the departure arrangements for Peter France. generation, safety and strategic targets. The 2018 LTIP grants will be based on TSR, EPS and a return on capital measure. Challenging Our remuneration philosophy performance targets have been set for the variable pay elements in line The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine the with the business strategy and growth expectations and no changes framework and policy for remuneration of the executive directors and have been made to the award levels for executive directors. the Chairman. The policy for the executive directors is aligned with Rotork’s overall philosophy on remuneration and operates as an Activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year extension of the broader reward framework. The Remuneration The Remuneration Committee maintains a rolling programme of activities Committee is kept informed of any material changes to the benefit or which forms the basis of its scheduled meetings throughout the year. This reward arrangements for Rotork’s employees and during the course of rolling programme is supplemented by consideration of specific issues as the year, I met with employee representatives to discuss the approach and when they arise. The Remuneration Committee met five times during to remuneration at Rotork. the year. Details of attendance at meetings is set out on page 59. A summary of its principal activities is set out opposite. Board changes during 2017 and 2018 Peter France stood down from the Board and resigned as Chief The purpose of this report is to communicate details of our Executive on 27 July 2017. Under the terms of his leaving arrangements, remuneration policy and its application during the year. The Annual he was entitled to a payment in lieu of the salary, benefits and pension Report on Remuneration, together with this introductory statement, will allowance for the unexpired portion of his notice period. He was also be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM. The Policy eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for 2017 (in respect of the period Report, which sets out the Company’s current policy on director’s worked). Peter was treated as a good leaver in relation to the LTIP remuneration, will not be subject to a shareholder vote this year. I hope awards granted in 2015 and 2016. The awards will continue to vest on that you will support the resolution to approve the Annual Report on the normal vesting date, subject to the achievement of the applicable Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM. performance targets and a pro-rata reduction to reflect the period for which he was employed. The 2015 LTIP award will lapse on 6 March 2018 as the minimum performance hurdles were not satisfied. The LTIP GARY BULLARD award granted to him in 2017 also lapsed following his departure. Chair of the Remuneration Committee Details of the final settlement terms are set out on page 81. 5 March 2018 Kevin Hostetler was appointed as an executive director on 12 February 2018 and will resume the role of Chief Executive from 12 March 2018. Details of his remuneration package are set out overleaf and in more detail on page 82. His remuneration package has been set in accordance with the existing approved policy. The Company was not required to pay any buy-out awards in connection with his appointment. 68 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Dates of Remuneration Committee meetings:  Overview Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Members1: Gary Bullard, Lucinda Bell, Sally James and Peter Dilnot 1 As at 31 December 2017 Strategic Report SETTING EXECUTIVE SALARY REVIEW OF BONUS AND LTIP • Set basic salary for Jonathan Davis for 2018. • Reviewed LTIP performance against targets. • Considered a report from New Bridge Street on executive remuneration. • Reviewed bonus performance against targets and approved 2016 bonus payments. alary Rev ives iew ut an of ec dL b ex Governance TI P us Se on tti ng REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ce Sett n in b o tiv g l o n ACTIVITY 2017 Othe n u e pla g ter m so n r ppo (LTIP) and r t u nitie s Financial Statements in Re g mu neration reportin SETTING LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN OTHER REMUNERATION REPORTING (LTIP) AND BONUS OPPORTUNITIES • Considered corporate governance • Approved the Directors Remuneration Report • Set LTIP performance targets and award levels developments, guidance from institutional 2016. for executive directors and other members of Company Information investors and general remuneration. • Consulted with shareholders and approved of senior management for the 2017 LTIP. • Considered and approved of remuneration the 2017 Remuneration Policy. • Set executive directors’ personal performance arrangements for departure of the Chief bonus targets for 2017 Executive. and 2018. • Approved new Chief Executive remuneration • Set financial and non-financial bonus targets for and relocation package and service agreement. executive directors and other members of senior • Approved the Remuneration Committee’s management’s bonus scheme for 2018. schedule of work for 2018. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration at a glance for 2018 Kevin Hostetler (Chief Executive) Jonathan Davis (Finance Director) Salary £600,000 £346,000 (+3.2%)1 (set on appointment) Benefits Standard benefits plus relocation arrangements agreed in Standard benefits connection with his appointment Pension 25% of salary 20% of salary Annual bonus 125% of salary maximum (75% salary target) 100% of salary maximum (60% salary target) Based on profit, cash generation, safety, strategic and personal targets. Any bonus above target is deferred in shares for three years Long-term incentive 150% salary performance share award 125% of salary performance share award Based on earnings per share (EPS), relative total shareholder return (TSR) and a return on capital measure assessed over a three year performance period (a two year post-vesting holding period also applies) Shareholding guideline 250% of salary 1 As disclosed in last year’s report, Jonathan Davis elected to invest a proportion of his salary in shares on a monthly basis. How our remuneration policy supports Rotork’s strategy Our aim is to deliver a high return on capital with strong and sustainable margins and consistent year-on-year growth in revenues and profit which, combined with our asset-light model, deliver strong cash generation. Our reward structure supports and reflects this strategy. OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Innovation Operational excellence Growth Sustainability Annual Strategic targets Cash generation measure Profit measure Safety measures Reward Framework bonus Personal performance targets Deferral into shares Clawback and malus provisions Five year time horizon Return on capital measure Long-term (three year performance period Total shareholder return Earnings per share measure incentive and two year holding period) measure Clawback and malus provisions Aligning pay with Rotork performance ANNUAL BONUS LTIP (2017) (1.1.2015 to 31.12.2017) Performance Outcome Performance Outcome £130m profit -46% basic earnings 71.6% of 109% cash generation per share growth Nil% vesting maximum pay-out 0.24 LTIR 17% total shareholder return 70 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview POLICY REPORT This report sets out the policy of the Company on the remuneration of the directors. The policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 28 April 2017 and is intended to remain in place for three years. Shown below is the policy in full, as approved by shareholders, updated where appropriate to reference how the policy will be applied in 2018. Role of the Remuneration Committee The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine the framework and policy for remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman, ensuring that remuneration levels are sufficient but not excessive in order to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to successfully run the Company. The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on the Company’s website at Strategic Report www.rotork.com/en/investors/index/committees. Key responsibilities include: • Within the approved policy, determining individual remuneration packages for the Chairman and executive directors, including the terms of any discretionary share schemes in which executive directors may be invited to participate, taking account of the level of remuneration for other Rotork management board members and being aware of remuneration conditions throughout the Group; • Agreeing the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for executive directors, including termination payments; and • Selecting, appointing and setting terms of reference with any remuneration consultants who may advise the Remuneration Committee. Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee is sensitive to employee remuneration conditions in the Group and in determining remuneration takes account of Group remuneration conditions. The Remuneration Committee invites the Group HR Director to its meetings to provide, amongst other things, details of employee remuneration conditions and metrics, such as pay rises awarded to employees to inform the Remuneration Committee’s decision making. During 2017, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee met with employee representatives to discuss the approach to remuneration at Rotork. The Remuneration Committee also monitors internal relativities and pay ratios to ensure that they remain appropriate. Governance Consideration of shareholder views In formulating the Policy Report, the Remuneration Committee takes into account guidance issued by shareholders, their representative bodies and proxy agencies (including the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder Services). The Remuneration Committee also takes into consideration any views expressed by shareholders during the year (including at the AGM) and encourages an open dialogue with its largest shareholders. Major shareholders are consulted in advance about changes to the Policy Report or any significant proposed changes to the way in which it is implemented. A detailed consultation exercise was undertaken in Autumn 2016. Overview of the Policy Report Directors’ policy table Element of Purpose and how it remuneration supports the strategy How the element operates Maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Base salary To attract and Salary levels (and subsequent Details of the current salaries of N/A retain executive salary increases) are set after the executive directors are set out directors of the taking into account the in the Annual Report on right calibre and responsibilities of the role, the Remuneration. Financial Statements provide a core level value of the individual in terms of of reward for skills, experience and personal For Jonathan Davis, future salary the role. contribution, Company increases will be no higher than performance, internal relativities the average increase (as a and pay conditions, and external percentage of salary) applied to market data (benchmarked the UK workforce. against companies of a similar size and complexity and other For other executive directors, the companies in the same industry Remuneration Committee retains sector). The Remuneration the discretion to award higher Committee also considers the increases if appropriate. For impact of any increase to salaries example, to reflect progression in on the total remuneration the role or to the increased package. experience of the individual. Company Information Salaries are paid monthly1 and reviewed annually (salaries are normally reviewed in December, with any changes effective from 1 January). 1 Jonathan Davis has elected to invest a proportion of his salary (net of tax) in Rotork shares and to retain them for two years. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element of Purpose and how it remuneration supports the strategy How the element operates Maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Benefits To attract and The range of benefits that may be There is no prescribed maximum N/A retain executive provided is set by the level, but the Remuneration directors of the Remuneration Committee after Committee monitors the overall right calibre by taking into account local market cost of the benefit provision to providing a market practice in the country where the ensure that it remains competitive level of executive is based. appropriately proportionate. benefit provision. The executive directors’ benefits currently comprise a car and fuel (or car and fuel allowance), personal accident insurance, private medical insurance and life assurance. Additional benefits may be provided, as appropriate. Executive directors are also entitled to membership of the all-employee Rotork Share Incentive Plan (SIP), or Overseas Profit Linked Share Scheme (OPLSS), within the maximum limits as set by HMRC. Any reasonable business related expenses may be reimbursed (including any tax if determined to be a taxable benefit). Pension To provide a The Company may fund Up to 25% of salary. N/A market competitive contributions to a director’s remuneration pension as appropriate. This may package to enable include contributions to a money the recruitment purchase scheme and/or payment and retention of of a cash allowance where executive directors. appropriate. Annual bonus Drives and rewards Bonus up to 60% of the The maximum annual bonus The annual bonus is focused on performance maximum are paid in cash. Any potential is 125% of salary. the delivery of strategically against annual bonus awarded in excess of 60% important performance measures. financial and of the maximum is deferred into Details of the current annual These include demanding financial operational goals shares for three years. opportunity are set out in the and non-financial measures. which are Annual Report on Remuneration. Financial measures will account consistent with the Dividend equivalents may be paid for the majority. medium to long on the deferred shares on vesting. For each measure, normally a term strategic The Remuneration Committee sliding scale of stretching targets Under the terms of the bonus needs of the retains discretion to adjust the is set by the Remuneration plan, the Remuneration business. number of deferred shares in the Committee. The threshold level of Committee has the discretion, in event of a variation in the capital bonus under each financial exceptional circumstances, to of the Company and/or to settle measure varies but accounts for amend previously set targets or to the award in cash. no more than one third of the adjust the proposed pay-out to maximum bonus opportunity ensure a fair and appropriate under any single measure. outcome. 72 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Element of Purpose and how it remuneration supports the strategy How the element operates Maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance LTIP To incentivise long The LTIP permits an award of The grant level is 150% of salary Awards under the LTIP are term value creation shares to be granted which vest per annum. currently subject to performance and alignment with subject to performance and conditions, measured over three shareholder continued employment. The LTIP Details of the current award levels financial years. interests. awards will be granted in are set out in the Annual Report accordance with the rules of the on Remuneration. The awards from 2017 onwards plan, which were approved by are based on a mix of EPS, return Strategic Report shareholders in 2010, and the on capital (economic profit) and discretions contained therein. TSR. Different measures may be A copy of the rules is available on used for future award cycles. request from the Company Secretary. A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure with no more than Awards under the LTIP may be 25% of the award (under each granted in the form of conditional measure) vesting for achieving the shares, forfeitable shares, nil-cost threshold performance hurdle. options or cash (where the award cannot be settled in shares). The performance targets are set Awards are currently structured as prior to the grant of each award. nil-cost options. Different measures, targets and/ or weightings between measures For awards granted from 2017 may be set for future Governance onwards, the directors must retain award cycles. any shares vesting (net of tax) until the fifth anniversary of grant. Under the LTIP rules approved by shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to amend the targets applying to existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging than originally envisaged. The Remuneration Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company. Financial Statements Shareholding To provide The executive directors are also N/A N/A guideline alignment with subject to a shareholding shareholders by requirement to build and maintain requiring a shareholding in Rotork executives to build equivalent to 250% of salary. and maintain a meaningful shareholding in Rotork. Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element of Purpose and how it remuneration supports the strategy How the element operates Maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Chairman and To attract and Fees for the Chairman and The maximum aggregate fee level N/A non-executive retain nonnon-executive directors are is £700,000. directors’ fees executive directors reviewed periodically. of the right calibre. The fee levels set are set by Non-executive director fees are reference to rates in companies of determined by the Chairman and comparable size and complexity. Chief Executive. The fees for the The fee levels are reviewed Chairman are determined by the periodically taking into account Remuneration Committee taking the responsibilities of the role and into account views of the Chief the time commitment of the Executive. The Chairman excludes individual. himself from such discussions. The fees for the non-executive directors normally comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid to the Senior Independent Director and for chairing a Committee. Any reasonable business related expenses may be reimbursed (including tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit). Performance measures Performance measures are used to determine the extent of any awards made under the variable elements of the executive directors’ remuneration mix, being the annual bonus and the LTIP. The performance measures used are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. The performance measures are selected because of their use as key performance indicators (KPIs) to assess Company performance and to align the interests of the directors to those of the shareholders. Non-financial KPIs constitute part of the annual bonus award and these are selected to ensure that performance measured by financial KPIs is not delivered at the expense of important non-financial considerations. Clawback and malus The payment of any bonus is at the ultimate discretion of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Committee also retains an absolute discretion to reclaim or withhold some, or all, of any annual bonus paid in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of the performance targets and/or award size and gross misconduct. In terms of the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to reclaim some, or all, of a vested LTIP award in exceptional circumstances (the categories for clawback being the same as for the annual bonus plan). In addition, the Remuneration Committee may lapse or reduce an award prior to vesting where the participant is found to be guilty of serious misconduct. Differences between the Policy Report and the policy on employee remuneration The Board recognises that it is appropriate for a significant proportion of executive directors’ remuneration to be contingent on the performance of the Group, and that such remuneration is at risk subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions. Consequently, executive directors and other senior managers are invited to participate in the LTIP where shares awarded will vest contingent upon performance conditions over a three year period. Executive directors and other senior managers are also invited to participate in the annual bonus scheme which will result in a bonus payment being made if targets are achieved, part of which for executive directors may be deferred in shares. For employee remuneration, the Board considers it more appropriate that employees share in the success of the Group through a profit based bonus plan which is based on the performance of their business unit and Group performance. This is coupled with the opportunity, for eligible employees, to receive free shares from the Company, paid from the Company’s profits. 74 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Approach to recruitment remuneration Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Policy Report, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and their existing remuneration package. Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to salary may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance. Benefits will generally be provided in accordance with the Policy Report, with relocation expenses/an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary. The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with the Policy Report. The maximum aggregate variable pay opportunity under the policy is up to 275% of salary. Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year that the executive joined. Strategic Report In the case of an external hire, it may be necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer). This would be provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares) and timing and expected value (i.e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria) of the remuneration being forfeited. Replacement share awards, if used, may be granted using Rotork’s existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules. In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant. Fees for a new Chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the Policy Report. Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office Under the executive directors’ service contracts, up to 12 months’ notice of termination of employment is required by either party. Should notice be served, the executive directors can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave. The Company applies a general principle of mitigation in relation to termination payments and the service contracts expressly include the use of monthly phased payments Governance following termination in lieu of notice which can be reduced to the extent that alternative remunerated employment is found. The service contracts also enable the Company to elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to 12 months’ base salary only. In the event of cessation of employment, the executive directors may still be eligible for a bonus at the discretion of the Committee, on a pro-rata basis for the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination and not for any period in lieu of notice. Different performance measures (to the other executive directors) may be set for the bonus for the period up until departure, as appropriate, to reflect changes in responsibility. Any unvested shares held under the deferred annual bonus plan will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date, save where the departure is as a result of summary dismissal, in which case the awards will lapse on cessation of employment. The Remuneration Committee may also determine that the shares shall vest on an earlier date (including the date of cessation) if the Remuneration Committee, in its discretion, considers that the circumstances of the cessation merit early vesting of the awards. The rules of the LTIP set out what happens to awards if a participant leaves employment before the end of the vesting period. Generally, any unvested LTIP awards will lapse when an executive director leaves employment except in certain circumstances. If the executive director ceases to be Financial Statements employed as a result of death, injury, retirement, transfer of employment or any other analogous reason, they may be treated as a ‘good leaver’ under the plan rules. The shares for a good leaver will vest subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served. Awards for a good leaver may then vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that they should vest early (for example, following the death of the participant). In determining whether an executive director should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest (up to the pro-rated amount), the Remuneration Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individual’s departure. Outplacement services and reimbursement of legal costs may be provided where appropriate. Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination would be paid as necessary. Any legacy benefits under the Company’s defined benefit pension schemes will be allowed to be paid under the terms of those schemes and as set out in the Policy Report. Outstanding share awards would ordinarily vest early on a change of control of the Company. In the case of unvested awards under the LTIP, performance would be measured to the date of the date of control with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served. Company Information The Executive Chairman and non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they serve under letters of appointment and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM. The term of appointment for non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman is three years and their appointments are subject to termination on three months’ notice (12 months for the Executive Chairman). In the event of the termination of their position, they are entitled to reimbursement of any outstanding fees and expenses due. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Illustration of the application of the Policy Report The charts below illustrate how the remuneration policy would function for minimum, on target and maximum performance for 2018 for each executive director. £ Chief Executive (Kevin Hostetler) 2,500,000 £2,418,000 2,250,000 2,000,000 32% 1,750,000 1,500,000 £1,398,000 13% 1,250,000 31% 1,000,000 32% £768,000 750,000 500,000 100% 55% 37% 250,000 0 Minimum On target Maximum £ Finance Director (Jonathan Davis) 2,500,000 2,250,000 2,000,000 1,750,000 1,500,000 1,250,000 £1,211,700 1,000,000 36% £727,300 750,000 12% 28% 500,000 £433,200 28% 250,000 100% 60% 36% 0 Minimum On target Maximum Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP (salary, benefits, pension) Salary levels (and consequently the other elements of the remuneration package which are calculated as a percentage of salary) are based on those applying in 2018 and, in the case of Kevin Hostetler, are based on a full year equivalent package. Taxable benefits are shown as the cost to the Company of supplying those benefits for the year ending 31 December 2017 (or estimated cost in the case of Kevin Hostetler). On target performance, for illustrative purposes, assumes achievement of 60% of the maximum available bonus and threshold LTIP vesting (20% of the maximum). Maximum performance assumes achievement of the maximum bonus and full vesting of the LTIP shares. The LTIP grant level is 150% for Kevin Hostetler and 125% for Jonathan Davis. No share price growth has been assumed and for simplicity, the benefit derived from participating in the Company’s SIP or OPLSS have been excluded. 76 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Single figure of remuneration (£000s) (audited) Executive directors Annual cash Pension and Payment for Total Salary Benefits(i) bonus LTIP (iii) related benefits(iv) loss of office remuneration Name 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Jonathan Davis 335 (v) 295 18 18 240 (ii) 128 – – 83 92 – – 676 533 Strategic Report Peter France(vi) 306 434 15 18 271 247 – – 89 154 767(vii) – 1,448 853 (i) The benefit value consists of a car and fuel (or a car and fuel allowance), private medical insurance (executive director only) and the cash value on allocation of SIP and OPLSS share awards as appropriate. (ii) Paid up to 60% of the maximum in shares with the remainder deferred into shares for three years. (iii) The 2017 figures relate to the vesting of the 2015 LTIP award. The threshold performance targets for the award (which were based on performance over the three financial years to 31 December 2017) were not achieved and the award will lapse. (iv) See page 80 for further details. (v) Jonathan Davis has elected to invest a proportion of his salary (net of tax) in Rotork shares and to retain them for two years. (vi) Peter France resigned from the Board and as Chief Executive on 27 July 2017. (vii) See page 81 for further details. Other Directors (£000s) Additional Base fees fees/remuneration Total remuneration Governance Name 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lucinda Bell 47 47 8 – 55 47 Gary Bullard 47 47 8 8 55 55 Sally James 47 47 18 10 65 57 Martin Lamb 180 180 282 – 462 180 John Nicholas(i) 7 47 1 8 8 55 Peter Dilnot(ii) 16 – – – 16 – (i) John Nicholas stood down from the Board on 24 February 2017. (ii) Peter Dilnot joined the Board on 1 September 2017. The additional remuneration for Martin Lamb relates to the remuneration received whilst fulfilling the role of Executive Chairman. this comprised a fixed allowance only and he did not participate in any variable pay arrangements. Other additional fees are the supplementary fees paid to the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent Director. For Sally James this also includes an additional fee of £20,000 p.a. payable from 28 July 2017 for her increased responsibilities whilst the Chairman is fulfilling the role of Executive Chairman. Martin Financial Statements Lamb elected to invest the additional net remuneration that he receives in Rotork shares and to hold them for a minimum of two years following purchase. Sally James also elected to invest the additional net fees in Rotork shares and to hold them for a minimum of two years. All directors have confirmed that, save as disclosed in the single figures of remuneration table above, they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration. Annual cash bonus for 2017 Bonuses in 2017 were based 60% on annual profit, 15% on cash generation, 5% on lost time incident rate and 20% on personal strategic objectives. Details of performance achieved and the targets set are shown below: Performance required to Performance % payable* trigger bonus required at at maximum Performance % bonus payment maximum performance outcome awarded* Annual profit target £110m £142m 60% £130m 37.1% Cash generation 85% 100% 15% 109% 15.0% Lost time incident rate N/A <0.46 5% 0.24 5.0% Company Information Total 80% 57.1% * % of maximum bonus. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 77 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Personal strategic objectives, which accounted for 20% of the bonus opportunity, were set at the start of the year. Details of the objectives for the Finance Director and performance against them are summarised in the table below: % payable* % bonus Jonathan Davis at maximum Performance summary awarded* Specific personal objectives related to: 20% Performance against the objectives was monitored and 14.5% • Financial performance of Bifold; assessed by the Executive Chairman, with input from • Improvements in inventory management performance; the non-executive directors and, in particular, the Chair • Development of the finance team; of the Audit Committee. The individual objectives were • Improvements in the presentation of the financial performance reviewed and scored against the criteria set out. Strong to the Board; performance was achieved in relation to a number of • Development of a strong control environment; measures, in particular in relation to inventory management. However the financial targets in relation • Managing the risk profile of the Company’s ongoing liabilities; to Bifold were not achieved. Taking into account and performance against the individual objectives, the • Providing operational assistance to the Executive Chairman in Remuneration Committee elected to award a bonus of the second half of the year. 14.5% of salary. The Remuneration Committee used its discretion to amend certain of the objectives during the year following the departure of the former Chief Executive which reflects the changes in strategic and operational emphasis. * % of maximum bonus. Overall this resulted in a bonus award to Jonathan Davis of £240,000 (71.6% salary). In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2017, part of the bonus will be deferred in shares for three years. Peter France was entitled to a pro-rata bonus for the proportion of the performance period worked, see page 81 for further details. Martin Lamb was not eligible for a bonus. LTIP The Company’s LTIP rewards the creation of shareholder value which is a strategic priority. Performance is measured over a three year period using a combination of EPS, TSR compared to a comparator group, and a capital return measure for the 2017 LTIP awards onwards. Details of the awards lapsing based on performance to 31 December 2017 and granted in the year are set out below. LTIP awards lapsing based on performance to 31 December 2017 (audited) The LTIP awards granted on 6 March 2015 were based on performance to 31 December 2017 and were subject to the following performance targets: Measure Weighting Performance period Threshold target1 Stretch target 2 Performance outcome Earnings per share 50% 01/01/2015 RPI + 10% RPI + 25% EPS performance – 31/12/17 (15% vesting) (100% vesting) (-46.2%) was below the threshold target resulting in nil vesting for this part of the award. TSR relative to the constituents of the 50% 01/01/2015 Median ranking Upper quartile TSR growth of 17% FTSE 250 Index 2 – 31/12/17 ranking or above was below the threshold target resulting in nil vesting for this part of the award. 1 For performance between threshold and stretch, awards vest on a pro-rata basis. 2 Excluding all financial services companies, insurance companies and investment trusts. Performance was below the minimum performance thresholds resulting in the following awards lapsing. Grant Number of Number of Number of Vesting date shares under award shares vesting shares lapsing date Jonathan Davis 6 March 2015 117,120 – 117,120 6 March 2018 Peter France (i) 6 March 2015 215,500 – 215,500 6 March 2018 (i) See page 81 for further details. 78 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview LTIP awards granted in 2017 (audited) Number of Number of Share awards shares vesting shares vesting made during Basis on which Face value of for minimum for maximum End of 2017 award made award (£)(i) performance(ii) performance performance period Vesting date Jonathan Davis 175,135 125% of salary 419,000 23,351 175,135 31 December 2019 6 March 2020 Peter France(iii) 329,360 150% of salary 788,000 43,914 329,360 31 December 2019 6 March 2020 (i) The share price used to determine the number of shares under the award was £2.39 being the share price immediately prior to the date of the award. Strategic Report (ii) Vesting if the minimum performance EPS, TSR and capital return (economic profit) conditions are achieved (13.3% of the maximum award). The three equally weighted performance measures are: a. Earnings per share – EPS growth must be at least 9% for 15% vesting, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of 35% and above; b. Total shareholder return – measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services Sector, 25% vesting for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance and above; and c. Capital return (economic profit) – measures the extent to which a post-tax return in excess of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is created, rewarding management for increasing levels of economic profit, on a cumulative basis, over the three year performance period. No pay-out will be received for a negative economic profit. The threshold target requires average economic profit over the three year period to exceed that generated in 2016 and the maximum target has been set such that it will require double digit growth in post-tax profits alongside improved balance sheet efficiencies. Details of the exact targets are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be commercially sensitive. However, full details of the targets and how economic profit has been calculated will be disclosed on vesting. (iii) The award to Peter France has since lapsed following his resignation as Chief Executive and director on 27 July 2017. See page 81 for further details. Free SIP share awards (audited) In common with all eligible employees, UK based executive directors receive an entitlement to ordinary shares under the SIP which is approved by Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Under the SIP, an aggregate total of up to 5% of profits are distributed to employees each year in the form of ordinary shares. The distribution is calculated by reference to years of service and basic salary. Details of free share awards under the SIP Governance made to executive directors in 2017 are set out below. Free share awards made during Basis on which Face value Date of grant the year award made of award Jonathan Davis 6 April 2017 2015 Non–performance based £3,600 Peter France(i) 6 April 2017 2015 Non–performance based £3,600 (i) See page 81 for further details. The executive directors are also eligible to purchase monthly partnership shares under the SIP to a maximum of £150 per month. Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) The table below shows total shareholdings of the current directors and former directors as at 31 December 2017. Financial Statements % Shareholding Interests in Outstanding Outstanding of salary shares LTIP awards options achieved(ii) 2017(i) 2017 2017 2017 Current Directors Jonathan Davis 216,172 518,377(iii) 12,162(iv) 172% Lucinda Bell 7,150 – – N/A Gary Bullard 46,842 – – N/A Sally James 12,306 – – N/A Martin Lamb 129,190 – – N/A Peter Dilnot(v) – – – N/A Former Directors Peter France(vi) 491,440 393,618 – N/A Company Information John Nicholas(vii) – – – N/A (i) Includes shares held by connected persons. (ii) The share price used to determine the percentage of the shareholding of salary achieved is 266.9p being the share price as at 31 December 2017. (iii) During the year, an award over 175,135 shares was granted (on 8 May 2017) and the award granted on 6 March 2014, over 103,560 shares lapsed. No awards vested during the year. (iv) This relates to outstanding options held under the Rotork Sharesave scheme. No options were granted, vested or exercised during the year. (v) Joined the Board on 1 September 2017. (vi) Left the Board on 27 July 2017. See page 81 for details on the treatment of outstanding incentive awards. (vii) Left the Board on 24 February 2017. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2017, the shareholding guideline for Jonathan Davis was increased from 150% to 250% of salary. There has been no change in the directors’ interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company between 31 December 2017 and 5 March 2018, except, in the case of Jonathan Davis, for purchases of monthly partnership shares under the SIP and in the case of Jonathan Davis, Martin Lamb and Sally James under the monthly rolling share purchase arrangements. Total pension entitlements (audited) Value of pension related benefits (£) during Company financial year to: 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 Total accrued pension in the defined benefit Normal scheme as at Defined Cash in Defined Cash in retirement 31 December 2017 benefit lieu of benefit lieu of Director age (£ per annum) scheme pension Total scheme pension Total Jonathan Davis 65 36,324 66,140 26,216 92,356 29,600 53,800 83,400 Peter France 60 73,025 90,280 64,103 154,383 33,800 54,900 88,700 Notes: 1. The amounts above have been calculated in accordance with Statutory Instrument 2013 No 1981 – The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Account and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 2. The total accrued pension in the defined benefit scheme as at 31 December 2017 is that which would be paid annually on retirement from normal pension age, based on service to 31 December 2017. Both Jonathan Davis and Peter France opted out of the defined benefit scheme with effect from 30 April 2017, so the amount shown is their accrued pension at this date. This amount will revalue up to normal pension age in line with the scheme’s rules. 3. The value of benefits in the defined benefit pension scheme is based on the increase in accrued pension over the year incorporating an increase for Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation. 4. The pensionable salary used to calculate benefits in the defined benefit scheme for Peter France and Jonathan Davis is restricted to a scheme-specific earnings cap which was £150,600 for 2017. In lieu of this limitation on their benefits under the scheme they received a monthly cash sum equal to 22.5% and 18% respectively of their basic salary above the scheme-specific earnings cap, until they opted out on 30 April 2017. From 1 May 2017, they received a monthly cash sum equal to 25% and 20% respectively of their total basic salary. 5. The cash in lieu of pension amount for Peter France is the amount paid up until he left the Company on 27 July 2017. He also received a payment in respect of his pension allowance as part of his leaving arrangements. Details of this are set out on opposite. 6. The accrued pension figures for Peter France include a fixed transfer-in pension amount of £5,123 which is payable from his normal retirement date at age 60. 7. Jonathan Davis was subject to an annual allowance tax charge in 2017. He opted to use ‘scheme pays’ to settle this, and as such his annual pension was reduced by £809 p.a. This amount is not allowed for in the figures shown in the table above. TSR performance graph 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 Rotork plc FTSE Industrial 200 Engineering Sector 100 Jan 09 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 80 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Historic Chief Executive remuneration table Chief Executive Annual cash bonus LTIP vesting rate single figure as a percentage of as a percentage of remuneration maximum maximum Year Chief Executive (£000s) opportunity opportunity 2017 Martin Lamb(i) 282 N/A N/A 2017 Peter France(ii) 681 72% 0% 2016 Peter France 835 45.5% 0% 2015 Peter France 696 23.4% 0% Strategic Report 2014 Peter France 1,092 66.0% 37.0% 2013 Peter France 1,452 94.4% 67.0% 2012 Peter France 1,539 91.3% 75.5% 2011 Peter France 1,182 88.9% 30.0% 2010 Peter France 1,288 91.9% 94.4% 2009 Peter France 1,062 99.5% 100.0% (i) Martin Lamb assumed the role of Executive Chairman on 28 July 2017 and received an additional fixed remuneration of £55,000 per month on top of his annual Chairman’s fee during this period. (ii) Peter France resigned as Chief Executive and stood down from the Board on 27 July 2017. Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration (based on salary, benefits and bonus) between 2016 and 2017. Chief Average per Governance Executive UK employee 2017 2017 % Change from % Change from 2016 2016 Base Salary N/A 3.9% Benefits N/A 3.8% Bonus N/A 68.8% Peter France stepped down from the Board on 27 July 2017 and, Martin Lamb, assumed the role of Executive Chairman until a new Chief Executive could be appointed. Consequently, full year comparable data is not available. Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows actual expenditure of the Company and change in spend between current and prior financial periods on remuneration paid to all employees against distributions to shareholders. Percentage 2017 2016 change Financial Statements Employee remuneration (£000s) 147,637 136,557 6.6% Dividends (£000s)(i) 45,218 43,876 3.1% (i) Dividends paid were the only distributions to shareholders during the year. Departure arrangements for Peter France Peter France stood down from the Board and as Chief Executive on 27 July 2017. Under the terms of his leaving arrangements, he was entitled to: • £525,000 as payment in lieu of his salary for his notice period; • £18,000 in respect of certain benefit entitlements during the notice period and continuation of private medical and life insurance cover during this period; and • £131,000 in respect of pension allowance during the notice period. The Company also made a payment of £93,000 as liquidated damages for any claims that Peter France may have against the Company. Company Information Peter France also received a pro-rated, performance related annual bonus in respect of the period up to the termination of his employment. The assessment of the bonus was based on performance to the cessation of employment against the corporate and individual strategic measures set and resulted in a payment of £271,000 (out of a maximum pro-rata entitlement of £382,000). He was treated as a good leaver in relation to the LTIP awards granted in 2015 and 2016. The awards will continue to vest on the normal vesting date, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance targets and a pro-rata reduction to reflect the period for which he was employed. The 2015 LTIP award will lapse on 6 March 2018 as the minimum performance hurdles were not satisfied. The LTIP award granted to him in 2017 has lapsed. Outstanding awards under the SIP and Sharesave vested in accordance with the terms of the relevant plan. In addition, the Company paid for outplacement services and legal advice provided to Peter France. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recruitment of Kevin Hostetler Kevin Hostetler joined the Board on 12 February 2018 and will assume the role of Chief Executive from 12 March 2018. Martin Lamb, current Executive Chairman, will then revert to his role as Non-Executive Chairman. The remuneration arrangements for Kevin Hostetler are consistent with the terms of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in April 2017. Kevin Hostetler will receive an annual salary of £600,000 and a pension allowance of 25% of base salary. He will also be able to participate in the annual bonus plan up to a maximum of 125% of salary and the LTIP up to 150% of salary. Benefits will be provided in accordance with the standard policy. In addition, to facilitate his move to the United Kingdom relocation assistance will be provided. Rotork was not required to compensate Kevin Hostetler for any remuneration foregone at his previous employer. Statement of implementation of the Policy Report in 2018 Salary • Kevin Hostetler – £600,000 (set on appointment). • Jonathan Davis – £346,000 (an increase of 3.2%, in line with the average increase for the rest of the UK workforce). Jonathan Davis continues to invest a proportion of his monthly salary in Rotork shares. Benefits No change to 2017 – benefits will comprise car and fuel (or car and fuel allowance), personal accident and private medical insurance and life assurance. In addition, Kevin Hostetler is entitled to the reimbursement of certain relocation expenses incurred in connection with his appointment and move to Bath (including tax). Pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension set at 25% of salary for Kevin Hostetler and 20% of salary for Jonathan Davis. Annual Maximum award levels of 125% of salary for Kevin Hostetler and 100% of salary for Jonathan Davis, any bonus above bonus target performance (60% of maximum) will be deferred in shares for three years. Bonuses will be based on annual profit (60%), cash generation (15%), lost time incident rate (5%) and personal strategic objectives (20%). The specific targets relating to the bonus have not been disclosed as they are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be commercially sensitive but full details will be given on a retrospective basis in next year’s report. LTIP The LTIP award levels for 2018 will be 150% of salary for Kevin Hostetler and 125% of salary for Jonathan Davis. The awards will be subject to the following performance conditions: • 33% will be based on relative TSR performance with 25% vesting at median increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance or above. • 33% will be based on EPS. EPS growth must be at least 9% for 15% vesting, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of 35% and above. The targets will be based on adjusted/underlying EPS (i.e. excluding the impact of any material restructuring costs). However, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to increase the targets as appropriate, to take into account the Board’s expected return on any restructuring investment during the period. • 33% will be based on a capital return measure (economic profit). No pay-out will be received for a negative economic profit. The threshold target will require the average economic profit over the three year period to exceed that generated in 2017 and the maximum target has been set such that it will require double digit growth in post-tax profits alongside improved balance sheet efficiencies. Similar to EPS targets, these targets may be adjusted upwards to take into account the Board’s expected return on any restructuring investment during the period. Details of the exact targets are considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive at the current time. However, full details of the targets and how economic profit has been calculated will be disclosed on vesting. The executive directors will be required to retain any shares vesting under the awards (net of tax) until the fifth anniversary of grant. Shareholding The executive directors will be required to build and maintain a shareholding equivalent to 250% of salary. guidelines Non-executive There are no changes to the fee policy. The fees remain: director fees • Chairman: £180,000; • Base Board fee: £47,000; • Additional fee for chairing the Audit Committee £10,000; • Additional fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee £8,000; and • Additional fee for the role of Senior Independent Director £10,000. Martin Lamb and Sally James will continue to receive additional remuneration in connection with their enhanced responsibilities as Executive Chairman and Senior Independent Director until Kevin Hostetler assumes the role of Chief Executive on 12 March 2018, when such arrangements will cease. 82 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors’ remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee as at 31 December 2017 were Gary Bullard (Chair), Lucinda Bell, Sally James and Peter Dilnot. John Nicholas ceased to be a member on his retirement from the Board in February 2017. The Remuneration Committee invites the Group HR Director to inform the Remuneration Committee of pay awards throughout the Group when setting executive director remuneration. The Chairman and Chief Executive are also invited to attend meetings except when their own remuneration is considered. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Remuneration Committee. New Bridge Street is remuneration advisor to the Remuneration Committee and was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in September 2013 following a re-tendering process. New Bridge Street is a trading name of Aon plc and a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Group Code of Conduct. A subsidiary of Aon plc is also the scheme actuary for the Group’s USA pension plan. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that New Strategic Report Bridge Street is sufficiently independent to act as remuneration advisor to the Remuneration Committee. In 2017, the Company paid £59,000 (2016: £61,000) to New Bridge Street for services to the Remuneration Committee. Figures exclude VAT and disbursements. Statement of voting at general meeting At the 2017 AGM of the Company, the percentages of votes cast ‘for’, ‘against’ and ‘withheld’ in respect of the remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration were as follows: Votes cast Votes cast Votes Resolution ‘for’ ‘against’ ‘withheld’ To approve the remuneration policy 99.1% 0.9% 0% To approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 67.8% 32.2% 0% The Annual Report on Remuneration, received a sizeable against vote in 2017. This related to changes to the executive salary levels which were Governance made as part of a package of changes to the remuneration policy and followed an extensive consultation exercise with major shareholders. The remainder of the changes, which were set out in the remuneration policy, were very positively received (99% support). In consultation, the majority of shareholders were broadly comfortable with the combined impact of the changes. The new policy has the strong support of shareholders and the Remuneration Committee will continue to engage with the Company’s largest shareholders on matters of significance. Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report which incorporates the management Existence of branches outside the UK report required under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules for The Company has no branches outside of the UK. listed companies and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 as set out on pages 94 to 139. In compiling this Share capital report, the directors have consulted with the management of the Group. Details of the Company’s share capital including the rights and obligations attached to each class of shares and the ordinary shares Directors issued during 2017 are summarised in note 17 of the financial The names of the directors in office during the year still in office at the statements. 0.5p ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of the year end, and their biographies and other details, are set out on pages Company’s total share capital and £1 9.5% cumulative preference 54 to 55. John Nicholas and Peter France were directors during the year shares represent less than 0.1% of the Company’s total share capital. and resigned on 24 February 2017 and 27 July 2017, respectively. There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with Directors’ indemnification and insurance regard to the control of the Company. The Company’s articles of association provide for the directors and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, subject to the provisions At the Company’s last AGM held on 28 April 2017, the shareholders of the Companies Act 2006. The Company purchases and maintains authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares insurance for the directors and officers of the Company in performing their limited to just under approximately 10% of its issued ordinary share duties, as permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006. capital at that time and of certain issued preference shares, and to allot shares within certain limits approved by shareholders. These authorities Powers of the directors expire at the 2018 AGM and appropriate renewals will be sought. As set out in the Company’s articles of association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2017. the Company. The Company’s articles of association contain customary restrictions on Appointment and removal of directors the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain limited circumstances The Board may appoint a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an (e.g. in relation to transfers to a minor). Save for those provisions, there additional director. Any director appointed by the Board must retire are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the at the next AGM of the Company and put themselves forward for Company other than certain restrictions which may be required from re-appointment by the shareholders. In accordance with the time to time by law, for example, insider trading law. In accordance with recommendations of the Code, each member of the Board submits the Company’s share dealing code, directors and certain employees are them self for re-election on an annual basis. required to seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in its shares. The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any director rights. The Company’s articles of association contain limited restrictions before the expiration of their period of office and may, subject to the on the exercise of voting rights (e.g. in relation to disenfranchised articles of association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person shares following the issue of a notice to shareholders under section who is willing to act as a director in their place. 793 Companies Act 2006). Political donations The Company’s share schemes each contain provisions providing voting No political donations were made during the year. The Group has a rights to the scheme trustee. policy of not making political donations in any part of the world. Amendments to the Company’s articles of association Dividend The Company’s articles of association may only be amended by special The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.35p per ordinary share resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders. (2016: 3.15p) for the year, payable on 23 May 2018 to shareholders on the register on 6 April 2018. An interim dividend for 2017 of 2.05p per Significant agreements – change of control ordinary share (2016: 1.95p) was paid on 22 September 2017. The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Information required in the Report of the Directors’ set out in Company following a takeover. There are no agreements between the the Strategic Report Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation Information relating to likely future developments of the Company and for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid. its subsidiaries and information relating to research and development activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is set out in the Strategic Greenhouse gas emissions Report on pages 2 to 51. The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 48. Use of financial instruments An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial instruments Disabled persons and employee involvement and financial risk management objectives are contained in note 26 The disclosures concerning the Group’s policies on the employment to the accounts. of disabled persons and employee involvement are set out on page 38. Post-balance sheet events Substantial shareholders There have been no important post-balance sheet events. As at 31 December 2017, the following notifiable interests in issued share capital had been received by the Company under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR 5) of the UK Listing Authority. It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified to the Company. However, notification of any change is not required until an applicable threshold is crossed. 84 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Size of Nature of The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that Identity (i) holding holding are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4.99% Indirect with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company AXA Investment Managers S.A. 4.99% Indirect and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the APG Asset Management NV 5.01% Direct Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Blackrock Inc 4.86% Indirect of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Fiera Capital Corporation 3.92% Direct and detection of fraud and other irregularities. Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 4.91% Indirect T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 4.97% Indirect The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Strategic Report corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. (i) No changes to the below have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and DTR 5 between the end of the financial year and 5 March 2017. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Corporate Governance The Company’s Corporate Governance Report can be found on Directors’ responsibility statement pages 56 to 60. We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Disclosure of information to auditors • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director • The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to performance of the business and the position of the Company and establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Governance together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties ‘Going concern’ basis of preparation that they face; and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that • The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming business model and strategy. this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book with customers Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance and spread across different geographic areas and industries and the Transparency Rules significant net cash position. Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 54 to 55 confirm that, to the best of each person’s knowledge and belief: Statement of directors’ responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements • The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Directors’ responsibilities set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company; financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Financial Statements • The Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements Company, together with a description of the principal risks and for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to uncertainties that they face; and prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International • Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Annual Report Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the understandable and provide the information necessary for parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model European Union. Under company law, the directors must not approve and strategies. the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. • Properly select and apply accounting policies; • Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that Company Information External auditor provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee and approval of the information; Board, a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor, and to authorise • Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the directors to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand forthcoming AGM. the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and On behalf of the Board • Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. STEPHEN RHYS JONES Company Secretary 5 March 2018 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview CONTENTS Financial statements 88 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Rotork Strategic Report plc 94 Consolidated income statement 94 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Consolidated balance sheet 96 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 97 Consolidated statement of cash flows 98 Notes to the Group financial statements Governance 132 Rotork plc Company balance sheet 133 Rotork plc Company statement of changes in equity 134 Notes to the Company financial statements Company information 140 Ten year trading history 141 Share register information Financial Statements 142 Corporate directory Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: • The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; • The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; • The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and • The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements of Rotork plc (the ‘Parent Company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) which comprise: • The consolidated income statement; • The consolidated statement of comprehensive income; • The consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets; • The consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity; • The consolidated statement of cash flows; • The statement of accounting policies; and • The related notes 1 to 30 and a) to i). The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: • Discount factors and growth rates utilised in management’s assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangibles, specifically in relation to Bifold; and • Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension scheme valuations. These key audit matters are consistent with the prior year. Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was £5m which was determined on the basis of adjusted profit before tax. Scoping Based on our assessment, we identified 19 components which, in our view, required a full scope audit of their financial information in order to ensure that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained, with Europe, North America and China being the largest regions. Our full scope covered 72% of the Group’s revenues (2016: 76%) and 86% of profit before tax (2016: 87%). Significant changes in our Last year our report included a key audit matter in respect of manual adjustments to inventory provisions and approach profit in inventory, which is not included in our report this year. We concluded that these areas did not represent a significant risk of material misstatement in the current year based on the work performed in prior periods, the consistent approach to accounting for these items, and the fact that the manual adjustments to provisions and the profit in inventory adjustment have been stable year on year. No new key audit matters have been identified in the current year. 88 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors’ statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it nothing material to report, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any add or draw attention to in material uncertainties to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve respect of these matters. months from the date of approval of the financial statements. We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that Strategic Report statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit. Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors’ statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the add or draw attention to in directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to respect of these matters. state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: • The disclosures on pages 22 to 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; • The directors’ confirmation on page 25 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; or • The directors’ explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Governance liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. We are also required to report whether the directors’ statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Discount factors and growth rates utilised in management’s assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangibles, specifically in relation to the Bifold CGU Key audit matter Refer to the Audit Committee Report, note 1 (Accounting policies), note 10 (Goodwill) and note 11 (Intangible description assets). Management is required to assess the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles, and perform an impairment review under IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” on an annual basis and whenever an indication of impairment exists. The key audit matter identified in relation to the impairment review is focused on the discount factors and future growth rate assumptions used to support the carrying value of goodwill in the Bifold CGU. As disclosed in note 10, the carrying value of goodwill in relation to Bifold is £47.5m (2016: £67.2m) which reflects a goodwill impairment charge of £19.7m. Due to the high level of judgement involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance. How the scope of our audit We performed the following procedures to address this risk. We have: responded to the key audit • Challenged the reasonableness of forecast growth with reference to recent performance and external market matter data and checked that the forecast for 2018 was consistent with the Board approved budget; • Visited the Bifold operations and made enquiries of Bifold management in relation to the current performance of the business and the growth assumptions in the forecasts; • Obtained and reviewed a detailed Management impairment paper which had been considered and approved by the Board; • Performed a specific review and challenge, involving our own internal valuations specialists, of the discount rate applied with reference to market data; • Recalculated management’s sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenarios e.g. future growth rates based on external market data; and • Considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the impairment recognised and sensitivity of the Bifold CGU to changes in the key assumptions. Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the impairment charge is based on a reasonable and balanced assessment of the range of possible outcomes for the future growth, profitability and cash generation of the Bifold business. Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit matter Refer to the Audit Committee Report, note 1 (Accounting policies) and note 24 (Pension schemes). description The Group has a net defined benefit pension liability of £48.2m (gross liabilities of £237.1m) at 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016: £58.5m net liability and £236.5m gross liabilities). There is a risk of material misstatement relating to judgements made in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities as small changes in the key model input assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation rate can have a significant impact on the valuation of the liability. How the scope of our audit We performed the following procedures to address this risk. We have: responded to the key audit • Utilised our Pensions Analytic tool to challenge the appropriateness of the inflation and discount rate matter assumptions used in respect of the UK scheme and engaged Deloitte actuarial specialists to consider and challenge the assumptions in respect of the US scheme; • Challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation with reference to comparator company and market data as at 31 December 2017; and • We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions. Key observations From the work performed we are satisfied that the key inflation and discount rate assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liability are within a reasonable range. 90 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality £5.0m (2016: £4.6m) £2.8m (2016: £3.6m) Strategic Report Basis for determining Materiality was determined as 5.3% of adjusted profit 2% of net assets, capped at component materiality. materiality before tax which was determined on the basis of profit before tax adjusted to exclude the impact of the Bifold goodwill impairment charge, release of contingent consideration and restructuring costs (2016: 5% of statutory profit before tax). Rationale for the Adjusted profit before tax reflects the manner in which Net assets are considered to be an appropriate benchmark applied business performance is reported and assessed by benchmark for the Company given that it is mainly a external users of the financial statements. We have holding company. A set percentage of Group materiality adopted this measure in the current year as it provides a was applied to the Company based upon the scoping of consistent year on year basis for determining materiality. components, assessing the risk within the Company compared to others within the Group. PBT adjusted for Governance material non-recurring items £93.9m Group materiality £5m PBT adjusted for Component materiality range £2m to £2.8m material non-recurring items Group materiality Audit committee reporting threshold £0.25m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £250,000 (2016: £229,000) for the Financial Statements Group and £100,000 (2016: £182,000) for the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level. Our approach was consistent with that adopted in the prior year. Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 19 components, which were subject to a full scope audit. Revenue Profit before tax 28% 14% Company Information 72% 86% Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at group level Review at group level The 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Group’s four reportable segments across 11 countries and account for 72% of the Group’s revenues (2016: 76%), 86% of profit before tax (2016: 87%). They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality ranging from £2.0m to £2.8m. The Parent Company is located in Bath and audited directly by the group audit team. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 91 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Five components that were in full scope audit and two components that were subject to specified audit procedures in 2016, have been subject to review at the Group level in the current year, which is consistent with the remaining entities in the Group. Due to the significance to the group audit of the 19 components’ operations subject to full scope audits, a programme has been designed and implemented for senior members of the group audit team to visit the key components where the group audit scope was focused at least once every three years. As part of the 2017 audit, senior members of the group audit team visited key components in the UK, USA, China, Italy and Spain. For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team also discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers. For the remaining locations where full scope audits were completed, we discuss audit findings with the relevant component audit team, review audit working papers in relation to key issues and discuss key matters with component management where considered necessary in forming our group audit opinion. At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining 46 components not subject to full scope audit. None of these components represented more than 3% of revenue or profit before taxation individually. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to report in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. in respect of these matters. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: • Fair, balanced and understandable – the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • Audit committee reporting – the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee; or • Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code – the parts of the Directors’ statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code. Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. 92 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Use of our report This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Strategic Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: • The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and • The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report. Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: in respect of these matters. • We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or Governance • The parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. Directors’ remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ in respect of these matters. remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 2 June 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is four years, covering the years ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2017. Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK). Financial Statements NIGEL THOMAS (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 5 March 2018 Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 93 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Notes £000 £000 Revenue 3 642,229 590,078 Cost of sales (358,090) (328,410) Gross profit 284,139 261,668 Other income 5 10,651 629 Distribution costs (6,271) (5,138) Administrative expenses (202,233) (163,165) Other expenses 5 (314) (217) Adjusted operating profit 2,3 130,162 120,588 Adjustments – Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3 (27,183) (26,811) – Other adjustments 4 (17,007) – Operating profit 2,3 85,972 93,777 Finance income 7 1,381 1,744 Finance expense 7 (6,767) (4,451) Profit before tax 8 80,586 91,070 Income tax expense 9 (24,973) (23,897) Profit for the year 55,613 67,173 Basic earnings per share 18 6.4p 7.7p Adjusted basic earnings per share 18 10.6p 10.0p Diluted earnings per share 18 6.4p 7.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 18 10.5p 10.0p CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 £000 £000 Profit for the year 55,613 67,173 Other comprehensive income Items that may be subsequently reclassified to the income statement: Foreign exchange translation differences (376) 36,854 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges net of tax 6,188 (6,414) 5,812 30,440 Items that are not subsequently reclassified to the income statement: Actuarial gain/(loss) in pension scheme net of tax 3,709 (30,732) Income and expenses recognised directly in equity 9,521 (292) Total comprehensive income for the year 65,134 66,881 94 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Overview AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Notes £000 £000 Non-current assets Goodwill 10 228,028 251,407 Intangible assets 11 81,456 109,019 Property, plant and equipment 12 81,725 83,766 Deferred tax assets 13 21,218 25,259 Other receivables 15 142 146 Total non-current assets 412,569 469,597 Strategic Report Current assets Inventories 14 91,908 85,772 Trade receivables 15 145,529 131,891 Current tax 15 2,726 4,349 Derivative financial instruments 23 3,468 – Other receivables 15 19,202 22,341 Cash and cash equivalents 16 63,192 61,423 Total current assets 326,025 305,776 Total assets 738,594 775,373 Equity Issued equity capital 17 4,352 4,350 Share premium 11,193 10,482 Reserves 32,263 26,451 Governance Retained earnings 409,392 392,803 Total equity 457,200 434,086 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 19 45,879 51,303 Employee benefits 20 52,293 62,593 Deferred tax liabilities 13 19,379 24,848 Derivative financial instruments 23 245 2,483 Provisions 21 1,929 11,947 Total non-current liabilities 119,725 153,174 Current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 19 29,928 65,108 Trade payables 22 49,183 39,652 Employee benefits 20 21,464 14,256 Financial Statements Current tax 22 13,093 13,352 Derivative financial instruments 23 1,521 8,143 Other payables 22 42,165 41,999 Provisions 21 4,315 5,603 Total current liabilities 161,669 188,113 Total liabilities 281,394 341,287 Total equity and liabilities 738,594 775,373 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: MJ Lamb and JM Davis, Directors. Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 95 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Issued Capital equity Share Translation redemption Hedging Retained capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings Total Balance at 31 December 2015 4,349 10,018 (4,712) 1,644 (921) 397,424 407,802 Profit for the year – – – – – 67,173 67,173 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange translation differences – – 36,854 – – – 36,854 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – (7,822) – (7,822) Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plans – – – – – (37,923) (37,923) Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – 1,408 7,191 8,599 Total other comprehensive income – – 36,854 – (6,414) (30,732) (292) Total comprehensive income – – 36,854 – (6,414) 36,441 66,881 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Equity settled share-based payments transactions – – – – – 1,557 1,557 Tax on equity settled share-based payment transactions – – – – – 74 74 Share options exercised by employees 1 464 – – – – 465 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – – – (1,019) (1,019) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – – – 2,202 2,202 Dividends – – – – – (43,876) (43,876) Balance at 31 December 2016 4,350 10,482 32,142 1,644 (7,335) 392,803 434,086 Profit for the year – – – – – 55,613 55,613 Other comprehensive income Foreign exchange translation differences – – (376) – – – (376) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges – – – – 7,546 – 7,546 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension plans – – – – – 5,849 5,849 Tax on other comprehensive income – – – – (1,358) (2,140) (3,498) Total other comprehensive income – – (376) – 6,188 3,709 9,521 Total comprehensive income – – (376) – 6,188 59,322 65,134 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Equity settled share-based payments transactions – – – – – 1,089 1,089 Tax on equity settled share-based payment transactions – – – – – 252 252 Share options exercised by employees 2 711 – – – – 713 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – – – (1,157) (1,157) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – – – 2,301 2,301 Dividends – – – – – (45,218) (45,218) Balance at 31 December 2017 4,352 11,193 31,766 1,644 (1,147) 409,392 457,200 Detailed explanations for equity capital, the translation reserve, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve can be seen in note 17. 96 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Overview FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 55,613 67,173 Adjustments for: Amortisation of intangibles 27,183 26,811 Other adjustments 4 17,007 – Amortisation of development costs 2,699 2,226 Strategic Report Depreciation 12,232 11,759 Equity settled share-based payment expense 3,390 3,759 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (147) (254) Finance income (1,381) (1,744) Finance expense 6,767 4,451 Income tax expense 24,973 23,897 148,336 138,078 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (7,390) 14,416 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (13,172) 2,511 Increase in trade and other payables 6,926 1,309 Restructuring costs paid (2,775) – Difference between pension charge and cash contribution (4,782) (5,297) Increase/(decrease) in provisions 147 (496) Increase in employee benefits 7,158 1,047 Governance 134,448 151,568 Income taxes paid (28,243) (32,876) Cash flows from operating activities 106,205 118,692 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment (12,457) (14,692) Development costs capitalised (3,356) (2,957) Sale of property, plant and equipment 2,450 648 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired – (16,109) Contingent consideration paid (1,347) (257) Settlement of hedging derivatives 662 (25,867) Interest received 1,191 180 Cash flows from investing activities (12,857) (59,054) Financial Statements Financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital 713 466 Own ordinary shares acquired (1,157) (1,019) Interest paid (2,975) (2,649) Decrease in bank loans (40,579) (3,619) Repayment of finance lease liabilities (68) (253) Dividends paid on ordinary shares (45,218) (43,876) Cash flows from financing activities (89,284) (50,950) Increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,064 8,688 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 61,423 48,968 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (2,295) 3,767 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 63,192 61,423 Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 97 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in £000. Rotork plc is a company domiciled in England. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group). The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 30 all relate to the Group financial statements. The Company balance sheet, accounting policies and applicable notes can be found following note 30. 1. Accounting policies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork plc have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU), IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below. New accounting standards and interpretations In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2017: • Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to IAS 12). • Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 7). • Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle – Amendments to IFRS 12. Application of these standards and amendments has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. New standards and interpretations not yet adopted Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for 31 December 2017 reporting periods and have not been early adopted by the Group. An assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below. i. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9. IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted. Except for hedge accounting, retrospective application is required but providing comparative information is not compulsory. For hedge accounting, the requirements are generally applied prospectively, with some limited exceptions. The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date and will not restate comparative information. The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. ii. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and amended in April 2016, and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. During 2017, the Group performed a detailed analysis of significant revenue streams in 2016, communicated to key stakeholders within the business the key aspects of the accounting change and had specific targeted training for key finance employees. In early 2018, further work targeted service revenue in 2017 to assess the impact of the change over the transition date. This analysis has enabled management to assess the impact of the new standard on the 2016 and 2017 balance sheets and the 2017 income statement. An explanation of the impact on the key revenue streams is set out below. Contracts for the sale of products are generally expected to have only one performance obligation and adoption of IFRS 15 is not expected to have any impact on the Group’s revenue and profit or loss. The Group expects the revenue recognition to occur at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the goods. The Group provides service and support through preventative maintenance contracts, on-site and workshop service, retrofit solutions and the Client Support Programme. The Group’s current accounting treatment under IAS 18 is that revenue on long-term service contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. Under IFRS 15, management have concluded that the long-term service contracts are satisfied over time given that the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group. For other service work revenue will be recognised on completion of the work and after all performance obligations have been completed. Adoption of IFRS 15 is not expected to have a material impact on service revenue in the income statement or the balance sheet. The Group has adopted IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 and the impact of the changes set out above are not expected to require any restatement of the 2017 balance sheet and income statement. 98 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview iii. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and lessees. IFRS 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations when it becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. Distinctions of operating leases (off balance sheet) and finance leases (on balance sheet) are removed for lessee accounting, and are replaced by a model where a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability have to be recognised for all leases by lessees (i.e. all on balance sheet) except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. Strategic Report The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others. Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash flows; whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively. Extensive disclosures are required by IFRS 16. As at 31 December 2017, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of £19,268,000. IAS 17 does not require the recognition of any right-of-use asset or liability for future payments for these leases; instead, certain information is disclosed as operating lease commitments in note 27. A preliminary assessment indicates that these arrangements will meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16, and hence the Group will recognise a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability in respect of all these leases unless they qualify for low value or short-term leases upon the application of IFRS 16. The new requirement to recognise a right-of-use asset and a related lease liability is expected to have an impact on the amounts recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements and management are currently assessing its potential impact. It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this review is completed. Governance In contrast, for finance leases where the Group is a lessee, as the Group has already recognised an asset and a related finance lease liability for the lease arrangement, management do not anticipate that the application of IFRS 16 will have an impact on the amounts recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Adjustments to profit Adjustments to profit are items of income and expense which, because of the nature, size and/or infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation. These specific items are presented on the face of the income statement to provide greater clarity and a better understanding of the impact of these items on the Group’s financial performance. In doing so, it also facilitates greater comparison of the Group’s underlying results with prior periods and assessment of trends in financial performance. This split is consistent with how underlying business performance is measured internally. Adjustments to profit items may include but are not restricted to: costs of significant business restructuring, significant impairments of intangible or tangible assets, adjustments to the fair value of acquisition related items such as contingent consideration, acquired intangible asset amortisation and other items due to their significance, size or nature, and the related taxation. Financial Statements Acquired intangible asset amortisation has been shown separately to provide visibility over the ongoing impact on the Group’s income statement of prior and current year period investment activities. Further analysis of the adjustments to profit are provided in note 4 to the financial statements. Going concern After carrying out a detailed review of the viability of the business, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the net debt position. Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2017. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date Company Information control ceases. Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 99 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 1. Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company is expressed in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentational currency for the consolidated financial statements. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined. Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to sterling at rates approximating those ruling at the date of the transactions. Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries, and from the translation of the results of those subsidiaries at average rate, are reported as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve. Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity. Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented as a separate component. Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods or services. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities. Revenue from the sale of actuators, gearboxes and flow control products is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer in accordance with the contracted shipping terms. Revenue from service work is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date. No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated completion costs, the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • The fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less • The net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. The fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed are provisional for a 12 month period. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Goodwill is stated at cost or deemed cost less any impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying value of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. Intangible assets i) Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development costs incurred after the point at which the commercial and technical feasibility of the product have been proven, and the decision to complete the development has been taken and resources made available, are capitalised. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Development expenditure has an estimated useful life of up to five years and is written off on a straight line basis. 100 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview ii) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The useful life of each of these assets is assessed based on discussions with the management of the acquired business and takes account of the differing natures of each of the intangibles acquired. The assessed useful lives of intangibles acquired are as follows: Brands and trademarks 4 to 10 years Customer relationships 2 to 8 years Product design patents 4 to 8 years Order backlog 3 months to 1 year Strategic Report Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. Property, plant and equipment Freehold land is not depreciated. Long leasehold buildings are amortised over 50 years or the expected useful life of the building where less than 50 years. Other assets are depreciated in equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at the following annual rates: Freehold buildings 2% to 4% Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 10% to 33% Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation. Leases Governance Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements, which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance leases. Assets acquired under finance leases are initially recognised at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income statement, and liability, which reduces the outstanding obligation so as to give a constant rate of charge on the outstanding lease obligations. Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease in arriving at the operating profit. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Taxation Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income Financial Statements for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Inventory and work in progress Inventory and work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In respect of work in progress and finished goods, cost includes all production overheads and the attributable proportion of indirect overhead expenses which are required to bring inventories to their Company Information present location and condition. The net realisable value in respect of old and slow moving inventory is assessed by reference to historic usage patterns and forecast future usage. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term (with an original maturity less than three months) deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows. Equity Equity comprises issued equity capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings. When issued equity capital is repurchased, the amount paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are debited directly to equity and shown as a deduction from retained earnings. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 101 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 1. Accounting policies continued Provisions i) Warranties A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty cost data, known issues and management expectations of future costs. ii) Contingent consideration The terms of an acquisition may provide that the value of the purchase consideration, which may be payable in cash at a future date, depends on uncertain future events. The amounts recognised in the financial statements represent a fair value estimate at the balance sheet date of the amounts expected to be paid. Employee benefits i) Pension plans Where the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, contributions are made in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Trustees. In respect of all actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Group’s obligation in respect of the plans, these are recognised in equity. The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet represents the deficit in the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes. Interest on pension scheme liabilities has been recognised within financing expenses. The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes. The costs for these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred. ii) Share-based payment transactions The Rotork Sharesave Plan, introduced in 2004, offers certain employees the opportunity to purchase shares in Rotork plc at a discounted price compared with the market price at the time of grant. Details of the scheme are given in note 25. The fair value of the right/option is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant and maturity. The right/option reaches maturity when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled. The fair value of the grant is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the rights were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. The Rotork Long Term Incentive Plan grants awards of shares to executive directors and senior managers. These awards may vest after a period of three years dependent upon both market and non-market performance conditions being met. Details of the grants are given in note 25. The fair value of the award is measured at grant date, using a Monte Carlo simulation model which takes into account the market based performance criteria, and spread over the vesting period. The fair value of the award is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity for the share settled award. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to exclude options that do not vest as a result of non-market performance conditions not being met. The overseas profit linked share plan (OPLSS) and the share incentive plan (SIP) are discretionary profit linked share schemes based on the prior year profit of the participating Rotork companies. The value of the award to each employee is based on salary and the length of service, the value of the awards can be up to £3,600. Shares awarded under these schemes are issued by the trustee at the cost of purchase. The costs of providing these plans are recognised in the income statement over the period to which the employee has earned the award. iii) Long term service leave The Group’s net obligation in respect of long term service leave is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. iv) Other employee benefits The Group offers a number of discretionary bonus schemes to employees around the world. The costs of these schemes are recognised in the income statement as incurred. Derivative financial instruments The Group uses forward exchange contracts and swaps to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from operational and financing activities. These are the only derivative financial instruments used by the Group. In accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue contracts for trading purposes. Forward exchange contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments. Forward exchange contracts are recognised initially at fair value. Where a forward exchange contract is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised liability, a firm commitment or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the forward contract is recognised directly in equity. Any effective cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately. When a hedging instrument or hedge relationship is terminated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss held in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately. 102 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are regularly evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the actual results. The Strategic Report estimates and assumptions that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are listed below. i) Critical accounting judgements Impairment of intangible assets The Group assesses the impairment of intangible assets subject to amortisation whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value might not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived assets are subject to impairment review. The Group undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment testing requires management to judge whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows that they generate. Calculating the net present value of the future cash flows requires estimates to be made in respect of uncertain matters, including management’s expectations of growth in operating profit, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved. Further explanations and sensitivities in respect of the current year impairment review are detailed in note 10. Governance ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty Retirement benefits The Group’s financial statements include costs in relation to, and provisions for, retirement benefit obligations. Management is required to estimate the future rates of inflation, salary increases, discount rates and longevity of members, each of which may have a material impact on the defined benefit obligations that are recorded. Sensitivities to changes in key estimates affecting the pension schemes’ liabilities are shown in note 24. Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2. Alternative performance measures The Group uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS, as management believe these measures facilitate greater comparison of the Group’s underlying results with prior periods and assessment of trends in financial performance. The key alternative performance measures that the Group use include adjusted profit measures and organic constant currency (OCC). Explanations of how they are calculated and how they are reconciled to IFRS statutory results are set out below. a. Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit is the Group’s operating profit excluding the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other items that are considered to be significant and where treatment as an adjusted item provides stakeholders with additional useful information to assess the trading performance of the Group on a consistent basis. In 2017, other items excluded are the release of contingent consideration, impairment of goodwill and restructuring costs to arrive at adjusted operating profit. Further details on these adjustments are given in note 4. b. Adjusted profit before tax The adjustments in calculating adjusted profit before tax are consistent with those in calculating adjusted operating profit above. 2017 2016 Profit before tax 80,586 91,070 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 27,183 26,811 Impairment of goodwill 21,594 – Release of contingent consideration (10,000) – Restructuring costs 5,413 – Adjusted profit before tax 124,776 117,881 c. Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated using the adjusted net profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders and dividing it by the weighted average ordinary shares in issue (see note 18). Adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is calculated as follows: 2017 2016 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 55,613 67,173 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 27,183 26,811 Impairment of goodwill 21,594 – Release of contingent consideration (10,000) – Restructuring costs 5,413 – Tax effect on adjusted items (7,879) (7,035) Adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 91,924 86,949 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by using the adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and dividing it by the weighted average ordinary shares in issue adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares (see note 18). d. Organic constant currency (OCC) OCC results exclude the incremental impact of acquisitions and adjusted items and are restated at 2016 exchange rates. Key headings in the income statement are reconciled to OCC as follows: OCC 31 December Currency Impact of 31 December 2017 adjustment acquisitions 2017 Revenue 642,229 (33,387) (5,438) 603,404 Cost of sales (358,090) 20,813 4,647 (332,630) Gross margin 284,139 (12,574) (791) 270,774 Overheads (153,977) 5,989 779 (147,209) Adjusted operating profit 130,162 (6,585) (12) 123,565 Interest (5,386) 30 – (5,356) Adjusted profit before tax 124,776 (6,555) (12) 118,209 Taxation (32,852) 1,476 (31) (31,407) Adjusted profit after tax 91,924 (5,079) (43) 86,802 104 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 3. Operating segments The Group has chosen to organise the management and financial structure by the grouping of related products. The four identifiable operating segments for which the financial and operating performance is reviewed monthly by the chief operating decision maker are as follows: • Controls – the design, manufacture and sale of electric actuators. • Fluid Systems – the design, manufacture and sale of pneumatic and hydraulic actuators. • Gears – the design, manufacture and sale of gearboxes, adaption and ancillaries for the valve industry. • Instruments – the manufacture of high precision pneumatic controls and power transmission products for a wide range of industries. Strategic Report Unallocated expenses comprise corporate expenses. Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Geographic analysis Rotork has a worldwide presence in all four operating segments through its subsidiary selling offices and through an agency network. A full list of locations can be found at www.rotork.com. Analysis by operating segment: Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Elimination Unallocated Group 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Revenue from external customers 325,174 150,117 72,814 94,124 – – 642,229 Inter segment revenue – – 11,086 6,498 (17,584) – – Governance Total revenue 325,174 150,117 83,900 100,622 (17,584) – 642,229 Adjusted operating profit* 92,903 9,019 15,724 20,457 – (7,941) 130,162 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (2,888) (1,409) (2,021) (20,865) – – (27,183) Segment result before adjustments 90,015 7,610 13,703 (408) – (7,941) 102,979 Adjustments (17,007) Operating profit 85,972 Net finance expense (5,386) Income tax expense (24,973) Profit for the year 55,613 Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Elimination Unallocated Group 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Financial Statements Revenue from external customers 298,381 145,317 60,802 85,578 – – 590,078 Inter segment revenue – – 11,577 5,592 (17,169) – – Total revenue 298,381 145,317 72,379 91,170 (17,169) – 590,078 Adjusted operating profit* 87,293 6,181 14,051 20,130 – (7,067) 120,588 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (3,860) (1,582) (1,698) (19,671) – – (26,811) Segment result before adjustments 83,433 4,599 12,353 459 – (7,067) 93,777 Adjustments – Operating profit 93,777 Net finance expense (2,707) Income tax expense (23,897) Profit for the year 67,173 Company Information * Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other adjustments, comprising goodwill impairment, release of contingent consideration and restructuring costs (see note 4) ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 3. Operating segments continued Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Unallocated Group 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Depreciation 5,622 2,801 1,813 1,951 45 12,232 Amortisation: – Acquired intangible assets 2,888 1,409 2,021 20,865 – 27,183 – Development costs 1,670 469 259 301 – 2,699 Impairment of goodwill – – 1,840 19,754 – 21,594 Release of contingent consideration – – – (10,000) – (10,000) Non-cash items: equity settled share-based payments 1,515 652 418 545 260 3,390 Net financing expense – – – – (5,386) (5,386) Acquired as part of business combinations: – Goodwill – – – – – – – Intangible assets – – – – – – Capital expenditure 7,355 1,495 1,622 1,933 – 12,405 Fluid Controls Systems Gears Instruments Unallocated Group 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Depreciation 5,429 2,571 1,546 2,170 43 11,759 Amortisation: – Acquired intangible assets 3,860 1,582 1,698 19,671 – 26,811 – Development costs 1,628 211 281 106 – 2,226 Impairment of goodwill – – – – – – Release of contingent consideration – – – – – – Non-cash items: equity settled share-based payments 1,709 680 480 473 417 3,759 Net financing expense – – – – (2,707) (2,707) Acquired as part of business combinations: – Goodwill – – 5,317 – – 5,317 – Intangible assets – – 6,816 – – 6,816 Capital expenditure 6,975 4,575 1,741 1,357 13 14,661 Balance sheets are reviewed by subsidiary and operating segment balance sheets are not prepared, therefore no further analysis of operating segments assets and liabilities is presented. Geographical analysis: Revenue by location of subsidiary 2017 2016 UK 76,281 74,144 Italy 82,165 63,040 Rest of Europe 113,822 112,759 USA 149,526 145,473 Other Americas 31,549 27,365 Rest of World 188,886 167,297 642,229 590,078 Other Rest of UK Europe USA Americas World Group 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Non-current assets: – Goodwill 61,342 67,119 55,996 733 42,838 228,028 – Intangible assets 43,226 12,215 12,886 – 13,129 81,456 – Property, plant and equipment 26,441 29,054 8,612 767 16,851 81,725 Other Rest of UK Europe USA Americas World Group 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Non-current assets: – Goodwill 81,329 64,984 62,730 740 41,624 251,407 – Intangible assets 52,138 17,595 20,674 – 18,612 109,019 – Property, plant and equipment 26,099 29,812 10,348 527 16,980 83,766 106 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 4. Adjustments to profit Adjustments are those items that management consider to be significant and where separate disclosure enables stakeholders to assess the trading performance of the Group on a consistent basis. The adjustments to profit included in statutory profit are as follows: 2017 2016 Release of contingent consideration 10,000 – Goodwill impairment (21,594) – Strategic Report (11,594) – Restructuring costs (5,413) – (17,007) – Bifold was acquired in 2015 and £10,000,000 of the consideration was contingent on a 2017 EBITDA performance target. Given the target has not been met the contingent consideration has been released to the income statement. As a result of the annual impairment review the goodwill associated with the Bifold and Tulsa CGUs has been impaired by £19,754,000 and £1,607,000 respectively. Bifold has been impacted as a result of the downturn in its main oil and gas market and trading not recovering as quickly as anticipated. The Tulsa CGU has also been impacted by depressed activity in the markets it serves. Further details of the annual impairment review and the key assumptions is provided in note 10. The restructuring costs include: i. Consultancy costs associated with the strategic review. Governance ii. Redundancy costs which have arisen following the reorganisation of operations in Italy and Germany. iii. Executive termination and associated recruitment costs. Within the income statement the goodwill impairment and restructuring costs are included in administrative expenses and the release of contingent consideration is included in other income. The goodwill impairment is not tax deductible and the release of the contingent consideration is not taxable. The restructuring costs are tax deductible in the country in which the expense is incurred. 5. Other income and expense 2017 2016 Release of contingent consideration 10,000 – Financial Statements Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 420 462 Other 231 167 Other income 10,651 629 2017 2016 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 273 208 Other 41 9 Other expense 314 217 Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 107 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6. Personnel expenses 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans) 147,637 136,557 Social security costs 20,486 18,032 Pension costs (note 24) 8,951 7,799 Share-based payments (note 25) 3,390 3,759 Increase in liability for long term service leave 539 49 181,003 166,196 2017 2016 Number Number During the year, the average monthly number of employees, analysed by business segment was: Controls 1,814 1,781 Fluid Systems 807 860 Gears 466 414 Instruments 651 664 3,738 3,719 UK 1,012 1,028 Overseas 2,726 2,691 3,738 3,719 7. Finance income and expense Recognised in the income statement 2017 2016 Interest income 1,206 934 Foreign exchange gains 175 810 Finance income 1,381 1,744 2017 2016 Interest expense (3,184) (2,970) Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (note 24) (1,607) (767) Foreign exchange losses (1,976) (714) Finance expense (6,767) (4,451) Recognised in equity 2017 2016 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (1,399) (8,772) Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement 8,945 950 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (376) 36,854 7,170 29,032 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 7,546 (7,822) Translation reserve (376) 36,854 7,170 29,032 108 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 8. Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Notes 2017 2016 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: – Owned assets i 11,922 11,700 – Assets held under finance lease contracts i 310 59 Amortisation: – Other intangibles iii 27,183 26,811 Strategic Report – Development costs iii 2,699 2,226 Inventory write downs recognised in the year ii 4,144 6,632 Hire of plant and machinery i 2,560 1,986 Rental of land and buildings under operating leases i 3,874 3,969 Research and development expenditure iii 10,678 8,841 Exchange differences realised iv 1,801 (96) Audit fees and expenses paid to Deloitte: – Audit of the Group financial statements 821 800 – Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 237 158 1,058 958 Other auditors of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 11 34 Total audit fees and expenses 1,069 992 Amounts paid to Deloitte and its associates in respect of: Governance – Taxation compliance services – 12 – Taxation advisory services – 23 – Half year review 44 42 – Corporate finance services – – – Other assurance services – 6 44 83 These costs can be found under the following headings in the income statement: i. Both within cost of sales and administrative expenses; ii. Within cost of sales; iii. Within administrative expenses; and iv. Within finance income and expenses. Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 109 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9. Income tax expense 2017 2017 2016 2016 Current tax: UK corporation tax on profits for the year 3,407 3,671 Adjustment in respect of prior years (974) 4 2,433 3,675 Overseas tax on profits for the year 27,386 28,487 Adjustment in respect of prior years 343 (413) 27,729 28,074 Total current tax 30,162 31,749 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of other temporary differences (6,711) (7,937) Impact of rate change 1,162 (127) Adjustment in respect of prior years 360 212 Total deferred tax (5,189) (7,852) Total tax charge for year 24,973 23,897 Profit before tax 80,586 91,070 Profit before tax multiplied by the blended standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.25% (2016: 20.00%) 15,513 18,214 Effects of: Different tax rates on overseas earnings 6,571 6,381 Permanent differences 138 301 Losses not recognised 768 224 Tax incentives (1,140) (899) Impact of rate change 1,162 (127) Non-taxable contingent consideration (1,925) – Non-deductible goodwill written off 4,157 – Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (271) (197) Total tax charge for year 24,973 23,897 Effective tax rate 31.0% 26.2% Adjusted profit before tax (note 2b) 124,776 117,881 Total tax charge for the year 24,973 23,897 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6,664 7,035 Other adjustments – restructuring 1,215 – Adjusted total tax charge for the year 32,852 30,932 Adjusted effective tax rate 26.3% 26.2% A tax credit of £252,000 (2016: £74,000) in respect of share-based payments has been recognised directly in equity in the year. The effective tax rate for the year is 31.0% (2016: 26.2%). The adjusted effective tax rate is 26.3% (2016: 26.2%) and is lower than the effective tax rate for the year principally because both the goodwill adjustments and the release of the contingent consideration are non-deductible for tax purposes. The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on 22 December 2017, has resulted in a one off charge to tax of £1,162,000 arising on the revaluation of the Group’s net US deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017. Excluding the effect of this charge, the 2017 adjusted effective tax rate would be 25.4%. The movement on the adjusted effective tax rate arising from the one off revaluation of the US net deferred tax asset has been offset by the change in the geographic mix of where profits are generated, resulting in a small increase in the adjusted effective tax rate from 26.2% to 26.3% in 2017. The Group expects its adjusted effective tax rate to further fall next year as a result of the reduction in the US corporate tax rate, which comes into effect from 1 January 2018. However, the adjusted effective tax rate will still remain higher than the standard UK rate due to higher rates of tax in China, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and India. There is an unrecognised deferred tax liability for temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries. Rotork plc controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries and the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences. The value of temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax has not been recognised is £305,277,000 (2016: £282,541,000). 110 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 10. Goodwill 2017 2016 Cost At 1 January 251,407 222,086 Acquisition through business combinations – 5,317 Other movements 255 – Exchange adjustments (2,040) 24,004 At 31 December 249,622 251,407 Strategic Report Provision for impairment At 1 January – – Impairment charge 21,594 – At 31 December 21,594 – Net book value 228,028 251,407 Cash generating units Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to the lowest level of cash generating unit (CGU). Where the acquired entity’s growth into new markets is through the Group’s existing sales network and/or where manufacturing of certain products is transferred to other businesses within a division, the lowest level of CGU is considered to be at a divisional sub-group level. During the year, following the merger of businesses in Italy, the CGUs of Masso and GTA were consolidated with the Rotork Fluid Systems CGU as this is the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Governance Cash generating unit Discount rate 2017 2016 Schischek 12.6% (2016: 14.9%) 20,275 19,498 Rotork Fluid Systems 12.3% (2016: 14.4%) 15,604 7,792 Rotork Sweden 11.5% (2016: 13.5%) 6,527 6,440 Rotork Controls Inc 10.2% (2016: 13.6%) 11,464 12,218 Tulsa 10.2% (2016: 13.5%) 7,023 9,448 Bifold 11.0% (2016: 12.4%) 47,467 67,221 Instruments sub-group 10.5% (2016: 12.6%) 100,485 101,684 Other cash generating units 19,183 27,106 Total Group 228,028 251,407 Impairment testing The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. Financial Statements The fall in oil price since 2015 has led to a sustained period of lower investment in the traditional HP upstream supply market which has had a substantial impact on the short to medium term forecasts for Bifold. Given this uncertainty we have used an expected cash flow approach to determine the value in use of Bifold which has resulted in an impairment to Bifold’s goodwill of £19,754,000. In addition to the Bifold impairment, a further impairment charge of £1,607,000 has been recorded against the Tulsa CGU which has also been adversely affected by depressed activity in the oil and gas markets it serves. The key assumptions used in the annual impairment review which are common to all other CGUs are set out below: i) Discount rates The discount rates for the significant CGUs presented above are pre-tax nominal weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each of the CGUs. The WACC is the weighted average of the pre-tax cost of debt financing and the pre-tax cost of equity finance. ii) Growth rates Value in use calculations are used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs. These calculations use cash flow Company Information projections from management forecasts which are based on the budget and the three year plan. The three year plan is a bottom up process which takes place as part of the annual budget process. Once the budget for the next financial year is finalised, years two and three of the three year plan are prepared by each reporting entity’s management reflecting their view of the local market, known projects and experience of past performance. The Group annual budget and the three year plan are reviewed and approved by the Board each year. In the period after the three year plan growth rates are forecast at 5% per annum for the next two years and at 2% for the long-term growth rate. The 5% rate reflects a realistic market forecast for the flow control market up until 2022. The continued need for our customers to improve their infrastructure by automating valves gives confidence that the growth rate of our market will exceed the long-term growth rate of 2% used in the impairment calculations. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 111 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 10. Goodwill continued Sensitivity analysis At the balance sheet date, the estimated recoverable amount of the Bifold CGU is equal to its carrying value following the impairment charge noted above. The key assumptions underpinning the estimate of the recoverable amount for the Bifold CGU are the discount rate and the forecast revenue growth rate for the next three years. Considering each assumption change in isolation, an increase in the Bifold CGU discount rate by 1% would result in a further impairment of £10,400,000 and a decrease in the discount rate by 1% would result in a £13,600,000 lower impairment charge. The weighted average revenue growth rate used in the Bifold impairment review is 11%. If the forecast revenue growth in each of years one, two and three was reduced to 6%, this would result in a further impairment of £13,800,000. If the forecast revenue growth in each of years one, two and three was increased to 16%, this would result in a reduction in the impairment charge of £15,100,000. Each of these sensitivities are considered to be a reasonably possible change. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for the remaining CGUs to assess the impact of any reasonably possible change in assumptions. Using the key assumptions above and applying sensitivities to these assumptions, there is no reasonably possible change that would cause the carrying amount of any other CGU goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount. 11. Intangible assets Acquired intangible assets Research and development Customer costs Brands relationships Other Total Cost 1 January 2016 17,147 45,332 106,147 22,560 191,186 Acquisition through business combinations – 1,644 4,674 498 6,816 Internally developed 2,958 – – – 2,958 Exchange adjustments 290 6,130 11,296 2,357 20,073 31 December 2016 20,395 53,106 122,117 25,415 221,033 Acquisition through business combinations – – – – – Internally developed 3,357 – – – 3,357 Exchange adjustments (47) (1,036) (1,637) (481) (3,201) 31 December 2017 23,705 52,070 120,480 24,934 221,189 Amortisation 1 January 2016 9,341 17,045 35,242 11,003 72,631 Charge for the year 2,226 5,788 17,631 3,392 29,037 Exchange adjustments 72 3,105 5,713 1,456 10,346 31 December 2016 11,639 25,938 58,586 15,851 112,014 Charge for the year 2,699 6,436 17,459 3,287 29,881 Exchange adjustments (14) (822) (1,324) (2) (2,162) 31 December 2017 14,324 31,552 74,721 19,136 139,733 Net book value 31 December 2016 8,756 27,168 63,531 9,564 109,019 31 December 2017 9,381 20,518 45,759 5,798 81,456 Other acquired intangible assets represent order books and intellectual property. The amortisation charge is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement. 112 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 12. Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Cost 1 January 2016 50,832 80,594 131,426 Additions 4,511 10,150 14,661 Disposals (101) (2,288) (2,389) Acquisition through business combinations – 1,393 1,393 Exchange adjustments 6,410 10,824 17,234 Strategic Report 31 December 2016 61,652 100,673 162,325 Additions 3,008 9,397 12,405 Disposals (1,874) (911) (2,785) Exchange adjustments 868 (1,475) (607) 31 December 2017 63,654 107,684 171,338 Depreciation 1 January 2016 10,164 49,254 59,418 Charge for the year 1,892 9,867 11,759 Disposals (76) (1,953) (2,029) Exchange adjustments 1,504 7,907 9,411 31 December 2016 13,484 65,075 78,559 Charge for the year 2,007 10,225 12,232 Governance Disposals (195) (356) (551) Exchange adjustments 8 (635) (627) 31 December 2017 15,304 74,309 89,613 Net book value 31 December 2016 48,168 35,598 83,766 31 December 2017 48,350 33,375 81,725 The net book value of the Group’s plant and equipment includes £4,000 (2016: £410,000) in respect of assets held under finance leases. Net book value of land and buildings can be analysed between: 2017 2016 Land 7,360 7,107 Financial Statements Buildings 40,990 41,061 Net book value at 31 December 48,350 48,168 It is the Group’s policy to test assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. No impairment was identified in the year. Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 113 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Property, plant and equipment 495 (1,263) (768) 435 (985) (550) Intangible assets 21 (16,502) (16,481) 74 (23,829) (23,755) Employee benefits 11,428 – 11,428 13,952 (48) 13,904 Inventory 6,276 – 6,276 7,712 – 7,712 Other items 4,398 (3,014) 1,384 6,211 (3,111) 3,100 Net tax assets/(liabilities) 22,618 (20,779) 1,839 28,384 (27,973) 411 Set off of tax (1,400) 1,400 – (3,125) 3,125 – 21,218 (19,379) 1,839 25,259 (24,848) 411 Movements in the net deferred tax balance during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 411 (15,275) Credited to the income statement 5,189 7,852 Credited directly to equity in respect of share-based payments 213 74 Acquired as part of business combinations – 530 (Charged)/credited directly to equity in respect of pension schemes (2,140) 7,191 (Charged)/credited directly to hedging reserves in respect of cash flow hedges (1,358) 1,408 Exchange differences (476) (1,369) Balance at 31 December 1,839 411 A deferred tax asset of £21,218,000 (2016: £25,259,000) has been recognised at 31 December 2017. The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in the current and future years make it more likely than not that these assets will be recovered. A deferred tax asset of £1,306,000 (2016: £1,302,000) has not been recognised in relation to capital losses. This asset may be recovered if sufficient capital profits are made in future in the companies concerned. There is no expiry date in relation to this asset. 14. Inventories 2017 2016 Raw materials and consumables 67,758 59,398 Work in progress 8,135 10,211 Finished goods 16,015 16,163 91,908 85,772 Included in cost of sales was £216,711,000 (2016: £204,729,000) in respect of inventories consumed in the year. 114 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 15. Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 Non-current assets: Other non-trade receivables 142 146 Other receivables 142 146 Current assets: Trade receivables 152,163 139,108 Less provision for impairment of receivables (6,634) (7,217) Strategic Report Trade receivables – net 145,529 131,891 Corporation tax 2,726 4,349 Current tax 2,726 4,349 Other non-trade receivables 2,896 7,600 Other taxes and social security 9,039 7,333 Prepayments 7,267 7,408 Other receivables 19,202 22,341 Included within non-trade receivables is £nil (2016: £2,334,000) which relate to collateral held by a third party in respect of the Group’s outstanding forward exchange contracts. 16. Cash and cash equivalents Governance 2017 2016 Bank balances 56,912 50,110 Cash in hand 60 65 Short term deposits 6,220 11,248 Cash and cash equivalents 63,192 61,423 Bank overdraft – – Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows 63,192 61,423 Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 17. Capital and reserves 0.5p Ordinary 0.5p Ordinary shares £1 Nonshares £1 Nonissued redeemable issued redeemable and fully preference and fully preference paid up shares paid up shares 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 1 January 4,350 40 4,349 40 Issued under employee share schemes 2 – 1 – At 31 December 4,352 40 4,350 40 Number of shares (000) 870,429 870,051 The ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to vote at meetings of the Company. The Group received proceeds of £713,000 (2016: £465,000) in respect of the 378,520 (2016: 312,540) ordinary shares issued during the year: £2,000 (2016: £1,000) was credited to share capital and £711,000 (2016: £464,000) to share premium. Further details of the share awards are shown in note 25. The preference shareholders take priority over the ordinary shareholders when there is a distribution upon winding up the Company or on a reduction of equity involving a return of capital. The holders of preference shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting of the Company if a preference dividend is in arrears for six months or the business of the meeting includes the consideration of a resolution for winding up the Company or the alteration of the preference shareholders’ rights. Within the retained earnings reserve are own shares held. The investment in own shares held is £1,594,000 (2016: £2,738,000) and represents 566,000 (2016: 963,000) ordinary shares of the Company held in trust for the benefit of directors and employees for future payments under the Share Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan. The dividends on these shares have been waived. Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arises when the Company redeems shares wholly out of distributable profits. Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge. Dividends The following dividends were paid in the year per qualifying ordinary share: 2017 Payment date 2017 2016 3.15p final dividend (2016: 3.10p) 15 May 27,391 26,933 2.05p interim dividend (2016: 1.95p) 22 September 17,827 16,943 45,218 43,876 After the balance sheet date the following dividends per qualifying ordinary share were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no corporation tax consequences. 2017 2016 Final proposed dividend per qualifying ordinary share 3.35p 29,159 3.15p 27,407 116 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 18. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated for both the current and previous years using the profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for the year. The earnings per share calculation is based on 869.4m shares (2016: 868.7m shares) being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held) for the year. 2017 2016 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 55,613 67,173 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Strategic Report Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 869,087 868,332 Effect of own shares held 252 273 Effect of shares issued under Sharesave plans 95 61 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 869,434 868,666 Basic earnings per share 6.4p 7.7p Adjusted basic earnings per share Adjusted basic earnings per share is calculated for both the current and previous years using the profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders for the year after adding back the after tax impact of the adjustments. The reconciliation showing how adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is derived is shown in note 2. 2017 2016 Adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 91,924 86,949 Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 869,434 868,666 Governance Adjusted basic earnings per share 10.6p 10.0p Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders and 872.0m shares (2016: 872.0m shares). The number of shares is equal to the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (net of own ordinary shares held) adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. The Company has two categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees under the Sharesave plan where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and contingently issuable shares awarded under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 2017 2016 Financial Statements Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 55,613 67,173 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year 869,434 868,666 Effect of Sharesave options 1,583 870 Effect of LTIP share awards 993 2,498 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 872,010 872,034 Diluted earnings per share 6.4p 7.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2017 2016 Adjusted net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 91,924 86,949 Company Information Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) during the year 872,010 872,034 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 10.5p 10.0p ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 19. Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, liquidity and currency risks, see note 26. 2017 2016 Non-current liabilities Preference shares classified as debt 40 40 Bank loans 45,837 51,260 Finance lease liabilities 2 3 45,879 51,303 Current liabilities Bank loans 29,925 65,039 Finance lease liabilities 3 69 29,928 65,108 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: Year of Currency Interest rates maturity 2017 2016 Non-redeemable preference shares Sterling 9.5% – 40 40 Bank loans and overdrafts Sterling 1.32%-1.34% 2018-19 74,746 115,180 Bank loans and overdrafts Euro 2.35% 2022 1,016 1,119 Finance lease liabilities Sterling 8.77% 2019 5 72 75,807 116,411 Repayment profile Finance leases and bank loans are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum Principal Interest payments Principal Interest payments 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Bank loans less than one year 29,925 225 30,150 65,039 310 65,349 Bank loans more than one and less than five years 45,837 77 45,914 50,565 81 50,646 Bank loans more than five years – – – 695 101 796 Finance leases less than one year 3 – 3 69 2 71 Finance leases more than one and less than five years 2 – 2 3 – 3 75,767 302 76,069 116,371 494 116,865 118 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 20. Employee benefits 2017 2016 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations: – Present value of funded obligations 237,054 236,543 – Fair value of plan assets (188,844) (178,045) 48,210 58,498 Other pension scheme liabilities 344 356 Employee bonuses 17,512 10,824 Strategic Report Long term incentive plan 331 216 Employee indemnity provision 2,823 3,359 Other employee benefits 4,537 3,596 73,757 76,849 Non-current 52,293 62,593 Current 21,464 14,256 73,757 76,849 Defined benefit pension scheme disclosures are detailed in note 24. 21. Provisions Governance Contingent Warranty consideration provision Total Balance at 1 January 2017 11,708 5,842 17,550 Exchange differences 36 (178) (142) Provisions utilised during the year (1,347) (1,804) (3,151) (Credit)/charge to the income statement (10,000) 1,987 (8,013) Balance at 31 December 2017 397 5,847 6,244 Maturity at 31 December 2017 Non-current – 1,929 1,929 Current 397 3,918 4,315 397 5,847 6,244 Financial Statements Maturity at 31 December 2016 Non-current 10,000 1,947 11,947 Current 1,708 3,895 5,603 11,708 5,842 17,550 The warranty provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products and services. The provision relates mainly to products sold during the last 12 months and the typical warranty period is 18 months. Contingent consideration relating to the Bifold acquisition of £10,000,000 was released to the income statement after an EBITDA target was not met. Other contingent consideration relates to amounts outstanding in respect of the GTA Group and Masso acquisitions. Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 22. Trade and other payables 2017 2016 Trade payables 49,183 39,652 Corporation tax 13,093 13,352 Current tax 13,093 13,352 Other taxes and social security 11,281 10,806 Payments on account 6,667 7,053 Other payables and accrued expenses 24,217 24,140 Other payables 42,165 41,999 23. Derivative financial instruments 2017 2017 2016 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 367 1,766 – 8,945 Foreign exchange swaps – cash flow hedges 3,101 – – 1,681 Total 3,468 1,766 – 10,626 Less non-current portion: Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – 245 – 2,483 Current portion – 1,521 – 8,143 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from the use of foreign exchange contracts. The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates. Gains and losses in respect of these derivatives recognised in the hedging reserve in equity at 31 December 2017 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement. 120 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 24. Pension schemes i) Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension arrangements – the Rotork Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (UK Scheme) and the Rotork Controls Inc. Pension Plan (US Pension Plan). On retirement, leaving service or death, the Schemes provide benefits based on final salary and length of service. The UK Scheme is subject to the Statutory Funding Objective under the Pensions Act 2004. A valuation of the Scheme is carried out at least once every three years to determine whether the Statutory Funding Objective is met. As part of the process the Company must agree with the trustees of the Scheme the contributions to be paid to address any shortfall against the Statutory Funding Objective and contributions to pay for future accrual Strategic Report of benefits. The UK Scheme is managed by a Trustee, with directors appointed in part by the Group and part from elections by members of the Scheme. The Trustee has responsibility for obtaining valuations of the fund, administering benefit payments and investing the Scheme’s assets. The Trustee delegates some of these functions to its professional advisers where appropriate. The UK Scheme which was closed to new entrants in 2003 will be closed to future accrual from 1 April 2018. The US Pension Plan is subject to the ERISA funding requirements. A valuation of the Plan is carried out annually to ensure the Funding Objective is met under ERISA by contributing at least the Minimum Required Contribution. As part of this process the Company must contribute to the Plan enough contributions to ensure at least the Minimum Contribution is deposited in the Trust to pay for the accrual of benefits. The two defined benefit pension arrangements expose the Group to a number of risks: • Investment risk – the Schemes hold investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term the short-term volatility can cause additional funding to be required if a deficit emerges. The Schemes have a relatively balanced investment in equities, debt instruments and property. Due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, the Governance Trustees of the pension funds consider it appropriate that a reasonable portion of the plan assets should be invested in equities and in property to leverage the return generated by the funds. • Interest rate risk – the Schemes’ liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds to discount the liabilities. As the Schemes hold assets such as equities the value of the assets and liabilities may not move in the same way. A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the Schemes’ liabilities but this will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the Schemes’ debt investments. • Inflation risk – a significant proportion of the benefits under the Schemes are linked to inflation. Although the Schemes’ assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could lead to deficits emerging. • Mortality risk – in the event that members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Schemes. There were no plan amendments, curtailments or settlements during the period. Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations 2017 2016 Liabilities at 1 January 236,543 180,406 Financial Statements Current service costs 3,846 2,983 Administration costs 178 252 Member contributions 621 601 Interest cost 6,531 6,999 Benefits paid (7,441) (6,880) Actuarial (gain)/loss (842) 48,041 Currency (gain)/loss (2,382) 4,141 Liabilities at 31 December 237,054 236,543 Movements in fair value of plan assets 2017 2016 Assets at 1 January 178,045 157,131 Interest income on plan assets 4,924 6,232 Company Information Employer contributions 8,971 8,511 Member contributions 621 601 Benefits paid (7,441) (6,880) Return on plan assets, excluding interest income on plan assets 5,007 10,118 Currency (loss)/gain (1,283) 2,332 Assets at 31 December 188,844 178,045 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 24. Pension schemes continued Expense recognised in the income statement 2017 2016 Current service costs 3,846 2,983 Administration costs 178 252 Net interest cost 1,607 767 5,631 4,002 The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement 2017 2016 Cost of sales 1,443 1,083 Administrative expenses 2,581 2,152 Net finance expense 1,607 767 5,631 4,002 Remeasurements over the year 2017 2016 Experience adjustments on plan assets 5,007 10,118 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 2,601 3,167 Actuarial loss from changes to financial assumptions (7,392) (55,104) Actuarial gain from changes to demographic assumptions 5,633 3,896 Experience adjustments on currency 1,099 (1,809) 6,948 (39,732) Reconciliation of net defined benefit obligation 2017 2016 Net defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 58,498 23,275 Current service costs 3,846 2,983 Administration costs 178 252 Net financing expense 1,607 767 Remeasurements over the year (6,948) 39,732 Employer contributions (8,971) (8,511) 48,210 58,498 Liability for defined benefit obligations The principal actuarial assumptions at 31 December 2017 (expressed as weighted averages): UK scheme US scheme Weighted average (% per annum) (% per annum) (% per annum) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.4 2.6 3.8 4.4 2.5 2.8 Rate of increase in salaries 3.7 3.9 3.0 3.0 3.6 3.8 Rate of increase in pensions (post May 2000) 3.1 3.3 0.0 0.0 2.8 2.9 Rate of increase in pensions (pre May 2000) 4.6 4.6 0.0 0.0 4.1 4.1 Rate of inflation 3.2 3.4 3.0 3.0 3.2 3.4 In the UK the Retail Price Index is used as the rate of inflation as it is a requirement of the UK Scheme’s rules. The split of the Schemes’ quoted assets were as follows: 2017 2016 Fair value Fair value Equities 82,999 83,099 Bonds/LDI 75,146 70,805 Property 16,527 9,534 Cash 635 179 US deposit administration contract 13,537 14,428 Total 188,844 178,045 Actual return on the Schemes’ assets 9,931 16,350 122 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview The demographic assumptions are the same as used for the most recent valuations of the Schemes, except for cash commutation and mortality. For cash commutation, an allowance has been made for 90% of UK Scheme members who have yet to retire to take maximum cash at retirement. The mortality assumptions used for the UK Scheme are the S2NXA year of birth tables (2016: S2NXA) with future improvements in mortality based on the CMI_2016 projections (2016: CMI_2015 projections) with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum (2016: 1.25%). By way of example the respective mortality tables indicate the following life expectancy: 2017 2016 Life expectancy at age 65 Life expectancy at age 65 Current age Male Female Male Female Strategic Report 65 22.2 24.2 22.3 24.4 45 23.6 25.7 24.0 26.3 Sensitivity analysis on the Schemes’ liabilities Adjustments to assumptions Approximate effect on liabilities Discount rate Plus 0.5% pa (24,000) Minus 0.5% pa 26,800 Inflation Plus 0.5% pa 12,700 Minus 0.5% pa (11,900) Salary increase Plus 0.5% pa 4,700 Governance Minus 0.5% pa (4,400) Life expectancy Decrease mortality rates by a factor of 10% 7,300 Increase mortality rates by a factor of 10% (6,600) The above sensitivities are approximate and only show the likely effect of an assumption being adjusted whilst all other assumptions remain the same. For the life expectancy sensitivity we have increased/decreased the mortality rates by a factor of 10%. Broadly speaking this decreases/increases the assumed life expectancy by slightly less than one year. The sensitivity analysis shown above was determined using the same method as per the calculation of liabilities for the balance sheet disclosures, but using assumptions adjusted as detailed above. Effect of the Schemes on the Group’s future cash flows Financial Statements The Group is required to agree a Schedule of Contributions with the Trustees of the UK Scheme following a valuation which must be carried out at least once every three years. Following the valuation of the UK Scheme as at 31 March 2016, the Group is continuing to pay deficit contributions of £5,500,000 a year. The Group estimates that cash contributions to the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes during 2018 will be £3,120,000 for regular payments (2017: £3,590,000) and £5,500,000 of additional payments in relation to past service (2017: £5,500,000). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 22 years. ii) Other pension plans The Group makes a contribution to a number of defined contribution plans around the world to provide benefits for employees upon retirement. Total expense relating to these plans in the year was £5,105,000 (2016: £4,816,000). Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 25. Share-based payments The Group awards shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the Save As You Earn scheme (Sharesave plan), the overseas profit linked share plan (OPLSS) and the share incentive plan (SIP). The equity settled share-based payment expense included in the income statement for each of the plans can be analysed as follows: 2017 2016 Sharesave plan (a) 566 592 Long Term Incentive Plan (b) 789 1,302 OPLSS/SIP profit linked share scheme (c) 2,035 1,865 Total expense recognised as employee costs (note 6) 3,390 3,759 Volatility assumptions for equity-based payments The expected volatility of all equity compensation benefits is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of each benefit), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. a) Sharesave plan UK employees are invited to join the Sharesave plan when an offer is made each year. All the offers to date were made at a 20% discount to market price at the time. There are no performance criteria for the Sharesave plan. Employees are given the option of joining either the three year or the five year scheme. 3 year scheme 5 year scheme 2017 2016 2017 2016 Grant date 2 October 3 October 2 October 3 October Share price at grant date 262p 215p 262p 215p Exercise price 189p 168p 189p 168p Shares granted under scheme 555,917 612,593 264,906 391,454 Vesting period 3 years 3 years 5 years 5 years Expected volatility 30.7% 29.4% 27.3% 27.7% Risk free rate 0.53% 0.09% 0.78% 0.25% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 1.98% 2.4% 1.98% 2.4% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting 2% 2% 2% 2% Fair value 82p 56p 83p 57p Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average prices are as follows: 2017 2016 Average Average option price option price per share Options per share Options At 1 January 160p 4,541,915 159p 4,367,367 Granted 189p 820,823 168p 1,004,047 Exercised 188p (378,520) 149p (285,323) Forfeited 160p (437,017) 171p (544,176) At 31 December 163p 4,547,201 160p 4,541,915 Of the 4,547,201 outstanding options (2016: 4,541,915), 46,000 are exercisable (2016: 132,000). The Group received proceeds of £713,000 in respect of the 378,520 options exercised during the year: £2,000 was credited to share capital and £711,000 to share premium. The weighted average share price at date of exercise was 257p (2016: 231p). The weighted average remaining life of 2,561,903 (2016: 2,389,686) awards outstanding under the 3 year plan is 1.5 years. The weighted average remaining life of 1,985,298 (2016: 2,152,229) awards outstanding under the 5 year plan is 3.2 years. b) Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is a performance share plan under which shares are conditionally allocated to selected members of senior management at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis. Following shareholder approval of the LTIP at the Company’s AGM on 18 May 2000, awards over shares are made to executive directors and senior managers each year. 124 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 2010 LTIP plan Following shareholder approval of the 2010 LTIP plan at the Company’s AGM on 23 April 2010, awards of shares have been made annually to executive and senior managers. For the 2015 and 2016 awards, half of these awards vest under a TSR performance condition and half under an EPS performance condition. A Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) performance condition has been introduced in the 2017 LTIP award, details of which are shown in the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts. A third of the awards vest under each performance condition. TSR measures the change in value of a share and reinvested dividends over the period of measurement. The actual number of shares transferred will be determined by the number of shares initially allocated multiplied by a vesting percentage. The actual number of shares transferred will be 25% at the 50th percentile rising to 100% at the 75th percentile. Strategic Report For the 2015 awards, the EPS performance condition is satisfied with 15% of the awards vesting if the EPS growth is RPI +10% over the vesting period up to a maximum of 100% vesting if EPS growth exceeds RPI +25%. For the 2016 and 2017 awards, the EPS performance condition is satisfied with 15% of the awards vesting if the EPS growth is 9% over the vesting period up to a maximum of 100% vesting if EPS growth exceeds 35%. Vesting of awards under the ROIC condition will be determined by calculating the growth in ROIC, on a cumulative basis, over the performance period. For the 2017 awards, the awards will vest by comparing the average ROIC over the performance period against a set of pre-defined targets. The performance period for the 2014 awards ended on 31 December 2016. The TSR element of the award did not vest as the Company was in the 28th percentile relative to the comparator group. The EPS element also did not vest as the growth in EPS did not exceed RPI +10% over the vesting period. The performance period for the 2015 awards ended on 31 December 2017. The TSR element of the award did not vest as the Company was in the 17th percentile relative to the comparator group. The EPS element also did not vest as the growth in EPS did not exceed RPI +10% over the Governance vesting period. 2017 2016 Grant date 8 May 2017 6 April 2016 Share price at grant date 239p 163p Shares granted under scheme 1,416,628 2,105,244 Vesting period 3 years 3 years Expected volatility 32.0% 28.4% Risk free rate 0.2% 0.4% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.1% 3.1% Probability of ceasing employment before vesting 5% p.a. 5% p.a. Fair value of awards under TSR performance conditions 114p 85p Fair value of awards under EPS performance conditions 226p 150p Outstanding Outstanding Financial Statements at start Granted Vested at end of year during year during year Lapsed of year 2014 Award 1,020,500 – – (1,020,500) – 2015 Award 1,184,060 – – (223,210) 960,850 2016 Award 2,105,244 – – (576,857) 1,528,387 2017 Award – 1,416,628 – (428,193) 988,435 4,309,804 1,416,628 – (2,248,760) 3,477,672 The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding is one year. c) Overseas profit linked share plan (OPLSS) and the share incentive plan (SIP) These discretionary profit linked shares schemes are annual schemes based on the prior year profit of participating Rotork companies. The value of the award to each employee is based on salary and length of service and can be up to £3,600. Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 125 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 26. Financial instruments Financial risk and treasury policies The Treasury department maintains liquidity, identifies and manages foreign exchange risk, manages relations with the Group’s bankers and provides a treasury service to the Group’s businesses. Treasury dealings such as investments, borrowings and foreign exchange are conducted only to support underlying business transactions. The Group has clearly defined policies for the management of credit, foreign exchange and interest rate risk. The Group Treasury department is not a profit centre and, therefore, does not undertake speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no underlying exposure. Exposures resulting from sales and purchases in foreign currency are matched where possible and the net exposure may be hedged. a) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and cash on deposit with financial institutions. Management has a credit policy in place and exposure to credit risk is both monitored on an ongoing basis and reduced through the use of credit insurance covering over 80% of trade receivables at any time. Credit evaluations are carried out on all customers requiring credit above a certain threshold, with varying approval levels set around this depending on the value of the sale. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses, so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim. The Group maintains an allowance for impairment in respect of non-insured receivables where recoverability is considered doubtful. The Group Treasury Committee meets regularly and reviews the credit risk associated with institutions that hold a material cash balance. As well as credit ratings, counterparties and instruments are assessed for credit default swap pricing and liquidity of funds. Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying amount 2017 2016 Trade receivables 145,529 131,891 Other receivables 19,344 22,487 Cash and cash equivalents 63,192 61,423 Foreign exchange contracts – – 228,065 215,801 Other receivables consist principally of tax receivables and prepayments. These items do not give rise to significant credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by currency was: Carrying amount 2017 2016 Sterling 19,646 17,488 US dollar 39,841 35,089 Euro 54,476 53,092 Other 31,566 26,222 145,529 131,891 Provisions against trade receivables The aging of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment at the reporting date was: Gross Provision Gross Provision 2017 2017 2016 2016 Not past due 100,640 (10) 90,259 (30) Past due 0–30 days 25,951 (6) 19,575 (85) Past due 31–60 days 10,012 (81) 11,480 (58) Past due 61–90 days 4,263 (87) 5,259 (180) Past due more than 91 days 11,297 (6,450) 12,535 (6,864) 152,163 (6,634) 139,108 (7,217) 126 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview b) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group is highly cash generative, and uses monthly cash flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise its return on investments. Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational expenses; it also maintains a £7m overdraft facility (2016: £7m) on which interest would be payable at base rate plus 1.5%. During 2017 the Group repaid its £20,000,000 committed 364 day facility that matured in August 2017. In addition, the Group repaid £15,000,000 Strategic Report of its £90,000,000 term facility and negotiated to extend the remaining facility to August 2019. The Group has a £60,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility which matures in August 2020. At year end £75,000,000 of the committed facilities were drawn, resulting in £60,000,000 being available. The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities Carrying Contractual Less than More than 31 December 2017 amount cash flows 12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years Bank loans and overdrafts 75,762 76,064 30,151 44,948 965 – Finance lease liabilities 5 5 3 2 – – Trade and other payables 91,348 91,348 91,348 – – – Contingent consideration 397 397 397 – – – Foreign exchange contracts 1,766 1,766 1,521 245 – – Non-redeemable preference shares 40 40 – – – 40 169,318 169,620 123,420 45,195 965 40 Governance Analysis of contractual cash flow maturities Carrying Contractual Less than More than 31 December 2016 amount cash flows 12 months 1–2 years 2–5 years 5 years Bank loans and overdrafts 116,299 116,792 65,349 44,989 5,657 797 Finance lease liabilities 72 74 71 3 – – Trade and other payables 81,651 81,651 81,651 – – – Contingent consideration 11,708 11,708 1,708 10,000 – – Forward exchange contracts 10,626 10,626 8,143 2,483 – – Non-redeemable preference shares 40 40 – – – 40 220,396 220,891 156,922 57,475 5,657 837 Where a counterparty experiences credit stress then the foreign exchange contracts may be settled on a net basis but standard practice is to settle on a gross basis and the undiscounted gross outflow in respect of these contracts is £190,786,000 (2016: £242,288,000) and the gross inflow is Financial Statements £189,127,000 (2016: £231,888,000). c) Market risk Market risk arises from changes in market prices, such as currency rates and interest rates, and may affect the Group’s results. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk within suitable parameters. i) Currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the business unit’s functional currency. The currencies primarily giving rise to this risk are the US dollar and related currencies and the euro. The Group hedges up to 75% of forecast US dollar or euro foreign currency exposures using forward exchange contracts. In respect of other non-sterling monetary assets and liabilities the exposures may also be hedged up to 75% where this is deemed appropriate. As part of the Group’s cash management some of the overseas subsidiaries have loan and deposit balances where their intra-group counterparty is in the UK. The balances are typically in local currency for the subsidiary so the UK holds a foreign currency current asset or liability which is usually hedged through the use of foreign exchange swaps. At the balance sheet date only the ‘forward’ part of the swap remains and this is designated as Company Information a cash flow hedge to match the currency exposure of the intercompany loan asset. The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts (that hedge both the forecast sale and purchase transactions and the intercompany loan and deposit balances) as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The net fair value of foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 31 December 2017 was a £1,702,000 asset (2016: £10,626,000 liability) comprising an asset of £3,468,000 (2016: £nil) and a liability of £1,766,000 (2016: £10,626,000). Forward exchange contracts in place at 31 December 2017 mature in 2018 and 2019. Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts that economically hedge monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, and for which no hedge accounting is applied, are recognised in the income statement. ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 127 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 26. Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis It is estimated that, with all other variables held equal (in particular other exchange rates), a general change of one cent in the value of euro against sterling would have had an impact on the Group’s operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 of £300,000 (2016: £250,000) and a change of one cent in the value of US dollar against sterling would have had an impact on the Group’s operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 of £400,000 (2016: £450,000). The method of estimation, which has been applied consistently, involves assessing the transaction impact of US dollar and euro cash flows and the translation impact of US dollar and euro profits. The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 US dollar 1.29 1.36 1.35 1.24 Euro 1.14 1.22 1.13 1.17 ii) Interest rate risk The Group does not undertake any hedging activity in this area. All cash deposits are made at prevailing interest rates and the majority is available with same day notice, though deposits are sometimes made with a maturity of no more than three months. The main element of interest rate risk concerns sterling, US dollar, euro and renminbi deposits, all of which are on a floating rate basis. The interest rate profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2017 2016 Fixed rate financial liabilities 1,061 203 Floating rate financial liabilities 74,746 116,208 75,807 116,411 The fixed and floating rate financial liabilities comprise finance leases, preference shares and bank loans. The floating rate obligations bear interest at rates determined by reference to the relevant LIBOR or equivalent rate. The weighted average interest rate of the fixed rate financial liabilities is 2.38% (2016: 2.08%). The weighted average period for which interest rates on the fixed rate financial liabilities are fixed is 1.8 years. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2017 2016 In one year or less 29,928 65,108 In more than one year but not more than two years 44,928 44,968 In more than two years but not more than five years 911 5,600 In more than five years 40 735 Total 75,807 116,411 128 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview d) Capital risk management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure it maintains sufficient capital in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group has an asset-light business model and uses cash generated from operations to either invest organically or by acquisition. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic and market conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group defines capital as net debt plus equity attributable to shareholders. There are no externally imposed restrictions on the Group’s capital structure. Strategic Report The Group monitors capital using the following indicators: i) Group net debt Notes 2017 2016 Total borrowings 19 (75,807) (116,411) Cash and cash equivalents 16 63,192 61,423 Group net debt (12,615) (54,988) Reconciliation of changes in cash and cash equivalents to movements in net debt Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 4,064 8,688 Repayment of borrowings 40,579 3,619 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 68 253 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations (2,338) 3,592 Governance Movement in net debt 42,373 16,152 Net debt at start of year (54,988) (71,140) Net debt at end of year (12,615) (54,988) ii) Return on capital employed Notes 2017 2016 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 85,972 93,777 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4 27,183 26,811 Other adjustments 4 17,007 – 130,162 120,588 Capital employed Financial Statements Shareholders’ funds 457,200 434,086 Cash and cash equivalents 16 (63,192) (61,423) Interest bearing loans and borrowings 19 75,807 116,411 Net debt 12,615 54,988 Pension deficit net of deferred tax 38,924 46,469 508,739 535,543 Average capital employed 522,141 516,009 Return on capital employed 24.9% 23.4% Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 129 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 26. Financial instruments continued e) Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, were as follows: Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2017 2017 2016 2016 Loans and receivables Trade receivables 145,529 145,529 131,891 131,891 Other receivables 19,344 19,344 22,487 22,487 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 63,192 63,192 61,423 61,423 Designated cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts: Financial assets 3,468 3,468 – – Financial liabilities (1,766) (1,766) (10,626) (10,626) Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bank loans (75,762) (75,762) (116,299) (116,299) Trade and other payables (91,348) (91,348) (81,651) (81,651) Contingent consideration (397) (397) (11,708) (11,708) Preference shares (40) (40) (40) (40) Finance lease liabilities (5) (5) (72) (72) 62,215 62,215 (4,595) (4,595) Fair value hierarchy The fair value of the Group’s outstanding derivative financial assets and liabilities consisted of foreign exchange contracts and swaps and were estimated using year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the appropriate value dates, and gains and losses are taken to equity estimated using market foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date. All derivative financial instruments are categorised at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The other financial instruments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy and are valued as follows: i) Trade and other receivables/payables As the majority of receivables/payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. ii) Contingent consideration As all the contingent consideration is contractually due for payment within 12 months (2016: 14 months), the carrying amount is equal to the fair value. Further information on the contingent consideration is shown in note 21. 130 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview 27. Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2017 2016 Less than one year 5,359 4,775 Between one and five years 12,730 10,351 More than five years 1,179 1,801 19,268 16,927 Strategic Report Of the £19,268,000 (2016: £16,927,000), £13,996,000 (2016: £13,279,000) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment. 28. Capital commitments Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in these accounts were: 2017 2016 Contracted 1,238 884 29. Contingencies 2017 2016 Performance guarantees and indemnities 8,375 7,034 Governance The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability would only arise in the event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. 30. Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and key management. A list of subsidiaries is shown on pages 136 to 138 of these financial statements. Transactions between two subsidiaries for the sale and purchase of products or the subsidiary and Parent Company for management charges are priced on an arm’s length basis. Evoqua Water Technologies LLC is a related party of Rotork plc by virtue of M Lamb’s non-executive chairmanship. Sales to subsidiaries and associates of Evoqua Water Technologies LLC totalled £78,000 during the year and £8,000 was outstanding at 31 December 2017. Key management emoluments The emoluments of those members of the management team, including directors, who are responsible for planning, directing and controlling the Financial Statements activities of the Group were: 2017 2016 Emoluments including social security costs 3,401 3,370 Post employment benefits 45 229 Pension supplement 285 202 Share-based payments 418 848 4,149 4,649 Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 131 ROTORK PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2017 2016 Notes £000 £000 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment c 30 72 Investments d 43,205 43,205 Deferred tax assets e 150 145 43,385 43,422 Current assets Amounts owed by Group undertakings 178,116 150,327 Other receivables f 158 743 Cash and cash equivalents 1,977 1,234 180,251 152,304 Total assets 223,636 195,726 Equity Share capital i 4,352 4,350 Share premium 11,193 10,482 Capital redemption reserve 1,644 1,644 Retained earnings 199,949 175,495 217,138 191,971 Non-current liabilities Preference share capital 40 40 40 40 Current liabilities Trade payables 178 15 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,063 1,051 Other payables g 5,217 2,649 6,458 3,715 Total equity and liabilities 223,636 195,726 The Company reported a total comprehensive income for the financial year of £67,439,000 (2016: £61,600,000). These Company financial statements, company number 00578327, were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: MJ Lamb and JM Davis, Directors. 132 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ROTORK PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Overview AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Capital Share Share redemption Retained capital premium reserve earnings Total equity £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Balance at 31 December 2015 4,349 10,018 1,644 155,031 171,042 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 61,600 61,600 Equity settled share-based payment transactions – – – 1,557 1,557 Share options exercised by employees 1 464 – – 465 Strategic Report Own ordinary shares acquired – – – (1,019) (1,019) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – 2,202 2,202 Dividends – – – (43,876) (43,876) Balance at 31 December 2016 4,350 10,482 1,644 175,495 191,971 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 67,439 67,439 Equity settled share-based payment transactions – – – 1,089 1,089 Share options exercised by employees 2 711 – – 713 Own ordinary shares acquired – – – (1,157) (1,157) Own ordinary shares awarded under share schemes – – – 2,301 2,301 Dividends – – – (45,218) (45,218) Balance at 31 December 2017 4,352 11,193 1,644 199,949 217,138 Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 133 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 a) Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements. Notes a to i relate to the Company rather than the Group. Except where indicated, values in these notes are in £000. Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The Company has applied Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) incorporating the Amendments to FRS 101 issued by the FRC in July 2015, and the amendments to Company law made by The Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2015. In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: • A cash flow statement and related notes; • Comparative period reconciliations for share capital and tangible fixed assets; • Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; • Disclosures in respect of capital management; • The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs; and • Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel. The Company produces consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. As the consolidated financial statements of the Company include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: • IFRS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of group settled share based payments; and • The disclosures required by IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 regarding financial instrument disclosures have not been provided. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. The Company accounts for intra-group cross guarantees under IAS 37. As permitted by s408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account or statement of comprehensive income for the year. The profit attributable to the Company is disclosed in the footnote to the Company’s balance sheet. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. Investments in subsidiaries Investments are measured at cost less any provision for impairment and comprise investments in subsidiary companies. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Plant and machinery is depreciated by equal annual instalments by reference to their estimated useful lives and residual values at annual rates of between 10% and 33%. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Post-retirement benefits The Company participates in a UK Group pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable salary. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The sponsoring employer for the Group pension scheme is Rotork Controls Ltd. No contractual agreement or policy is in place for charging to individual Group entities the net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole. As a result, in accordance with IAS 19, the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. Classification of preference shares In line with the requirements of IAS 32, Financial Instruments, the cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by the Company are classified as long term debt. The preference dividends are charged within interest payable. Share-based payments The Company has adopted IFRS 2 and its policy in respect of share-based payment transactions is consistent with the Group policy shown in note 1 to the Group financial statements. Costs in relation to share-based awards made to other Group company employees are recharged to each subsidiary company. 134 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary Strategic Report difference can be utilised. Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. b) Personnel expenses in the Company profit and loss account 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (including bonus and incentive plans) 3,739 3,028 Social security costs 506 334 Pension costs 185 251 Share-based payment charge 255 452 4,685 4,065 Governance During the year there were 21 (2016: 17) employees of Rotork plc plus the two (2016: three) executive directors. Disclosures required by paragraph 1 of schedule 5 of SI2008/410 are set out in the Director’s Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83. Share-based payments The share-based payment charge relates to employees of the Company participating in the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The disclosures required under IFRS 2 can be found in note 25 to the Group Financial Statements. The table below sets out the movement of share options under the LTIP for employees of the Company. Outstanding Outstanding at start Granted Vested at end of year during year during year Lapsed of year 2014 Award 316,920 – – (316,920) – 2015 Award 400,940 – – (30,900) 370,040 2016 Award 804,898 – – (190,407) 614,491 Financial Statements 2017 Award – 600,162 – (329,360) 270,802 1,522,758 600,162 – (867,587) 1,255,333 The weighted average remaining life of awards outstanding at the year end is one year. c) Property, plant and equipment in the Company balance sheet Plant and equipment Total Cost At 1 January 2017 221 221 Additions – – At 31 December 2017 221 221 Company Information Depreciation At 1 January 2017 149 149 Charge for year 42 42 At 31 December 2017 191 191 Net book value At 31 December 2017 30 30 At 31 December 2016 72 72 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 135 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 d) Investments in the Company balance sheet Shares in Group companies 2017 2016 At 1 January and 31 December 43,205 43,205 The Company has the following investments in wholly owned subsidiaries: Subsidiary Incorporated in Registered address 100% owned by Rotork plc GH Chaplain & Co (Engineers) Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Analysis Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Cleaners Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Control and Safety Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Instruments Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Nominees Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Widcombe (Developments) Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Controls Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Overseas Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ 100% owned by Rotork Controls Limited Rotork Actuation (Shanghai) Co Limited China Building G, No.260 Liancao Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, PRC 201108 Rotork Trading (Shanghai) Co Limited China Room 1177, No.400, Middle Zhejiang Road, HuangPu District, Shanghai, China Rotork Controls (India) Private Limited India 28B, Ambattur Industrial Estate (North Phase), Ambattur, Chennai 600 098, India Rotork UK Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Valvekits Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ 100% owned by Rotork Overseas Limited Rotork Australia Pty Limited Australia Level 26, 181 William Street, Melbourne, VIC, 3000, Australia Rotork Controls Comercio De Atuadores LTDA Brazil Rodovia SP 73, 4509 – Armazem Modulo 14 – NR Cond., Indaiatuba – SP, Brazil Rotork Controls (Canada) Limited Canada #4-2850 Argentia Road, Mississauga, Ontario, L5N-8G4, Canada Rotork Chile SpA Chile Rotork es Presidente Kennedy 4700, Oficina 1001, Vitacura, Chile Bifold Group Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Midland Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Rotork Motorisation SAS France 75, rue Rateau 93126 La Courneuve Cedex, France Rotork Controls (Deutschland) GmbH Germany Siemensstr. 33, 40721 Hilden, Germany Rotork Germany Holdings GmbH Germany Mühlsteig 45, 90579 Langenzenn, Germany Rotork Limited Hong Kong Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong Eltav Wireless Monitoring Limited Israel 15 Hata’asia St. Ra’anana, Israel 4365408 Rotork Italy Holdings Srl Italy Corso di Porta Vittoria 9 (Milano) Italy Rotork Japan Co Limited Japan 2-2-24 Sengoku, Koto-ku, Tokyo, 135-0015 Japan Rotork Middle East FZE Jebel Ali Free Zone PUB-LC 07, near R/A 08, PO Box 262903, Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Rotork (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 1-17-1, Menara Bangkok Bank, Berjaya Central Park, No 105, Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Rotork Actuation Sdn Bhd Malaysia No 32, Jln anggerik Mokara 31/47, Kota Kemuning, 40460 Shah Alam, Malaysia Rotork BV The Netherlands Mandenmakerstraat 45, 3194 DA Hoogvliet, The Netherlands Rotork Gears Holding BV The Netherlands Nijverheidstraat 25, 7581 PV Losser, The Netherlands Robusta Miry Brook BV The Netherlands Strawinskylaan 3127, 8th floor, 1077 ZX Amsterdam, The Netherlands Rotork Norge AS Norway Ormahaugvegen 3, 5347 Ågotnes, Norway Rotork Polska zoo Poland Tarnogórska 241, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland Rotork Rus Limited Russia Offices 203-205, ul. Otradnaya 2B, bld. 3, 127273 Moscow, Russia Rotork Controls (Singapore) Pte Limited Singapore 426 Tagore Industrial Ave, Singapore 787808 Rotork Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 136 Kuschke Street, Meadowdale Ext3, Germiston, 1601 South Africa Rotork Controls (Korea) Co Limited South Korea 509, 5th Floor Leader’s Bldg 342-1, Yatap-Dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea 463-828 Young Tech Co Limited South Korea 81, Hwanggeum-ro, 89beon-gil, Yangchon-eup, Gimpo-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 10048 Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL Spain Larrondo Beheko Etorbidea, Edificio 2 – 48180 Loiu (Bizkaia) Spain Rotork Sweden AB Sweden Box 80, 791 22 Falun, Sweden 136 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview Subsidiary Incorporated in Registered address Rotork AG Switzerland Fuchsacker 678, 9426 Lutzenberg, Switzerland Rotork Inc USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange St., Wilmington, DE 19801 USA Rotork Controls de Venezuela SA Venezuela Av. Casanova Torre banco plaza, piso 3 Ofic. 3D. Sabana Grande. Caracas – Venezuela Rotork Turkey Akış Kontrol Sistemleri Ticaret Turkey Aydinli Mahallesi Melodi Sok. Bilmo Küçük Sanayi Sitesi No:35/2 Tuzla, Limited ¸Sirketi Turkey Strategic Report 100% owned by Valvekits Limited Circa Engineering Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ 100% owned by Rotork Trading (Shanghai) Co Limited Centork Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd China Room C-02, 1/F, West Area No. 2 Building, No. 29 Jiatai Road, Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China Rotork Instruments Chengdu Co. Ltd China Room 1201, 12/F, Unit No.1, Building No. 1, Building I, 88 Shenghe No.1 Road, High Tech Zone, Chengdu, Sichuan, China 610041 100% owned by Rotork UK Limited Prokits Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Flowco Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Governance 100% owned by Rotork Italy Holdings Srl Rotork Controls Italia Srl Italy Viale Europa n.17 – 20090 Cusago (Milano) Italy Rotork Instruments Italy Srl Italy Viale Europa n.17 – 20090 Cusago (Milano) Italy Rotork Fluid Systems Srl Italy Via Padre Jacques Hamel, 138/B – 55016 Porcari (Lucca) Italy Rotork Gears Srl Italy Viale Europa n.17 – 20090 Cusago (Milano) Italy 100% owned by Rotork Gears Holding BV Rotork Gears BV The Netherlands Nijverheidstraat 25, 7581 PV, Overijssel, The Netherlands 100% owned by Rotork Inc Rotork (Thailand) Limited Thailand 35/8 Soi Ladprao124 (Sawasdikarn) Ladprao Road, Plubpla, Wangtonglang, Bangkok 10310 Thailand Rotork Controls Inc USA 675 Mile Crossing Blvd., Rochester, NY 14624, USA Ralph A Hiller Company USA 6005 Enterprise Drive, Export, PA 15632, USA Financial Statements Remote Control Inc USA 77 Circuit Drive, North Kingstown, RI 02852, USA Ranger Acquisition Corporation USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange St., Wilmington, DE 19801 USA 100% owned by Ranger Acquisition Corp Fairchild Industrial Products Company USA 3920 West Point Blvd, Winston-Salem, NC 27103, USA Rotork Tulsa Inc USA 4433 W 49th Suite D, Tulsa, OK 74017, USA 100% owned by Fairchild Industrial Products Company Fairchild Industrial Products (Sichuan) China Room 1201, Complex Square, No.88 West Shenghe No.1 Road, High Tech Company Limited Zone, Chengdu, Sichuan, China. 610041 Fairchild India Private Limited India 56-C/Bb, Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058 Company Information 100% owned by Bifold Group Limited Bifold Fluidpower (Holdings) Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ 100% owned by Bifold Fluidpower (Holdings) Limited Bifold Fluidpower Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ MTS Precision Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Marshalsea Hydraulics Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Bifold Company (Manufacturing) Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 137 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 d) Investments in the Company balance sheet continued Subsidiary Incorporated in Registered address 100% owned by Bifold Fluidpower Limited Fluidpower (Stainless Steel) Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ 100% owned by Rotork Germany Holdings GmbH Max Process GmbH Germany Rastenweg 10, 53489 Sinzig Schischek GmbH Germany Mühlsteig 45, 90579 Langenzenn Schischek Produktion Technischer Gerate GmbH Germany Mühlsteig 45, 90579 Langenzenn Rotork GmbH Germany Mühlsteig 45, 90579 Langenzenn 100% owned by Rotork AG Schischek Limited England and Wales Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ Schischek EURL France 49 avenue du Président Salvador Allende, 77100 Meaux, France Schischek Srl Italy Ranica (BG) Via Adelasio 22, Italy 60% owned by Max Process GmbH GT Attuatori Europe GmbH Germany Rastenweg 10, 53489 Sinzig 40% owned by Rotork Germany Holdings GmbH GT Attuatori Europe GmbH Germany Rastenweg 10, 53489 Sinzig 100% owned by Schischek Produktion Technischer Geräte GmbH (Germany) Schischek Sales Europe Ltd England and Wales Mühlsteig 45, 90579 Langenzenn 100% owned by Robusta Miry Brook BV Rotork Servo Controles de Mexico S.A de C.V Mexico Centeotl 223, Col. Industrial San Antonio, C.P. 02760, Azcapotzalco, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico 100% owned by Rotork Controls (Iberia) SL Actuation Iberia S.L Spain C/ Ercilla, 21. , 48009 , Bilbao (Vizcaya), Spain Centork Valve Control S.L Spain Pol. Ind. Ipintza 110, Txatxamendi 24-26 – 20100 Lezo (Gipuzkoa) – Spain 100% owned by Rotork Instruments Italy Srl Soldo Controls USA Inc USA FBT Ohio, Inc., 3300 Great American Tower, 301 E. Fourth Street, Cincinnati, OH 45202 USA e) Deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Company balance sheet Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Tangible fixed assets 8 – 8 4 – 4 Provisions 142 – 142 141 – 141 Share-based payments – – – – – – 150 – 150 145 – 145 Movements in the net deferred tax balance during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 145 51 Credited to the income statement 5 94 Charged directly to equity in respect of share-based payments – – 150 145 There is an unrecognised deferred tax liability for temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries. Rotork plc controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries and subsequently the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences. The value of temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax has not been recognised is £305,277,000 (2016: £282,541,000). 138 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overview f) Other receivables in the Company balance sheet 2017 2016 Prepayments 153 485 Corporation tax – 172 Other receivables 5 86 158 743 Strategic Report g) Other payables in the Company balance sheet 2017 2016 Other taxes and social security 47 52 Corporation tax 1,319 – Other payables 1,673 1,455 Accruals 2,178 1,142 5,217 2,649 The Company has a £17,000,000 gross overdraft facility (2016: £25,000,000) and is part of a UK banking arrangement, see note h. h) Contingencies in the Company The UK banking arrangements are subject to cross-guarantees between the Company and its UK subsidiaries. These accounts are subject to a right of set-off. The performance guarantees and indemnities have been entered into in the normal course of business. A liability would only arise in the Governance event of the Group failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. The £20,000,000 committed 364 day facility matured in August 2017. The Company negotiated to extend the term facility of £75,000,000 (2016: £90,000,000) to August 2019. The Company has a £60,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility (2016: £60,000,000) which matures in August 2020. The facilities are available to the Company, Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork Overseas Limited. At year end £75,000,000 of the committed facilities were drawn, resulting in £60,000,000 being available. i) Capital and reserves in the Company balance sheet Details of the number of ordinary shares in issue and dividends paid in the year are given in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements. Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 TEN YEAR TRADING HISTORY 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Revenue 642,229 590,078 546,459 594,739 578,440 511,747 447,833 380,560 353,521 320,207 Cost of sales (358,090) (328,410) (296,944) (309,280) (304,066) (272,199) (236,359) (199,742) (187,600) (176,046) Gross profit 284,139 261,668 249,515 285,459 274,374 239,548 211,474 180,818 165,921 144,161 Overheads (198,167) (167,891) (145,129) (143,232) (135,109) (115,081) (99,474) (83,094) (74,384) (69,272) Operating profit 85,972 93,777 104,386 142,227 139,265 124,467 112,000 97,724 91,537 74,889 Adjusted* operating profit 130,162 120,588 125,272 157,167 151,412 131,866 115,921 99,442 92,103 76,014 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (27,183) (26,811) (20,886) (14,940) (12,147) (7,399) (3,921) (1,718) (1,153) (1,125) Disposal of property – – – – – – – – 587 – Other adjustments (17,007) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Operating profit 85,972 93,777 104,386 142,227 139,265 124,467 112,000 97,724 91,537 74,889 Net interest (5,386) (2,707) (2,517) (1,062) (1,268) (273) 550 131 (621) 862 Profit before taxation 80,586 91,070 101,869 141,165 137,997 124,194 112,550 97,855 90,916 75,751 Tax expense (24,973) (23,897) (27,012) (37,963) (38,488) (34,879) (32,149) (28,334) (26,884) (22,331) Profit for the year 55,613 67,173 74,857 103,202 99,509 89,315 80,401 69,521 64,032 53,420 Dividends 45,218 43,876 43,765 42,702 38,735 33,924 49,534 35,912 24,102 29,970 Basic EPS 6.4p 7.7p 8.6p 11.9p 11.5p 10.3p 9.3p 8.1p 7.4p 6.2p Adjusted* EPS 10.6p 10.0p 10.4p 13.2p 12.5p 10.9p 9.6p 8.2p 7.5p 6.3p Diluted EPS 6.4p 7.7p 8.6p 11.9p 11.4p 10.3p 9.3p 8.0p 7.4p 6.2p * Adjusted is before the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the disposal of property, and other adjustments, comprising goodwill impairment, release of contingent consideration and restructuring costs. 140 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SHARE REGISTER INFORMATION Overview The tables below show the split of shareholder and size of shareholding in Rotork plc. Ordinary shareholder by type Number of holdings % Number of shares % Individuals 2,404 74.3 24,024,490 2.8 Bank or nominees 768 23.8 842,050,898 96.7 Other company 37 1.1 1,404,877 0.2 Other corporate body 25 0.8 2,961,385 0.3 3,234 100.0 870,441,650 100.0 Strategic Report Range Number of holdings % Number of shares % 1 – 1,000 711 22.0 354,623 0.1 1,001 – 2,000 417 12.9 624,989 0.1 2,001 – 5,000 611 18.9 2,068,613 0.2 5,001 – 10,000 411 12.7 3,017,669 0.3 10,001 – 50,000 606 18.7 13,596,310 1.6 50,001 – 100,000 122 3.8 8,805,116 1.0 100,001 + 356 11.0 841,974,330 96.7 3,234 100.0 870,441,650 100.0 Source: Equiniti Dividend information The table below details the amounts of interim, final and additional dividends declared in respect of each of the last five years. Governance Interim Final Total dividend dividend dividends (p) (p) (p) 2017 2.05 3.35 5.40 2016 1.95 3.15 5.10 2015 1.95 3.10 5.05 2014* 1.92 3.09 5.01 2013* 1.81 3.00 4.81 * Restated to reflect subdivision of 5p ordinary shares into 0.5p ordinary shares. Financial calendar 6 March 2018 Preliminary announcement of annual results for 2017 5 April 2018 Ex-dividend date for final proposed 2017 dividend 6 April 2018 Record date for final proposed 2017 dividend 27 April 2018 Announcement of trading update Financial Statements 27 April 2018 Annual General Meeting held at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath, BA1 3JQ 7 August 2018 Announcement of interim financial results for 2018 Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 141 CORPORATE DIRECTORY Company Secretary Stephen Rhys Jones Registered Office Rotork plc Rotork House Brassmill Lane Bath BA1 3JQ Company Number 00578327 Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Stockbrokers UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Citigroup Global Markets Ltd Citigroup Centre 33 Canada Square London E14 5LB Financial Advisers UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Citigroup Global Markets Ltd Citigroup Centre 33 Canada Square London E14 5LB Auditors Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Financial Public Relations FTI Consulting 200 Aldersgate Aldersgate Street London EC1A 4HD Solicitors Messrs. Osborne Clarke No.2 Temple Back East Temple Quay Bristol BS1 6EG 142 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ, UK T: +44 1225 733200 F: +44 1225 333467 E: mail@rotork.com www.rotork.com
