Discover Opportunity NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 1 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 2 OPPORTUNITY LET US HELP YOU OPPORTUNITY IS KNOCKING. LET GETUS SETTLEDHELP YOU IN. IS KNOCKING GROW YOUR POTENTIAL range of investments, The Nairobi Securities Withdiscover to help you our diverse range ofCome opportunities. products, and The Nairobi Securities n your journey Exchange of wealth is here to help you discover creation. opportunities. Come list with us and enjoy the success that comes with our years of 831241 experience. info@nse.co.ke @NSEKenya .com/pages/nse.kenya .com/user/nsekenya Discover Opportunity Contact us on: + 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241 info@nse.co.ke @NSE_PLC @NSEPLC @nse_plc TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Company About this Report 5 NSE History 6-7 NSE Purpose & Values 8 NSE Structure 9 Corporate Information 10 2017 Highlights 11 14 Chairman’s Statement 15 17 Chief Executive’s Statement 18 20 Board of Directors 2125 Executive Commitee 26 Corporate Governance Statement 27 37 Enterprise Risk Management Framework 38 40 Business Review NSE Stakeholders 42 Sustainability Review 43 47 Value Creation Process 48 Material Issues 49 50 NSE Strategy 52 Financial Performance Five Year Financial Review 53 Financial Statement Review Director’s Report 55 56 Director’s Remuneration Report 57 60 Statement of Director’s Responsibilities 61 Independent Auditor’s Report 62 64 Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 65 Statement of Financial Position 66 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 67 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 68 Statement of Cash Flows 69 Notes to the Financial Statements 70 -104 Shareholder Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Proxy Form Nomination & Consent Forms NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT We are proud to present to you our first Integrated Report for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. The Integrated Report is an instrument designed to illustrate the creation of corporate value in its various aspects and to highlight the use of different forms of capital and their related outcomes. It covers strategy, governance, performance and prospects in the context of our local, regional and global environments. Purpose The aim of our Integrated Report is to enable our stakeholders, including investors; to make a highly informed assessment of The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) and its forecasts. NSE has made a deliberate choice to communicate its company’s story through an Integrated Report; as we appreciate that traditional standards for measuring value and financial growth no longer provide a comprehensive picture of the company. We believe that entrenching such practices into our business will help to drive improved governance practices through more inclusive identification and management of current and future opportunities and risks. We use an integrated approach to reporting that examines our operational, financial and sustainability performance. We are always looking for ways of working with our stakeholders to create lasting value, while continuing our journey to deliver on our vision, “To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach.” Preparation & Presentation This Integrated Report has been prepared taking into consideration the International Integrated Reporting Council Framework. The NSE Board of Directors and Management have considered the fundamental concepts and guiding principles recommended in the Framework and have undertaken to apply these recommendations in the report. This report is also aligned with the provisions of the Kenya Companies Act 2015 and guidelines issued by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). The Group Annual Financial Statements have as usual been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Assurance The Group Annual Financial Statements were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO CHIEF EXECUTIVE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 5 NSE HISTORY 2006: The NSE implemented live trading on its own Automated Trading Systems (ATS), trading equities. The ATS also had the capability 1920s – 1953: of trading immobilized corporate bonds and treasury bonds. The Dealing in shares commenced with trading taking place on a Exchange’s trading hours were increased from two hours (10.00 gentleman’s agreement. London Stock Exchange (LSE) officials am – 12.00 pm) to three hours (10.00 am – 1.00 pm). accepted to recognize the setting up of the Nairobi Stock Exchange as an overseas stock exchange in 1953. 2007: The NSE implemented its Wide Area Network (WAN) platform. 1954 – 1962: With the onset of remote trading, brokers and investment banks The Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) was registered under the no longer required a physical presence on the trading floor since Societies Act in 1954 as a voluntary association of stockbrokers, they would be able to trade through terminals in their offices charged with the responsibility of developing the stock market. linked to the NSE trading engine. Business was transacted by telephone and prices determined through negotiation. February 2008: The NSE announced the extension of trading hours at the bourse. 1963 – 1970: Trading would commence from 9.00 a.m. and close at 3.00 The Government adopted a new policy with the primary goal of p.m. each working day. NSE introduced the NSE All-Share Index transferring economic and social control to citizens. By 1968, the (NASI) to provide investors with a comprehensive measure of the number of listed public sector securities was 66 of which 45% performance of the stock market. were for Government of Kenya, 23% Government of Tanzania and 11% Government of Uganda. During this period, the NSE April 2008: operated as a regional market in East Africa where a number of the The NSE launched the first edition of the NSE Investment Challenge listed industrial shares and public sector securities included issues to promote stock market investments among Kenyan youth. by the Governments of Tanzania and Uganda (the East African Community). June 2008: The immobilized shares of Safaricom Ltd. commenced trading 1988: on the NSE. The Safaricom IPO increased the number of shares The first privatization through the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE), listed on the bourse to over 55 billion shares, from the previous took place with the successful sale of a 20% Government stake in 15 billion. Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). 2009: 1991: The NSE marked the first day of automated trading in Government NSE was registered as a private company limited by shares. Share bonds through the Automated Trading System (ATS) and uploaded trading moved from being conducted over a cup of tea (at the all Government bonds on the System. Exchange Bar) to the trading floor based open outcry system, located at IPS Building, Kimathi Street, Nairobi. July 2011: The equity settlement cycle moved from the previous Trading 1993: T+4 settlement cycle to the T+3 settlement cycle. The Nairobi The African Stock Exchanges was established with NSE as a founder Stock Exchange Limited changed its name to the Nairobi Securities member and secretariat. Exchange Limited. The change of name was a reflection of the 2010 – 2014 strategic plan of the NSE to evolve into a full 1994: service securities exchange which supports trading, clearing and The NSE moves its offices and trading floor from the IPS Building settlement of equities, debt, derivatives and other associated to Nation Centre. instruments. 1996: November 2011: Privatization of Kenya Airways where more than 110,000 investors The NSE together with FTSE International launched the FTSE NSE acquired a stake in the airline and the Government of Kenya Kenya 15 and FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Indices. reduced its stake from 74% to 26%. 2012: The NSE 20 Share Index; a price weight index calculated as a mean UMEME Holdings Limited cross listed its 1.6 Billion shares on the of the top 20 best performing counters is incorporated. Main Investment Market Segment (MIMS) of the NSE. It was the first inward cross listing of an East African company on the NSE 1975: since the incorporation of the East African Securities Exchanges When the EAC finally collapsed in 1975, the Government of Association (EASEA). Uganda compulsorily nationalized companies which were either quoted or subsidiaries of listed companies. 2013: NSE moves from Nation Centre to its new building; The Exchange 2004: on Westlands Road. Following the successful signing of an MOU between the Dar-esSalaam Stock Exchange, the Uganda Securities Exchange and the Nairobi Securities Exchange, the East African Securities Exchanges Association was formed. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 6 NSE HISTORY (Continued) January 2013: October 2015: The Growth Enterprises Market Segment (GEMS) was launched The NSE Board approved the launch of a new index dubbed NSE giving small and medium enterprises a great opportunity to access 25 Share Index. The move was informed by the need to have a the capital markets. reference benchmark that can be used by capital markets players, in preparation for the launch of the NSE Derivatives Market. February 2013: Centum Investment Company became the first company in East The NSE became the fourth African bourse to launch the Real Africa to list an equity linked note, when its Kshs. 4.19 Billion Note Estate Investment Trust (REITs) market and consequently listed the Issue commenced trading on NSE’s Fixed Income Securities Market first REIT the Stanlib Fahari I-REIT. Segment (FISMS). 2016: NSE was admitted as an associate member of the Association of NSE becomes full member of the Association of Futures Market Futures Market. (AFM) an upgrade from an associate membership attained in February 2013. July 2013: Home Afrika, made history by being the first company to list by March 2016: introduction on the Growth Enterprise Market Segment (GEMS). NSE signs up to the UN Women Empowerment Principles. September 2013: May 2016: The NSE, named the winner of the Most Innovative African Stock NSE was admitted to the UN Global Compact and signed the “Code Exchange at the 2013 Africa investor Index Series Awards. of Ethics for Business in Kenya” in an effort to promote corporate sustainability practices in NSE and the capital markets at large. April 2014: The 60th Anniversary Celebrations of the NSE kicked off with July 2016: the Launch of the new NSE Brand and official opening of its new NSE received formal recognition as a Self-Regulatory Organization residence the Exchange building. (SRO). June 2014: 2017: The NSE received formal approval from the Capital Markets NSE changes its name from Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited to Authority (CMA) to operate as a demutualized entity. The NSE also Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC received formal approval from CMA to offer its shares to the public through an IPO and subsequently self-list its shares on the Main March 2017: Investment Market Segment (MIMS) of the NSE. The NSE becomes the first exchange in the East African region to introduce Exchange Traded Funds and subsequently listed the July 2014: Barclays Newgold ETF. The NSE officially launched its Initial Public Offering (IPO) seeking to raise Kshs.627 million by selling up to 66 million new shares at June 2017: a price of Ksh 9.50 per share. The NSE in association with other partners launch the world’s first government bond dubbed M-Akiba to be traded exclusively on a mobile phone. The first M-Akiba bond brought 300,000 new retail September 2014: investors on to the bond market platform. The NSE listed its 194,625,000 issued and fully paid up shares on the Main Investment Market Segment (MIMS) under a new sector Investment Services of the bourse after a successful IPO. Following January 2018: its self-listing the Exchange becomes the second African Exchange NSE becomes the first Exchange in East and Central Africa to be after the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to be listed. admitted as a full member of the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE). The NSE launched a new system for trading corporate bonds and Government of Kenya Treasury Bonds allowing on-line trading of debt securities. The system was integrated with the settlement system at the Central Bank of Kenya. NSE hosts the African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA) conference. March 2015: The NSE joined the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE), becoming the eighteenth member of the SSE worldwide and the fourth in Africa alongside the Egyptian Exchange, the Nigerian Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 7 NSE PURPOSE & VALUES Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) is the principal bourse in Kenya, offering an automated platform for the listing and trading of multiple securities. NSE has consistently offered a well regulated, robust and world class platform for the trading of equities and bonds. NSE is the market of choice for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to the East African capital markets. The NSE is publicly traded and is the second self-listed exchange in Africa. Our Vision To be a leading securities exchange in Africa, with a global reach Our Mission To provide a world class securities trading facility Our Purpose To help stimulate and support a vibrant and growing capital markets in Kenya Our Core Values Ethics. Integrity. Confidentiality. Excellence. Innovation. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 8 NSE STRUCTURE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NSE Clear Ltd (100% owned) * NSE Settlement NSE Investor Guarantee Fund (SGF) Protection Fund (IPF) Central Depository & Settlement Corporation Limited (22.5% owned) * The Board of Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer the funds. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 9 CORPORATE INFORMATION DIRECTORS Mr. Samuel Kimani Chairman Mr. Bob Karina Vice Chairman Dr. Winnie Nyamute Ms. Sharon Maviala Mr. Hosea K. Kili Mr. Jimnah Mbaru Ms. Nasim Devji Mr. Michael Turner Mr. James Mworia Mr. Paul Vollant Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chief Executive SECRETARY John Maonga Maonga Ndonye Associates Certified Public Secretaries (Kenya) P.O. Box 73248 00200 Nairobi, Kenya REGISTERED OFFICE L.R. No 209/18851 The Exchange, 55 Westlands Road P.O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, Kenya BANKERS Kenya Commercial Bank Limited Moi Avenue Branch P.O. Box 30081 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited Westlands Branch P.O. Box 48231 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya AUDITOR PricewaterhouseCoopers PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road P.O. Box 43963 00100 Nairobi, Kenya LEGAL ADVISERS Hamilton Harrison & Mathews Delta Office Suites, 1st floor Block A, Off Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 30333 00100 GPO Nairobi, Kenya Mboya Wangong’u & Waiyaki Advocates Lex Chambers Maji Mazuri Road, Off James Gichuru Road, Lavington P.O. Box 74041 – 00200 Nairobi, Kenya Walker Kontos Advocates Hakika House Bishops Road P.O. Box 60680 – 00200 Nairobi, Kenya NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 10 2017 HIGHLIGHTS The report also revealed that over 48% of Board members have an undergraduate level of education with 54% of women on boards holding a master’s degree and above compared to 43% of men who hold a masters degree and above. 1. LAUNCH OF THE NSE KENYA INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT BOARD DIVERSITY REPORT The launch of the report culminated with recognizing and awarding companies that exhibited exceptional leadership in Board diversity. 2. RING THE BELL FOR GENDER EQUALITY EABL Chairman Charles Muchene, CMA Chief Executive, Paul Muthaura, New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava and Kenya Institute of Management, Executive Director, Muriithi Ndegwa during the launch of the Board Diversity report. (From Left) NSE Chief Executive (CE) Geoffrey Odundo, KAM Chair Flora Mutai, UN-Women’s Banu Khan and CMA (CE) Paul Muthaura at a panel discussion during the Ring the Bell for Gender Equality Ceremony In celebration of 2017 International Women’s Day, the NSE joined over 40 stock Exchanges around the globe to Ring the Bell for Gender Equality on March 8, 2017,with the aim of raising awareness of the importance of gender equality amongst businesses for sustainable development. The ceremony which was preceded by a full day training on corporate governance for female executives is aimed at highlighting the business case for gender equality while encouraging the implementation of Women Empowerment Principles (WEPS). As a member of the United Nation’s Sustainable Stock Exchanges, the NSE is committed to realizing the UN Sustainable Development New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava and Nairobi Goal (SDG) five of achieving gender equality by empowering all Securities Exchange Chief Executive, Geoffrey Odundo pose for a photo women and girls. with the HR Business Partner Uchumi Supermarket ,Elizabeth Oyombe, after the company was recognized as one of the most improved companies The annual event was held in partnership with UN Global Compact in Board Diversity. Kenya, UN Women and the International Finance Corporation. The NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of Management (KIM) and New Faces New Voices (NFNV) launched a Board Leadership and Diversity report on July 18, 2017. The report which sampled 52 listed companies in Kenya is in line with the NSE’s leadership and Dialogue series; an NSE initiative aimed at promoting diversity among Boards of listed companies by leading conversation on how to enhance various aspects diversity such as age, professional mix, and gender. The report indicated that women representation in Boardrooms of listed companies stood at 21% in 2017, up from 14% in 2012. The report also found the average age of Kenyan board members stands at 55.8 years with 52.5% being between 45 and 49 years old with the country scoring better than the global average of 60.6 years. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 11 2017 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 1. LAUNCH OF KENYA’S GREEN BOND 2. NSE LAUNCHES EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS PROGRAMME Barclays Bank Kenya CEO Mr. Jeremy Awori, Principal Secretary National Treasury, Dr. Kamau Thugge and Nairobi Securities Exchange CE, Mr. Geoffrey Odundo ring the bell to mark the listing and commencement in trading of the Barclays NewGold ETF. The Nairobi Securities Exchange became the 6th Exchange in Africa and first in the region to introduce Exchange Traded Funds FSD Africa Director Mark Napier, Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) CEO, Habil (ETFs) to the market are listed investment products that track the Olaka and Nairobi Securities Exchange CE, Geoffrey Odundo pose for a photo performance of a basket of shares, Bonds or commodities. after signing an MOU during the Launch of the Kenya Green Bond Programme The first ETF was listed by Barclays Bank, dubbed the Barclays NewGold ETF. The NewGold ETF will enable investors to invest in The Nairobi Securities Exchange, Kenya Bankers Association an instrument which tracks the price of a Gold Bullion. ETFs will (KBA), Climate Bonds Initiative and Financial Sector Deeping (FSD) enable investors diversify their investments as they can be able to Africa, in association with the Dutch Development Bank (FMO) and hold hundreds of individual stocks and bonds, which helps spread International Finance Corporation (IFC) launched the Kenya Green out risk. Bond Programme on March 31, 2017. The NewGold ETF will further enhance liquidity in our market Green Bonds are bonds whose proceeds are allocated exclusively while providing investors with an opportunity to diversify their to projects with environmental benefits mostly related to climate portfolios. change mitigation. The programme aims to help build the Kenyan green bond market, by listing issues that promote environmental protection in energy, agriculture, waste management, water, 3. NSE LISTING FORUMS transport and urban planning for green sustainable economy to take place. The NSE is committed to developing a vibrant domestic green market that will offer investors access to asset classes that balance financial returns with environmental benefits while enabling them hedge against climate risk policy. The green market will provide issuers with additional source of financing; improve investor diversification whilst enhancing issuer reputation. The launch of the Kenya Green Bond Programme comes at a time when green finance products have been introduced in several markets and seen tremendous growth. Global Green Bond Participants follow proceedings of the NSE listing forum in Kisumu issuance rose by 78% to $155.5 billion in 2017: This shows the great opportunity to not only raise long term capital for green In an effort to increase listings in our market, NSE held listings projects in the country but to offer investors an opportunity to forums in Mombasa and Kisumu in 2017. NSE listing forums aim earn returns from climate aligned investment. at apprising key business people and industrialist in the regions on the available opportunities in the capital markets. Participants were enlightened on available options of raising capital as well as benefits of listing their businesses on the Exchange. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 12 2017 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 4. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE SIGNS MEM6. NSE’S CHARITY TRADING DAY ORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU) WITH QATAR STOCK EXCHANGE (QSE) Celebrated media personalities Amina Abdi(Left) and Sheilah Mwanyigha (Right) pause for a photo with stock broker Tito Namu at the Charity Trading Day. Nairobi Securities Exchange, CE Geoffrey Odundo and Qatar Stock Exchange CEO Rashid Ali Al Mansoori pose for a photo after signing the MoU The Nairobi Securities Exchange signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Qatar Stock Exchange on March 13, 2017 . The MoU will enable the two exchanges to enhance cooperation in the areas of sharing knowledge and expertise in relation to the development of capital market infrastructure, products and services between the two exchanges. 5. LAUNCH OF M-AKIBA BOND Celebrated TV journalist Larry Madowo (left) shares a light moment with entrepreneur Darshan Chandaria at the Charity Trading Day. The Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) raised over Kshs. 10 million in cash and in kind in its third annual charity trading day held on November 10, 2017, bringing the NSE Charity Trading Day total amount over 3 years to Kshs. 23 million. The Charity Trading Day is an annual event that brings together the capital markets fraternity and known personalities, to make calls to clients on behalf of brokers and encouraging them to make NSE Chairman, Samuel Kimani, Central Depository Settlement Corporation trades. The Charity Trading Day provides an opportunity for capital (CDSC) CE, Rose Mambo, CS National Treasury, Henry Rotich and Capital market players to come together and raise funds in support of Markets Authority CE, Paul Muthaura ring the bell to mark commencent in various charitable causes in the country. trading of the M-Akiba Bond. The 2017 beneficiaries included; The Borana Conservancy a non-profit conservation organization dedicated to the sustainable The NSE in partnership with the other stakeholders launched conservation of critical habitat and wildlife; SOS Children’s Village the world’s first mobile traded government bond the M-Akiba &, Joy Children’s Home. Bond. M-Akiba is a Government of Kenya retail bond that seeks to enhance financial inclusion for economic development by enabling retail investors to invest in government bonds with a minimum of Kshs. 3,000. M-Akiba Bond commenced with a Special Limited Offer (SLO) of Kshs.150 million which attracted 102,632 investors; successfully achieving the issue target two days before the set deadline. Subsequent to this, a main offer was issued which at the close had attracted a total of 303,534 investors. Money raised from the issuance of M-Akiba shall be dedicated to infrastructural development projects, both new and ongoing. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 13 2017 HIGHLIGHTS (Continued) 9. NSE INVESTMENT CHALLENGE The NSE continues to promote corporate governance and improved financial reporting standards amongst listed entities through initiatives such as these. 11. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE (NSE) AND NASDAQ DUBAI SIGN MOU TO SUPPORT CREATION OF SUKUK SECTOR IN KENYA Information secretary, Ministry of Information, Communication and Technology, Ms. Judy Munyinyi-Mumo,awarding the overall winner of the 2017 Investment Challenge Mr. Joseph Munyau. The NSE hosted the 2017 NSE Investment Challenge from May to August 2017. The NSE Investment challenge is NSE’s flagship Corporate Social Responsibility initiative that the Exchange has been running for the past 10 years. The challenge has so far (From Left) Nairobi Securities Vice Chairman, Bob Karina, Nasdaq Dubai attracted over 9000 participants, enhancing financial literacy Chief Executive, Hamed Ali, Nairobi Securities Exchange CE Geoffrey Odunamongst our youth while inculcating a savings and investment do and NSE Chairman Samuel Kimani pause for a photo after signing an culture. MoU. The annual online competition is a simulation of the activities that Nairobi Securities Exchange signed a Memorandum of happen around trading in stocks, Bonds, ETF’s and REIT’s listed on Understanding (MoU) with Nasdaq Dubai on November 23,2017 the NSE. It also aims at inculcating prudent financial management to facilitate the creation of a Sukuk Sector in Kenya. The MoU will skills with the intention of molding a new crop of future investors. enable the two exchanges collaborate on assisting on the issuance and listing of Sukuk by the Kenyan government, governmentIt lays emphasis on the use of technology, information and related agencies and private businesses. research in making investment decisions to optimize returns. Each participant gets Ksh 3 million virtual startup capital to trade with The MoU is also aimed at promoting the development of Islamic using live data from NSE during the competition period. They are capital markets products and solutions in Kenya. Sukuk are mentored & judged by selected stock brokers and investment financial instruments (equivalent to bonds) that are structured advisors. in such a way as to generate returns in compliance with Islamic religious laws. The strategic signing of the MoU comes at a time when Sharia compliant investments products have gained traction 10. FINANCIAL REPORTING (FiRe) AWARDS globally. The annual volume of Sukuk issuance reached USD 75 Billion, bringing the volume of unpaid Sukuks close to USD 320 billion. This indicates the great opportunity for potential issuers and investors in Kenya. Sameer Africa Limited team showcases their awards after being named the winners of the 2017 Financial Reporting Awards. The NSE in partnership with other stakeholders held the 16th Edition of the FiRe Awards on November 16 and 17, 2018. The Financial Reporting (FiRe) Awards is a joint initiative of the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), Institute of Certified Public Accountants (ICPAK) and the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) aimed at promoting financial reporting excellence, fostering sound corporate governance practices and enhancing corporate investment and environmental reporting. Participants are evaluated, ranked and given feedback on how to improve on topline corporate governance and financial reporting parameters shared. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 14 THE CHAIRMAN’S Global Economic Review STATEMENT Global economic activity continues to strengthen with Global output estimated to have grown by 3.7% in 2017, which is 0.1% faster than projected in the fourth quarter of 2017 and 0.5% higher than in 2016. The pickup in growth has been broad based, with notable upside surprises in Europe and Asia. Global growth forecasts for 2018 and 2019 have been revised upwards by 0.2% to 3.9%. The revision reflects increased global growth momentum and the expected impact of the recently approved U.S. tax policy changes. Africa’s Economic Review African economies have been resilient and are gaining momentum. Real output growth is estimated to have increased by 3.6% in 2017 and is expected to accelerate to 4.1% in 2018 and 2019, largely supported by good macroeconomic policies, progress in structural reforms and functional policy frameworks. Overall, the recovery in growth has been faster than envisaged emphasizing Africa’s resilience. The recovery in growth could mark a turning point in commodity exporting countries, which experienced a prolonged decline in export prices resulting in low export revenues and intensified macroeconomic imbalances. Going forward, economic diversification will be fundamental to solving the continent’s challenges especially in the context of a perplexing demographic structure, increased global competition and infrastructure challenges. Kenya’s Economic Review Africa must re-examine itself as it prepares for the 4th industrial revolution. Kenya’s GDP growth slowed in 2017 due to a resurgence Dear Shareholders, of; drought, weak credit growth, political environment concerns and rising oil prices. As I review the past year, I am pleased to report that the Company continued to register growth, despite various macro and micro Overall inflation declined to 7.5% in the third quarter of 2017, economic challenges witnessed in 2017. I am glad to note that from 10.8% in the second quarter of 2017, on account of a the Company’s performance remained buoyant, achieving a net decline in food inflation largely driven by lower cost of essential earnings growth of 20%. The overarching objective of the Board commodities following improved weather conditions and and Management is to ensure the company remains focused to government interventions. delivering value to you, the shareholders. _______________________________________________________ Monthly flows of credit to private sector showed recovery in the third quarter of 2017. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) As I appraise you on the developments of the company, we retained the Central Bank Rate (CBR) at 10% in the months July must first appreciate the business environment we operate in to and September 2017 anchored on easing demand pressures and contextualize the company’s performance for the period under inflation expectations. review. 2017 2017 Global economic activity continues Africa’s real output growth is to firm up with Global output estimated to have increased by 3.6% estimated to have grown by 3.7% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 15 THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) The Lending, Savings and 91 day Treasury bill interest rates two Exchanges. The MoU is geared towards cooperation in the remained relatively stable during the third quarter of 2017 areas of exchange of information, knowledge and expertise averaging 13.6%, 6.9% and 8% respectively, with Treasury Bill in relation to the development of capital markets, market rates tending to decline. The economy recorded subdued growth infrastructure, products and services. The MoU’s objectives also of 4.4% in the third quarter of the year, largely on account of include supporting, promoting and facilitating investments in each heightened election activity. other’s market. The foreign exchange market has remained stable largely on We also signed an MOU with Nasdaq Dubai to facilitate the account of resilient inflows from diaspora remittances, tourism development of a Sukuk Sector in Kenya. A Sukuk is an Islamic and horticulture exports. The Kenya shilling strengthened against financial certificate, an equivalent to a bond, structured to the world’s majors, exchanging at Kshs 103.23 to the Dollar, generate returns to investors in compliance with Sharia Islamic Kshs. 123.28 to the Euro and Kshs. 138.75 to the Sterling Pound at Religious Laws. The MoU will pave way for the two exchanges to the close of the year. collaborate on supporting the issuance and listing of Sukuks by the Kenya Government, Government agencies and private businesses. The Kenya Ease of Doing Business Index rose from 58.3% in 2016 to 62.56% in 2017, reflecting a positive change of 4.26%. The company in partnership with the Kenya Bankers Association (KBA), the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), Financial Sector The capital markets recorded gains across leading market Deepening Africa (FSD) Africa in conjunction with the FMO – Dutch indicators during the year with the NSE 20 and NSE All Share Index Development Bank and the International Finance Corporation recording gains of 16.5% and 28.39% respectively by close of the (IFC) launched the Kenya Green Bond Programme in 2017. The year. Exchange is committed to developing a vibrant Green market in the region, with the aim of supporting interventions that will Financial Performance enable the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Through the NSE, issuers and investors will have a medium that While appreciating the multifaceted local, regional and global will facilitate the issuance and investment in Green Bonds. environment that we operated under, we are pleased with the Group’s overall financial performance. Total income increased by Kenya made history by becoming the first country in the world 6% from Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to Kshs. 757 million in 2017. to offer a Government bond traded exclusively through a mobile Equity trading volumes, which contribute 54% to the Group’s handset. The bond named M-Akiba (mobile savings) is a retail total revenue, increased by 22% from Kshs. 5.8 billion in 2016 to infrastructure bond issued by the Government of Kenya that seeks Kshs. 7.1 billion in 2017. Profit after tax increased by 19% from to enhance financial inclusion for economic development. It is a Kshs.183.8 million in 2016 to Kshs. 218.8 million in 2017 mainly product in partnership with the Government of Kenya, the Nairobi due to the higher equity turnover. Securities Exchange and the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC). A detailed account of the Group’s operating and financial performance in 2017 is set out in the Chief Executive’s Report. The NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of Management (KIM) and New Faces New Voices published a Board Leadership and Despite the challenging economic environment, the Company Diversity Report. The report which sampled 52 listed companies in continued its strategic focus of delivering value to all our Kenya gave critical insights on the state of diversity among boards stakeholders through provision of innovative solutions, strong of listed companies. The research focused on age, gender and trading infrastructure and high level visibility. professional background and gives key recommendations on ways of improving diversity among our boards. Strategic Partnerships We shall continue to seek out corporate partnership that helps us Strategic Partnerships, beyond the regular interaction with our deliver on our strategic agenda. shareholders and investors, is critical to our existence. In 2017 the Company purposed to enhance its value proposition through partnerships and in line with Sustainable Development Goal on implementation of sustainability through global partnership. The NSE and Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE), signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to enhance co-operation between the 2017 2017 Kenya’s GDP growth slowed in 2017 Total Income increased by 6% from due to a resurgence of; drought, Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to weak credit growth, security Kshs. 757 million in 2017. concerns and a rise in oil prices. 6% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 16 THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT (Continued) Dividend Appreciation In line with our progressive dividend policy and improved financial Our successes in 2017 would not have been possible without the performance, the Board of Directors is pleased to propose a strategic guidance of the Board. I want to take this opportunity to dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per ordinary share, representing an increase express my appreciation to my colleagues on the Board for your of 11% compared to the dividend of Kshs 0.27 per ordinary share unwavering support accorded to me and the company during the declared in 2016. year. Future Outlook Our continued ability to meet our strategic goals and commitments depends essentially on our people. I extend my sincere gratitude Kenya’s GDP is projected to grow to 5.8% in 2018 and 6.1% to the staff of the NSE for their dedication and hard work. We will in 2019 respectively on the back of improved tourism, ongoing continue to strengthen the performance culture at NSE to make us investment in infrastructure projects, expected resolution of an attractive employer. growth in credit and the strengthening of the global economy. We believe this will be a good baseline for our business growth. I would also like to thank our shareholders for your trust and choosing to invest in us. We will continue to focus our business The NSE will continue to diversify revenue streams through on delivering value to your investment. We are investing in introduction of new product offerings such as Derivatives, Islamic innovation, and building new capabilities and platforms to secure Finance Products and Green Bonds. our long-term prospects while at the same time delivering the sustainable, profitable growth you expect from us. The Exchange will also continue to promote some of its product offerings which include the Growth Enterprise Market Segment I would also like to thank the Government of Kenya, for providing a (GEMs) listings, the Real Estate Investment Trust (REITs), the M-Akiba conducive investment environment that has enabled our business bond and Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). We will also continue in to thrive. our pursuit of enhancing mechanisms aimed at deepening liquidity of the market through supporting introduction of the Securities Finally, on behalf of the Board, I wish to thank our issuers, Lending and Borrowing framework. trading participants and domestic and international investors for supporting the market during the year and assure you of continued In the near term, our focus will be on cost and our operational impeccable service in 2018. efficiency. We will continue to set new heights for ourselves in the areas of governance processes, organizational effectiveness and strategy execution. 2017 The Board of Directors is pleased to propose a dividend of Kshs. 0.30 SAMUEL KIMANI per ordinary share, representing an CHAIRMAN increase of 11% 2018 Kenya’s GDP is projected to grow to 5.8% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 17 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Trading Performance STATEMENT During the year, the company registered overall good performance across the equity, bond and ETFs markets, a sign of our continued leadership among premier markets in Africa. During the year, equity trading accounted for 54% of the Group’s revenue. Turnover increased by 17% from Kshs.147 billion in 2016 to Ksh.171.6 billion in 2017. Foreign investor participation averaged 65% over the same period, a 1% increase from the 2016 average of 64%. During the same period, secondary trading activity in the Fixed Income Securities Market rose by 0.82% from Kshs. 432 billion in 2016 to Kshs. 435 billion in 2017. The Exchange’s bench mark index, the NSE 20 recorded a gain of 17% from 3,186 points at the close of December 2016 to close at 3,712 points at the close of trading in December 2017. The NSE All Share Index (NASI) rose 28% from 133 points in 2016 to close at 171 points in 2017 while Market capitalization surged by 31% from Kshs.1.9 trillion in 2016 to Kshs. 2.5 trillion in 2017. Group Performance Positive sentiments permeated the market during the year and this led to a growth in revenues in 2017 compared to 2016. We are pleased to report that our profit after tax grew by 19% mainly due to increased equity levies occasioned by improved equity trading turnover. This resulted in an increase in operating income by 10% from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 million while interest income increased by 4% from Kshs. 95 million to Kshs. 99 million due to prudent management of funds. Other income decreased by 10% from Kshs. 95 million to Kshs. 76 million. Administrative expenses increased marginally by 3% from Kshs. 487 million to Kshs. 500 million owing to our Dear Shareholders, effective cost management strategy resulting in an improvement in our cost income ratio from 68% in 2016 to 66% in 2017. The year 2017 tested the resilience of the Kenyan people, its economy and businesses alike. The company recorded strong Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in performance despite a politically charged year and a myriad of 2016 to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017. macro-economic challenges. The company introduced a number of new products and services demonstrating its commitment to Return on equity increased to 10.75% from 9.87% in 2016, while the growth strategy and expectation of its shareholders. the return on assets increased to 10.26% compared to 9.14% in _______________________________________________________ 2016. We are confident that the Group remains well positioned to continue to delivering superior returns to its shareholders. 2017 2017 Operating income increased by 10% Total assets increased nominally by from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in 2016 million. to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017. 10% 5% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 18 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (Continued) Delivering on the Group’s Strategy Our People As we strive to be a great Kenyan business, NSE is committed Since our restructuring process in 2015, our slightly larger, yet more to creating value for our stakeholders and the communities we skilled workforce has ensured that NSE works more efficiently serve. We remain steadfast to delivering value to our shareholders to improve productivity. The key to this is that employees are through a very focused strategy which is broadly founded on three incentivized to deliver against clearly defined performance targets pillars: Revenue, Brand Reputation and People. that directly support the achievement of business objectives. During the year we launched the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) Our remuneration strategy is continuously evolving to attract and market and listed the first ETF (the Barclays NewGold ETF). retain these skills, and our people development approach is to Globally, assets continue to flow into exchange traded funds which ensure that we build a robust internal skills pipeline that can supply is an attractive investment channel for investors owing to their tax the skills that the company needs, now and in the future. In 2017, efficiency, liquidity, modest fees and ease of trading purchase and we welcomed seven new employees, among them, an addition exit. The Exchange will continue to support the growth of the ETF to our Executive Committee. We continue to hire personnel with market through our dedicated business development and public good technical and leadership skills. awareness campaign with the aim of increasing the number of issuers and investors participation. In 2017, we invested Kshs. 11.6 million in training and professional development for our people to help deepen skills and drive Mobile technology and the increase of mobile financial services innovation. in particular have generated considerable attention as a means of expanding financial inclusion in Kenya. The NSE in partnership Future Outlook with the National Treasury (and other stakeholders) launched M-Akiba a Government infrastructure retail bond that is issued In 2018 the Exchange shall continue to focus on overall delivery and traded via the mobile phone. Among the key features of the against the 2015 2019 strategy and in line with our purpose,‘To bond is the low entry level of Kshs.3,000 and the ability to buy and help stimulate and support a vibrant and growing capital market sell the bond real-time, at any time.We believe that M-Akiba will in Kenya.’ promote a savings and investment culture among our populace and enhance financial inclusion in the capital markets. Product development remains a key strategic objective and our key focus this year will be to launch the Derivatives Market. In line with our sustainable finance agenda, the NSE in partnership This market will facilitate the trading of futures contracts across with other stakeholders launched Kenya’s Green Bond Programme. a variety of asset classes in the Kenyan market and act as an The programme is a partnership with the Kenya Bankers attractive hedging instrument for the various asset classes. Association. The initiative is supported by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), Capital Markets Authority (CMA) and the National The Exchange shall also continue to pursue new listing Treasury. Through the partnership, we aim to explore the potential opportunities as well as strengthen the trading of equities and of the Green Bond Market, list Green Bonds on the Exchange fixed securities with a view of encouraging capital raising in the and build capacity of Investment Banks to support the growth of debt and equity market. We shall also conduct financial awareness this asset class in Kenya. We believe that this will bring a new and promotional campaigns for all our existing products. pool of social impact investors and position Kenya as a leading financial hub. In addition, it will enable the development of a Technology is very central to our business; this year we will community of Kenyan-based licensed verifiers and support efforts commission our upgraded trading platform. The upgraded in building capacity locally to catalyze similar programmes across platform will facilitate the trading of new products and enhance East Africa. Green bonds can mobilize resources from domestic surveillance. We will continue to offer technology driven solutions and international capital markets for climate change adaptation, to maximize returns. renewables and other environment-friendly projects. 2017 2017 Global economic activity continues Africa’s real output growth is to firm up with Global output estimated to have increased by estimated to have grown by 3.7% 3.6% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 19 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT (Continued) Appreciation I would like to thank all our stakeholders for their unwavering support in 2017 as we continue to work hard to build a more resilient and prosperous company. As we embark on 2018, I would like to thank my team at NSE for making 2017 a success and look forward to the next phase of our journey. I would like to thank all our shareholders for their support and confidence in the management, I wish to sincerely thank the Chairman and Board of Directors for their steadfast leadership and guidance. I look forward to your wise counsel in this next phase of our growth. The NSE has established a solid base and structure aimed at attracting investors seeking value. shareholders and attract long-term investors seeking substantive value. I am very confident of our ability to grow our pan African market share and sustain the growth of the Company. GEOFFREY O. ODUNDO CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2017 Total income increased by 6% from Kshs. 717.2 million in 2016 to Kshs. 757 million in 2017. 6% NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS As the Chair of the Implementation Committee that spearheaded developments in Kenya’s Capital Market, Mr. Karina played a critical role in the establishment of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC), the NSE Automated Trading System (ATS), the Wide Area Network (WAN) and the Broker Back Office (BBO). MR. SAMUEL KIMANI, CHAIRMAN He serves as the Chairman of Norwich Union Properties Ltd, Vice Chairman of the Rwanda Stock Exchange (RSE), A Board Member of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) and A Director of Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE). He has served as Director of Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and Director at the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCCI). MS. SHARON MAVIALA Mr. Kimani is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Jamii Bora Bank Ltd. He has a wealth of experience in the banking industry having served as the Deputy CEO and Finance Director of the Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) Group. Prior to this, he served at the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) as Deputy Chief Banking Manager, Deputy Director Financial Markets, Principle Financial Accountant, and the Chief Internal Auditor. He also headed the Surveillance Division of the Deposit Protection Fund and served as a Senior Auditor at PriceWaterhouseCoopers. Ms. Maviala is the General Manager of Horizons Group Limited, an indigenous serviced office business with footprints in Kenya, Mr. Kimani is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya (CPA-K) and Ghana and Nigeria. She has extensive experience in business law a graduate of the Advanced Management Program (AMP 177) having practiced in leading law firms in Kenya including Company from Harvard University. He holds an MBA in Strategic ManageSecretary for Sanlam Group of Companies. ment and a BSc. in Civil Engineering, both from the University of Nairobi. She holds a Bachelor Degree in Law from the University of Reading and Masters in Business Administration (Strategic Management) He sits on the boards of the Central Depository and Settlement from USIU-Africa. She is a qualified Advocate and a Certified Corporation (CDSC) and is a member of the University of StellenPublic Secretary. bosch Executive Education Advisory Board (USB-AB). She has experience as an in-house general counsel and business MR. BOB KARINA, VICE CHAIRMAN executive across a diverse range of industry sectors ranging from legal services to financial services, insurance and real estate. She is a member of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK), Institute of Certified Public Secretaries (ICPSK), the Institute of Directors and Women on Board Networks. Mr. Karina is the Founder and Chairman of Faida Investment Bank. He is an accomplished Stockbroker, Corporate Finance Specialist and Research Analyst having served as the Chairman of Association of Kenya Stockbrokers (AKS) Nominees Ltd and Founder Member of the Institute of Certified Investment and Financial Analysts (ICIFA). He holds an MSc. in Corporate Finance from the University of Liverpool, in the UK in addition to key technical professional qualifications. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 21 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued) MR. HOSEA KILI She serves on the Research and Education Committee of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). She is also a faculty advisor for the Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Challenge, UoN as well as a Board Advisor for the Finance Students Association (FISA) of UoN. She is the coordinator for partnerships and linkages for the UoN School of Business (UoN). Dr. Nyamute is a panel judge of the Excellency in Financial Reporting (FiRe) Awards Scheme. Dr. Nyamute previously served as a member of the ICPAK’s Audit Quality Assurance and the Special Interest Group Committees. MR. JIMNAH MBARU Mr. Kili is the Group Managing Director and CEO of CPF Financial Services Ltd. Mr. Kili has considerable experience in legal matters, corporate governance, management and investment of pension schemes having served as the Chairperson of the East & Central Social Security Association (ECASSA), a regional social security body. He holds an MBA in Strategic Management from the Management College of Southern Africa (MANCOSA) and a Bachelors of Law (LLB) from the University of Nairobi (UoN). He serves as the Chairman of Association of Pension Administrators of Kenya (APAK) and Chairman of ICL, a subsidiary company of ICPSK. In 2011, Mr. Kili was conferred the Order of the Grand Warrior (O.G.W), a Head of State award for his exemplary service Mr. Mbaru is the Chairman of Dyer & Blair Investment Bank. by H.E the President of Kenya. Mr. Mbaru has over 30 years’ experience in the financial services sector. He served as the founding Chairman of the African He is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya, Fellow of the Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA) and former Chairman of Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya F (CPS-K) and the Nairobi Securities Exchange. Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Management. Mr. Mbaru is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya and holds a Bachelors of Commerce degree from University of Nairobi, a Masters of Business Administration degree from IMD, Lausanne, DR. WINNIE NYAMUTE Switzerland and a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) degree from University of Nairobi. Mr. Mbaru serves as a member of the Investment Committee for the International Finance Corporation’s Africa Capitalization Fund, which focuses on funding financial institutions in Africa. He also serves as a Director of Britam Investments Company Limited; Occidental Insurance Company; Jitegemee Trust (Kenya); Pinebridge Investments East Africa Limited; and Sanlam Africa Core Real Estate Investments Limited (SACREIL), listed on the Mauritius Stock Exchange. Dr. Nyamute is a lecturer in Finance and Accounting at the University of Nairobi (UoN). She holds a PhD in Business Administration Finance, an MBA Finance and a Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting. She is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a Member of Kenya Institute of Management (KIM), the Association of Women Accountants of Kenya and the Institute of Directors (IOD). NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 22 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued) MRS. NASSIM DEVJI MR. PAUL VOLLANT Mrs. Devji is the Managing Director and Group Chief Executive Mr. Vollant is the General Manager for business development at of Diamond Trust Bank (DTB) Group, a position she has held TNG Limited, an Australian listed company focused on developing since 1996. She has since been appointed Group Chief Executive the world class Mount Peake project. Paul is responsible for the Officer of Diamond Trust Bank East Africa. company’s commercial developments and trading. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of He holds a Master of Science (MSc) in Business Administration England and Wales, an Associate of the Institute of Taxation from the ESDES Business School at the Catholic University of Lyon (United Kingdom) and a Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Bankers. (France) and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Mrs. Devji serves as a Director of DTB Tanzania, DTB Uganda, DTB Prior to joining TNG, Mr. Vollant was the Managing Director of Burundi, Jubilee Insurance Burundi and Diamond Trust Insurance Element Commodities where he spearheaded the company’s Agency Limited. She is also a member of Kenya Deposit Insurance European Middle East and African (EMEA) trading and investments Corporation. in the mining assets in French Speaking Africa. He began his career with the Noble Group in Hong Kong and London. MR. MICHAEL TURNER MR. JAMES MWORIA Mr. Turner is the Managing Director of Actis Limited in East Africa Mr. Mworia is the Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing and is responsible for Actis’s USD 300m Private Equity Fund, with Director of Centum Investment Company Limited (Centum) a investment in Energy and Real Estate in East Africa. position he has held since 2008. He holds a Bachelor of Law (LLB) degree from the University of Nairobi (UoN). He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds a First Class degree in Civil Engineering. He is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charter Holder, a Chartered Global Management Accountant (CGMA), a member of the He has extensive experience in private equity having served as the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK) and is a manager of the Actis Africa Agribusiness Fund and the founder Fellow of the Kenyan Institute of Management (KIM). manager of the first Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SME) Private Equity fund in East Africa – the Acacia Fund. Mr. Mworia serves as the Chairman of Sidian Bank and Almasi Beverages. He has been a recipient of various national and Mr. Turner has deep understanding of Private Equity investment international leadership awards including: The East Africa in agribusiness, financial services, real estate and infrastructure Business Leader of the year (2015) by All Africa Business Leaders throughout Sub Saharan Africa. Prior to joining Actis, Michael Awards (AABLA) and The Africa CEO of the year award (2016) by worked in investment banking in London, for Lehman Brothers the Wharton Club for Africa. and Kleinwort Benson, having started his career with Price Waterhouse. Mr. Mworia is also an Archbishop Tutu Fellow 2012, and an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 23 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued) MR. GEOFFREY ODUNDO Mr. Odundo is the Chief Executive of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. He is an accomplished Investment Banker having been in the financial services sector for the last 26 years, 20 of which have been in the Capital Markets. He is an Advanced Management Program (AMP) graduate from Strathmore Business School and holds a Master’s degree in Strategic Management and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Economics. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Odundo was the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Kingdom Securities Limited. He was instrumental in the setting up of Co-op Trust Investment Services, Co-op Consultancy Services Limited and Kingdom Securities Limited. Mr. Odundo has advised on a number of corporate finance mandates in both the public and private sectors; he has also managed key mandates in the asset management industry. He has contributed to the growth of the Capital Markets in his previous role as a Director/ Board Secretary Kenya Association of Stock Brokers and Investment Banks, Chairman of the Financial Standards Committee Kenya Bureau of Standards as well as the Board Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited. Mr. Odundo serves as a Director of the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC) Limited, Director of the NSE Clear Limited; and a trustee of the NSE Fidelity Funds. He is a member of the Central Bank Consolidative Forum for Domestic Debt Market (CFDDM) and a Council Member of the Institute of Certified Investment Financial Analysts (ICIFA). Mr. Odundo is also a board member of the African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA), a Director of the East African Securities Exchanges Association and a Member of the Thomson Reuters Africa Customer Advisory Network. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 24 BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Continued) Jimnah Mbaru Geoffrey Odundo Paul Paul Vollant Vollant Winnie Nyamute Sharon Sharon Maviala Maviala Hosea Kili Kiili James Mworia Michael Turner Bob Karina Samuel Kimani Nasim NassimDevji Devji NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 25 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE LIMITED EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Geoffrey O. Odundo Chief Executive Jane Kiarie Terrence Adembesa Bahati Moraa Kuria Waithaka Finance and Administration Director Derivatives Market Director Business Development & Legal & Corporate Affairs Director Commercial Director Tom Kimaru Lucy Kamar Caleb Kivuva Paul Ngaragari Regulatory Affairs Director Head of Human Capital Operations & Technology Director Internal Audit Director NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 26 PAGE // 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Overview Division of Responsibilities Corporate governance refers to the structures and processes The Chairman and the Chief Executive are responsible for the guiding the leadership of the Group. The Group has instituted profitable operations of the Group. Their roles are separate, with systems to ensure that high standards of corporate governance are each having distinct and clearly defined roles and responsibilities. maintained at all levels of the organization and is in compliance The Chairman directs the Board’s business and acts as it’s facilitator with the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations and guide ensuring that the Board is effective in its tasks of including but not limited to the Capital Markets Authority rules, setting and implementing the Group’s direction and strategy. The regulations and guidelines on Corporate Governance and the Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for ensuring Nairobi Securities Exchange Management & Membership rules and its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and for facilitating the policies and procedure. productive contribution of all Directors. The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board meetings in consultation with the Chief The Role of the Board Executive. The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the direction of the Group’s corporate and financial strategy and The Board is collectively responsible to the Group’s shareholders for the overall supervision of the policies, rules and regulations for the long-term success of the Group and its strategic direction, governing the Group. its values and governance. It provides the leadership, integrity, enterprise and good judgment necessary to meet its business The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the business objectives within the framework of its internal controls while also of the Group. The Chief Executive enforces the provisions of discharging the Group’s obligations to its shareholders. the Capital Markets Authority Act (the “Act”) and the rules of the Group and immediately reports any violations to the Board and the Capital Markets Authority (CMA/the “Authority”) and The Key Responsibilities of the Board include: ensures compliance with the requirements of the Act, and rules in operations, transactions and all affairs of the Group including a) To define and chart out the Group’s vision and mission. The listings and continuous reporting obligations of listed companies. Board has ultimate responsibility for the attainment of the Group’s vision; The Chief Executive is also responsible for the supervision of the b) To set the strategy, approve business plans and annual budgets trading activities of the Group and takes all necessary steps to and of any subsequent material changes in strategic direction; maintain orderly and efficient trading and functioning of facilities, c) To monitor Management’s implementation of the strategic in accordance with the Group’s rules and as prescribed by the Act. plans and financial objectives as defined by the Board; d) To define levels of materiality, reserving specific powers to The Chief Executive reports periodically to the Board on all matters itself and delegating other matters with the necessary written concerning the operation and affairs of the Group, attends all authority to Management; meetings of the committees and provides technical input where e) To ensure that the Group is managed with a view to ensuring necessary, promotes the objectives and functions of the Group that the Group is ethical in all its dealings and exercises and liaises with the Authority and its representatives in respect corporate social responsibility; of administrative and technical matters of the Group. The Chief f) To ensure that procedures and processes are in place to Executive is also responsible for the stewardship of the Group’s protect the Group’s assets and reputation; assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation of the g) To ensure compliance by the Group with all relevant laws and Group externally. regulations, audit and accounting principles, and such other principles as may be established by the Board from time to time; h) To approve Terms of Reference of Board Committees and make appointments and changes in the composition of such committees as are established from time to time; i) To identify key risks, opportunities and strengths relating to the Group; j) To set policies on internal controls and obtain regular assurance that the system is functioning effectively and is effective in managing risks; k) To appoint the Chief Executive, senior staff, the external auditor and other consultants; and l) To exercise such other powers as are necessary to enforce the requirements of the Capital Markets Authority Act, Articles of Association and the Rules governing the Group. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Board Composition As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board of the Nairobi Securities Exchange is constituted as follows: a. Four (4) Independent and Non-Executive Directors; b. Two (2) Non-Executive Directors ; c. Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Trading Participants; d. Two (2) Directors appointed to represent Listed Companies; and e. One (1) Executive Director. Below is the current composition of the Board : Mr. Samuel Kimani Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Bob Karina Vice Chairman/Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director Ms. Sharon Maviala Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Hosea K. Kili Independent Non-Executive Director Dr. Winnie Nyamute Independent Non-Executive Director Ms. Nasim Devji Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director Mr. Michael Turner Non-Executive Director Mr. James Mworia Listed Companies/Non-Executive Director Mr. Jimnah Mbaru Trading Participant/Non-Executive Director Mr. Paul Vollant Non-Executive Director Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chief Executive Mr Michael Turner was initially appointed as an Independent Non Executive Director of NSE PLC and since he was subsequently appointed as a director of a listed company, he ceased to be an Independent Director and became a Non Executive Director. The Directors’ abridged profiles appear on pages 21 24 of this Annual Report. Board Committees The Board established seven (7) Board Committees with delegated authority to assist the Board effectively carry out its obligations. These Board Committees are: a) Business, Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee b) Trading & Technology Committee c) Listing and Admissions Committee d) Derivatives Market Oversight Committee e) Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee f) Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee g) Remuneration & Nominating Committee Other than the Derivatives Market Oversight Committee which has external resource persons, all other Committees are now composed of Board members only. At each ordinary Board meeting, the chairpersons of the Board Committees are required to report to the Board on the highlights of the deliberations of the Committees and to escalate to the Board all matters requiring the Board’s consideration and approval. Below is a summary of the roles, membership and activities of the various committees. a) Business Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee The mandate of the Business Strategy, Finance & Human Capital Committee is to oversee the strategic and tactical business development opportunities of the Group and to evaluate and advise on potential investment opportunities. The Committee also monitors the Group’s financial performance and treasury management, advises on human capital matters and oversees procurement and administration issues including property investments. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) b) Trading & Technology Committee The Trading & Technology Committee is mandated to assist the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in aspects of trading on the listed securities, information technology and enhancement of information on the securities exchange to the listed companies and the general public. c) Listing and Admissions Committee The Listing and Admissions Committee is mandated to review and recommend approval of applications for admission to listing of new equity securities in any of the market segments, to recommend approval of applications for admission of new Trading Participants, new listing of securities and /or recommending suspension of listing of securities for a predetermined period as may be necessary and restoration of such securities to listing in line with the laid out procedures. d) Derivatives Market Oversight Committee The Derivatives Market Oversight Committee is mandated to deal with strategic issues and oversight roles relating to the NSE’s Derivatives Market (NEXT). The Committee has key mandate to advise on the NSE Derivatives market, address conflict of interest matters regarding futures brokers, address issues regarding design of derivatives contracts and undertaking Derivatives Market trading and surveillance functions. e) Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) Committee The general mandate of the Self-Regulatory Organization Committee is to protect investors by monitoring and enforcing the NSE Market Participants Business Conduct and Enforcement Rules, the NSE Listing Rules, the Derivatives Rules and any other Rules of the NSE as may be necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market, and any other laws and the enforcement powers of which have been delegated to the SRO function of the NSE, enforce compliance of Capital Market Laws, Regulations, Rules, Guidelines and Directives by all Trading Participants and Issuers of Securities, to review compliance with continuing listing obligations by listed companies and to make recommendations to the Board on the necessary action for non-compliance which include imposing penalties and other sanctions. f) Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee The mandate of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is to review the adequacy of internal and external audit programmes for the year and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the adequacy of the Group’s internal control and risk management systems and to monitor, review and make recommendations to Management on the process for monitoring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and, with the Group’s legal counsel if appropriate, any legal matters that could have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. The members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee are as outlined on pages 30 31 and their qualifications under the Board of Directors profiles on pages 21 23 of this Annual Report. g) Remuneration & Nominating Committee The mandate of the Remuneration & Nominating Committee is to advise, implement and assist the Board in effective discharge of its responsibilities in relation to remunerations and the composition of the Board of the NSE and its subsidiary, structured entities and associate company and to establish a plan of continuity for executive officers and other members of senior management including the Chief Executive. Members and attendance of these Committees are provided on pages 30 32. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 29 BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2017 Business, Strategy, Audit, Risk Self Derivatives Finance & Trading & & Corporate Listing & Remuneration Regulatory Market Human Capital Technology Governance Admissions & Nominating Organization Oversight Director Classification Designation Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Board Membership P P * Chairman S Kimani Non-executive Listings & Admission Committee. Attendance 7/7 1/1 Vice Chairman – Membership ü P P P Board B Karina Non-executive Chairman Trading & Technology Attendance 7/7 5/5 4/4 1/1 Committee NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Membership P P P ü S Maviala Non-executive Attendance 4/7 1/1 3/3 3/4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Membership P P P P P ü ** Chairman SelfRegulatory H Kili Non-executive Organization (SRO) Attendance 5/7 4/5 7/7 1/1 3/3 Committee Chairperson Membership P P P P Dr. W Audit, Risk & Non-executive Nyamute Compliance Committee Attendance 7/7 7/7 1/1 3/3 *Stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 6th June 2017 ** Appointed to the Committee on 6th June 2017 PAGE // 30 BOARD & BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN 2017 Business, Strategy, Audit, Risk Self Derivatives Finance & Trading & & Corporate Listing & Regulatory Remuneration Market Human Capital Technology Governance Admissions Organization & Nominating Oversight Director Classification Destignation Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Business Membership ü P *** P P ü **** Strategy, M Turner Non-executive Finance, & Human Capital Attendance 7/7 5/5 1/4 1/1 2/3 2/4 Committee Membership P P P P J Mbaru Non-executive Attendance 4/7 1/5 0/4 0/1 Membership P P P P J Mworia Non-executive Attendance 2/7 2/5 3/4 0/4 Chairperson Membership ü P ü ü ***** Remuneration N Devji Non-executive & Nominating NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Committee Attendance 4/7 6/7 0/1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Membership ü P P *** P Vollant Non-executive 0/4 Attendance 6/7 3/5 0/1 Membership G Odundo Chief Executive Attendance 7/7 5/5 4/4 7/7 1/1 3/3 4/4 *** Stepped down from the Committee on 6th June 2017 ****Appointed to the Committee on 6th June 2017 ***** Appointed as Chairperson of the Committee on 6th June 2017 The Chief Executive is not a member of the Board Committees and attends by invitation PAGE // 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) BOARD COMMITTEES’ MEMBERSHIP AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD AND ATTENDED IN THE YEAR 2017 Derivatives Market Oversight Committee Name Attendance S Mwangi Chairperson Derivatives Market Oversight Committee 1/4 E Kigen Member 4/4 H Muga Member 3/4 A Mulisa Member 4/4 J Swai Member 3/4 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FACT SHEET Number of Board Members 11 Number of Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 Number of Non-Executive Directors 2 Number of Trading Participant Non-Executive Directors 2 Number of Non-Executive Directors representing Listed Companies 2 Number of Executive Directors 1 Number of women on the Board 3 Separate Chairman and CEO Yes Terms of Reference for Board Committees Yes Independent Audit Committee Yes Number of financial experts on Audit Committee 3 Number of Board Meetings held in 2017 7 Number of Annual General Meetings in 2017 1 Re-election of Directors in accordance with Articles of Association Yes None Board Induction Programs conducted required NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CAPITAL STRUCTURE a) Share capital The authorized and issued share capital of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC consists of only ordinary shares as disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements. b) Top 20 Shareholders at 31 December 2017 No Shareholder Number of shares % 1 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002374 41,764,400 16.094% 2 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE22446 22,876,288 6.407% 3 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030823 12,523,399 3.940% 4 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR1030824 9,236,167 3.559% 5 Investor Compensation Fund Board 8,750,000 3.372% 6 The Permanent Secretary to the Treasury 8,750,000 3.372% 7 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002012 7,535,067 2.904% 8 Nyaga Stockbrokers Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 9 Discount Securities Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 10 Francis Thuo & Partners Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 11 Sterling Capital Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 12 ABC Capital Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 13 Old Mutual Securities Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 14 Kingdom Securities Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 15 Renaissance Capital (Kenya) Limited 7,000,000 2.697% 16 Dyer & Blair Investment Bank Limited 6,000,000 2.312% 17 Standard Chartered Nominees Non-resident A/C 9661 4,536,800 1.748% 18 Faida Investment Bank Limited 4,000,000 1.541% 19 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE002373 4,000,000 1.541% 20 NIC Securities Limited 3,500,000 1.349% ___________ _________ Top 20 shareholders 189,472,121 73.014% Others 70,028,670 26.986% ___________ _________ Total issued shares 259,500,791 100.000% ========= ======== c) Distribution of Shareholders at 31 December 2017 Number of Number of Shareholders shares % Less than 500 1,762 350,486 0.14% 501 – 5,000 10,160 13,350,589 5.14% 5,001 – 10,000 634 4,498,897 1.73% 10,001 – 100,000 562 14,445,748 5.57% 100,001 – 1,000,000 11,041,065 4.25% Above 1,000,000 34 215,814,006 83.17% 44 ______ ___________ _________ Total 13,196 259,500,791 100.000% ===== ========= ======== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CAPITAL STRUCTURE (Continued) d) Shareholder Analysis by Domicile at 31 December 2017 Number of Number of Shareholders shares % Individual investors Local 12,351 32,056,508 12.35% East African 91 263,504 0.10% Foreign 111 3,264,070 1.26% ______ _________ ______ 12,553 35,584,082 13.71% ______ _________ ______ Institutional investors Local 610 102,436,702 39.47% East African 11 264,466 0.10% Foreign 22 121,215,541 46.71% _______ __________ ______ 643 223,916,709 86.29% _______ __________ ______ Total 13,196 259,500,791 100.000% ====== ========= ======== e) Directors Holding Shares at 31 December 2017 Number of shares % Mr. Geoffrey Odundo 49,000 0.019% Mrs. Nasim Devji 45,600 0.018% Mr. Samuel Kimani 8,000 0.003% Mr. Hosea Kili 4,400 0.002% Dr. Winnie Nyamute 2,000 0.001% ________ _______ Total 109,000 0.043% ======= ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY c) Policies and practices of the Board in respect of matters such as corporate governance, trading by directors, declarations and STATEMENTS conflicts of interest, Board meeting documentation and procedures and the nomination of directors, training and evaluation of directors and members of Board committees. Code of Corporate Governance Principles Whilst the Board Charter includes references to minimum The Board and Management of the NSE have put in place deliberate acceptable standards of conduct, the Board embraces global best effort towards full compliance with the Capital Markets Code of practices in this regard. Corporate Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 (the “Code”). Board Diversity In order to ensure full compliance, the Company conducted a Regulatory and Compliance Assessment which included: The NSE Board has put in place a policy to ensure the achievement of diversity in its composition. The Remuneration and Nominating a) Comprehensive analysis of legislation applicable to NSE as a Committee asseses the required skills mix and expertise for the Company, as an issuer and as a market intermediary; executive directors as well as Independent and Non Executive Directors. The Board considers factors such as: size, qualifications, b) Analysis of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for technical expertise, relevant industry knowledge,experience, Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015; nationality, age, gender and other demographics with a view to enhancing effectivenesss. c) Analysis of legislation prescribing compliance requirements to the various functions of NSE; NSE promotes diversity by championing Gender Equality, along side other exchanges, investors, private sector and regulators. d) Development of a comprehensive Compliance Matrix based on the review of the foregoing legislations; Board Induction and Training e) Drafting of various types of Policy Documents and mandates The NSE Board has established a formal induction program for the required by the Capital Markets Authority Code of Corporate Board. All Board members receive induction on joining the Board Governance Practice for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015 and are updated on the various skills and knowledge at regular (the “Code”); and intervals. f) Completing the NSE Corporate Governance Reporting Matrix as Board members are provided with necessary orientation in the areas required by the Capital Markets Authority. of the Company’s business (the Company’s operations, product offerings, regulatory framework and the business environment) in The Company continues to address the notable areas of order to enhance their effectiveness. They are also introduced to improvement as follows: their fiduciary duties and responsibilities. a) Engaging an external legal counsel in good standing with The Board has aslo put in place training programs for the members. the Law Society of Kenya to undertake the bi-annual Legal and Compliance Audit. b) Engaging an external governance auditor, accredited by the Board Remuneration Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya to undertake the annual Governance Audit. The NSE Board has established formal and transparent remuneration policies to attract and retain both Executive and Non-Executive Board members. These policies clearly state These audits are expected to be completed in the first half of 2018. remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry Board Charter practice. Non-Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting attended. The Board of Directors of the NSE regard corporate governance as key to the achievement of NSE’s mission and vision, and is The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share committed to applying the core governance principles. options or long term incentives to its Non-Executive Directors. Neither are the Non-Executive Directors eligible for provident The NSE Board Charter outlines the; fund. The company has taken out insurance covers for the nonexecutive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability a) Roles, functions, responsibilities and powers of the Board, insurance cover and group personal accident covering death, individual directors and the officials and executives of the NSE; permanent total disability and medical expenses. b) Powers delegated to various Board Committees of the NSE; The Chief Executive is the only Executive Director on the Board and and the company has in place a remuneration policy which is aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to the company’s strategic objectives. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Corporate Governance Policy Statements the Minutes of the Board and Committee’s meeting. The Company Secretary maintains and updates the register of declared conflict (Continued) of interest. The Board is appraised on the statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company. Code of Ethics and Conduct All business transactions with Board members or their related The Company has a Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy. All parties are carried out at arms’ length. In practice, there is an Board members and NSE employees are required to uphold the acknowledgement that if it comes to the attention of a Board highest standards of integrity, morality, ethical standards and member that a matter concerning the Company may result in a confidentiality in line with NSE’s core values of ethics, integrity, conflict of interest, the Board member is obligated to declare and confidentiality, innovation and excellence. All staff and Board exclude himself/herself from any deliberations, voting or decision members are appraised on the policy requirements through over the matter in conflict. targeted awareness programs such as e-Learning modules and are required to complete the same to ensure compliance. Enterprise Risk Management NSE recognizes that ethical business brings good business. We are committed to playing a proactive role in a globally competitive The objective of the NSE’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and prosperous nation operating on ethical business standards. framework is to protect shareholders’ value in order to enhance NSE’s competitive advantage, improve business performance and NSE joined the UN Global Compact and signed the Code of Ethics for optimize risk management and compliance value. The framework Business in Kenya. This “Code of Ethics” was developed on behalf is aligned to ISO 31000:2018 Risk Management Guidelines, COSO of the private sector by Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), Enterprise Risk Management 2017 as well the applicable laws, Global Compact Network Kenya, and the Kenya Association of regulations and guidelines. Manufacturers (KAM). Whistleblowing (More notes on page 38 40) The NSE Board has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy that Board Evaluation recognizes the difficulty its stakeholders may face in raising their concerns with regards to the Company operations. The Policy The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its effectiveness protects every employee and business partner who raises a concern in guiding the company toward achievement of its strategy and in good faith. The Company will treat every concern raised by an specific objectives in a given year. In January 2018, the Company employee in good faith seriously and in a confidential manner and engaged the Institute of Directors (Kenya) to perform an evaluation does not retaliate or allow any retaliation or discrimination by its of the performance of the Chairman, the Board Committees, employees of any kind against any employee who raises a concern individual Directors, the Chief Executive and the Company in good faith. Secretary collectively, and individually, through peer evaluations, for the year 2017. Stakeholders can raise their concerns with the relevant Company officials and/or through the available reporting channels. Staff and The results of the evaluation were discussed with the Board during other stakeholders are regularly sensitized on the need to report their Board meeting on 19th March 2018; and, as the responsibility any suspected unethical business practices and procedure to make for Board effectiveness ultimately lies with the Chairman of the such reports. The summary of this policy is available in our website. Board, he provided further constructive feedback separately to each Director from the results of the peer evaluations. Insider Dealing Information and Communication Technology The NSE has an insider trading policy guided by Sections 32A – 33 of Part VI of the Capital Markets Act (Cap 485A) which prohibits The NSE leverages heavily on technology to deliver its core insider trading. The policy provides procedures and guidelines mandate of delivering a world class trading platform. with respect to transactions in the NSE securities, the protection of Insider Information and the standard of conduct expected of the The NSE Board has prioritized cyber security and related NSE directors, officers and employees. NSE has annual awareness Information Technology risks. To ensure confidentiality, integrity programs to staff on the policy and its procedures. and availability of the various platforms, the Exchange has adopted the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cyber Security Investors are made aware that they ought not to trade in the Framework as the back bone of its Information and Communication Company’s shares while in possession of any insider information Technology (ICT) and Cyber Security policies. Being a full member that is not available to the public or during a closed period. NSE’s of the World Federation of Exchange (WFE), the NSE is constantly closed period covers between 1st January until publication of full benchmarking with international best practices as well and has year results and 1st July until publication of half year results. tailored the policy framework relevant to securities trading. Conflict of Interest The Exchange has in place relevant ICT policies, procedures as well as enforcing the practices that are congruent to these policies. The Board has put in place a policy to manage conflict of interest. As a procedure, Directors declare any real or perceived conflict of interest with the Company and such disclosures are reflected in NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT (Continued) Corporate Governance Policy Statements (Continued) Information and Communication Technology (continued) The Management and staff are actively driving a cyber security conscious culture within the organization. There is commensurate investment in setting up controls and monitoring tools to assure the various stakeholders of security in access and use of the ICT assets of the organization. Procurement We have in place a robust Procurement Policy that ensures appropriate risk assurance, integrity in all procurement activities, consistency across the organizations purchasing practices and openness and transparency of decision making when dealings with suppliers/service providers. The policy is based on notable principles: namely, value for money, open and fair competition, risk management, accountability and building mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers. A Management Tender Committee oversees the award of tenders and reports to the Business, Strategy, Finance and Human Capital Committee of the Board based on the limits as set out in the Procurement Policy. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 37 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) remains integral to generating sustainable stakeholder value. The NSE continues to implement the principles of sound Corporate Governance to the extent that risk management is not only a reporting and oversight obligation, but management culture. In support of this, NSE Departmental risk champions have been appointed to further support the formal risk reporting structures and to embed risk management practices. The objective of the NSE ERM framework is to protect and enhance NSE value in order to enhance competitive advantage, improve business performance, increase operational efficiency, optimize risk management and enhance compliance value. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES NSE Board and the Audit, Risk & Compliance The NSE Board has constituted the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee to help Committee it to discharge its duties and responsibilities with regard to risk management. The Committee provides ERM oversight by monitoring the implementation of the NSE enterprise risk framework and driving corrective actions based on the risk reports provided at least on a quarterly basis. NSE Executive Committee The NSE Executive Committee is responsible for driving the defined risk management process across the organization. This is done to enable Management identify inherent risks that, if they occur, will affect the NSE in achieving its strategic objectives. These risks must be managed within the approved risk appetite. Legal and Corporate Affairs Division The Legal and Corporate Affairs division, specifically the Risk and Compliance Department, is the coordinator of the NSE ERM process and spearheads its implementation and reporting. THE ERM APPROACH NSE Enterprise Risk Management framework is aligned to the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission framework 2017 Guidelines and the principles defined in International Organization of Standards (ISO) 31000:2018 as depicted below: Continual Integrated Improvement Structured Human and and Cultural Factors Comprehensive Value Creation and Protection Best Available Information Customized Dynamic Inclusive Integration t Scope, Context, Criteria men Design Imp MONITORING & REVIEW RISK ASSESMENT rov COMMUNICATION e Leadership and Risk Indentification Commitment & CONSULTATION Risk Analysis n tio Risk Evaluation ta Evaluation en em pl Risk Treatment Im RECORDING & REPORTING NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 38 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK (Continued) NSE RISK UNIVERSE Some of the key risk areas that NSE is exposed to include: Market Risk as a result of market movements. NSE may be exposed to the fluctuations in the value of its Risk assets, the amount of its liabilities, or the income from its assets. Sources of general market risk include movements in interest rates, equities, exchange rates and adverse market volatility, etc. Operational This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems or Risk from external events. The NSE’s risk of losses, whether financial or otherwise, resulting from fraud, errors, omissions and other operational and compliance matters, are adequately managed. Legal Legal risk is the potential loss that can occur arising from legal disputes that could lead to litigation Risk or settlement, instituted by customers, counter parties, employees, shareholders, the authorities or third parties against the NSE. Regulatory This is the risk of non-compliance with regulatory requirements. This is a prospective risk to earnings Risk or capital arising (due to fines) from violations or non-compliance with laws and regulations including standards issued by the regulator from time to time. Also the risk that unanticipated new laws or regulations will result in the need to change business practices that may lead to financial loss. Counterparty This is the risk that a counterparty (“obligor”) will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with the Risk agreed terms. e.g. when a creditor fails or delays to perform its contractual obligations thereby affecting NSE’s ability to meet its fiduciary as they fall due. Credit Credit risk may arise from underlying causes that impact upon the credit worthiness of the parties. It Risk calls for monitoring the credit exposure in relation to clients, including: pre-settlement credit exposures (for example marking to market of outstanding trades) and related settlement risk. Liquidity This is the risk that the NSE may fail to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due. Risk Strategic This is the risk arising from business decisions that are not alligned to the NSE Strategy, improper Risk implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes. Reputational This is the potential that negative publicity regarding the business practices of NSE whether true or Risk not will cause a decline in the investor base, revenue reduction or could lead to costly litigation. This may result from NSE’s inability to effectively manage any or all of the other risks. HIGH-LEVEL RISK MITIGATION NSE continues to proactively monitor its risk, implement measures to mitigate their effects and cushion the Exchange from adverse effects. We continue to monitor the environment, actively engaging with stakeholders, performing regular Risk and Control Self Assessments and improving the controls, where necessary. As we continuously strengthen the NSE ERM framework, we will include the adoption of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs). The KRIs measure the level of risk or the effectiveness of a control. The KRIs trends are tracked over a period of time and their aggregate averages are adopted as the risk tolerance limits for the particular residual risks. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 39 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM) FRAMEWORK (Continued) The NSE ERM framework has adopted three lines of defence operating model which is illustrated below : NSE BOARD AUDIT, RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (EXCO) FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE Risk Owners All Divisions/Departments Business and support functions embedding risk management practices Accountable for: Identification Assessment Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting of risk relative to approved policies and appetite SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE Risk Oversight Risk & Compliance Establish risk management practices and provide risk guidance Provide oversight of the effectiveness of first line risk management practices Monitor and independently report on level of risk against established appetite THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE Independent Assurance Audit Primarily provided by internal audit Independent assurance to management and the Board of Directors on effectiveness of the control environment. Note : For further information on Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies, refer to pages 97-103 of this Annual Report. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 40 www.nse.co.ke Discover Opportunity Bring your aspiration to life Watch your property achieve it’s full potential and be part of Kenyas success through the support of like-minded investors with NSE Reits. Call us today to realize your ambitions. T. + 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241 E. info@nse.co.ke @NSE_PLC facebook.com/pages/NSE-PLC @nse_plc NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 41 NSE STAKEHOLDERS • Shareholders • Investors (Individual, Corporate, Local, Foreign) • Employees • Tenants • Suppliers • Trading Participants and KASIB • Advisors (Nominated Advisors (NOMADs) and ASDs) • Intermediaries (Fund Managers, Pension Funds) • Regulators, Government, Strategic Partners (National Treasury, Capital Markets Authority (CMA), Retirement Benefits Authority (RBA), Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA), Central Bank of Kenya(CBK), United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (UN SSE),United Nations Global Compact, African Securities Exchanges Association (ASEA), East African Securities Exchanges Association (EASEA) and World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) • Media • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Partners) NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 42 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Our Approach to Sustainability Since its establishment in 1954, NSE has been a part of Kenya’s success story, which continues to evolve. Every day, there are new challenges and ideas that lead to more achievements and milestones for the Group. As we continue to operate in a challenging economic environment, and competitive business environment, we need to differentiate our business and ensure that our stakeholders understand what we stand for as a business. We offer a world class trading facility for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to Kenya and Africa’s economic growth, and optimise our capital to ensure a comprehensive, sustainable business. We recognise the important role we play in the local and regional markets. This role encompasses not only operational and business targets but also environmental, social and governance (ESG) accountabilities. Commitment to Sustainability Sustainability is based on NSE’s mission, vision and values. Ethical business is ensured by adopting sustainability in our corporate strategy. Additionally, Policies and Codes of Conduct for employees and service providers guide our daily operations. Our commitment to sustainability underpins our business strategies and operating policies and is indicative of our commitment to shareholders, customers, employees, stakeholders and society. We believe that we have a responsibility to serve as a centre for best practices and innovation in order to move our markets forward. We engage regularly with the regulators and contribute actively to the industry-led debates on ESG disclosure and Sustainable finance. These are consistent with our wider geographic presence and as an acknowledgement of the strategic role of corporate responsibility in ensuring we act as a good corporate citizen in the communities in which we operate. How we manage sustainability : The NSE is a member of the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, which aims at ensuring that Exchanges are well placed to have a measurable impact on four Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to which we have aligned our sustainability strategy as below: SDG TARGET NSE’S COMMITMENT Gender Equality Ensure women’s full and effective participation and Promote gender diversity among listed companies (Goal 5) equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of Ensure accessibility of capital market services to decision-making in political, economic, and public female entrepreneurs and female investors life. Sustainability Encourage companies, especially large and transProvide guidance and training for companies on Information national companies, to adopt sustainable practices environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting (Goal 12) and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle Climate Change Improve education, awareness raising and human Create and promote financial products that stimulate (Goal 13) and institutional capacity on climate change awareness or mobilize finance towards ‘green mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction, and early growth’ sectors warning Provide guidance and training to both companies and investors on climate-related disclosure initiatives Global Partnerships Enhance the global partnership for sustainable Enhance the dialogue by joining the SSE as a Partner (Goal 17) development complemented by multi-stakeholder Exchange participating in the SSE Global & Regional partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, Dialogues. expertise, technologies and financial resources to support the achievement of sustainable Educate our market, as a channel between investors development goals in all countries, particularly and listed companies, to encourage collective action developing countries. Engage our fellow exchanges; reach out to our peers for advice, practical examples and support. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 43 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) Striving for Fair, Transparent and Efficient Markets The Exchange also has an annual training calendar which focuses on ensuring that all NSE stakeholders and market participants are in a NSE as a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) works closely with position to make well informed decisions relating to their respective the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) to set and ensure compliance areas of specialization and operation. to high-quality regulatory and investment industry standards to protect investors and strengthen market integrity while maintaining efficient and competitive capital markets. Communication and consultation with the industry, investors and other stakeholders are core elements of the policy development process. We are committed to constructive engagement with stakeholders because it promotes fair, transparent and efficient markets for all, resulting in a more just, sustainable and inclusive market. As the global network becomes more integrated and extends its coverage, implementing global best standards and practices and promoting cooperation becomes key to ensuring market integrity and investor confidence. Investors are progressively expressing their need for greater disclosure and transparency from companies and are hoping to see more in-depth information. Nairobi Securities Exchange CE, Geoffrey Odundo awards Davis Gathinji, the Sustainability Performance 2nd runners’ up in the NSE 2017 Investment Challenge. As a Partner Exchange in the United Nations SSE Initiative, a member of the UN Global Compact and a signatory to the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya, our significant progress in sustainability efforts is in line with our commitment to actively contribute to the implementation of transparency on ESG matters in our markets. As we endeavour to champion the development of sustainable Capital Markets that will create long term value for all our stakeholders. We owe our achievements to our human capital – our Board, Management and entire workforce. At NSE we recruit and continually develop diversified talent to fulfil their potential. Our track record is one of growth and innovation driven by highly Nairobi Securities Exchange Training & Public Education Manager, Jackson capable and engaged teams. Kiminje leads a capacity building training for market participants on Exchange Traded Funds. In 2017, partnerships continued to be a key driver for our sustainability efforts. NSE has partnered with the Government, 2. Employee Development Private Sector and the Civil Society among others to progress its sustainability agenda. In 2017, we continued to invest in our people, ensuring the highest level of ethics, a culture of innovation, and an engaged employee In the year under review, we managed to make progress in our base that gives back to the communities in which we operate. various sustainability efforts as here below; Our remuneration strategy is continuously evolving to attract 1. Capacity Building and Financial Inclusion and retain these skills, and our people development approach is to ensure that we build a robust internal skills pipeline that can Investor education is at the heart of our strategy of expanding the supply the skills that the company needs, now and in the future. market. We have a dedicated public education and training team In fiscal year 2017, we invested Kshs. 11.5 million in training and which support various investor education programs. professional development for our people to help deepen skills and drive innovation. We run a flagship program dubbed The NSE Investment Challenge. The challenge, now in its tenth year, aims at enhancing The Exchange signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) financial literacy amongst our youth while inculcating a saving with Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) and Nasdaq Dubai to enhance and investment culture. The annual online trading competition cooperation in the areas of knowledge sharing and expertise in is a simulation of the activities that happen around trading in relation to the development of capital markets, infrastructure and securities at the NSE. products and services between the two exchanges. This initiative has so far impacted over 46,000 participants equipping them with fundamental financial and investment skills. We also work closely with schools and tertiary institutions to impact financial skills to our youth. NSE also organizes sensitization visits throughout the year educating Kenyans on opportunities available at the market. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 44 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) NSE Staff pause for a photo during the 2017 team building excursion 3. Corporate Governance Barclays Bank of Kenya team pose for a photo during the 2017 Financial At the Exchange we believe that corporate governance is key to Reporting (FiRe) Awards Gala Dinner improving transparency, facilitating the mobilization of domestic and international investment, creating a sound investment environment, fostering investor confidence and promoting financial stability. The NSE is committed to promoting just and equitable principles of trade and sound business practices in the Kenyan capital market in line with global best practices. Over the year, we continued to ensure that our Board’s and management team’s interests are aligned with the interests of our shareholders. As a promoter of the Financial Reporting (FiRe) Award, Partner Exchange in the UN SSE, a member of the UN Global Compact and a signatory to the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya, we remain committed to developing sustainable capital markets that will create long term value for all our stakeholders. Auditor General of the Republic of Kenya, Edward Ouko shares his remarks during the Financial Reporting (FiRe) workshop on enhancing sound corporate governance practices. 4. Diversity and Inclusion A diverse and inclusive corporate climate has been linked to the success and long term sustainability of every business. Board diversity speaks to the gender, experience, expertise, education and age of the board of directors of a company while looking at ethnicity, disability and geography. A strong corporate culture that invests in diversity and inclusion is one of the greatest competitive advantages a company can maintain. As part of the International Women’s Day celebrations, the NSE joined over 40 stock Exchanges globally in the UN SSE Exchanges Representatives from Sameer Africa Limited showcase their awards after the company was named the overall winner of the 2017 Financial Reporting Ring the Bell for Gender Equality initiative. The Exchange held a full (FiRe) Awards. day diversity and inclusion training for female executives of listed companies in Kenya and ‘rang the bell’ to raise awareness of the importance of gender equality to both businesses and sustainable development. In 2017, the NSE in association with the Kenya Institute of Management (KIM) and New Faces New Voices (NFNV) launched the Board Leadership and Diversity report. The report which sampled 52 listed companies in Kenya gave critical insights on the state of diversity among boards of listed companies. The research focused on age, gender and professional background, giving key recommendations on ways of improving diversity among our boards. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 45 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) (From Left) NSE Chief Executive (CE) Geoffrey Odundo, Kenya Association of Manufacturers ,Chair Flora Mutai, UN-Women’s Banu Khan, International Finance Corporation (IFC) Rose Lumumba and CMA CE Paul Muthaura, ring the bell to commemorate the 2017 International Women’s Day during the New Faces New Voices Kenya Director, Andia Chakava (left) joins Nairobi Ring the Bell for Gender Equality Ceremony. Securities Exchange (NSE) Vice Chairman Bob Karina (second from right) and Kenya Institute of Management Executive Director Muriithi Ndegwa (right) in awarding Standard chartered’ s Ass. Co. Legal Counsel, Davidson Mwaisaka after the bank was named Best Overall – Leadership Diversity and 5. Environmental Impact and Community Firm Performance Investment The NSE is committed to developing a vibrant green economy for , the East African Region. In 2017 the NSE in partnership with other stakeholders launched the Kenya Green Bond Programme aimed at raising funds for green finance projects in the country. In 2017, NSE in partnership with other market players, developed the draft guidelines for the issuance of Green Bonds in Kenya. In 2017, the NSE successfully raised Kshs.10 million during its annual NSE Charity Trading day event which was aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (particularly no; 15, 4 and 5) which call for promoting life and land, quality education and gender equality. The beneficiaries of the event include; The Borana Conservancy a non-profit conservation organization dedicated to the sustainable conservation of critical habitat and wildlife; SOS Children’s Village & Joy Children’s Home – committed to creating and maintaining a caring and protective environment for children; L-R, New Faces New Voices Kenya Director Andia Chakava, joins Nairobi and the Genevieve Audrey Foundation a foundation committed Securities Exchange CE, Geoffrey Odundo in awarding Bamburi Limited to rehabilitate and provide long term support to sexually abused Director Corporate Affairs, Communications & Sustainability, Susan Maingi children. ,during the Board Leadership and Diversity Report Launch. FSD Africa Director Mark Napier, Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) CEO, Habil Olaka and Nairobi Securities Exchange CE Geoffrey Odundo pause for a photo after signing an MOU during the Launch of the Kenya Green Bond NSE Chief Executive Geoffrey Odundo (Right) joins New Faces New Voices Programme Kenya Director (NFNV) Andia Chakava in awarding Total Kenya Ltd Corporate Affairs Manager; Michael O. K’Anjejo after the company was recognized for improvement in board and management gender diversity. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 46 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW (Continued) 6. Cyber Security As a barometer of the Kenyan economy and the sole securities exchange in Kenya, NSE considers security both physical and technological, as being of paramount importance to our business. We remain committed to protecting our issuers and shareholders in the face of growing cyber security risks. Our cyber security practices, detail the best and most efficient ways to proactively identify and remediate security risks, improve threat detection across our organization, and expedite incident response. We continue to harden data security from top to bottom, with the aim of surpassing security requirements in line with our compliance standards. The NSE has appropriate contingency plans to ensure that key operations are resilient. Its business continuity crisis management Television Anchor Betty Kyalo makes a call to an investor during plan will be invoked should an unexpected event occur. the 2017 Charity Trading Day. Funds raised during the day are channelled towards various charitable causes in the country. , Media Personalities Julie Gichuru (Right) and Betty Kyalo (Left) with Apex Capital Dealer Sheema Shah during the 2017 Charity Trading Day Kenyan celebrities and event sponsors pose for a photo with the Nairobi Securities Exchange CEO, Geoffrey Odundo (Centre) at the 2017 Charity Trading Day NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 47 VALUE CREATION PROCESS Funding NSE PLC’s funding is sourced from shareholders and internally generated income. These funds are used to run NSE’s operations with a view to generate profits and include Issued Share Capital : Sh 1,038 million, Share Premium : Sh 277 million and Retained Earnings : Sh 694 million. Technology At the core of NSE’s operations is a robust ICT foundation. This comprises two world class trading systems for current and proposed listed securities coupled with comprehensive software, hardware and disaster recovery resources. Stakeholder Relations NSE actively engages with its key stakeholder groups. The NSE Investment Challenge and the annual Charity Trading Day are the flagship Community Social Investmentprojects. Innovation Innovation is a core value of the bourse. The firm’s innovative capacity is demonstrated by the design and launch of M-Akiba, the world’s first mobile-based Treasury Instrument. People NSE takes pride in its talented staff whose aggregated knowledge and experience enable the company to grow and achieve more. 50 52% 48% Average No. Male Female of Staff in the year Employees Employees Value Creation Schedule 2017 2016 Variance Sh ‘000 Sh ‘000 % Revenue 757,032 717,185 6% Stakeholder contribution Taxes to Government 29,789 24,641 21% Shareholders dividend paid 66,474 92,375 -28% Payment to suppliers 250,701 209,248 20% Human capital 201,889 209,975 -4% Note : Taxes to Government exclude VAT and witholding tax paid for supplier invoices NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 48 DIRECTORS MATERIAL REPORT...CONTINUED ISSUES Derivatives Market The NSE’s Strategic Plan for 2015 2019 sets forth an ambitious trajectory path, which seeks to enhance new listings and products in order to take advantage of new growth opportunities not only for itself, but to foster the economic growth and sustainable development of Kenya. The NSE has therefore been working on establishing a globally competitive derivatives exchange that will enable the trading, settlement and clearing of multi-asset classes including equities, interest rate products and currency derivatives as well as varied forms of agricultural commodities contracts. Through a letter dated December 18, 2014; the Exchange received a provisional license and subsequent extension to a number of explicit preconditions to operate a Futures Exchange from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). On October 19, 2015, the CMA pursuant to Regulation 10 (1) of the Futures Licensing Regulations approved the grant of a Futures Exchange license to the NSE subject to a number of conditions. The CMA had satisfied itself that the Exchange had met the minimum requirements under Section 36A of the Capital Markets Act and the further requirements imposed by itself in accordance with Part III of the Capital Markets Act as detailed in Part II of the Capital Markets (Futures Exchanges) (Licensing Requirements) Regulations, 2013. On December 11, 2017, the CMA approved the commencement of the pilot test phase by the Exchange and market participants. However, a key component towards launching the market remains the regulatory approval for clearing members. Towards achieving this, the Exchange has subsequently sought the support of the Central Bank of Kenya, cognizant of the banking regulator’s jurisdiction as so far as is required to maintain the efficient and smooth functioning of financial markets. Globally, Derivatives Markets have played an important role in the hedging and price discovery in markets with growing GDPs, instability in the pricing of underlying products and volatile rates of inflation. Suffice to say, these economies have enjoyed great benefits especially following the development of capital and cash markets. As at the end of the year 2016, the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) noted that at the product level, derivatives remain the fastest growing, most dynamic and active exchange traded product, contributing slightly below 50% of total volumes traded. During the year 2016, 24.9 billion derivatives contracts were traded globally, representing an average annualized growth rate of 2.2% over the prior five years. Since the year 2005, equity derivatives have accounted for over 50% of total traded volumes while currency derivatives which are widely traded especially in the BRICS economies have experienced a Compounded Annual Growth Rate of 27%. Globally, a large composition of the top traded currency contracts are those that track local currency dollar exchange rates. It has further been widely noted that the introduction of derivatives, complements spot market instruments by improving the liquidity and informativeness of markets. While project analysis on the establishment of the Derivatives Market returns a favorable Internal Rate of Return, the delayed receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals for launch have potentially exposed the Exchange to higher costs. The Exchange however remains fully aware that the most economic consideration in the development of new markets is that they must make business sense, there must be effective demand for its services (from a broad range of users) and that there must be the ability to supply the services in a cost effective manner and within the ambit of a market that has clarity of its rules and regulations. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 49 MATERIAL ISSUES (Continued) Cash Market The first pillar of the NSE Strategic Plan seeks to drive revenue growth and diversification. The Cash Markets Section of the NSE is tasked with the responsibility of driving revenue growth of the Exchange through the cash markets products. Some of the responsibilities of the division include: 1. Enhancing existing and developing new cash products and markets in a sustainable and profitable way. 2. Developing strategies that enhance the growth in new cash products which include REITs, ETFs and Asset Backed Securities. 3. Growing the supply side through identifying potential issuers, selling the benefits of listing at the exchange and implementing new strategic initiatives targeting business growth including, new acquisitions, establishment of new trading platforms and products and increased number of listed companies. 4. Continuous research in order to identify present and future infrastructure and market challenges as well as develop strategies to address the challenges. 5. Developing and growing of the data vending concept with the aim of increasing data vending revenues. 6. Formulation, production, and distribution of all information on products. 7. Exploring, developing and maintaining strategic linkages with funding agencies and maintain and improve strategic relationships with other Securities Exchanges. a) In the year 2017, the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) market was launched in March 2017 with the listing of the Barclays NewGold ETF. There has been relatively low trading of the product. Currently, the Division is carrying out initiatives to increase activity in the trading of the listed ETF as well as increase the number of listings. Some of the initiatives among others include: targeted outreach to potential issuers, training and public education, lobbying for policy incentives to make the product even more attractive. ETFs are an attractive asset class for conservative investors owing to their limited risk profile and lower volatility. b) The current listed REIT ; Stanlib Fahari I-REIT has performed well recording an annual net growth in earnings of 61% in 2017. During the year, dividend paid totaled to KShs. 135,729,225 of the net earnings above the required regulatory minimum of 80%. REITs remain an attractive channel for capital raising in the real estate sector. Taxation of SPVs owned by REITs still remains unresolved. Under the current regulations, REITs registered are exempt from 30% income. The Law however does not mention the SPVs fully owned by REITs as being tax exempt. Engagements are ongoing with KRA on having that aspect clarified by the Tax Authority. The NSE has joined hands with other 13 organizations drawn from the REITs industry to form the REITs Association of Kenya (RAK). The Association was formally registered on 30th November 2017. The Association will among other things be the voice of REITs in Kenya, lobby for policy incentives to promote REITs and carry out training and public education on REITs. c) The Securities, Lending and Borrowing regulations were issued in December 2017. Currently, engagements are ongoing on the operationalization of the SLB and short selling regulations. Once operational, we believe this will go a long way in enhancing liquidity in the market. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 50 Growth Enterprise Market Segment NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 51 NSE STRATEGY 2015 -19 Our Purpose To help stimulate and support vibrant and growing capital markets in Kenya Our Goal To be the leading securities exchange in Africa, with global reach. Our Strategy (2015-19) To drive market growth and build our reputation as a leading exchange in Africa. Our Priorities (2015-17) Pillar 1 Pillar 2 Pillar 3 Build reputation as a Drive revenue growth trusted company and an Strengthen organizational and diversification investment destination capabilities & talent of choice management • Achieve 40% YoY revenue growth. • Successfully list the Exchange (60% • Invest in key resource gaps. • Achieve 88 equity listings (69 on MMS float by 2019). • Strengthen governance and develop and 19 on GEMS). • Transform the relationship with the CMA full SRO capability by Q3 2016. • Launch and scale new products including and Treasury. • Strengthen our people value and REITS, ETFs, derivatives (from 5% to 12% • Develop and execute strategic communication proposition including remuneration of total revenues by 2017). campaign on NSE transformation (Q1 2015). and management review. • Expand regional amd global engagement, • Build a culture based on excellence, • Achieve 40% and 25% CAGR in equities including WFE member status, MSCI ranking transparency and inclusivity. and bonds turnover between 2015 2019 • Launch Technological innovations for day, by Q1 2016. online and mobile trading. Our technology A reliable and innovative technolgy platform that enables and drives growth. Our culture A dynamic organization that attracts and retains top talent. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 52 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL REVIEW 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Sh ‘000 Sh ‘000 Sh '000 Sh '000 Sh '000 Summary Consolidated Statement of Profit & Loss & Other Comprehensive Income Operating income 582,338 527,164 663,903 641,736 488,766 Interest income 98,569 94,766 101,010 39,514 21,420 Other income 76,125 95,255 43,344 140,651 112,527 Total Income 757,032 717,185 808,257 821,901 622,713 Expenses (500,170) (487,291) (448,323) (403,831) (257,625) Share of profit of associcate 12,324 3,221 21,560 23,741 14,407 Profit before tax 269,186 233,115 381,494 441,811 379,495 Profit after tax & Comprensive income 218,806 183,754 305,653 320,067 262,792 Summary Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Total assets Property, equipment & investment property 530,238 497,638 472,074 487,276 488,790 Intangible assets 152,729 168,084 157,048 135,216 106,904 Investment in associate company 111,374 99,134 100,703 82,457 60,940 Government securities & corporate bonds 330,619 214,730 125,076 192,088 192,398 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 143,204 135,921 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 479,359 444,035 640,655 170,048 Short-term restricted cash & investments 302,015 292,505 333,500 Other assets 114,781 119,091 149,878 147,412 130,044 Total assets 2,108,220 2,013,745 1,918,235 1,685,104 1,149,124 Shareholders funds Share capital 1,038,003 1,038,003 778,500 778,500 24,500 Share premium 277,185 277,185 277,185 277,185 Retained earnings 694,049 547,852 718,753 486,861 705,782 Revaluation & other reserves 2,649 105 319 516 528 Shareholders funds 2,011,886 1,863,145 1,774,757 1,543,062 730,810 Total liabilities 96,334 150,600 143,478 142,042 418,314 Total shareholders funds & liabilities 2,108,220 2,013,745 1,918,235 1,685,104 1,149,124 Key indicators Total dividend declared and proposed (Kshs '000) 77,850 70,066 95,366 73,957 49,000 Basic Earnings Per Share Sh. 0.83 0.71 1.18 2.13 2.04 Dividend Per Share Sh. 0.30 0.27 0.49 0.38 2.00 Weighted average number of shares during the year 59,500,791 259,500,791 259,500,791 150,020,604 128,625,000 The current NSE dividend policy provides for a maximum dividend payout of 40% of eligible profit after tax as dividend NSE share price Annual High (Sh.) 25.00 30.25 27.50 28.00 Annual Low (Sh.) 11.00 12.85 18.00 17.00 Share price at year end (Sh.) 19.70 14.65 24.75 20.50 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 53 www.nse.co.ke Discover Opportunity Bring your ambitions to life Watch your property achieve it’s full potential and be part of Kenyas success through the support of like-minded investors with NSE Reits. Call us today to realize your ambitions. T. + 254 (020) 2831000 / 2831241 E. info@nse.co.ke @NSE_PLC facebook.com/pages/NSE-PLC @nse_plc NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 54 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report together with the audited financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”/the “Exchange”) and its subsidiary and structured entities (together, the “Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2017, which show the state of affairs of the Company and the Group. Further to Section 53 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 and the related Special Resolution passed at the NSE’s Annual General Meeting held on 31st May 2017, the name of the Company was changed from the “Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited” to the “Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC” and the change effected at the Companies Registry on 22nd June 2017. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company is the sole securities and derivatives exchange licensed by the Capital Markets Authority of Kenya to promote, develop, support and carry on the business of a securities exchange and to discharge all the functions of a securities exchange in Kenya. NSE Clear Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of the NSE. The principal objectives of NSE Clear Limited are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to operate a derivatives exchange was issued by the Capital Markets Authority to the NSE on 19 October 2015. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the year ended 31 December 2017 as the market is expected to be launched in 2018. The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) are trusts whose main purpose is to strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives market, ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing member and satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members. The Board of Directors of the NSE Clear Limited appoints Trustees of the SGF and IPF who manage and administer these funds. BUSINESS REVIEW The Group delivered on a number of new products and services demonstrating that our growth strategy is resonating well with our stakeholders and that we continue to execute correctly. The new products launched in the year were the Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and the M-Akiba infrastructure bond (in partnership with the National Treasury and other stakeholders). In line with our sustainable finance agenda, the NSE in partnership with other stakeholders also launched Kenya’s Green Bond Programme. The Group’s profit after tax grew by 18% from Kshs. 184 million to Kshs. 216 million due to higher operating income which increased by 10% from Kshs. 527 million to Kshs. 582 million mainly due to higher equity turnover. Interest income increased by 4% from Kshs. 95 million to Kshs. 99 million due to prudent management of funds and deposits, despite the prevailing lower interest rates. Administrative expenses increased marginally by 3% from Kshs. 487 million to Kshs. 500 million mainly owing to product development and promotion. Total assets increased nominally by 5% from Kshs. 2,014 million in 2016 to Kshs. 2,108 million in 2017. Shareholder funds grew by 8% from Kshs. 1,863 million to Kshs. 2,012 million. Return on equity increased to 10.9% (2016 – 9.9%) and return on assets increased to 10.4% (2016 – 9.1%) while the cost income ratio improved from 68% in 2016 to 66% in 2017. DIVIDEND The Group profit for the year of KShs. 216,250,000 (2016: KShs. 183,956,000) has been added to retained earnings. The directors recommend the approval of a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per share amounting to Kshs. 77,850,000 (2016: Kshs. 0.27 per share amounting to Kshs. 70,066,000). DIRECTORS The current members of the Board of Directors are as shown on page 10. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 55 DIRECTORS REPORT (Continued) DISCLOSURES TO AUDITOR The directors confirm that with respect to each director at the time of approval of this report: a) there was, as far as each director is aware, no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and b) each director had taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director so as to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers continue in office in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 721 of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes the approval of the audit engagement contract and the associated fees on behalf of the shareholders. By order of the Board John Maonga Secretary 19 March 2018 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 56 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT as a trustee. There were no substantial changes to the trustees’ remuneration policy during the year 2017. Statement of Group’s policy on directors’ remuneration Contract of service a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC The Board establishes and approves formal and transparent In accordance with Article 93 of the Articles of Association of the remuneration policies to attract and retain both executive and Company, unless and until otherwise from time to time determined non-executive Board members. These policies clearly state by an ordinary resolution of the Company, but always subject to the remuneration elements such as Directors’ fees and attendance provisions of the Kenyan Companies Act (the Act) and the Capital allowances that are competitive and in line with the industry. NonMarkets Act (CMA) regulations, the number of Directors (including Executive Directors are paid a sitting allowance for every meeting the Chief Executive and excluding alternates) shall not be less than attended. They are not eligible for provident fund membership. Seven (7) and not more than Eleven (11) in number and shall be The Company does not grant any personal loans, guarantees, share elected in accordance with the Act, the Capital Markets Act and options or long term incentives to its non-executive Directors. The the Company’s Articles of Association. company has taken out insurance covers for the non-executive Directors covering Directors and Officers liability insurance cover Two Directors are elected by the members from among or to and group personal accident covering death, permanent total represent the trading participants and a further two Directors disability and medical expenses. are elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange to represent the said The Chief Executive is the only executive director on the Board listed companies. Any other directors are elected by the members and the company has in place a remuneration policy which is in accordance with the Companies Act provided that at all times at aimed at ensuring compensation is competitive and aligned to least one third of the Directors must be non-executive Directors. the company’s strategic objectives. The Executive Director’s remuneration and benefits consists of:If at any time the number of Directors falls below the minimum number fixed by or in accordance with the Company’s Articles of • A monthly salary determined on appointment Association, the remaining Directors may act for the purpose of • An annual bonus based on the performance of the company, convening a general meeting or for the purpose of bringing the individual performance and general inflation considerations. number of Directors to such minimum, and for no other purpose • Contributory staff provident scheme • Non cash benefits relating to a company maintained vehicle The Non-Executive Directors are not under contract but are and insurance cover. subject to retirement by rotation at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). CMA regulations provide for fixed terms of office for the There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration company’s Chairman and Chief Executive, which shall include a policy during the year 2017. maximum term of office of two consecutive years for the Chairman and four years renewable once for the Chief Executive. b) NSE Clear Limited The Chief Executive’s current contract is for a Four (4) year period running from 1 March 2015. Under the terms of the contract, A managing director or other executive officer shall receive either party may, not less than six months to the expiry of this such remuneration (whether by way of salary, commission or contract, notify the other of their intention not to extend the participation in profits, or partly in one way and partly in another) contract, otherwise the contract shall be automatically renewed as the directors may determine. for a further final period of four years. Either Party may also terminate the Agreement without assigning any reasons, at any There were no substantial changes to the Director’s remuneration time, by giving to the other not less than six months’ notice in policy during the year 2017. writing, or six months’ salary in lieu of notice, at the end of which the Agreement shall determine. c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund b) NSE Clear Limited (IPF) In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), the directors have power at any time, and from time to In accordance with the Trust Deed of the Funds, the Board of time, to appoint any person to be a director, either to fill a casual Directors of NSE Clear Limited appoints the trustees of the Fund vacancy, or as an addition to the existing directors, but so that the subject to approval by the CMA. The number of trustees is set at total number of directors shall not at any time exceed the number a minimum of Three (3). Any person, whether or not domiciled, fixed in accordance with the Articles. Any director so appointed resident or carrying on business or in the case of a body corporate shall hold office until he is removed or his office is vacated, in each carrying on business in Kenya may be appointed and hold office case in accordance with these Articles. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued) Contract of Service (continued) Statement of voting on the Directors’ remuneration report at the Previous Annual General Meeting b) NSE Clear Limited (continued) The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to the office of managing director, or to any other executive a) Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC office under the Company, for such period and on such terms as During the Annual General Meeting held on 31st May 2017, the they think fit, and, subject to the terms of any agreement entered shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors fees for the into in any particular case, may revoke such appointment. The year ended 31st December 2016 by show of hands. appointment of such managing director or other executive officer shall be automatically determined if he ceases from any cause to At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th May 2018, be a director. approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2017. Other than the Managing Director, the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at every Annual General Meeting (AGM). b) NSE Clear Limited c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection During the Annual General Meeting held on 23rd May 2017, the shareholders approved the fees paid to the Directors for the year Fund (IPF) ended 31st December 2016 by show of hands. The Trustees are not under contract. The office of a trustee At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17th May 2018, becomes vacant if: the trustee resigns with a one month’s notice; approval will be sought from shareholders for the fees paid to the becomes mentally or physically incapacitated; or by removal by Directors for the financial year ended 31st December 2017. the Board of NSE Clear Limited by a resolution. A trustee can also retire at any time by giving a three (3) months written notice to the c) The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund Board. In the event of the number of trustees falling below three, the Board shall, subject to the approval of the CMA, appoint such (SGF) and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund additional trustees as shall be necessary to make their number (IPF) upto three, save where there is appointed a sole corporate trustee. The Funds do not hold annual general meetings. The fees for the Trustees are approved by the NSE Clear Limited Board. Directors’/Trustees remuneration Below is a summary of entitlement per Board/Trustee member: Type of payment Chairman Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director/Trustee NSE Director’s fees per annum Sh 714,286 Sh 571,429 Sh 428,571 Sitting allowance – per Board meeting Sh 94,286 Sh 78,571 Sh 78,571 Sitting allowance per Committee meeting Sh 28,571 Sh 28,571 Sh 28,571 NSE Clear Limited Sitting allowance per sitting Sh 28,571 Sh 28,571 NSE SGF/NSE IPF Sitting allowance per sitting Sh 28,571 Sh 28,571 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 58 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The following table shows a single figure remuneration for the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and Executive Director in respect of qualifying services for the year ended 31st December 2017 together with the comparative figures for 2016. The aggregate Directors’ emoluments are shown on note 29. Year ended 31 December 2017 Gross pay Provident Sitting plus other scheme Name Category Fees allowances allowances contribution Total Sh Sh Sh Sh Sh Samuel Kimani* Non-Executive 714,286 1,031,429 1,745,714 Bob Karina* Non-Executive 571,429 1,092,857 1,664,286 Dr. Winnie Nyamute* Non-Executive 428,571 1,235,714 1,664,286 Hosea Kili Non-Executive 428,571 821,429 1,250,000 Sharon Maviala Non-Executive 428,571 514,286 942,857 Jimnah Mbaru Non-Executive 428,571 342,857 771,429 Nasim Devji Non-Executive 428,571 485,714 914,286 Michael Turner Non-Executive 428,571 864,286 1,292,857 James Mworia Non-Executive 428,571 300,000 728,571 Paul Vollant* Non-Executive 428,571 650,000 1,078,571 Geoffrey Odundo Executive 16,537,500 1,632,960 18,170,460 4,714,286 7,338,571 16,537,500 1,632,960 30,223,317 *Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2017 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below: Sitting allowances Name NSE Clear NSE IPF NSE SGF Total Sh Sh Sh Sh Samuel Kimani 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Bob Karina 85,714 85,714 85,714 257,142 Dr. Winnie Nyamute 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Paul Vollant 57,143 57,143 57,143 171,429 371,429 371,429 371,429 1,114,287 Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT (Continued) INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT (Continued) Year ended 31 December 2016 Gross pay Provident Sitting plus other scheme Name Category Fees allowances allowances contribution Total Sh Sh Sh Sh Sh Samuel Kimani* Non-Executive 714,286 1,304,286 2,018,571 Bob Karina* Non-Executive 571,429 1,600,000 2,171,428 Dr. Winnie Nyamute* Non-Executive 428,571 1,400,000 1,828,571 Hosea Kili Non-Executive 428,571 921,429 1,350,000 Sharon Maviala Non-Executive 428,571 1,028,571 1,457,143 Jimnah Mbaru Non-Executive 428,571 557,142 985,714 Nasim Devji Non-Executive 428,571 764,286 1,192,857 Michael Turner Non-Executive 428,571 642,857 1,071,429 James Mworia Non-Executive 428,571 678,571 1,107,143 Paul Vollant Non-Executive 428,571 200,785 629,357 Edward Njoroge* Non-Executive 482,857 482,857 Geoffrey Odundo Executive 16,537,500 1,632,960 18,170,460 4,714,286 9,580,784 16,537,500 1,632,960 32,465,530 *Included in the Director’s fees for the year ended 31 December 2016 is amounts relating to fees earned for services rendered in other NSE Group Companies as tabulated below: Sitting Allowances Name NSE Clear NSE IPF NSE SGF Total Sh Sh Sh Sh Samuel Kimani 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Bob Karina 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Dr. Winnie Nyamute 114,286 114,286 114,286 342,858 Edward Njoroge 28,571 28,571 28,571 85,713 371,429 371,429 371,429 1,114,287 Mr Geoffrey O. Odundo was provided with a company car during the year (non-cash benefit). On Behalf of the board John Maonga Secretary 19 March 2018 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 60 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They also accept responsibility for: i. Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; ii. Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and iii. Making judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, the directors have assessed the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and disclosed, as applicable, matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements. Nothing has come to the attention of the directors to indicate that the Company will not remain a going concern for at least the next twelve months from the date of this statement. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mr. Samuel Kimani Dr. Winnie Nyamute Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chairman Director Chief Executive NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 61 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE/the “Company”) and its subsidiary and structured entities (together, the “Group”) set out on pages 65 to 104, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2017 and the consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, together with the separate statement of financial position of the Company at 31 December 2017 and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company at 31 December 2017 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001 www.pwc.com/ke Partners: A Eriksson E Kerich B Kimacia K Muchiru M Mugasa A Murage F Muriu P Ngahu R Njoroge S N Ochieng’ B Okundi K Saiti INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (Continued) Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF THE NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC (Continued) Report on other matters prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 Report of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the report of directors on page 55 to 56 is consistent with the financial statements. Directors’ remuneration report In our opinion the auditable part of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 57 to 60 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The engagement partner responsible for the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is FCPA Richard Njoroge – Practicing Certificate No. 1244. Certified Public Accountants Nairobi 19 March 2018 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Group Company Notes 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Revenue 6 582,338 527,164 582,338 527,164 Interest income 9 98,569 94,766 84,358 79,885 Other income 10 76,125 95,255 76,125 95,255 ________ ________ ________ ________ Total income 757,032 717,185 742,821 702,304 Administrative expenses (500,170) (487,291) (495,633) (483,438) Share of profit of associate 15 (c) 12,324 3,221 12,324 3,221 ________ ________ ________ ________ Profit before income tax 7 269,186 233,115 259,512 222,087 Income tax expense 11 (a) (52,936) (49,159) (50,470) (46,111) ________ ________ ________ ________ Profit for the year 216,250 183,956 209,042 175,976 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation surplus on buildings 3,093 110 3,093 110 Deferred income tax on revaluation surplus 24 (453) (22) (453) (22) ________ ________ ________ ________ 2,640 88 2,640 88 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Share of exchange differences from associate arising from 15 (c) (84) (290) (84) (290) translation of foreign operation ________ ________ ________ ________ Other comprehensive income for the year 2,556 (202) 2,556 (202) ________ ________ ________ ________ Total comprehensive income for the year 218,806 183,754 211,598 175,774 ======= ======= ======= ======= Sh Sh Earnings per share Basic and diluted 28 0.83 0.71 ==== ==== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 65 PAGE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Group Company Notes 2017 2016 2017 2016 ASSETS Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Non-current assets Property and equipment 12 229,635 184,164 229,635 184,164 Investment property 13 300,603 313,474 300,603 313,474 Intangible assets 14 152,729 168,084 152,729 168,084 Investment in associate 15 (b) 111,374 99,134 111,374 99,134 Investment in subsidiary and structured entities 16 130,000 130,000 Government securities 18 93,104 96,490 93,104 96,490 Long-term restricted investments 19 148,391 143,204 _________ _________ _________ _________ 1,035,836 1,004,550 1,017,445 991,346 _________ _________ _________ _________ Current assets Trade and other receivables 20 (a) 92,346 70,921 92,346 70,921 Due from related company 29 (f)(i) 622 1,259 Current income tax 11 (c) 22,435 48,170 19,695 47,220 Corporate bonds 17 15,281 15,281 Government securities 18 237,515 102,959 237,515 102,959 Fixed deposits 21 262,043 262,043 Short-term restricted cash and investments 21 302,015 292,505 302,015 292,505 Cash and cash equivalents 21 156,030 479,359 155,696 478,174 _________ _________ _________ _________ 1,072,384 1,009,195 1,069,932 1,008,319 _________ _________ _________ _________ TOTAL ASSETS 2,108,220 2,013,745 2,087,377 1,999,665 ======== ======== ======== ======== EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 23 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 Share premium 277,185 277,185 277,185 277,185 Retained earnings 694,049 547,852 675,890 536,901 Other reserves (559) (475) (559) (475) Revaluation reserve 3,208 580 3,208 580 _________ _________ _________ _________ Shareholders’ funds 2,011,886 1,863,145 1,993,727 1,852,194 _________ _________ _________ _________ Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax 24 3,496 5,631 4,804 5,891 Tenant deposits 25 (a) 3,830 7,273 3,830 7,273 _________ _________ _________ _________ 7,326 12,904 8,634 13,164 _________ _________ _________ _________ Current liabilities Trade and other payables 25 (b) 66,939 119,218 65,147 118,029 Dividends payable 26 19,869 16,278 19,869 16,278 Trading members’ contributions 2,200 2,200 _________ _________ _________ _________ 89,008 137,696 85,016 134,307 _________ _________ _________ _________ TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS AND LIABILITIES 2,108,220 2,013,745 2,087,377 1,999,665 ======== ======== ======== ======== The financial statements on pages 65 to 104 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mr. Samuel Kimani Dr. Winnie Nyamute Mr. Geoffrey O. Odundo Chairman Director Chief Executive NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 66 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Share Share Retained Other Revaluation capital premium earnings reserves reserve Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Year ended 31 December 2016 At start of the year 778,500 277,185 718,753 (185) 504 1,774,757 Profit for the year 183,956 183,956 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (290) 88 (202) Total comprehensive income for the year 183,956 (290) 88 183,754 Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation (5) 5 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 259,503 (259,503) 2015 dividend declared in the year (95,366) (95,366) _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ ________ At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 547,852 (475) 580 1,863,145 ======= ======= ====== ====== ====== ======= Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 547,852 (475) 580 1,863,145 Profit for the year 216,250 216,250 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (84) 2,640 2,556 Total comprehensive income for the year 216,250 (84) 2,640 218,806 Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation (5) 5 Transactions with owners: 2016 dividend declared in the year (70,065) (70,065) _________ _______ _______ _______ _______ ________ At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 694,049 (559) 3,208 2,011,886 ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property. Other reserves relates to the Group’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 67 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Share Share Retained Other Revaluation capital premium earnings reserves reserve Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Year ended 31 December 2016 At start of year 778,500 277,185 715,782 (185) 504 1,771,786 Profit for the year 175,976 175,976 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (290) 88 (202) Total comprehensive income for 175,976 (290) 88 175,774 the year Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation (5) 5 Transactions with owners: Bonus issue 259,503 (259,503) 2015 dividend declared in the year (95,366) (95,366) _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ ________ At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 536,901 (475) 580 1,852,194 ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= Year ended 31 December 2017 At start of year 1,038,003 277,185 536,901 (475) 580 1,852,194 Profit for the year 209,042 209,042 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (84) 2,640 2,556 Total comprehensive income for the year 209,042 (84) 2,640 211,598 Transfer of excess depreciation 17 (17) Deferred tax on transfer of excess depreciation (5) 5 Transactions with owners: 2016 dividend declared in the year (70,065) (70,065) ________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _________ At end of year 1,038,003 277,185 675,890 (559) 3,208 1,993,727 ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= ======= The revaluation reserve relates to the valuation surplus on property. Other reserves relates to the Company’s share of the translation reserve of the associate. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 68 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Group Company Notes 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 27 99,969 220,572 104,541 224,254 Tax paid 11 (c) (29,789) (24,641) (24,485) (19,616) ________ ________ ________ ________ Net cash from operating activities 70,180 195,931 80,056 204,638 ________ ________ ________ ________ Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 12 (40,235) (41,422) (40,235) (41,422) Purchase of intangible assets 14 (2,283) (29,389) (2,283) (29,389) Interest received 98,569 92,825 84,358 77,944 Dividend received from associate 15 (b) 4,500 4,500 Proceeds on maturity of corporate and treasury bonds 15,281 12,911 15,281 12,911 Net (investment)/maturity in fixed deposits (267,229) 415,323 (262,043) 415,323 Investment in restricted investments (7,283) Proceeds on disposal of equipment 32 246 32 246 Purchase of treasury bills (131,170) (100,620) (131,170) (100,620) ________ ________ ________ ________ Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (327,035) 347,091 (336,060) 339,493 ________ ________ ________ ________ Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 26 (66,474) (92,375) (66,474) (92,375) ________ ________ ________ ________ Net cash used in financing activities (66,474) (92,375) (66,474) (92,375) ________ ________ _______ ________ (Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (323,329) 450,647 (322,478) 451,756 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of year 479,359 28,712 478,174 26,418 ________ ________ ________ ________ Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 21 156,030 479,359 155,696 478,174 ======= ======= ======= ======= NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 REPORTING ENTITY prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc (NSE/the “Company”/ • Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs the “Exchange”), formerly known as the Nairobi Securities other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are Exchange Limited, was incorporated in Kenya under the observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as Companies Act and is domiciled in Kenya. The NSE is licensed prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). as an exchange by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) of • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from Kenya and obtained a license on 19 October 2015 to operate valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or a derivatives exchange. The NSE currently has the primary liability that are not based on observable market data market services as a main line of business. The consolidated (unobservable inputs). financial statements of the Group at and for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiary Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are recognised and controlled structured entities (collectively referred to by the Group at the end of the reporting period during which the as the “Group”) and reflect the Company’s interest in an change occurred. associate company. ii. Use of estimates and judgment 2 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING THE REPORTED RESULT OR FINANCIAL POSITION The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation requires the directors to exercise their judgment in the process of of these financial statements are set out below. These policies applying the Group’s and Company’s accounting policies. The areas have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas otherwise stated. where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. a) Statement of compliance iii. Adoption of new and revised International Financial The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Reporting Standards (IFRS) with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) applicable to companies New and amended standards adopted by the Group reporting under IFRS and the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The following amendments have been applied by the Group for b) Basis of preparation the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017: i. Basis of measurement Amendment to IAS 12 – Income taxes: The amendments were issued to clarify the requirements for recognising deferred tax assets on The measurement basis used is the historical cost basis except unrealised losses. The amendments clarify the accounting for where otherwise stated in the accounting policies below. deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. They also clarify certain other For those assets and liabilities measured at fair value, fair value aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. The amendments is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to clarify the existing guidance under IAS 12. They do not change transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market the underlying principles for the recognition of deferred tax assets: participants at the measurement date. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market Amendment to IAS 7 – Cash flow statements: The amendments observable data as far as possible. If the fair value of an introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users of financial asset or a liability is not directly observable, it is estimated statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing by the Group using valuation techniques that maximise the activities. The amendment responds to requests from investors use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of for information that helps them better understand changes in an unobservable inputs (e.g. by use of the market comparable entity’s debt. The amendment will affect every entity preparing approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar IFRS financial statements. However, the information required items or discounted cash flow analysis). Inputs used are should be readily available. Preparers should consider how best consistent with the characteristics of the asset/liability that to present the additional information to explain the changes in market participants would take into account. liabilities arising from financing activities. Fair values are categorised into three levels of fair value The above amendments did not have any effect on the Group’s hierarchy based on the degree to which the inputs to the reported earnings or financial statement position and had no measurements are observable and the significance of the impact on the accounting policies. inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety: • Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 70 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 2 STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS AFFECTING assets and liabilities for short-term leases (less than 12 months), THE REPORTED RESULT OR FINANCIAL POSITION and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (such as (Continued) laptops and office furniture). The standard is effective for annual b) Basis of preparation (continued) periods beginning 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted only if IFRS 15 is adopted at the same time. iii. Adoption of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) (continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES New and revised standards and interpretations which have been issued but are not yet effective. 3.1 Basis of consolidation The Group has not applied the following revised standards and The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial interpretations that have been published but are not yet effective statements of the Nairobi Securities Exchange Plc and its subsidiary, for the year beginning after 1 January 2017: controlled structured entities and interest in associate company made up to 31 December 2017. The subsidiary and structured IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, entities undertakings have been fully consolidated. measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. i. Subsidiary It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised which the group has control. The group controls an entity when cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L. the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling. The group applies the acquisition method to account for business There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other equity interests issued by the group. The consideration transferred comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and combination are measured initially at their fair values at the hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling interest the one management actually use for risk management purposes. in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. to that currently prepared under IAS 39. The standard is effective Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with in the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful date; any gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are information to users of financial statements about the nature, recognised in profit or loss. amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the group when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 income. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not and earlier application is permitted. re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of IFRS 16,’Leases’: This standard requires that lessees should be any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisitionrequired to recognise assets and liabilities arising from all leases date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over (with limited exceptions) on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as has not substantially changed in the new standard. The model goodwill. If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired for that right. In response to concerns expressed about the cost in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised and complexity to apply the requirements to large volumes of directly in the profit or loss. small assets, the IASB decided not to require a lessee to recognise NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES investments. Losses of an associate in excess of the Group’s (Continued) interest in that associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 3.1 Basis of consolidation (continued) payments on behalf of the associate. i) Subsidiary (continued) The Group financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities 3.2 Transactions eliminated on consolidation and results of the operations of the NSE Clear Limited, a company formed to act as a central counterparty in all the derivative Intra-group balances and transactions and any unrealized income transactions. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated accumulated impairment losses. Details of NSE’s subsidiary are set in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized out in Note 16. gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups’ The accounting policies of the subsidiary have been changed interest in the investee. Unrealized losses are eliminated in the where necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the same way as unrealized gains, but only to the extent that there is Group. no evidence of impairment. ii. Structured entities 3.3 Foreign currencies The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund and the NSE i. Functional and Presentation currency Derivatives Investor Protection Fund are trusts established under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the statutory obligations The financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are imposed on the NSE, as a licensed exchange, by the provisions measured using the currency of the primary economic environment of the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 in which the entity operates (the “Functional Currency”). The and clause 1.90 and 1.10 of the NSE Derivatives Rules. Clause financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings, which is the 1.90 requires that the NSE, shall by itself or through a clearing Group’s and the Company’s Functional and Presentation Currency. house, establish and maintain a Settlement Guarantee Fund to Except as indicated, financial information presented in Kenya strengthen the financial integrity of the derivatives market and Shillings has been rounded to the nearest thousand. ensure settlement of transactions in derivatives securities in case of default by a clearing member (CM). Clause 1.10 requires that ii. Transactions and balances the NSE shall establish and maintain an Investor Protection Fund to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members Foreign currency transactions that are transactions denominated, or losses incurred by reason of the default of the trading members or that require settlement, in a foreign currency are translated into up to an amount specified in the rules. the respective functional currencies of the operations using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Management and administration of the assets and operations of these trusts is done by a management committee formed by the At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated NSE Clear Board of Directors. The Trustees of the funds act as the in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that custodians and trustees of the assets of these Funds as defined date. in the trust deeds and rules of these Funds. The Fund’s assets are segregated from the assets of the NSE and the NSE Clear Limited Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the but are effectively controlled by NSE Clear Limited. The NSE, by settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year virtue of its role as the parent company of the clearing house, NSE end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated Clear Limited, has to consolidate the results of these funds in its in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss. annual financial statements. Translation differences on non-monetary financial instruments, The subsidiary and structured entities are stated at cost in the such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported separate financial statements of the Company. Separate financial as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on statements are prepared for the subsidiary and the structured non-monetary financial instruments, such as equities classified entities, and independent external audits performed. as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other comprehensive income. iii. Investment in associate 3.4 Revenue recognition Associates are those entities which the Group has significant Transaction levy income is based on a percentage of the value of influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. shares traded and is recognised on the dates of the transactions. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% to 50% of the voting power of another entity. The Initial listing income is recognized in the year in which the results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in listing company makes the flotation. Additional listing income is these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. recognized during the year in which the issuing company makes announcement of the bonus/rights issues. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for Annual listing fee is computed on the basis of the daily weighted post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets average capitalisation value of the listed securities for the 11 of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual months period between 1 January and 30 November. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 72 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its (Continued) estimated recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. 3.4 Revenue recognition (continued) Gains and losses on disposal of equipment are determined as the Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount probable that the economic benefits will flow to the company and of the asset at the date of disposal and taken into account in the amount of income can be measured reliably. Interest income is determining operating profit. Gains or losses arising from changes accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding in fair value of the building are included in other comprehensive and at the effective interest rate applicable,which is the rate that income in the period in which they arise net of deferred taxes. exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 3.6 Intangible assets amount on initial recognition. Intangible assets represent computer software which is stated Rental income from investment property is recognised in profit or at cost less amortisation. Amortisation is calculated to write-off loss on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. software on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 4 – 10 years. Management services income is charged to the NSE Clear Limited based on direct and indirect costs incurred on staff assigned to the NSE Clear Limited and a proportion of office and administration 3.7 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets overhead expenses. At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine 3.5 Property and equipment whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable The building is carried at valuation less any subsequent accumulated amount of the asset is estimated and an impairment loss is depreciation. Revaluations are performed with sufficient regularity recognized in profit or loss whenever the carrying amount of the to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from asset exceeds its recoverable amount. that which would be determined using fair value at the end of the year. The frequency of valuation is annual. 3.8 Investment property Motor vehicles and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is depreciation and any impairment losses. stated at its fair value, at the reporting date as determined through its revaluation by external valuers on the basis of the highest and Professional valuations on buildings are carried out in accordance best use. Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of the with the Group policy. The fair value is determined based on the investment property are included in profit or loss in the year in market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction which they arise net of deferred taxes. prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during 3.9 Restricted cash and investments the year. Increases in the carrying amounts of property resulting The Group classifies all cash, cash equivalents and investments from revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive income that are not available for general use by the Group, either due and accumulated in equity, except to the extent that it reverses to regulatory requirements or through restrictions in specific a revaluation decrease for the same asset previously recognized agreements, as restricted in the accompanying statement of in profit or loss, in which case the increase is credited to profit financial position. or loss to the extent of the decrease previously expensed. A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of buildings Short-term restricted cash and investments is recognized in profit or loss to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve relating As required by the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) to a previous revaluation of that asset. Regulations, 2015, the Group is required to maintain a minimum liquid net-worth capital requirement equal to one half of the total Each year the difference between depreciation based on the estimated operating costs for the next twelve (12) months period. revalued carrying amount of an asset (the depreciation charged to At 31 December 2017, this amount was Sh 302 million (2016: profit or loss) and depreciation based on the asset’s original cost Sh 292.5 million). The amounts are reflected as short-term is transferred from the revaluation surplus to retained earnings. restricted investments (note 21). Depreciation is calculated on the straight line basis to write down Long-term restricted cash and investments the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful The NSE has contributed Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and life as follows: Sh 10 million as seed capital to the subsidiary, NSE Clear Limited, and the structured entities, NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Motor vehicles 4 years Fund and NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund respectively. Furniture, fittings and partitions 8 years These amounts could be used in the event of a clearing/trading Office equipment 4 years member’s default where the amount of the defaulting clearing/ Computer equipment 4 years trading member’s initial, variation and additional margins a Buildings Over the remaining guarantee fund deposits are insufficient (note 19). These amounts period of the lease together with related earned interest are held in bank deposits that have been classified as restricted. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Held to maturity Investments 3.10 Financial instruments Held to maturity financial investments are those which carry fixed or determinable payments and have fixed maturities and which The Group classifies its financial assets into the following the Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity. After categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss; loans initial measurement, held to maturity financial investments are and receivables and held to maturity investments. Management subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective determines appropriate classification for its investments at initial interest rate method, less any allowances for impairment. recognition. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees that are an integral part of the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) effective interest rate. The amortisation and losses arising from impairment of such investments are recognised in the profit or This category has two sub-categories: Financial assets classified as loss. held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are those which Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash were either acquired for generating a profit from short-term flows from the financial assets has expired or where the Group has fluctuations in price or dealer’s margin, or are securities included transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. in a portfolio in which a pattern of short-term profit-taking exists. Investments classified as fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities are initially recognised at cost and subsequently re-measured to fair value based on quoted bid prices or dealer price quotations, Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade payables) without any deduction for transaction costs. are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. All related realised and unrealised gains and losses are included in the profit or loss. Interest earned whilst holding held for trading The effective interest method is a method of calculating the investments is reported as investment income. amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is Loans and receivables the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other payments and are not quoted in an active market. After initial premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial measurement at cost, receivables are subsequently remeasured liability, or (where applicable) a shorter period, to the net carrying to amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less amount on initial recognition. allowance for impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees and Classes of financial instruments costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The Group classifies the financial instruments into classes that reflect the nature of information and take into account the characteristics of those financial instruments. The classification made can be seen in the table as follows: Category Class and sub class (as defined by IAS 39) (as determined by the Group) Financial assets Financial assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets designated at fair value and liabilities through profit or loss: Quoted shares Loans and receivables Long-term restricted investments Trade and other receivables Due from related company Short-term restricted cash and investments Cash and cash equivalents Fixed deposits Held-to-maturity investments Investment securities debt securities: Government securities Corporate bonds Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost Tenant deposits Trade and other payables Dividends payable Due to structured entity Trading members’ contributions NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 74 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable (Continued) profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 3.11 Cash and cash equivalents taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and demand deposits and other Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates short term liquid investments which are readily convertible into that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is known amounts of cash and which were within three months settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been of maturity when acquired, less advances from banks repayable enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of within three months from the dates of the advances. deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, 3.12 Employee entitlements at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability Current and deferred income tax for the year for annual leave as a result of services rendered by employees up to the date of reporting. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 3.13 Segmental reporting income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income. The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the chief operating 3.15 Retirement benefit obligations decision maker (Group management). An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from The Group operates a defined contribution provident scheme which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues for all its employees. The scheme is administered by Britam Life and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s Assurance Company (Kenya) Limited and is funded by contributions other components. Costs in the NSE are managed holistically from both the Group and employees. across the Exchange and variances against budget are closely monitored. Information technology and corporate overheads are The Group also contributes to a statutory contribution pension not generally allocated to a particular segment. scheme, the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The Group’s obligations under the scheme are limited to specific contributions 3.14 Taxation legislated from time to time. The Group’s contributions to these schemes are charged to the profit or loss in the year in which they Income tax expense represents the sum of the current income tax relate. and deferred income tax. 3.16 Dividends payable Current income tax Dividends payable on ordinary shares are charged to retained The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. earnings in the period in which they are declared. Proposed Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the statement of dividends are not accrued for until ratified in an Annual General profit or loss and other comprehensive income because of items of Meeting. income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or 3.17 Earnings per share substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The Group presents earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shareholders in the financial statements. Basic EPS is calculated Management establishes provisions where appropriate on the by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. of the NSE by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by Deferred income tax adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences adjusted for the effects of all potentially dilutive shares. between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 3.18 Shares reserves and share premium recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences are utilised. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from good will or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES in the location and type of property valued to determine the fair (Continued) value of the property as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 on the basis of open market value. The current use of the portion of the 3.19 Minimum liquid net worth requirement land and building accounted for as investment property equates to the highest and best use. The Capital Markets (Derivatives Market) Regulations, 2015 clause 15 (1) and 15 (2) require that a futures exchange have and maintain The valuation of the land and building is derived by making a minimum liquid net-worth equal to one half of the estimated reference to recent comparable sales transactions in the relevant gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve property market. The Group’s land and building are valued by (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may reference to a level 2 fair value measurement. be prescribed by the Authority. The requirement is met as per Note 34. 5 OPERATING SEGMENTS 3.20 Comparatives The Group entities are all domiciled in Kenya. The Group has two main business segments: Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in the presentation in the current year. • Cash equities and interest rate market segment comprises the equities and bond trading business. This includes other 4 ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF income comprising broker back office income, rental income, ESTIMATION UNCERTAINITY data fees and other incomes; and • Derivatives market segment comprises of the futures trading In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, business. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in management makes estimates and assumptions that affect the the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016: Nil) as the market reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial is expected to be launched in 2018. year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including Each business segment offers different products and services, and expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable is managed separately because each requires different technology under the circumstances. and a different marketing strategy. The key areas of judgment and estimation in applying the entities The information provided about each segment is based on the accounting policies are dealt with below: internal reports about segment profit or loss, assets and other information, which are regularly reviewed by Group management Taxes (the chief operating decision maker) and the Board. The segment results were as follows: The Group is subjected to numerous taxes and levies by various government and quasigovernment regulatory bodies. As a rule of thumb, the Group recognises liabilities for the anticipated tax/ levies payable with utmost care and diligence. However, judgment is usually required in the interpretation and applicability of those taxes/levies. Should it come to the attention of management, in one way or the other, that the initially recorded liability was erroneous, such differences will impact on the income and liabilities in the period in which such differences are determined. Valuation of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments where no active market exists or where quoted prices are not otherwise available are determined by using valuation techniques. In these cases, the fair values are estimated from observable data in respect of similar financial instruments or using models. Where market observable inputs are not available, they are estimated based on appropriate assumptions. Where valuation techniques (for example, models) are used to determine fair values, they are validated and periodically reviewed by qualified personnel independent of those that sourced them. The directors believe that the chosen valuation techniques and assumptions used in the valuation of its investments are appropriate in determining the fair value of financial instruments. Valuation of land and building The fair value model has been applied in accounting for land and building. The Group commissioned external, independent and professionally qualified real estate valuers that hold recognised relevant professional qualification and have recent experience NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 76 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5 OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) Statement of Financial Position Cash equities and interest Derivatives rate market market Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 2017 ASSETS Government securities 330,619 330,619 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 148,391 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 334 418,407 Other assets 906,048 2,740 908,788 _______ _______ _______ 1,956,755 151,465 2,108,220 ======= ======= ======= LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 93,650 484 94,134 Trading member contributions 2,200 2,200 _______ _______ _______ 93,650 2,684 96,334 ======= ======= ======= 2016 ASSETS Government securities 199,449 199,449 Long-term restricted investments 143,204 143,204 Short-term restricted cash and investments 292,505 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 478,174 1,185 479,359 Other assets 898,279 949 899,228 _______ _______ _______ 1,868,407 145,338 2,013,745 ======= ======= ======= LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 147,211 1,189 148,400 Trading member contributions 2,200 2,200 _______ _______ _______ 147,211 3,389 150,600 ======= ======= ======= Cash equities and interest Derivatives rate market market Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 2017 Additions to non-current assets 26,099 5,187 31,286 ======= ======= ======= Non-current assets 887,445 148,391 1,035,836 ======= ======= ======= 2016 Additions to non-current assets 6,445 7,283 13,728 ======= ======= ======= Non-current assets 861,346 143,204 1,004,550 ======= ======= ======= NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 5 OPERATING SEGMENTS (Continued) Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Cash equities and Derivatives interest rate market market Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 2017 Revenue 582,338 582,338 Interest income 84,358 14,211 98,569 Other income 76,125 76,125 _______ _______ _______ Total income 742,821 14,211 757,032 Administrative expenses (495,633) (4,537) (500,170) Share of profit of associate 12,324 12,324 _______ ______ _______ Profit before income tax 259,512 9,674 269,186 ======= ===== ======= 2016 Revenue 527,164 527,164 Interest income 79,885 14,881 94,766 Other income 95,255 95,255 _______ _______ _______ Total income 702,304 14,881 717,185 Administrative expenses (483,438) (3,853) (487,291) Share of profit of associate 3,221 3,221 _______ ______ _______ Profit before income tax 222,087 11,028 233,115 ====== ===== ====== All revenues are earned in Kenya. There are no revenues derived from transactions with a single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenues. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 78 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 6 REVENUE Transactions levy 442,342 383,572 442,342 383,572 Annual listing fees 84,168 85,120 84,168 85,120 Initial listing fees 3,300 7,430 3,300 7,430 Application and additional listing fees 1,332 1,809 1,332 1,809 Broker back office subscription 26,078 25,013 26,078 25,013 Data vending 25,118 24,220 25,118 24,220 _______ _______ _______ _______ 582,338 527,164 582,338 527,164 ====== ====== ====== ====== 7 PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX The profit before income tax is arrived at after charging/ (crediting) : Employee benefits (note 8) 183,719 191,805 183,719 191,805 Depreciation of property and equipment (note 12) 23,925 21,595 23,925 21,595 Amortisation of intangible assets (note 14) 17,638 18,353 17,638 18,353 Directors’ emoluments: Executive (note 29(a)) 18,170 18,170 18,170 18,170 Non–executive (note 29(a)) 12,053 14,295 10,939 13,182 Auditor’s remuneration 4,110 4,088 3,001 2,857 Gain on disposal of equipment (24) (104) (24) (104) ====== ====== ====== ======= 8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Salaries and wages 164,598 169,763 164,598 169,763 Leave pay expense 2,544 4,869 2,544 4,869 Provident fund contribution 15,869 16,481 15,869 16,481 Social security costs (NSSF) 708 692 708 692 _______ _______ _______ _______ 183,719 191,805 183,719 191,805 ====== ====== ====== ====== The staff numbers as at 31 December 2017 were 48 (2016: 53). 9 INTEREST INCOME Interest on term deposits 75,255 82,522 61,044 67,641 Held to maturity investments: interest on treasury bonds and bills 21,704 10,528 21,704 10,528 interest on corporate bonds 994 1,279 994 1,279 Interest on staff loans and advances 616 437 616 437 _______ _______ _______ _______ 98,569 94,766 84,358 79,885 ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 10 OTHER INCOME Market access fee 25,100 25,000 25,100 25,000 Fair value gain on investment property (note 13) 13,205 5,769 13,205 5,769 Rental income 20,019 20,698 20,019 20,698 Miscellaneous income 5,328 4,642 5,328 4,642 Training fees 4,724 7,828 4,724 7,828 M-Akiba fees 3,063 3,063 Sale of publications and merchandising items 2,781 3,650 2,781 3,650 Private transfer fee 862 891 862 891 Nomad fees 575 575 575 575 Exchange gain/(loss) 444 (1,397) 444 (1,397) Gain on disposal of equipment 24 104 24 104 Gain on disposal of investment in shares 27,495 27,495 _______ _______ _______ _______ 76,125 95,255 76,125 95,255 ====== ====== ====== ====== 11 TAXATION (a) Taxation charge Current income tax Current year expense 55,524 48,914 52,010 45,606 ______ ______ ______ ______ Deferred income tax (note 24) Current year (credit)/charge (2,120) 245 (1,540) 505 Prior year under-provision on tax losses (468) _______ _______ _______ _______ (2,588) 245 (1,540) 505 _______ _______ _______ _______ 52,936 49,159 50,470 46,111 ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 80 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 11 TAXATION (Continued) (b) Reconciliation of taxation charge to the expected tax based on accounting profit Profit before income tax 269,186 233,115 259,512 222,087 ====== ====== ====== ====== Tax calculated at a tax rate of 20% (2016: 20%) 51,902 44,417 51,902 44,417 Tax calculated at a tax rate of 30% (2016: 30%) 2,934 3,308 Tax effects on expenses not deductible for tax 3,919 5,593 3,919 5,593 Tax effect on revenues not allowable for tax (5,351) (4,159) (5,351) (3,899) Prior year under-provision on tax losses (468) _______ _______ _______ _______ Income tax expense 52,936 49,159 50,470 46,111 ====== ====== ====== ====== (c) Current Income tax movements At start of year (48,170) (72,443) (47,220) (73,210) Charge to profit or loss 55,524 48,914 52,010 45,606 Tax paid (29,789) (24,641) (24,485) (19,616) _______ _______ _______ _______ At end of year (22,435) (48,170) (19,695) (47,220) ====== ====== ====== ====== Made up of: Current income tax recoverable (22,435) (48,170) (19,695) (47,220) ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) Motor Furniture Office Computer Total Building Vehicles & fittings equipment equipment WIP Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 COST OR VALUATION At 1 January 2016 90,372 10,995 71,013 22,797 82,651 104 277,932 Additions 90 322 11,310 29,700 41,422 Disposals (5) (53) (523) (581) Adjustment on revaluation (3,846) (3,846) _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ _______ _______ At 1 January 2017 86,526 10,995 71,098 23,066 93,438 29,804 314,927 Additions 4,620 18,579 4,939 4,048 8,049 40,235 Disposals (3) (3,525) (11,331) (14,859) Transfer from investment property (note 13) 26,076 26,076 Revaluation surplus 3,093 3,093 _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ _______ _______ At 31 December 2017 115,695 15,615 89,674 24,480 86,155 37,853 369,472 _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ _______ _______ Comprising: At valuation 115,695 115,695 At cost 15,615 89,674 24,480 86,155 37,853 253,777 _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ _______ _______ Cost or valuation 115,695 15,615 89,674 24,480 86,155 37,853 369,472 _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2016 3,956 5,562 20,520 14,627 68,898 113,563 Charge for the year 2,248 8,832 4,141 6,374 21,595 Eliminated on disposal (5) (53) (381) (439) Adjustment on revaluation (3,956) (3,956) _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ At 1 January 2017 7,810 29,347 18,715 74,891 130,763 Charge for the year 2,344 9,562 3,735 8,284 23,925 Eliminated on disposal (1) (3,525) (11,325) (14,851) _______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ At 31 December 2017 – 10,154 38,908 18,925 71,850 – 139,837 ________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2017 115,695 5,461 50,766 5,555 14,305 37,853 229,635 ======= ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== At 31 December 2016 86,526 3,185 41,751 4,351 18,547 29,804 184,164 ======= ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 82 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 12 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) (Continued) No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated equipment with a cost of Sh 79 million (2016: Sh 68.6 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 19.4 million (2016: Sh 17.1 million). The building has been stated at its revalued amounts, being the fair value at 31 December 2017 less any subsequent depreciation. The revaluation was done on the basis of market comparable approach reflecting the highest and best use by Kenstate Valuers Limited, an independent registered valuer. 13 INVESTMENT PROPERTY (GROUP AND COMPANY) 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 VALUATION At 1 January 313,474 307,705 Fair value gain 13,205 5,769 Transfer to building (note 12) (26,076) _______ ______ At 31 December 300,603 313,474 ======= ====== The fair value of the Group’s investment property at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 have been arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 by Kenstate Valuers Limited, independent registered valuers, respectively. The fair value was adjusted for in the books of the Group and Company. The fair value was determined based on the market comparable approach that reflects recent transaction prices for similar properties. In estimating the fair value of the properties, the highest and best use of the properties is their current use. There has been no change to the valuation technique during the year. The following table gives information about how the fair values of these non-financial assets are determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used). Fair value as at Fair value Valuation Significant Relationship of hierarchy technique(s) unobservable u n obs ervable and key inputs inputs inputs to fair value 31/12/17 31/12/16 Sh’000 Sh’000 Market Buildings 129,397 86,526 Level 2 comparable N/A N/A approach Investment Highest and best property 300,603 313,474 Level 2 use Total 430,000 400,000 Building valuation includes Sh 13,702,000 costs of the fire exit that is held under WIP. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (GROUP AND COMPANY) Automated Broker back Bond trading . office software system Other software license software software WIP Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 COST At 1 January 2016 61,169 31,038 67,931 38,191 74,712 273,041 Additions 87 29,302 29,389 ________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ At 1 January 2017 61,169 31,125 67,931 38,191 104,014 302,430 Additions 643 1,640 2,283 ________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ At 31 December 2017 61,169 31,768 67,931 38,191 105,654 304,713 ________ _______ _______ _______ _______ _______ AMORTISATION At 1 January 2016 57,636 25,118 23,859 9,380 115,993 Amortisation for the year 1,308 2,613 6,794 7,638 18,353 _______ ______ _______ _______ _______ _______ At 1 January 2017 58,944 27,731 30,653 17,018 134,346 Amortisation for the year 1,122 2,084 6,794 7,638 17,638 _______ ______ _______ _______ _______ _______ At 31 December 2017 60,066 29,815 37,447 24,656 151,984 _______ ______ _______ _______ _______ _______ NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2017 1,103 1,953 30,484 13,535 105,654 152,729 ====== ===== ====== ====== ====== ====== At 31 December 2016 2,225 3,394 37,278 21,173 104,014 168,084 ====== ===== ====== ====== ====== ====== The work in progress relates to costs incurred on futures software and costs incurred to date on the ATS upgrade. No depreciation has been charged in arriving at the results for the year in respect of certain fully depreciated intangible assets with a cost of Sh 86 million (2016: Sh 71 million) which are still in use. If depreciation had been charged during the year on the cost of these assets at normal rates, it would have amounted to Sh 12.7 million (2016: Sh 10.5 million). NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 84 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (GROUP AND COMPANY) The investment in associate represents an investment in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited (CDSC). The Company held an ownership percentage of 22.5% at 31 December 2017 (2016: 22.5%). The proportion of the voting rights in the associate held by the Company does not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held. (a) Details of the associate at the end of the reporting period are as follows: Country of incorporation and Number of shares held by NSE Proportion of ownership interest and operation @Sh 100 per share voting power held by NSE 2017 2016 2017 2016 Kenya 393,750 393,750 22.5% 22.5 % ======= ======= ====== ====== The principal activity of the associate is provision of automated clearing, delivery and settlement facilities in respect of transactions carried out at the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 (b) The movement in the balance is as follows: At start of year 99,134 100,703 Share of profit for the year 12,324 3,221 Share of other comprehensive income for the year (84) (290) Dividends received (4,500) _______ _______ At end of year 111,374 99,134 ====== ====== Summarised financial information in respect of the associate (c) is set out below: Total assets 531,180 457,610 Total liabilities (36,184) (17,014) _______ _______ Net assets 494,996 440,596 _______ _______ Group’s share of net assets of associate 111,374 99,134 ====== ====== Total revenue for the year 335,552 289,571 ====== ====== Total profit for the year 54,447 13,027 ====== ====== Group’s share of profit of associate 12,324 3,221 Group’s share of other comprehensive income of associate (84) (290) _______ _______ 12,240 2,931 ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 16 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY AND STRUCTURED ENTITIES (COMPANY) 2017 2016 Principal activity Holding Sh’000 Sh’000 Investment in subsidiary (note 16 (a)): Investment in NSE Clear Limited Clearing house 100% 20,000 20,000 _______ _______ Investment in structured entities (note 16 (b)): NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund Settlement guarantee fund 100,000 100,000 NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund Investor protection fund 10,0000 10,000 _______ _______ 110,000 110,000 _______ ________ 130,000 130,000 ======= ======= a) Investment in subsidiary NSE Clear Limited was incorporated as a limited liability company on 4 February 2014 under the Companies Act (Cap. 486) with a share capital of Kenya Shillings One Hundred Thousand (Sh 100,000) divided into One Hundred (100) ordinary shares of Kenya Shillings One Thousand (Sh 1,000) each. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC. The subsidiary is domiciled in Kenya. The principal objectives of the subsidiary are to carry on the business of a clearing house and as such, to provide clearing and settlement services for transactions in derivative securities whether carried out on or off a securities exchange, to act as a central counterparty in derivative securities transactions and to carry out all activities that pertain to a clearing house. The license to operate a Derivatives Exchange was granted to the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited on 19 October 2015. No transactions in derivatives were carried out in the period ended 31 December 2017 as the market is expected to be launched in 2018. b) Investment in structured entities The NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap. 167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 and the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) Derivatives Rules. The main purpose of the Settlement Guarantee Fund is to settle specified claims by derivatives members arising out of transactions in derivative securities. The NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) was established on 17 July 2015 as an irrevocable trust under the Trustee Act (Cap167) pursuant to the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015, the NSE Investor Protection Fund Rules and the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) Compensation Rules and Procedures. The main purpose for the Investor Protection Fund is to satisfy specified claims by the investing public arising out of non-settlement of obligations owed to them by trading members or losses incurred by reason of the default of trading members. The two structured entities, which are domiciled in Kenya, are managed by a management committee formed by the NSE Clear Board of Directors which is responsible for their affairs. Investment in the subsidiary and the structured entities are all classified as non-current. None of these financial assets are impaired. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 86 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 17 CORPORATE BONDS – HELD TO MATURITY Housing Finance Group of Kenya Limited 15,281 15,281 ====== ====== ====== ====== Maturity analysis: Maturing within one year 15,281 15,281 ====== ====== ====== ====== The weighted average effective interest rate on the corporate bonds as at 31 December 2017 was Nil (2016: 8.5%). Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 18 GOVERNMENT SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY Treasury bills maturing: Within three months 176,896 176,896 After three months to six months 60,619 102,959 60,619 102,959 _______ _______ _______ _______ 237,515 102,959 237,515 102,959 Treasury bonds maturing: After 1 to 10 years 93,104 96,490 93,104 96,490 _______ _______ _______ _______ 330,619 199,449 330,619 199,449 ====== ====== ====== ====== The weighted average effective interest rate on the treasury bills and bonds for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 10.4 % and 7.9 % respectively (2016: 10.35% and 6.5% respectively). Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 19 LONG-TERM RESTRICTED INVESTMENTS Fixed deposit and interest capitalized held with the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited and maturing within 180 days in the name of: NSE Clear Limited 20,080 20,601 NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund 115,791 110,544 NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund 12,520 12,059 ________ ________ ________ ________ 148,391 143,204 ======= ======= ======= ======= The restricted investments relate to the seed capital contributions by the NSE on 19 August 2015 to the NSE Clear Limited, the NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) and the NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Sh 20 million, Sh 100 million and Sh 10 million respectively towards their operations. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES a) Trade and other receivables Receivable from non-trading brokers 154,056 154,056 154,056 154,056 Trade receivables 42,015 33,709 42,015 33,709 Prepayments and deposits 34,947 23,677 34,947 23,677 Due from associate (note 29 e)) 1,188 1,188 Other receivables 14,196 13,535 14,196 13,535 ________ ________ ________ ________ 246,402 224,977 246,402 224,977 Provision for doubtful debts (note 20 b)) (154,056) (154,056) (154,056) (154,056) ________ ________ ________ ________ 92,346 70,921 92,346 70,921 ======= ======= ======= ======= b) Provision for doubtful debts Movements in the provisions for bad debts were as follows: At start and end of year 154,056 154,056 154,056 154,056 ====== ====== ====== ====== The receivable from non-trading brokers of Sh 154.1 million (2016: Sh154.1 million) under note 20 a) represents amounts owed by Nyaga Stockbrokers Limited of Sh 121.1 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy receivable and expenses incurred for the year 2008) and Discount Securities Limited of Sh 33.0 million (on loan issued in 2008 and transactions levy receivable for the year up to March 2009). The firms were later placed under statutory management by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) in March 2008 and March 2009 respectively. The amounts were fully provided for in 2009 and make up the provision for bad debts of Sh 154.1 million (2016: Sh 154.1 million) under note 20 b). NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 88 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT TERM RESTRICTED CASH & INVESTMENTS Call deposits 102,472 4,616 102,472 4,616 Fixed deposits 562,580 700,918 562,580 700,918 _______ _______ _______ _______ Total short-term deposits (note 22) 665,052 705,534 665,052 705,534 Bank and cash balances 55,036 66,330 54,702 65,145 _______ _______ _______ _______ Total bank and cash balances and deposits 720,088 771,864 719,754 770,679 ====== ====== ====== ====== Split into: Short-term restricted cash and investments (note 34) 302,015 292,505 302,015 292,505 Cash and cash equivalents 156,030 479,359 155,696 478,174 Fixed deposits – maturity of three months to six months 262,043 262,043 _______ _______ ________ ________ 720,088 771,864 719,754 770,679 ======= ======= ====== ======= 22 SHORT TERM DEPOSITS Maturing within three months: Fixed deposits 300,537 700,918 300,537 700,918 Call deposits 102,472 4,616 102,472 4,616 ________ _______ ________ _______ 403,009 705,534 403,009 705,534 Maturing after three months to six months: Fixed deposits 262,043 262,043 ________ _______ ________ _______ 665,052 705,534 665,052 705,534 ====== ====== ====== ====== The deposits are classified as loans and receivables, and measured at amortised cost. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 22 SHORT TERM DEPOSITS (Continued) The deposits were held at the following institutions Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 232,475 277,127 232,475 277,127 Equity Bank Kenya Limited 154,379 242,466 154,379 242,466 Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Limited 146,072 111,393 146,072 111,393 Kenya Commercial Bank Limited 21,369 69,304 21,369 69,304 Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited 5,595 5,244 5,595 5,244 NIC Bank Kenya PLC 105,162 105,162 _______ _______ _______ _______ 665,052 705,534 666,052 705,534 ====== ====== ====== ====== The weighted average effective interest rate on the deposits as at 31 December 2017 was 8.4% (2016 : 8.5%). Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 23 SHARE CAPITAL Authorized share capital : At start of year: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2016: 212,500,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,500,000 850,000 1,500,000 850,000 Increase in shares in 2016 162,500,000 shares of Sh 4 each 650,000 650,000 ________ _______ _______ _______ At end of year: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2016: 375,000,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 ======== ======== ======== ======== Issued and fully paid up : At start of year: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2016: 194,625,000 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,038,003 778,500 1,038,003 778,500 Issue of 64,875,791 bonus shares of Sh 4 each in 2016 259,503 259,503 ________ ________ _______ _______ At end of year: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each (2016: 259,500,791 ordinary shares of Sh 4 each) 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 1,038,003 ======== ======== ======= ======= NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 90 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 24 DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a principal tax rate of 20% (2016: 20%) except for deferred tax on revaluation of buildings which is calculated using the capital gains tax rate of 5% (2016: 5%). The net deferred tax liability is attributable to the following items: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Accelerated capital allowances (1,845) (4,116) (1,845) (4,116) Straight-lined rental income (1,208) (1,301) (1,208) (1,301) Unrealized foreign exchange loss (61) (50) (61) (50) Revaluation surplus on buildings (619) (166) (619) (166) Leave provision 592 744 592 744 Tax losses 1,308 260 _______ ______ _______ _______ (1,833) (4,629) (3,141) (4,889) Revaluation of investment property (1,663) (1,002) (1,663) (1,002) _______ ______ _______ _______ (3,496) (5,631) (4,804) (5,891) ====== ===== ====== ====== The movement in the deferred income tax liability is as follows: At start of year (5,631) (5,364) (5,891) (5,364) Credit/(charge) to profit or loss (note 11(a)) 2,588 (245) 1,540 (505) Charge to other comprehensive income (453) (22) (453) (22) _______ _______ _______ _______ At end of year (3,496) (5,631) (4,804) (5,891) ====== ====== ====== ====== 25 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES a) Non-current portion Tenant deposits 3,830 7,273 3,830 7,273 ===== ====== ===== ===== b) Current portion Accrued expenses 37,013 43,361 35,221 42,172 Trade payables 12,730 14,613 12,730 14,613 Other payables 8,599 12,324 8,599 12,324 Staff leave accrual 2,962 3,719 2,962 3,719 Amount payable to Capital Markets Authority 2,030 2,074 2,030 2,074 Annual listing fees received in advance 1,957 26,850 1,957 26,850 Tenant deposits 1,648 1,648 Tax penalties payable 14,527 14,527 Amount payable to associate (note 29 (e)) 1,750 1,750 _______ _______ _______ _______ 66,939 119,218 65,147 118,029 ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 26 DIVIDENDS PAYABLE The dividends payable represent the first and final dividend for the years ended 31 December 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively not paid at year end. The movement in dividends payable during the year was as follows:At start of year 16,278 13,287 16,278 13,287 Declared amount for prior years 70,065 95,366 70,065 95,366 Paid during the year (66,474) (92,375) (66,474) (92,375) _______ _______ _______ _______ At end of year 19,869 16,278 19,869 16,278 ====== ======= ====== ====== 27 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before income tax 269,186 233,115 259,512 222,087 Adjustments for: Depreciation (note 12) 23,925 21,595 23,925 21,595 Amortisation (note 14) 17,638 18,353 17,638 18,353 Share of results of associate (note 15 (c)) (12,324) (3,221) (12,324) (3,221) Interest income (note 9) (98,569) (94,766) (84,358) (79,885) Gain on disposal of equipment (24) (104) (24) (104) Gain on revaluation of investment property (13,205) (5,769) (13,205) (5,769) Working capital changes: (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (21,425) 5,711 (21,425) 5,711 (Increase)/decrease in short-term restricted cash and investments (9,510) 40,995 (9,510) 40,995 (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (55,723) 4,566 (56,325) 4,492 Movement in related party balances 97 637 _______ _______ _______ _______ Cash generated from operations 99,969 220,572 104,541 224,254 ====== ====== ====== ====== 28 EARNINGS PER SHARE Profit attributable to owners of the Group (Sh’000) 216,250 183,956 ====== ====== Number of shares at 31 December 2017 (in thousands) 259,501 259,501 ====== ====== Basic and diluted earnings per share – Sh 0.83 0.71 ====== ====== The basic earnings per share is the same as the diluted earnings per share as there were no potentially dilutive shares at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 92 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group and Company are related to various parties by virtue of common shareholding. The shareholders exercise significant influence over the operations of the exchange. At 31 December 2017, the Group had 10 stock brokers (2016:11) and 7 licensed investment banks (2016:5) who are shareholders. The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 a) Directors’ emoluments Non – executive Directors sitting allowances (including committees) 12,053 14,295 10,939 13,182 ====== ====== ===== ===== Executive 18,170 18,170 18,170 18,170 ====== ====== ===== ===== Group and Company 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 b) Key management compensation Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 50,197 53,154 Other long term benefits 4,748 4,984 _______ _______ 54,945 58,138 ====== ====== c) Transactions with shareholders The transactions carried out during the year with the brokers and investment banks who are related parties by virtue of shareholding are disclosed below: The Group charges investors, through the brokers, a transaction levy of 0.12% (31 December 2016: 0.12%) of the value of equity securities traded at the Exchange. During the 12 month period, the total turnover was Sh 209,800 million (31 December 2016: Sh 175,330 million) resulting in a transaction levy of Sh 252 million. (31 December 2016: Sh 210 million). NSE also charges investors, through brokers, a transaction levy of 0.0035% (31 December 2016 – 0.0035%) of the value of fixed income securities traded at the Exchange. The turnover for fixed income securities for the 12 months period ended 31 December 2017 was Sh 659,139 million. (31 December 2016: Sh 630,611 million), resulting in transaction levy of Sh 23 million (31 December 2016: Sh 22 million). Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Transaction levy on equity securities 251,760 210,396 251,760 210,396 Transaction levy on fixed income securities 23,070 22,071 23,070 22,071 Broker back office subscriptions 18,720 15,840 18,720 15,840 Data fee 516 597 516 597 Training 399 591 399 591 NOMAD fee 275 150 275 150 _______ _______ _______ _______ 294,740 249,645 294,740 249,645 ====== ====== ====== ====== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) d) Transactions with companies related to directors The Company’s memorandum and articles of association requires that trading participants and listed companies to have two representatives each on the Board. The transactions listed below were carried out during the period with companies who the aforementioned representatives are directors. Group and Company 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 i) Stockbrokers and investment bank representatives Transaction levy on equity securities 32,311 34,102 Transaction levy on fixed income securities 3,939 3,356 Broker back office subscriptions 2,880 2,880 NOMAD fees 50 435 Purchase of data 12 120 ______ ______ 39,192 40,893 ===== ===== Allowances to broker company directors sitting on Committees but are not Group Directors 457 ===== ===== ii) Listed companies related to directors Annual listing fees 4,000 3,000 Advertisement 52 52 ______ ______ 4,052 3,052 ===== ===== e) Transactions with associate During the period, transactions with CDSC Ltd were as follows:Committee sitting allowance paid to CDSC director 143 ===== ===== Income: Advertising 52 ===== ===== Expenses relating to: Share registrar services and depository levies 2,973 2,682 Dividend processing 984 984 Joint Board meetings (52) ______ ______ 3,957 3,614 ===== ===== Net amounts receivable/(payable) to associate (note 20 a) and note 25 b)) 1,188 (1,750) ===== ===== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 94 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities Company 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 (i) During the period, transactions with NSE Clear Limited were as follows: Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Audit and tax fees 532 776 Secretarial services 486 520 Market development fees 215 386 Board allowances 371 371 ______ ______ 1,604 2,053 ===== ===== Amounts due from NSE Clear Limited 622 1,259 ===== ===== (ii) During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Investor Protection Fund (IPF) were as follows:Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Trustee allowances 371 371 Audit and tax fees 363 377 Secretarial fees 70 109 Income tax 21 109 Tax exemption application fees 355 _____ _____ 1,180 966 ===== ===== Amounts due to the NSE Derivatives IPF ===== ===== NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) f) Transactions with subsidiary and structured entities (continued) Company 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 (iii) During the period, transactions with NSE Derivatives Settlement Guarantee Fund (SGF) were as follows:Expenses paid by the Company relating to: Income tax 3,134 2,603 Trustee allowances 371 371 Audit and tax fees 363 378 Secretarial fees 70 109 Tax exemption application fees 355 ______ ______ 4,293 3,461 ===== ===== Amounts due to the NSE Derivatives SGF ===== ===== g) Loans and advances to Executive Director At start of year 167 Advances made in the year 800 500 Loan made in the year 2,000 Repayments in the year (2,800) (333) _______ _______ At end of year 167 167 ======= ====== Interest income earned on loan 122 ======= ====== The balances are included in note 20 (a) under Other Receivables. The repayment period for the loans and advances are one year and three months respectively. Interest on the loans was at 10% p.a (2016 Nil). All terms are per company policy. 30 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY) The Group and Company as a lessor: Lease rental income earned during the year was Sh 20 million (2016: Sh 21 million). At the end of the reporting period the Group and Company had existing contracts with tenants for the following minimum lease payments: 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Receivable within 1 year 14,771 19,445 Receivable after 1 year but within 5 years 24,375 43,710 _______ _______ 39,146 63,155 ====== ====== Rental income receivable relates to the lease rent receivable on the leased areas on the investment property. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 96 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 31 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS (GROUP AND COMPANY) Commitments at the end of the reporting period for which no provision has been made in these financial statements: 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Authorised but not yet contracted for 127,031 173,038 ====== ====== The capital commitments relate mainly to balances on ATS implementation, property improvements and other system infrastructure and support. 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The main business risks faced by the Group and the Company in respect of its principal non-derivative financial instruments are market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The directors review and determine policies for managing these risks. (a) Market risk The Group and the Company maintains a conservative policy regarding currency and interest rate risks and does not engage in speculation in the markets. In addition, the Group and the Company do not speculate or trade in derivative financial instruments. (i) Interest rate risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company’s investment in interest earning investments are at fixed rate hence there is no interest rate risk. Further, interest earning investments are not fair valued and therefore, fair value interest rate risk does not arise. (ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company undertake certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are however minimal as these only relate to income from data and interest income. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) a) Market risk (continued) (ii) Foreign currency exchange risk (Group and Company) (continued) At 31 December, the carrying amounts of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are as follows: 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Assets Cash and bank balances 1,879 7,134 Trade receivables 375 747 Fixed deposit 25,364 38,972 _______ _______ 27,618 46,853 Liabilities Trade payables (1,784) (8,424) _______ _______ Net position 25,834 38,429 ====== ====== At 31 December 2017, if the Shilling had weakened/strengthened by 10% against the US Dollar with all other variables held constant, the impact on pretax profit for the period would have been Sh 2,583,000 (2016: Sh 3,843,000) higher/lower mainly as a result of translation of US dollar denominated balances. (iii) Price risk (Group and Company) The Group and Company do not hold investments that would be subject to price risk; hence this risk is not relevant. b) Credit risk (Group and Company) Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group and the Company. Credit risk arises from deposits with banks, as well as trade receivables. Management assesses the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by the banking regulatory authority. Bank balances and term deposits are fully performing. Balances under the fully performing category are expected to be recovered in full as the debtors are paying their debts as they continue trading. Balances in the past due category are partly impaired. Balances under the impaired category are long overdue debts that have been fully provided for. The Group and Company do not hold collateral or security to mitigate credit risk. The amount that best represents the Group and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 is made up as follows: NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 98 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) (b) Credit risk (Group and Company) (continued) On balance sheet 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group Corporate bonds 15,281 Government securities 330,619 199,449 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 143,204 Net trade receivables 42,015 33,709 Other receivables 14,196 13,535 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 479,359 Due from associate 1,188 ________ ________ 1,256,497 1,177,042 ======= ======= Company Corporate bonds 15,281 Government securities 330,619 199,449 Net trade receivables 42,015 33,709 Other receivables 14,196 13,535 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,729 478,174 Due from associate 1,188 ________ ________ 1,107,762 1,032,653 ======= ======= The above represents the worst case scenario of credit exposure for both years. Classification of trade receivables Fully performing Impaired Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 Group and Company 31 December 2017 Due from non-trading brokers 154,056 154,056 Trade receivables 42,015 42,015 Provision (154,056) (154,056) _______ ________ _______ 42,015 42,015 ======= ======= ====== 31 December 2016 Due from non-trading brokers 154,056 154,056 Trade receivables 33,709 33,709 Provision (154,056) (154,056) _______ ________ _______ 33,709 33,709 ======= ======= ====== There are no past due but not impaired trade receivables. Other financial assets: None of the other financial assets are past due or impaired. These balances are mainly government securities or balances with reputable financial institutions. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company) Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash to meet the Group and Company’s obligations. The Group and Company manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash balances in the bank, banking facilities and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. The table below analyses the Group and Company’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity grouping’s based on the remaining period at the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant. Group Up to 1 year 1 5 years Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 At 31 December 2017 Financial assets Government securities 237,515 93,104 330,619 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 148,391 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 418,073 Trade receivables 42,015 42,015 Other receivables 14,196 14,196 Due from associate 1,188 1,188 _______ _______ _______ 1,015,002 241,495 1,256,497 ________ ________ ________ Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 1,648 3,830 5,478 Trade and other payables 62,329 62,329 Dividends payable 19,869 19,869 Investor Protection Fund/trading member contributions 2,200 2,200 _______ _______ _______ 86,046 3,830 89,876 ________ ________ ________ Liquidity surplus 928,956 237,665 1,166,621 ======= ======= ======= NAIROBI SECURITIESEXCHANGE EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT ANDAND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 PAGE NAIROBI SECURITIES PLC ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE //// 100 100 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company) (continued) Group Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 At 31 December 2016 Financial assets Corporate bonds 15,281 15,281 Government securities 102,959 96,490 199,449 Long-term restricted investments 143,204 143,204 Short-term restricted cash and investments 292,505 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 479,359 479,359 Trade receivables 33,709 33,709 Other receivables 13,535 13,535 ________ ________ ________ 937,348 239,694 1,177,042 ________ ________ ________ Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 7,273 7,273 Trade and other payables 115,499 115,499 Dividends payable 16,278 16,278 Investor Protection Fund/trading member contributions 2,200 2,200 ________ ________ _______ 133,977 7,273 141,250 ________ ________ _______ Liquidity surplus 803,371 232,421 1,035,792 ======= ======= ======= Company At 31 December 2017 Financial assets Government securities 237,515 93,104 330,619 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 302,015 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,729 417,729 Trade receivables 42,015 42,015 Other receivables 14,196 14,196 Due from associate 1,188 1,188 ________ ________ ________ 1,014,658 93,104 1,107,762 ________ ________ ________ Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 1,648 3,830 5,478 Trade and other payables 60,537 60,537 Dividends payable 19,869 19,869 ________ ________ _______ 82,054 3,830 85,884 ________ ________ ________ Liquidity surplus 932,604 89,274 1,021,878 ======= ======= ======= NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) c) Liquidity risk (Group and Company) (continued) Company Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years Total Sh’000 Sh’000 Sh’000 At 31 December 2016 Financial assets Corporate bonds 15,281 15,281 Government securities 102,959 96,490 199,449 Trade receivables 33,709 33,709 Short-term restricted cash and investments 292,505 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 478,174 478,174 Other receivables 13,535 13,535 ________ ________ _______ 936,163 96,490 1,032,653 ________ ________ _______ Financial liabilities Tenant deposits 7,273 7,273 Trade and other payables 114,310 114,310 Dividends payable 16,278 16,278 ________ ________ _______ 130,588 7,273 137,861 ________ ________ _______ Liquidity surplus 805,575 89,217 894,792 ======= ======= ====== (d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 7 specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether inputs used in the valuation techniques of financial instruments are observable or unobservable. Financial instruments are grouped into 3 levels based on the degree to which fair value data / input is observable. i) Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for identical assets or liabilities. This level includes Corporate bonds traded on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (“NSE”). ii) Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). Input data for this category is sourced mainly from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The external valuation of buildings and investment property has been performed using a sales comparison. iii) Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). There are no financial assets carried at fair value (2016: nil). NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 102 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 102 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 32 RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES (Continued) d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities (continued) The table below shows an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value by level the fair value hierarchy. Group 2017 2016 Sh’000 Sh’000 Level 1 Financial assets Government securities – held to maturity 323,122 199,449 ======= ======= Level 2 Financial assets Corporate bonds 15,281 Long-term restricted investments 148,391 143,204 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 418,073 479,359 ________ ________ 868,479 930,349 ======= ======= Company Level 1 Financial assets Government securities – held to maturity 323,122 199,449 ======= ======= Level 2 Financial assets Corporate bonds 15,281 Short-term restricted cash and investments 302,015 292,505 Cash, cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,729 478,174 ________ ________ 719,744 785,960 ======= ======= There were no transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 in the period and for level 3, there was no movement. i) Level 1 – We have determined the fair value using quoted prices (unadjusted) from the Nairobi Securities Exchange. ii) Level 2 – The fair value of these balances is equal to their amortised cost. 33 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (GROUP AND COMPANY) The Group and Company manage its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the Group and Company did not have any borrowings. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 2017 2016 Sh ‘000 Sh ‘000 34 MINIMUM LIQUID NET-WORTH RQUIREMENTS (COMPANY) Estimated twelve months operating costs 604,029 585,009 ======= ====== Required minimum liquid net-worth at one half of estimated operating costs 302,015 292,505 ======= ======= Cash and cash equivalents and fixed deposits 417,739 478,174 ======= ====== To ensure that there is no significant risk that liabilities may not be met as they fall due, the Capital Markets (Derivatives Markets) Regulations, 2015 requires a futures exchange to maintain minimum liquid net-worth requirements equal to one half of the estimated gross operating costs of the futures exchange for the next twelve (12) month period or such other liquid net-worth amount as may be prescribed by the Authority. This has been met based on the above. NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 104 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC Discover Opportunity NOTICE OF THE 64TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE is hereby given that the 64th Annual General Meeting of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC (NSE) will be held at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC), Amphitheatre, Nairobi, on Wednesday, 30 May 2018 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business:ORDINARY BUSINESS 1. To read the notice convening the meeting, table the proxies received and confirm the presence of a quorum. 2. To confirm and adopt the minutes of the 63rd Annual General Meeting held on 31 May 2017. 3. To receive the Chairman’s Statement and the Chief Executive’s Report. 4. To receive, consider and, if thought fit, adopt the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon. 5. To approve a first and final dividend of Kshs. 0.30 per ordinary share in respect of the Financial Year ended 31 December 2017 and to approve the closure of the Register of Members at the close of business on 30 May 2018 for the purpose of determining the qualifying members entitled to dividends. 6. To approve the Remuneration Policy of the Company as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31 December 2017. 7. To approve the Remuneration Report of the Board as detailed in the Annual Report for the Financial Year ended 31 December 2017. 8. Election of Directors : a) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Michael Turner (a Non-Executive Director) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election; b) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mrs. Nasim Devji (a Director representing the Listed Companies) retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election. c) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Jimnah Mbaru (a Director representing the Trading Participants) retires by rotation and, having attained the age of seventy in terms of Clause 2.5.1 of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015, does not offer himself for re-election; d) In accordance with Clause 2.4.2 of the Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015, Dr. Winnie Nyamute, (an Independent Non-Executive Director), having served for nine years, retires from the Board at the conclusion of the 64th Annual General Meeting. e) In accordance with Articles 94 and 95 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. James Mworia (a Director representing the Listed Companies) retires by rotation and, although eligible, does not offer himself for re-election. 9. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act, 2015, the following directors, being members of the Board Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee be elected individually to continue serving as members of the said Committee: a) Mr. Hosea Kimutai Kili b) Mrs. Nasim Devji 10. To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) as the auditors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 721 of the Companies Act, 2015 and to authorize the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration for the ensuing Financial Year in accordance with the provisions of Section 724 of the Companies Act, 2015. ANY OTHER BUSINESS 11. To consider any other business of which due notice has been received. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD J L G MAONGA COMPANY SECRETARY DATE 4 May 2018 NOTICE OF THE 64TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (Continued) Note: 1. In accordance to Section 298 of the Companies Act, 2015, a member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A Proxy Form may be obtained from the Company’s website www.nse.co.ke, the Registered Office of the Company, Exchange Building, 5th Floor, 55 Westlands Road, P O Box 43633 – 00100, Nairobi, or from the offices of the Company’s Share Registrars, CDSC Limited, Nation Centre, 10th Floor, Kimathi Street, Nairobi; Email: registrar@cdsckenya.com. To be valid, a Proxy Form must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to the Shares Registrar on the above address so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which,it will be invalid. In the case of a corporate body, the Proxy Form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of duly authorised officers or an attorney of such corporation. 2. In accordance with Article 159 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a copy of the entire Annual Report and Accounts may be viewed at the Company’s website at www.nse.co.ke. 3. In accordance with Article 96 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a person seeking election at the Annual General Meeting should deliver to the Company Secretary at least seven (7) days prior to the day of the meeting, notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election and notice in writing signed by the person to be proposed, of his willingness to be elected as per the nomination papers, which may be accessed on the Company’s website at www.nse.co.ke. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC PROXY FORM Discover Opportunity I/ We,……….................…...................……., of……………………….....….....…….., being a shareholder/ shareholders of the above-named Company, hereby appoint……………………………….., of………………………………., or failing him…………...…….……....……... of…………………...............… as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 30th day of May 2018 and at any adjournment thereof. As witness my/our hand this……………. day of …............……………2018 Signed………………………………………….. Signed………………………………………….. This Form is to be used *in favour of/against the resolutions. Unless otherwise instructed, the proxy will vote as he thinks fit. *Strike out whichever is not desired. Note: i) To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be duly completed by the member and must be returned to the Shares Registrars CDSC Limited, Nation Centre, 10th Floor, Kimathi Street, Nairobi; Email: registrar@cdsckenya.com so as to arrive not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, failing which, it will be invalid. ii) In the case of a corporate body, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I/We ……..…………………………………………………of P. O. Box ……………….………………. being a shareholder(s) of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose …………………………………………...….… of P. O. Box ………….... ..................………….................….. for election as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting. SIGNED this ………………………………………day of ............................................…... 2018. SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF ) ) _____________________________________________ ) ) In the presence of: ) ) SEAL ) DIRECTOR ________________________ ) ) ) DIRECTOR/SECRETARY ______________________ ) PLEASE NOTE : 1) The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Independent Non-Executive Director”, “Non-Executive Director” and “Executive Director” as follows: “Independent Non-Executive Director” means a Non-Executive Director who: (i) has not been employed by the Company in an excecutive capacity in the 5 years immediately preceding his appointment as a director of the Company (ii) has not been a director of a Trading Participant in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the Company; (iii) has not been employed as a Trading Participant in an executive capacity in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the Company; (iv) has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant or with a person who is in the senior management of a Trading Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities exchange ; or (v) does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant. “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; “Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company; 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //109 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC CONSENT FORM FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR CONSENT TO ACT AS AN INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I ……………………...……………………….....………. of P. O. Box ……………………..……………. being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected. SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018. ................................................................................... SIGNATURE PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: “No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a Shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.” “Independent Non-Executive Director” means a Non-Executive Director who: (i) has not been employed by the Company in an excecutive capacity in the 5 years immediately preceding his appointment as a director of the Company (ii) has not been a director of a Trading Participant in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the Company; (iii) has not been employed as a Trading Participant in an executive capacity in the five years immediately preceding appointment as a director of the Company; (iv) has no personal service contract(s) with a Trading Participant or with a person who is in the senior management of a Trading Participant; is not a director or a member of the senior management of a company listed on the Company’s securities exchange ; or (v) does not own or hold shares in a Trading Participant. “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; “Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company; 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //111 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 112 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR TRADING PARTICIPANT NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A TRADING PARTICIPANT & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I/we ………………………………………………………of P. O. Box ………………..………………. being a shareholder(s) of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby give notice of our intention to propose ………………………………………………………..………………………… …….…...….… of P.O. Box …………......................………..….................….. for election as a Trading Participant & Non-Executive Director of the Company at the meeting. SIGNED this ………………………………………… day of……………………………, 2018. SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF ) ) __________________________________________ ) ) In the presence of: ) ) SEAL ) DIRECTOR _______________________ ) ) ) ) DIRECTOR/SECRETARY ____________________ ) PLEASE NOTE: 1) The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines a “Trading Participant” as a licensee of the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange; 2) Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides that:“A maximum of two (2) Directors shall be elected by the members from among or to represent the Trading Participants.” 3) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 pm Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P.O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //113 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE // 114 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC CONSENT FORM FOR TRADING PARTICIPANT CONSENT TO ACT AS A TRADING PARTICIPANT & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Discover Opportunity I……………………...…………………….....………. of P. O. Box ………………………………. being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as a Trading Participant & Non-Executive Director of the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected. SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018. .................................................................................... SIGNATURE PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: “No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.” 2) The Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC defines “Non-Executive Director”, “Executive Director” and “Trading Participant” as follows: “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; “Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company; “Trading Participant” means a licensee of the CMA with Rights to Trade at the Nairobi Securities Exchange; 3) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //115 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC NOMINATION FORM FOR LISTED COMPANIES NOTICE OF INTENTION TO PROPOSE A CANDIDATE FOR ELECTION AS A Discover Opportunity NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING LISTED COMPANIES I/We ………………………………………………………of P. O. Box ………………..………………. being a shareholder(s) of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC and duly qualified to attend and vote at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby give notice of my/our intention to propose ………………………………………………………..…………...….… of P. O. Box …………......................………..….................….. for election as a Non-Executive Director representing listed companies in the Company at the meeting. SIGNED this ………………………………………… day of……………………………, 2018. SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF ) ) __________________________________________ ) ) In the presence of: ) ) SEAL ) DIRECTOR _______________________ ) ) ) ) DIRECTOR/SECRETARY ____________________ ) PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 93 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides that: “… two Directors shall be elected by the members from among nominees of companies listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange to represent the listed companies.” “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; “Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company; 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //117 NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC CONSENT FORM FOR LISTED COMPANIES CONSENT TO ACT AS A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REPRESENTING Discover Opportunity LISTED COMPANIES I ……………………...…………………….....………. of P. O. Box ………………………………. being the person in respect of whom ………………………………………….…………………. of P. O. Box ……………………………………....……………….. has given notice of intention to propose as a candidate to be elected as a Non-Executive Director representing listed companies in the Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC at the Annual General Meeting to be held on the 30th day of May 2018, do hereby notify you of my willingness to be so elected. SIGNED this ………….. day of ....................................................., 2018. .................................................................................... SIGNATURE PLEASE NOTE: 1) Article 96 of the Articles of Association of Nairobi Securities Exchange PLC provides as follows: “No person, other than a Director retiring at a meeting, shall be eligible for appointment as a Director at any General Meeting, unless not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty one (21) days before the day appointed for the meeting, there shall have been delivered to the Secretary of the Company notice in writing signed by a shareholder duly qualified to attend and vote at the meeting for which the notice has been given, of his intention to propose such person for election, and notice in writing, signed by the person to be proposed of his willingness to be elected.” “Non-Executive Director” means a Director who is not an Executive Director; “Executive Director” means a Director who is appointed to be the holder of a full-time office of the Company pursuant to a contract of service with the Company, such office being one that entails involvement in the day to day management of the Company; 2) To be valid, this Nomination Form must be received by the Company Secretary; email: jmaonga@maongandonye.com by 5.00 p.m. on Tuesday, 22 May 2018. Nairobi Securities Exchange | 55 Westlands Road, P. O. Box 43633 00100 Nairobi, KENYA Tel: +254 20 2831000 Mobile: +254 724 253783 / +254 733 222007 | info@nse.co.ke | www.nse.co.ke NOTES NAIROBI SECURITIES EXCHANGE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 PAGE //121 PAGE // 122 C. T. Discover Opportunity W. E. Nairobi Securities Exchange | Annual Report 2017
