UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Communication on Progress 2017/ 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT 4 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 6 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 LABOUR 9 ENVIRONMENT 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION 18 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In Skagerak, we believe doing good for others is the best thing you can do for yourself. We see responsibility, sustainability and economic growth as each other’s prerequisites – not opposites – and it has long been our vision to give more back than we take. That’s why we signed up to the UN GLOBAL COMPACT initiative in 2010 – committing to help pursue the UN goals by implementing the universal sustainability principles in our way of doing business. We still believe in this commitment, and following the principles is the only right thing to do as a global company with an important corporate responsibility to lift. Each year we set out new goals to ensure a more sustainable future – build up around the 10 principles and 4 categories of engagement. Thus, with this year’s Communication on Progress, we wish to illuminate the challenges and opportunities that Skagerak meets through and within its global supply chain, and how we see it possible to continue doing profitable business that brings betterment to both people and our planet. Yours sincerely // Jesper Panduro, Owner and CEO in Skagerak OUR CODE OF CONDUCT As a renowned Danish design company, there is nothing more important to us than quality. Yet, the notion of quality should not only be measured by the usage of materials, the look and the functions; true quality is only achieved if a design is crafted under responsible conditions. To ensure that, our Code of Conduct (CoC) is a vital tool! The CoC is an agreement between us and our suppliers and it contains a multitude of requirements which they, their employees and sub-suppliers are expected to meet. In 2017, we joined Amfori’s Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – a common CoC shared amongst more than 2.000 European businesses. This gives us an even stronger and more consistent voice in ensuring proper labour rights and environment policies. BSCI’s Code of Conduct is founded on internationallyrecognised standards and principles such as the UNGP, OECD and the UN Global Compact as well. BSCI’s Code of Conduct was renewed in 2014 and contains 11 principles – all based on international standards and conventions formed by the UN, ILO and OECD amongst others. THE 11 COC PRINCIPLES THE 11 PRINCIPLES ARE AS FOLLOWS: To make sure that suppliers meet the A ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY requirements of the CoC, they are being Violations of principles and legislations 1) The Rights of Freedom of Association audited at regular intervals and are furthershould always be taken seriously – never and Collective Bargaining more required to perform self-assessments. tolerated. But the response to a violation Audit procedures are performed by indemight not always be the same. In most 2) Fair Remuneration pendent, third-party organizations approved cases, if Skagerak finds that a supplier is by BSCI – all with experience in the industry violating the principles, collaboration will 3) Occupational Health and Safety and geographical area and partnering with be terminated immediately. However, local specialists. the aim with the CoC is partly to help 4) Special Protection for Young Workers suppliers improve social and environmenIn general, Skagerak has been very satisfied tal standards. Therefore, some cases of 5) No Bonded Labour with the new opportunities presented by non-compliance are approached by creating its membership in Amfori. These opportuan individual development plan in coop6) Ethical Business Behaviour nities will be elaborated on throughout this eration with the supplier in order to bring COP report under all four themes of the things up to standard and achieve full com7) No Discrimination UN Global Compact. pliance with the violated principle(s). 8) Decent Working Hours Furthermore, the BSCI platform enhances the consequences of a zero-tolerance viola9) No Child Labour tion since all members will take a collection action at the same time. 10) No Precarious Employment 11) Protection of the Environment UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Out of the 17 SDG’s formulated in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Skagerak works actively with the following goals: Goal 01: No Poverty Goal 08: Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Goal 13: Climate Action Goal 15: Life on Land In the coming chapters on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, this COP will seek to highlight how exactly Skagerak works actively with these goals in its business strategy and everyday activities. HUMAN RIGHTS AIM ACTION AND RESULTS To respect human rights is a corporate Since Skagerak’s operations are bound by Skagerak has never been complicit in any responsibility. Especially in a time where both Danish and International legislation, human rights violations and will continue the link between business and human Human Rights are respected at all times to make an effort in regard to avoiding rights has become more evident than and at all levels. To make sure this is also such violations. Moreover, the company is ever, as the wave of globalization conthe case throughout the entire supply chain, fully committed to continuously stand up tinues forward and industrialization has Human Rights are included in the company’s for rights and equal treatment of all human moved on to new regions in the world. Code of Conduct. Through Amfori’s BSCI beings – with absolutely no exemptions and the common CoC, Skagerak thus hereof. Since joining the shared Code of Being a globally operating design comconducts regular due diligences to identify, Conduct through Amfori BSCI, Skagerak pany with business activities in both prevent and address human rights issues has experienced an increased awareness Europe and Asia, Skagerak recognizes its detected in the supply chain. Any violations on basic human rights in relation to forest responsibility to not just actively prevent of Human Rights are handled with zero management and production from its complicity in human rights violations – but tolerance. suppliers and sub-suppliers. This is in part also to promote the Universal Declaration because of the new audit systems and selfof Human Rights and encourage a change For Skagerak – a global company with a assessments, and the many free courses on in the communities it operates in. Over diverse supply-chain – much of the actual the subject provided by Amfori. the last decade, the regime of Business and work to ensure a positive relation between Human Rights has matured significantly. business and human rights are found in Skagerak endorses this development and the engagement in securing labour rights wish to proliferate the awareness of the and environmental protection. Thus, when UN Guiding Principles of Business and looking at the following actions under these Human Rights from 2011. subjects, they are intrinsically connected to overall human rights protection. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses — We respect and value all human beings and their rights as such. That’s why we stand by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights fully, and we make no difference in treatment regardless of race, gender, religion, age, political orientation or economic status. / Jesper Panduro, CEO LABOUR AIM ACTION AND RESULTS CHARITY WORK Skagerak intends to uphold all national To best provide an overview of actions In 2016, Skagerak started offering its emand international labour standards within and results related to the UN Global ployees the opportunity to carry out three its own operation and throughout its valCompact theme of “labour” – this report days of volunteer work with full pay each ue/supply chain. By ensuring a sustainable, is divided into sub-themes. year. The work must be done locally and fair and safe working environment in all reported back internally to the rest of the fields of its business, Skagerak wishes to company to spawn engagement and new raise the bar for how we think responsibility. ideas of purpose. If all employees take adThus, the goal is to help achieving SDG vantage of this opportunity, Skagerak will 1 – No poverty, SDG 8 – Decent work and be devoting more than 100 days of local economic growth, and SDG 12 – Responsible charity work a year – taking its responsibility consumption and production. as a middle-sized company seriously. Since Skagerak is producing its design in In the past year, 3 employees have carried many parts of the world, the company is out three days of charity work each, equal focusing on becoming more open about to 67,5 hours of work. In the future, Skagerak its supply chain and sourcing of materials is keen on encouraging its employees and – helping its customers and stakeholdincreasing the number of days spent on ers to better understand business in a charity in total with a goal of 2 days per globalized era, and what challenges and employee per year. opportunities it brings. Lastly, Skagerak is continuously working towards lowering the number of non-conformance reports – with zero cases of non-compliance being the ultimate goal. LABOUR TRANSPARENCY AND A GLOBAL LIVING WAGES different countries have already carried SUPPLY-CHAIN When the legal wage is too low it can out calculations of living wages in their reSkagerak endorses transparency when have a damaging and repressing effect spective regions. More suppliers are in the it comes to production and sourcing of on local communities and families, leading pipeline, and Skagerak is recommending materials in the design industry and ento a long string of negative side-effects. its suppliers to sign up to free seminars courages everyone to start thinking more Even a standardized minimum wage might provided by the BSCI. Here, representabout where their products are made, be too low at times, not covering the costs atives from the supplying (and audited) what they are made off and not least of basic needs in certain areas or seasons. companies are educated in fair remuneraunder what circumstances. That’s why the tion, basic management systems and how company has taken the first step towards As a consequence, Skagerak has decided to draft remediation plans. Skagerak’s own a more transparent supply-chain with the to initiate a dialogue about living wagemployees located in South East Asia has creation of an interactive world-map on es with its suppliers from the beginning likewise participated in BSCI’s 3-4-days their new website from this year, highlightof 2018. The notion of a ‘living wage’ is seminars on topics including living wages ing all the countries they are producing based a local calculation of the costs of and remediation. in, and what materials they mainly process basic needs such as housing, food, transthere. portation and clothes in a specific area. From these actions and results, Skagerak is taking its dedication to achieve SGD 1 This world map is just the first step, as Living wages are addressed in BSCI’s pre– ending poverty – seriously. the final aim would be to provide a comparing questionnaire for upcoming audits. prehensive presentation of all individual Thus, as Skagerak is having its suppliers suppliers in Skagerak’s value chain with adhere to BSCI’s code of conduct and publicly available audits from the producgetting audited by the organization – tion line. three significant suppliers in three LABOUR FSC TM AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As the next section will account for more LONG-STANDING PARTNERSHIPS Looking beyond Skagerak’s manufacturthoroughly, Skagerak’s share of FSC-certiWITH SUPPLIERS ers in its supply-chain, the company also fied wood has increased consistently over When it comes to the value-chain in South supports the empowerment and protecthe last 4-5 years. The company will conEast Asia, Skagerak has had long-standtion of workers’ and Indigenous’ rights in tinue its advocacy for decent working ing partnerships for up to 25 years with the forestry industry. This is only a natural conditions through this action and in its significant suppliers. These are based responsibility, as the major material used general by keeping it as an important on regular visits to the production sites, in Skagerak’s collection is wood. benchmark in its business strategy and honesty, and feasible economic results for vision. both parts. In general, Skagerak experiThe best for Skagerak to ensure these ences a consistency in its suppliers’ labour rights and protection of the workers and force from year to year – a good sign of their families is by procuring as much healthy working environments. Because wood as possible through FSC TM -certified of the good relations to its suppliers, forests. Skagerak has experienced a general satisfaction with the transition to BSCI’s code Through the FSC-certification, forest of conduct and a genuine interest if lifting owners are obliged to hire local workers the standards of the industry together. and provide them with proper education, equipment and salary. In some cases, they also commit themselves to support local communities – for example through development of schools. 1 Skagerak’s FSCTM certification number: NC-COC-012993, license number: FSCTMC004462 PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation — Happy, healthy and safe employees are crucial for our company to strive. It heightens productivity, secures a stability in quality and opens up new business opportunities. That’s why we year after year invest time and energy in making sure that we and our suppliers are maintaining a sustainable working environment, treating employees with the respect and dignity they all have the right to enjoy. / Sanne Rubæk, Partner and Chief operating officer ENVIRONMENT AIM Hence, the company strives to minimize ACTION AND RESULTS Although the global population and midits environmental footprint by optimizing To reduce its negative footprint on the dle-class are rapidly growing and our reits procurement, handling, transportation environment and spawn more green and sources are becoming increasingly scarce and disposal of resources. Furthermore, circular solutions for the design industry, – we continue to throw out or burn valuait is a clear strategy in Skagerak to help Skagerak are carrying out a wide range ble materials which could have been reits suppliers improving their production of simultaneously coordinated actions. or upcycled again and again. Skagerak processes in order to find new green To provide a full understand of these, the wants to change this pattern – making solutions. This goes in line with Skagerak’s chapter on environment in this COP report sure we get the most out of each and clear support for SDG 13 – climate action, is divided into sub-categories explaining every resource available. and SDG 15 – life on land. both actions and results. As such, environmentalism and economic growth does not necessarily have to be each other’s opposites. To Skagerak, ensuring a sustainable environment is equal to ensuring a stable and profitable business. Also, it seems more and more obvious that resource optimization and circular economy business models can be the key to continue economic growth while decreasing our material usage. ENVIRONMENT WASTE SORTING PRODUCT RECYCLING AND Furthermore, a new project of upcycling Last year, Skagerak succeeded with initiUPCYCLING WOOD IN NEW DESIGNS excess wood from a Danish floor-manuating a waste sorting system in warehouse In 2017, Skagerak launched the concept facturer through a new outdoor furniture in Denmark while also recycling used of ‘Reclassic’ through its flagship store in collection has been kick-started. To come hard-paper as filling in new shipments Copenhagen. Reclassic is a recycling platthrough successfully with this project still of to customers in Denmark and abroad. form of used Skagerak furniture bought takes some time as it requires a better This year, the headquarters in Aalborg back, renovated and sold again to new understanding of how to construct new and the flagship store in Copenhagen families. design with wood from another industry. have both implemented similar waste-sorting systems – distributing hard paper, Most of the first Reclassic collection has paper, plastic, bio-waste, metal and glass now been sold, and the company is activeto different containers. ly looking for more used furniture with the potential of being recycled. The long-term vision with Reclassic is still to establish a take-back scheme for all new products, motiving customers to take good care of their items, and motivating Skagerak to continue designing long-lasting and recyclable products from the start. To Skagerak, the shift from a linear to a circular economy is inevitable if we are to succeed with SGD 12 – sustainable consumption and production. ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE WOOD SOURCING – materials from Canada and the like. Fursignificantly over the next year or two. THE PROSPECT OF USING FSCthermore, Skagerak adhere to EU’s Timber Especially teak wood for the company’s CERTIFIED WOOD Regulation from 2013. This means that the indoor designs has been a challenge to Another important step related to at least company performs due diligences on all source hitherto – but this might change a handful of the global SDGs is to prevent shipments covered by the EUTR, to ensure now. illegal logging and the preservation of that the wood comes from legal sources. forest areas all over the world. That is why In total, Skagerak has experienced an Skagerak supports the Forest Stewardship In general, the limited availability of certi10.9 percent increase of its total share of CouncilTM by increasing the total share of fied wood with a high quality is still posing FSC-certified wood in its production – FSC TM -certified wood in its production a challenge to Skagerak in its goal of makgoing from 55% in 2017 to 61% in 2018. until reaching the ultimate goal of becoming sure that 100% of its wooden materials (Fig. 1) This marks the fifth consecutive ing 100% relying on FSC-certified wood are FSC-certified. Yet, this year, Skagerak year with an increase of FSC-certified is achieved. Doing so, the company helps has made some major improvements. wood in Skagerak’s production. making sure that no more trees are felled than the forest can reproduce – and that First, Skagerak is now able to source local communities, biodiversity and, as 99,9% of its Oak-wood from FSC-certified earlier mentioned, forest workers are treatforests. ed with respect. Second, Skagerak has signed two new Since the FSC certification is covering TM collaborations with suppliers of FSC-cersome areas of the world more thoroughly tified teak. These new partnerships give than others, Skagerak has found it helpSkagerak reason to believe that its total ful to also take in PEFC-certified wooden share of FSC-certified wood will increase ENVIRONMENT SAYING GOODBYE TO PLASTIC FROM SOLVENT-BASED LACQUER PRODUCTS TO WATER-BASED LACQUER Plastic has long posed a great challenge In 2018, Skagerak’s largest supplier of to the global environment as it seems to painted-wood has chosen to start using be filling up our oceans, beaches, forests a water-based lacquer. This is a huge and landfills in the form of waste. Proper improvement in terms of minimizing systems of recycling plastic are still not in health-risks and strengthening the enviplace and producing new plastic from ronmental protection as the conventional petroleum is in itself a great emitter of solvent-based lacquer a notoriously known CO2 and other greenhouse gasses. containing high levels of volatile organic compounds (VOC’s) that are air polluting From mid-2018, Skagerak has therefore and causing health issues by inferring decided to phase out its last furniture hazardous fumes. made from plastic. It might take a season or two before all products are sold-out, as Furthermore, a shift to water-based lacquer it obviously would be a waste of resources also equals less wastewater. Skagerak to throw them out immediately without is happy with this development and will utilizing its potential first. continuously be looking for more opportunities to impose green solutions with its suppliers. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies — Climate change might be the biggest threat to mankind of all times. We need to mitigate these changes urgently, but without comprising on the rising needs from the growing world population and global middle-class. That’s why it is crucial for the business world to learn how to do more with way less. Only by making economy and the environment go hand-in-hand can we pass down a more sustainable environment to our future generations. / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager ANTI-CORRUPTION AIM ACTION RESULTS Corruption, extortion and embezzlement Skagerak has its roots in Denmark, one of Skagerak is in no way involved in any form are often linked to economic underperthe countries in the world with the lowest of corruptive activities and distances itself formance, inequality and violation of hulevel of corruption. Therefore, corruption from such behavior. The company finds it man rights. At all times, Skagerak will back is by no means part of the business culture important to acknowledge the prevalence away from and speak against corruption in in general nor is it in any way part of how of corruption, as debating the issue may all its forms. By setting an example, SkagSkagerak chooses to conduct its business be the best way to start the fight against erak wish to urge anybody to do the same operations. Skagerak will never demonit. In this way, Skagerak promotes an in order to establish a business environstrate any form of corruptive behavior in environment where business can take place ment where anti-corruption is the norm, order to better its own situation nor is it under honest, fair and safe conditions for no matter which country is in question. willing to receive any form of bribery or all parts. Skagerak’s efforts have resulted in succumb to others’ attempts to exert corsome of the suppliers incorporating an antiruption. corruption clause in their business policies. This is a vital step in the right direction In practice, Skagerak’s adoption of BSCI’s towards preventing corruption. code of conduct – shared by more than 2.000 European companies – has made it Furthermore, the free seminars offered by easier for Skagerak to deal with corruptBSCI are posing a tangible opportunity for ed behavior if relevant. First of all, BSCI is Skagerak’s suppliers to learn more about now carrying out the audits of Skagerak’s anti-corruption and diffusing the values to suppliers where a method of ‘triangulathe rest of the industry. tion’ is taken into use, using several sources and data-sets to confirm the truth of information and the honesty of operations. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery — We need to break down the longtime taboo of corruption by engaging in open, constructive dialogue across industries and regions. Only by discussing the issue and acknowledging its existence we can come up with a solution needed. / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager Fig. 1
