Calvert Research and Management United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 2 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Calvert Research and Management (Calvert) is pleased to debt securities. The Fund invests primarily in senior floatingshare its 2017 joint United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) rate loans of domestic and foreign borrowers (“Senior and CEO Water Mandate (UN CEO Water Mandate) Annual Loans”). Senior Loans typically are of below-investmentCommunications on Progress. Since our last report in 2016, we grade quality and have below-investment-grade credit have undergone significant changes. On December 30, 2016, the ratings. These ratings are associated with securities having newly formed Calvert, a subsidiary of Eaton Vance Management, high risk, speculative characteristics. The Fund also may and its affiliates acquired substantially all of the business assets borrow from banks for the purpose of acquiring additional of Calvert Investment Management, Inc. (CIM). Calvert, based in income-producing investments (referred to as “leverage”). Washington, D.C, is a Massachusetts business trust and traces its The Fund may invest up to 35% of its net assets in foreign roots to Calvert Investments. senior loans. Calvert is also working on developing other ground-breaking innovative solution-oriented strategies across asset classes that foster both environmental and Today, the Calvert Funds are one of the largest and most social advancement. We look forward to sharing more diversified families of responsibly invested mutual funds, details on this work in 2018. encompassing actively and passively managed U.S. and international equity strategies, fixed-income strategies and ■■ Sustainability Accounting Standards Board asset allocation funds. The Calvert Funds are managed by Calvert in accordance with the Calvert Principles for Responsible Calvert supports the Sustainability Accounting Standards Investment (Calvert Principles), which provide a framework Board (SASB), which maintains sustainability accounting for Calvert’s evaluation of investments and guide Calvert's standards that help public corporations disclose material, stewardship on behalf of clients through active engagement decision-useful information to investors in mandatory with issuers. Calvert is the centerpiece of Eaton Vance’s filings. Increasing transparency helps investors better decision to expand into Responsible Investing. Calvert focuses understand the risks and opportunities associated with the on investment research, integrating environmental, social ESG challenges we face. In 2017, Calvert became a founding and governance (ESG) factors into investment decisions. This member of the SASB Alliance, a new membership program year, Calvert has continued to broaden its array of offerings, designed to foster a standardized process of sustainability to provide the largest range of options to meet client needs disclosure and effective integration of ESG considerations through financial planners, registered investment advisors, into investment practices, which shapes the future of how broker-dealers and global institutions. companies manage their material sustainability factors and how investors consider such factors. The SASB Alliance works As a signatory to the UNGC and an endorser of the UN CEO Water to explore best practices for companies and investors as Mandate, Calvert recognizes the importance of advancing ESG they leverage material sustainability information to improve issues such as water stewardship, human rights, climate change corporate performance. Since last year, I have served as a goals and anti-corruption. Since our biggest impacts come founding member of the SASB Investor Advisory Group, from the investments we offer and the research we conduct on composed of leading asset owners and asset managers companies, we have chosen to demonstrate our progress through committed to improving the quality and comparability of these impacts for both the UNGC Ten Principles and the Six Core sustainability-related disclosure to investors. Elements of the UN CEO Water Mandate in this combined report. Highlights from 2017 include: Calvert finalized a case study in November 2017 for SASB, linking its materiality matrix with the United Nations ■■ Calvert Floating-Rate Advantage Fund Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which appeared in its “ESG Integration Insights” publication and was As a disciplined first-of-its-kind ESG fund, we have taken a distributed at the SASB annual conference. Calvert’s pioneering step in advancing the industry when we launched mapping exercise identified common themes between the an investment bank loan fund in October, guided by the SASB Standards and the SDGs by matching each of SASB’s Calvert Principles. The Calvert Floating-Rate Advantage disclosure topics on financially material ESG issues and Fund is designed with an objective to provide a high level related accounting metrics, across SASB-defined sectors and of current income. The Fund can invest at least 80% of its industries to the SDGs and related targets. Calvert found net assets (plus any borrowings for investment purposes) in that a substantial portion – 71% – of SASB metrics map to income-producing floating-rate loans and other floating-rate the SDGs and their related targets. This helps us to identify Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 3 industries in which the SDGs are most likely to be financially energy storage, specialty polymers and pharmaceutical material and enables us to see a clearer path to investments synthesis. FMC is a major user of water, particularly as a most likely to achieve the SDGs and related positive societal producer of lithium products. outcomes, as well as those investments that may be better positioned to generate positive financial outcomes. ■■ Engaging the Marketplace Our initial assessment found 66% of SASB accounting I, along with others at Calvert, have been involved in metrics could be mapped to ESG data vendor indicators, reaching out to the marketplace to share our ideas and our with varying degrees of exactness (ranging from “proxy to vision for moving forward across a variety of venues and exact match”) . This insight brings to light the information locations. When I spoke at the SRI Conference in October, gap that exists between an evolving corporate disclosure I gave a plenary talk on global norms that addressed how environment and traditional investor resources. As the web system participants influence the network; or our life of disclosure requirements and standards for corporations together on the planet. The global norms I spoke of include: grows larger and more complex, finding commonalities between these standards can benefit companies and • The impact radical environmental changes are having stakeholders by distilling what is most relevant and on the human race, including the far reaching impacts material. of pollution, the largest environmental cause of disease and premature deaths, and ■■ Public Education • Inequalities that are threatening the Earth’s future. George Serafeim, the Jakurski Family Associate Professor I stressed how conference participants can influence at Harvard Business School, conducted joint research solutions such as strengthening transparency and with Calvert aimed at enhancing public education and disclosure via mechanisms such as SASB and the knowledge related to Responsible Investing and business SDGs in order to gain better information on the real practices. In August 2017, George Serafeim released a impact companies have on people and the planet. The new study finding sustainability disclosure helps to drive presentation was well-received by Responsible Investing investment decisions as investors use that information leaders and industry members. to sharpen company valuations relative to industry peers. The Serafeim study focused on companies that voluntarily disclosed ESG factors recommended by SASB. Stocks of Calvert also led or participated in sessions on substantive those companies were consistently found to trade less ESG topics like shareholder engagement and the metrics in line with their industries and the markets, indicating of materiality at that conference. Other venues where that the ESG factors provided investors with useful, we have sought to raise awareness included the AHC firm-specific information about growth prospects. The Group’s speaker series. We have the ability to influence the study’s results could provide a baseline for future required sustainability of high-impact companies there and through sustainable disclosure, and offer some clues as to how participation in Climate Week in New York City, as well as investor use of ESG factors may affect capital market though the United Nations Environment Program Finance pricing. Initiative (UNEP FI) North American Regional Roundtable, of which Calvert is a member of the Regional Advisory Board. As part of that effort, we are working to understand the ■■Influencing Corporate Behavior implications of the SDGs, for investors and how companies align with the work of UNEP FI to help financial institutions I joined FMC Corporation’s Sustainability Advisory Council develop products and services that support progress to the Board, where we collectively advise the company toward the realization of these goals. on sustainability issues and offer support as FMC makes progress in addressing water and its other areas of ESG ■■Impact Reporting risk. As the fifth-largest chemical producer in the world, it provides solutions that enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects, weeds and Calvert is pioneering impact reporting of ESG factors disease and, in nonagriculture markets, for pest control. in the U.S. mutual fund industry. As we consider such It is the third-largest producer of lithium products used in impacts and how to educate society on the significance of purchases, we want to increase the understanding of these 4 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress environmental and social product impacts. We also want to In presenting our annual progress on these initiatives, help investors recognize environmental and social portfolio shareholder advocacy and changes to our business, I would impacts relative to a benchmark and at the individual like to state Calvert’s ongoing support for the UNGC and its company level. We believe it is important to share how our important work as well as for the Ten Principles, which are portfolios are doing and the progress we are making, while closely aligned with the Calvert Principles. The Ten Principles encouraging investors and individuals to further consider are a guide for all corporations to follow and we use them as such findings. As transparency increases, so will the flow we advocate for corporate responsibility. I would also like to of information. To date, five of our funds are compared stress our continued support for the UN CEO Water Mandate to their equivalent benchmarks across carbon emissions, and its Six Core Elements. We have highlighted our progress water usage, toxic emissions and tobacco exposure. While and how we are addressing the Six Core Elements through our we plan to expand both the depth and the scope, we are responsible investments within the environment section of this off to a solid start. More details can be found at www. document. calvert.com/tool. Sincerely, John Streur President and CEO Calvert Research and Management CONTACT INFORMATION: CONTACT: Reed Montague TITLE: Assistant Vice President, ESG Research Analyst EMAIL: rmontague@calvert.com COMPANY: Calvert Research and Management Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 5 ANNUAL PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES During 2017, Calvert Research and Management (Calvert) made progress toward achieving the goals of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and CEO Water Mandate (UN CEO Water Mandate). For the UNGC, we discuss our progress across the Ten Principles in four issue areas: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. For each area, we assess our approach to each of the Ten Principles and discuss a variety of shareholder engagements, stakeholder partnerships and research initiatives that Calvert has conducted to support the Ten Principles and advance our vision of an equitable and sustainable world. The details on our progress for the UN CEO Water Mandate are in the environment section. Calvert believes that sound corporate governance and overall corporate sustainability and social responsibility characterize healthy corporations. A well-governed sustainable company meets high standards of corporate ethics and operates in the best interests of other stakeholders (employees, customers, communities and the environment). In our view, companies that combine good governance with corporate sustainability and social responsibility are better positioned for longterm success. Calvert developed a core set of engagement themes for 2017, which will be discussed in more detail below. We use analytical tools and sector knowledge to identify and select companies and issues within these broad themes. Our five priorities cover Labor and Human Rights, Diversity, Clean Energy, Clean Water, and Disclosure. Each lines up closely with the Ten Principles and/or the UN CEO Water Mandate. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment and Policy: For example, Calvert engaged with companies on human and labor rights in the supply chain and the opioid crisis. These Calvert actively engages with companies to influence positive two of the Ten Principles align with the Calvert Principles; social and environmental practices. Calvert’s engagement themes specifically: include Labor and Human Rights. Human rights are inherent to all human beings, no matter the country, location or background. More equitable societies and respect for human rights Each of us, including workers, deserves these basic fundamental rights. Both multinational and smaller companies increasingly must address and effectively manage such human rights risks ■■ Respect human rights, respect culture and tradition in local communities and economies, and respect within their own operations and throughout the supply chain as Indigenous Peoples’ Rights. well as review and closely supervise their own impacts. 6 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress ■■ Respect the health and well-being of consumers and suppliers. We also recommended that the company develop other users of products and services by promoting a human rights policy, which helps to set a direction for product safety. the company’s work and can address governance and accountability of the set of related issues. Kroger continues Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes: to make progress in understanding and addressing labor and human rights risks in its supply chain. Human and Labor Rights in the Supply Chain ■■ General Mills In 2017, Calvert engaged with Nike, Gap, Kroger and General Mills on human rights issues, primarily in supply chains: Calvert is a participant in a United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment collaborative engagement ■■ Nike with 31 investors, engaging 41 food and beverage producers and processors on improving implementation Calvert engaged with Nike as part of a stakeholder group of supply chain labor codes and standards. As part of providing feedback on the company’s reporting and its this effort, Calvert co-led an engagement with Walden approach to human rights issues. This year, we called upon Asset Management and General Mills on this topic. We Nike to better describe the impacts and outcomes of its were pleased to have an introductory call last February human rights programs and to explain why the company regarding General Mills’ program and efforts to track prioritizes the areas it does more clearly. For example, we and manage supplier social compliance. We plan to asked: Is prioritization based upon business exposure or continue to engage with the company in 2018 to learn impact on supply chain workers? The stakeholder group called more about progress. for more frequent reporting and for the reporting and the human rights program to extend deeper into the company’s Sexual and Reproductive Rights supply chain. The risk of forced labor is a particular issue that Nike needs to address in upcoming disclosure. We plan to Calvert co-signed an investors’ letter sent in December continue our collaborative engagement with the company as to Fortune 50 companies calling on them to continue to part of this stakeholder group. provide their employees with access to contraception and other reproductive health care benefits after the Trump ■■ Gap administration updated regulations enabling companies to seek an exemption from offering employee health insurance that Calvert is a member of Gap’s Public Reporting Working includes contraception. The letter reminded these businesses Group, which provides an opportunity to review drafts of that extending common sexual and reproductive health care Gap’s Global Sustainability Report. The most recent report benefits signals to employees and others that solid women’s was released in December 2017. The Gap's Public Reporting health policies are good for business, women and the economy. Working Group comments included the importance of addressing the challenge of unethical recruitment practices Investors for Opioid Accountability in the company’s supply chain. Unethical recruitment can involve exploitation where workers are required to pay fees Given the opioid crisis in the U.S. and Calvert’s exposure to to obtain employment. This practice could compromise pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, Calvert joined worker rights and freedoms. We also encouraged Gap to the Investors for Opioid Accountability (IOA). Launched in continue its efforts to strengthen sustainability in its cotton October 2017, the IOA grew to a coalition of over 35 investors supply chain, including environmental and labor issues. The with more than $1.3 trillion in assets by year-end. The IOA Gap's Public Reporting Working Group issued a statement is asking the independent directors of these boards at such for the report commending the company for various companies to investigate how they are responding to increasing elements of its reporting and encouraging further progress. risks related to opioids. The coalition formed because of the profound negative impacts to society from the opioid crisis and ■■ Kroger the risk to shareholder value of companies that are involved Calvert co-filed a shareholder proposal on human rights either as distributors or manufacturers of opioids. In December issues in Kroger's supply chain, a major food retailer, which 2017, we signed investor letters to both Depomed and operated more than 2,700 supermarkets as of January Mylan regarding specific governance reforms. The Depomed 2017. Calvert joined meetings with the company during letter included requests to create a compensation clawback the year. The discussions covered the company’s approach provision, refrain from excluding legal/compliance costs from to monitoring human rights risks in the supply chains of compensation metrics, create an independent investigation various products including agricultural commodities, fish and report, and form a stakeholder advisory council. Mylan’s and meat, and how the company assesses compliance of its letter included requests to address drug pricing transparency, Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 7 develop a misconduct clawback provision, conduct incentive for environmental and social risk management, including how to compensation reform, form a stakeholder advisory council mitigate risk to EPs signatory banks, and strengthen protections and report on lobbying activities. The coalition is waiting for for the rights of Indigenous Peoples and other local communities a response from both companies. We have been participating around the world. In October 2017, the EP Association committed in the IOA and expect to engage companies, along with other to revise the EPs over the next 18 months regarding climate investors, in 2018. change issues and Indigenous Peoples’ rights and will include external stakeholder consultation. It also plans to introduce a periodic review of the EPs going forward, so they can continue to Indigenous Peoples’ Rights be updated. The Investor and Indigenous Peoples Working Group, Calvert signed a February 2017 investor statement to banks to which Calvert belongs, is likely to provide input to this process. financing the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), a 1,172-mile-long Previously, numerous tribes, climate activists and civil rights underground pipeline in the U.S., beginning in the Bakken advocates came together in support of the DAPL being rerouted shale oil fields of North Dakota and continuing through South – with numbers swelling up to 10,000 onsite at the height of Dakota and Iowa to an oil tank farm in Illinois. This statement protests. In February, due to concerns over snow melt, flooding encouraged the banks financing the DAPL to address or and safety concerns, protestors were asked to disband and support the request of Standing Rock Sioux Tribe (SRST) leave the area. While the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in early to reroute the DAPL away from their treaty territory. The January initially had planned to prepare an environmental impact statement raised concern that if the DAPL’s projected route statement, President Trump instructed to conduct an expedited moved forward, the result would be escalation of conflict review and approve the process for the unbuilt section of the and unrest as well as possible contamination of the water DAPL. Subsequently, the Cheyenne River Sioux and the SRST supply and the financing banks might be implicated in such requested a judgment against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers controversies. and the DAPL, as both tribes get their water downstream from Calvert signed an Investor Statement, which was sent to the the pipeline. Ultimately, the court ruled in favor of the tribes in Equator Principles Association (EP Association) in October, a June over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ failure to perform an follow-up to the original investor statement sent to banks about adequate study of the pipeline’s environmental consequences the DAPL earlier in the year. This second Investor Statement when construction was first approved, and allowing the oil flow had over 160 signatories with over $1.7 trillion in assets under through the pipeline to continue, which began in May. Separately management and reiterated concern over the construction in December, the court ruled that Energy Transfer Partners, of the DAPL despite objections from the SRST as well as other the DAPL’s parent, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, must communities and landowners along the pipeline’s route. The develop an oil spill response for the stretch of pipe below the statement provided several recommendations to reinforce the Missouri River, which is due in April 2018. position of the Equator Principles (EPs) as industry best practice LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment and Policy: filed asking companies to develop codes of conduct that address labor relations issues, including use of child labor, forced labor, Companies’ treatment of their workers can have a pervasive safe working conditions, fair wages and the right to freedom of effect on the performance of the enterprise, as well as on the association, and collective bargaining. The UNGC labor principles communities and societies where such companies operate. Calvert are also represented in the Calvert Principles; specifically: believes that well-governed, responsible corporations treat workers fairly in all locations and avoid exploitation of poor or marginalized Advance women and minorities at people. We closely follow the International Labour Organization’s board and managment levels. core labor standards, which are important components in our labor advocacy decisions. Shareowner resolutions are sometimes 8 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress ■■ Respect consumers by marketing products and services including office and clerical workers and service workers. This in a fair and ethical manner, maintaining integrity in lack of diversity at all levels of the corporate enterprise can stifle customer relations and ensuring the security of sensitive the free expression of diverse perspectives and insights, reducing consumer data. the level dynamism, adaptability to change and, ultimately, competitive advantage. Furthermore, women and people of color ■■ Promote diversity and gender equity across workplaces, have long been subject to discrimination. marketplaces and communities. ■■ Demonstrate a commitment to employees by promoting Calvert Diversity Report development, communication, appropriate economic Since 2012, Calvert has tracked the progress of gender diversity opportunity and decent workplace standards. among the multinational companies of the Standard & Poor's 100 Index (S&P 100), publishing the results in our biennial report, The Implementation and Outcomes: Calvert Diversity Report: Examining the Cracks in the Ceiling. In our Diversity view, gender diversity not only fosters innovation and growth but Companies play a vital role in determining the equality of conveys distinct financial benefits to the corporate bottom line. opportunity in the U.S. through their achievement of diversity Our 2016 survey results (published in our 2017 report) reveal and fairness at every level of the organization and their some progress in the boardroom, but show considerable room for protection of their employees. Our diversity engagement improvement among the S&P 100 executive ranks: theme addresses advancing women and minorities at board and management levels. At Calvert, we monitor this with our ■■ Every company in the S&P 100 has at least one woman on engagement on issues like diversity, living wage and executive its board of directors and, 93% have at least two. compensation. Calvert also produces a biennial study on the diversity and related policies and practices of large companies, ■■ Of S&P 100 companies, 47 have a board composed of at least 25% women. designed to identify trends as well as corporate best practices. ■■ A full 41% of S&P 100 companies still do not have any By engaging with corporations and focusing on improving women in their five highest-paid executive positions. diversity and equality, investors can help to take the critical steps needed to bring all people together, realize the potential Our findings related to lack of women at the highest-paid of our society and strengthen companies' business interests executive positions are particularly concerning, as these over the long term. positions often form the pipeline for board membership. Women and minorities are still significantly underrepresented in As part of the research for the report, Calvert expanded its the ranks of senior corporate management and other high-income scope from the S&P 100 to survey the Standard & Poor's 250 positions and overrepresented in the more poorly paid categories, Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 9 Index with a detailed research survey. Forty-two large U.S. either no women or one woman on the board of directors. companies responded with information about their programs The Coalition advocates for diversity, inclusive of race and and practices. This engagement with these 250 companies gender on corporate boards. Since 2012, the Coalition’s communicates to the companies that diversity is important to institutional investors have collaboratively engaged with investors, highlights best practices and encourages companies more than 150 companies that have appointed a woman to continue to improve their programs. to their boards, in many instances a woman of color, for the first time. These letters highlight the growing investor Board Diversity Engagement appreciation of the value of board diversity. Over the past 10 years, Calvert has filed 87 shareholder Working with the Coalition and engaging other companies proposals at 73 companies calling for board diversity; now on its own, Calvert is filing shareholder resolutions on board more than 80 women and 15 minorities serve on these boards. and employee diversity with various companies for the 2018 Calvert's diversity research and shareholder advocacy have annual shareholders’ meetings on these issues. catalyzed dialogue and action around gender equality, not only as a societal concern, but also as a business imperative. Calvert supported progress on labor practices by co-filing resolutions regarding minimum wage at Panera Bread, Companies with greater gender diversity in their top where we joined a shareholder proposal asking the board ranks have been shown to have competitive advantages of directors to adopt principles for minimum wage reform, and stronger financial performance. Calvert engages with recognizing that a sustainable economy must ensure a companies on their diversity policies and assesses diversity minimum standard of living necessary for the health and performance as part of our investment analysis. general well-being of workers and their families. Panera's 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, issued in Calvert filed two board diversity shareholder resolutions for June 2017, included a discussion of compensation and the the 2017 proxy season that we withdrew after successful company's efforts to augment wages and benefits. engagements. Zillow Group added specification of diversity of “gender, race and ethnicity” among the qualities the board By engaging with corporations and focusing on improving seeks in its director search. The company also added April diversity and equality, investors can help to take the critical Underwood to the board, though the company stated that steps needed to bring all people together, realize the bringing Ms. Underwood on to the board was in process prior potential of our society and strengthen companies' business to Calvert’s engagement. Meanwhile, Dentsply Sirona updated interests over the long term. its nominations and governance committee charter to include diversity of race and gender as factors in its board member Rising inequality, and the danger it represents, is a critical searches. In addition, the company will report annually on its challenge faced by responsible investors. Without tackling progress in implementing its policy of inclusiveness. this issue, we believe the economy and society will never reach their full potential. Calvert and other institutional investors as members of the 30% (Coalition) signed and sent letters to 76 companies with 10 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ■■ Mitigate impact on all types of natural capital. Assessment and Policy: Calvert believes that all corporations have an impact on ■■ Diminish climate-related risks and reduce the environment. Our engagement theme for clean energy carbon emissions. promotes clean energy and energy productivity and reduced air pollution. We seek to support investment opportunities focused ■■ Drive sustainability innovation and resource efficiency on environmental sustainability and engage with companies through business operations or other activities, products to strengthen their values and practices on environmental and services. protection. We seek to promote and support corporate leaders that focus on the advancement of environmental sustainability Implementation and Outcomes and resource efficiency. The UNGC environmental principles are Power Forward 3.0 also represented in the Calvert Principles; specifically: Calvert, CDP, Ceres and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) published Power Forward 3.0, the third research report that evaluates Environmental sustainability clean energy commitments made by Fortune 500 companies, and resource efficiency in April 2017. Power Forward seeks to inform companies, investors, the electric power sector, and state and federal ■■ Reduce the negative impact of operations and practices policymakers on key trends and preferences among large on the environment. corporations taking action to reduce emissions and use renewable energy. It also is intended to encourage companies ■■ Manage water scarcity and ensure efficient and equitable access to clean sources. in and out of the Fortune 500 to better understand the need, for and benefits of, renewable energy and emissionsCalvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 11 reduction commitments. The analysis we did in developing related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). TCFD is a global, high-level the report has helped strengthen Calvert’s understanding of task force of companies and investors convened by the G20 how and why companies make clean energy commitments, and the Financial Stability Board to help define disclosure which is relevant to our investment analysis and our standards for companies related to climate change, including shareholder and public policy engagement. an emphasis on forward-looking analysis. This report was referenced publicly after the U.S. exited the Calvert filed shareholder proposals on energy and climate Paris Agreement in June 2017. The Power Forward 3.0 survey change with four companies for the 2017 proxy season findings reflect the stepped-up climate efforts of corporate after sending letters to 18 companies earlier in the year. America. The Fortune 500's goals have become increasingly This established productive dialogues with CenterPoint ambitious in recent years as more companies seek to align Energy, Nucor Corp. and Danaher Corp. to address their their climate and energy goals with science-based targets. respective disclosure of energy and greenhouse gas emissions The new Science-Based Targets initiative is calling on management and performance, and to encourage the companies to demonstrate their leadership on climate action companies to improve their performance and reduce their by publicly committing to science-based greenhouse gas environmental footprints. We co-filed a proposal at AES Corp., reduction targets. Science-based targets utilize the best a major independent power producer, asking the company to available climate science to define a company’s appropriate assess the business in the context of the international focus share of emissions reduction in limited global temperatures on limiting climate change warming to 2 degrees Celsius. to below 2 degrees Celsius. The proposal earned 40 percent support from shareholders. Calvert will continue its engagement with corporations to Environment Shareholder Resolutions encourage them to pursue energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. Climate and energy issues have remained a focus of investors, companies and political bodies. These issues moved further Either on its own, or as part of stakeholders groups, Calvert into the mainstream of the investment field with the release engaged with numerous other companies in substantive of final reports and guidance by The Task Force on Climatedialogue on climate and energy issues during 2017, including General Electric, Republic Services, Air Products, General Motors and Ford Motor Co. Calvert also provided its perspective on energy and climate issues to companies via speaking engagements at corporate conferences and meetings, including events hosted by the National Association of Environmental Managers and AHC Group, where we spoke on improving sustainability of high-impact companies. Calvert Global Energy Index Corporations can play a critical role toward ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy by implementing organization-side, science-based targets for reducing emissions, and publicizing these targets as noted above. Pursuing energy efficiency and renewable energy can both reduce demand and lower costs. Calvert examines energy companies through the Calvert Global Energy Research Index, composed of companies that manage energy use in a sustainable manner or are actively engaged in facilitating the transition to a more sustainable economy through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the expanded use of renewable energy sources. Photo by Reed Montague 12 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress As the environmental advantage of corn ethanol versus Calvert signed several investor letters in March and June to gasoline is unclear, in 2017, Calvert reduced its exposure to 20 restaurant companies as part of the FAIRR Initiative. By corn ethanol in the Calvert Global Energy Research Index. November 2017, the following outcomes to this engagement were reported: Environmental Media Association ■■ Nineteen out of 20 companies now have a policy or are The Environmental Media Association (EMA) plays a vital role expected to release one shortly. in inspiring others to act in ways that drive positive outcomes ■■ Sixteen of 20 (80%) companies now have a publicly for the environment. Members of the EMA are innovators available policy on antibiotics. This is a remarkable shift who understand the power of media and entertainment in from the start of the engagement in early 2016, when only the quest to inform the public about the need to protect and one company had a regional policy on antibiotics use. preserve the environment. ■■ Of the four companies without publicly available Calvert sponsored the EMA’s 2017 Inaugural Impact Summit, policies, only one (U.K.-based Greene King) has a comprehensive “pharmaceutical use in agriculture” which sought to bring awareness and education to the green policy for supplier use only; two others (U.S.-based space. Hollywood joined influential speakers, panelists and DineEquity and Texas Roadhouse) have committed to activists seeking to create positive social change in the world. releasing a policy in 2017. John Streur gave a keynote address on investor activism and encouraged attendees to continue to make a difference ■■ Only one company – Bloomin’ Brands, owner of brands in a period of unprecedented change, as they support and such as Outback Steakhouse and Carrabba’s Italian Grill influence corporations to do the right thing. – has no publicly available policy and has not indicated any plans to develop one. The company did not respond to repeated information requests from investors. In September, Calvert served as a sponsor for the 27th annual EMA awards. These awards recognize those who lead the way Nutrition in increasing public awareness of environmental issues and inspire personal action on these issues through their work Calvert led a joint dialogue on behalf of a group of investors in the entertainment industry. These categories covered from the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) feature and documentary films, television episodic drama and and co-led an Access to Nutrition Index (ATNI) dialogue with comedy, and reality and children’s television. John Streur is an CCLA in London and Canada-based NEI Investments with The EMA board member and served as a judge in the documentary Coca-Cola Company (Coca-Cola). With a new CEO taking over film category. Each of the four entries in that category dealt in 2017, the company is making some large changes and is with impacts our industrial society has on the environment revisiting many of its more traditional ways of conducting and provided insight into issues that our society faces and the business. It is shifting its product lineup to better match people making enormous efforts to address the devastation. current consumer tastes and diversifying beyond soda. Emphasis is on offering healthier options in smaller packages, FAIRR Engagement sugar-free beverages and those with alternative ingredients. It is also moving beyond its traditional Coke and Diet Coke In October 2017, Calvert, in conjunction with The FAIRR (Farm products. As a result of our dialogue, we learned that ATNI’s Animal Investment Risk & Return) Initiative and a group of 62 focus on nutrition is in line with the direction the company is global investors representing $2.3 trillion in combined assets, moving in and that Coca-Cola directly revised its responsible signed an Investor Statement on Antibiotics Stewardship marketing policy as a result of prior ATNI questions, which urging targeted restaurant companies to limit the use of was broadened to incorporate that the company follows the antibiotics to therapeutic purposes only. The FAIRR Initiative International Chamber of Commerce Code with respect to provides investors with a platform to engage collaboratively responsible marketing to all consumers. We will continue to with the food sector on ESG risks such as antibiotics’ use in engage with the company as part of an investor group. livestock supply chains. John Streur was quoted in support of the engagement with the restaurant sector to limit the use of antibiotics. Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 13 UN CEO WATER MANDATE 2017 Annual Communication of Progress Calvert supports water sustainability and the Six Core Elements of the UN CEO Water Mandate through our shareholder advocacy efforts and policymaking initiatives. We highlight our most significant impacts across the Six Core Elements – direct operations, supply chain and watershed management, collective action, community engagement, public policy and transparency and disclosure. Calvert had five engagement themes in 2017 with companies, one of which was clean water. During the reporting period, we directly engaged with a variety of companies on how they can reduce corporate exposure to water risk and impacts to water quality. DIRECT OPERATIONS Investment Criteria with larger and more stable companies compared to peer indexes, the Calvert Global Water Research Index provides a Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment comprehensive approach to investing in water that addresses both supply and demand sides of the system, recognizing that The Calvert Principles for Responsible Investing guide all of there are many firms outside the traditional water sector Calvert’s responsible index investment strategies and many of its contributing to the alleviation of water challenges from a actively managed ones. Investing in accordance with the Calvert variety of perspectives. Through its selection criteria, the Principles is our most powerful and direct tool for reducing Calvert Global Water Research Index highlights leadership in water-related risks and capitalizing on water-related water efficiency in the most water-intensive sectors, identifies sustainability opportunities. As one of the central Calvert premier water utilities, infrastructure, and technology Principles revolves around ideals to manage water scarcity and providers, and rewards companies that are dedicated to ensure equitable and efficient access to clean water sources for improving water quality, protecting water ecosystems, all, Calvert strives to achieve these goals directly through its implementing integrated resource management, and achieving investment activities. We seek companies that align with these access to clean drinking water and sanitation services. The values through the application of the Calvert Principles to the Calvert Global Water Research Index includes stocks of investment process to identify companies that are wellcompanies that manage water use in a sustainable manner or positioned not only to enhance long-term value for shareholders, are facilitating the move to a more sustainable economy. We but also to provide innovative solutions to critical global water anticipate that water investments should continue to benefit problems as water becomes an increasingly scarce resource. from the global need to update the world’s aging infrastructure, including related areas of water treatment, Calvert Global Water Research Index waste management and technology development. Calvert believes that there is a growing need for water investment, as technologies and infrastructure to clean and This year, we chose to eliminate coverage of the soft drink deliver potable water are increasing worldwide. The industry as a potential industry in the Calvert Global Water necessity to update aging infrastructure throughout Research Index, as it takes a significant amount of water to developed nations and create new infrastructure, produce an unhealthy product that is not aligned with the particularly in developing countries, is anticipated to rise. As value of water. In addition, soda is typically sold in plastic developed and emerging economies continue to expand, bottles that are frequently thrown away rather than recycled, corporations’ investment and upgrades to their water where they can ultimately adversely impact ocean health. equipment should also continue to meet increased demand. The recent extreme weather in the United States highlights Education the global need for improved infrastructure, particularly with regard to freshwater supplies and emergency solutions Calvert’s commitment to the principles of the UNGC is evident in for water treatment and filtration. our continued pursuit to educate and advocate for Responsible Investing within the industry. The Calvert Global Water Research Index is an embodiment of the Calvert Principles. Offering less concentrated constitutents 14 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress Calvert publishes periodic articles on our website and and provided examples of key performance indicators and elsewhere to generate public awareness on water and related corporate leaders in water stewardship. issues, and develop industry insights and best practices for investing in water-related companies, and shares the impacts Calvert also spoke in March to companies, investors and of our advocacy. nonprofits at the Innovation for Sustainable Agriculture Conference in Washington, D.C. The session addressed the To complement Calvert’s written educational efforts, Calvert investor perspective on water-related risks in the supply chain staff spoke at a January AHC Group conference in Arizona on why for food and agribusiness companies. Calvert informed the the sustainable use of water matters in the global context and attendees that we look for board oversight of material water risks how the natural resource is financially material for companies. and expect companies to conduct water risk analyses that extend Additionally, Calvert described how we assess company throughout their value chain. We also look for companies to work performance on water risk and use in our subindustry models, with the growers in their supply chains to become more efficient in their water use. SUPPLY CHAIN AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT As a responsible investor, we encourage the companies we hold reduce water use and impacts in their own operations and then to understand their entire supply chain impacts and to improve supply chains, progressively more challenging for companies. watershed management. Supply chain water management practices can play an instrumental role in promoting water Calvert continued its engagement with companies in the food efficiency and mitigating risks of water scarcity, especially in and agricultural sectors in 2017. water-intensive industries such as agriculture. As populations increase and climate change and drought negatively affect ■■ Dean Foods crop yields, food insecurity persists. As a result, sustainable Dean Foods is one of the largest U.S. producers of agricultural supply chains are becoming more important to dairy products. Calvert played a lead role as the filer of business and society. Proper water risk management policies shareholder resolution on water. We engaged via resolution are the first step to ensure sustainable agriculture and Calvert’s in late 2014 and again in 2015. Discussions continued in shareholder advocacy supports this belief. 2016. The dialogue covered the company’s objectives and process for reducing water use in its own facilities. Supply Chain Engagment Throughout, Calvert emphasized water-related risk in the company’s supply chain and on the farms that produce the Calvert continued its engagement with companies in the food milk, which is a primary raw ingredient for the company’s and agricultural sectors in 2017. products. The company’s 2017 water report to CDP demonstrates progress in these areas. As investor interest in ESG matters increases, water has emerged as a specific area of focus for investors and The company has the challenge of a broad supply chain companies. The World Economic Forum ranked water scarcity with potentially thousands of farmers feeding into among the top five global risks in The Global Risks Report its manufacturing operations. Dean Foods is taking a 2017, which catalogues the trends that global economic watershed-level approach to understand risks in its own leaders believe are most important in shaping development operations and intends to assess which river basins are during the next ten years. material to its business. The company states that it will assess ecosystem health as part of this analysis. We look Water is of particular importance for companies in the forward to seeing its progress in future reporting. packaged foods and meats sector. SASB disclosure standards for food and agricultural products include significant emphasis ■■ Hormel on water in both manufacturing and company supply chains. Major customers, including Wal-Mart and Sisco, are asking food Calvert co-filed a shareholder proposal at Hormel, producers how they manage their environmental risks and which agreed to develop a comprehensive sustainable impacts, further strengthening the case. agriculture policy, strengthen its assessment of water risk, gather water quality data and develop time-bound Our engagement begins with asking companies to report on goals for water quality improvements at the supplier of their risk exposure in their own operations and supply chains, commodities and supplier manufacturing plants in highthen moves on to a discussion of policies and programs to risk water regions. Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 15 ■■ Sanderson Farms In each case, we have asked about governance of water risk, progress in reducing risks and impacts in manufacturing plants Calvert continued its dialogue with Sanderson Farms, and other operations, and the work the companies have done a large poultry producer, on water impacts in direct with growers and suppliers. We intend to continue to engage operations and the extent of programs with the with these companies in the future. company’s contract growers and suppliers. Sanderson Farms’ latest sustainability report shows evidence that it Watershed Management has reduced water use in its production and processing Calvert engaged with General Electric in 2017, where, as part facilities and describes its wastewater treatment process. of a broader dialogue on a range of ESG issues including The company still has not disclosed steps it takes with water management performance, we asked specific questions contract growers or suppliers related to their water risks. regarding its ongoing clean-up of Superfund sites located on the Hudson and Housatonic Rivers. While the company has ■■ Other Company Engagement made significant progress in cleaning up the Hudson River, GE Calvert has engaged in dialogue with: is still working towards full remediation. Meanwhile, it is also working with regulators to finalize its Rest of River cleanup plan • Ingredion, a manufacturer of sweeteners, starches to continue remediation of the Housatonic River. The company and nutrition ingredients made from corn. affirmed its commitment to make progress in both areas, but some questions remain about these efforts. Nonetheless, • Pinnacle Foods, a packaged food company whose products include Birds Eye. Calvert plans to continue its discussions on water and other topics with General Electric going forward. • Bunge, a global agricultural commodities trader with a global supply chain. COLLECTIVE ACTION Calvert has a long tradition of working collectively to achieve Calvert participated in two multi-stakeholder dialogues with common goals, be it initiating collaborative shareholder auto manufacturers on improving material ESG disclosures and engagements with other ESG firms or advocating for public management of key risks including water management. While policy on behalf of nonprofit organizations or other relevant Calvert can publicly talk about many engagements we participate stakeholders. in, sometimes, we are asked to keep them confidential and more details will likely be released by the companies in the near future. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND PUBLIC POLICY Calvert continues to exercise leadership in various multi(EP Association) an environmental and social risk management stakeholder forums to help define, advance, educate and framework utilized by 91 banks in 37 countries. We then communicate about water risk and opportunity. In 2016, we collaboratively wrote directly to the EP Association in the fall supported the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe (SRST) as it sought to request that measures be taken to maintain the credibility to protect critical water ecosystems from the pollution of of the Equator Principles (EPs) and ensure banks have the tools potential oil and gas pipelines. In recognition of the SRST’s necessary to respond to situations like the DAPL in the future. commitment to preserve sacred lands and maintain its only Thus, implementing various recommendations would help source of clean drinking water, Calvert joined with investors better support the EP Association’s efforts to improve the and numerous tribal nations in calling for alternatives to the quality of projects financed by its members and reinforce the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) that do not impact the SRST’s position as industry best practice for environmental and social water source. As part of that effort, Calvert and many other risk management. investors signed an investor statement in February that went to 17 banks over the financing of the DAPL. Thirteen of the Since the earlier investor statement to banks financing the 17 banks that participated in that original project loan to the DAPL, a federal court ruled partially in favor of the SRST as it DAPL were signatories to the Equator Principles Association sought to protect its drinking water and ancestral lands from 16 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress the DAPL. It determined that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers This year, Calvert did not initiate or support any public policy approved the DAPL without adequately considering the impacts issues related to water. of an oil spill on hunting and fishing rights or environmental justice. TRANSPARENCY Calvert’s research often sheds light into areas where companies companies encouraging climate risk disclosure and four can improve their ESG commitments. We encourage the companies encouraging water risk disclosure. Overall, the companies we invest in to make positive change and tangible coalition reached out to 450 companies across the climate progress in the way they do business. Our engagements seek to change, water and forests disclosure programs of CDP. Forty-nine achieve bottom-line impact, with many companies reporting an of the companies this group of investors wrote to responded to increase in operating efficiencies. CDP. Calvert reached out to an additional 11 companies on water matters in 2017, seeking to begin or continue dialogues. Calvert participated in a collaborative initiative coordinated by CDP and, as part of this, took the lead in writing to nine Background Photo by Reed Montague Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 17 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment and Policy: Calvert has worked with The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment (US SIF) and the Ceres Investor Network Corruption can be insidious and an obstacle to economic and to engage policymakers to make our position clear. Calvert social development around the world. It can also pose significant legal and reputational risks. Corruption can also cause inequality will continue to track policy and regulatory developments and and increase poverty, particularly in certain countries. When speak out when shareholder rights and progress on corporate companies follow good governance practices, they are less sustainability are at stake. likely to face corruption issues. Therefore, Calvert recognizes the importance of anti-corruption issues along with broader The voice of responsible investors needs to be heard on Capitol Hill governance issues. This year, in addressing disclosure, we have as well as in company boardrooms. Calvert will continue to engage been particularly engaged around improving disclosure of material government officials to help protect investor interests. ESG matters. The UNGC anti-corruption principles are also represented in Calvert’s Principles, specifically: Conflict Minerals Rule Accountable governance and Calvert met with representatives to describe investor interest in transparent operations the Conflict Minerals Rule, Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, as its value was challenged in 2017. ■■ Provide responsible stewardship of capital in the best interests of shareholders and debtholders. Calvert recognizes the successful role the Conflict Minerals Rule has already played in addressing the material risks ■■ Exhibit accountable governance and develop effective boards many U.S. companies face in their supply chains. The rule has or other governing bodies that reflect expertise and diversity helped create a certification process that has fed a market for of perspective, and provide oversight of sustainability risk and opportunity. certified conflict-free minerals at a fraction of the compliance costs originally estimated, according to a credible report from ■■ Include environmental and social risks, impacts and Elm Sustainability Partners, an auditing firm with expertise performance in material financial disclosures to inform in conflict minerals, and provided investors globally with shareholders and debtholders, benefit stakeholders and important information regarding material human rights risks contribute to strategy. about issuers. ■■ Lift ethical standards in all operations, including in dealings with customers, regulators and business partners. Exposure and contributions (even if unintentional) to human rights abuses and conflict create operational and reputational ■■ Demonstrate transparency and accountability in addressing risk for companies. Companies with operations or supply adverse events and controversies while minimizing risks and chains in areas of conflict represent increased investment building trust. risk because violence may disrupt business activities, and the policy and regulatory environment is less predictable given Implementation and Outcomes: that national and local governments are also disrupted by the conflict. The Conflict Minerals Rule has helped investors The government plays a key role in business and investing by understand individual corporate exposure to these risks and creating the regulatory and legal environment in which companies the steps companies are taking to mitigate them. Calvert has operate. Part of Calvert's engagement strategy includes working incorporated this information directly into our investment with regulators and policymakers to ensure that officials are research and decision-making. informed about our position on critical issues. Both on our own, and as a part of larger coalitions, we make our voices heard. Issues In April 2017, the SEC suspended enforcement of the Conflict we addressed in policy work included shareholder rights, conflict Minerals Rule, meaning companies will no longer need to minerals and revenue transparency. conduct a due diligence review or an audit until the guidance on the rule has been settled. However, companies will still be Legislation in the U.S. Congress and proposals for changes at the U.S. required to perform Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiries Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) threaten the ability of (RCOIs) to demonstrate conformance to the Organization both large and small shareholders to bring important issues forward for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)’s Due and to be active participants in the governance of the firms held in Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals their investment portfolios. 18 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. While there have Disclosure been some challenges to the regulatory landscape in the U.S., Calvert filed three shareholder proposals requesting reporting on we continue to believe use of conflict minerals represents a ESG matters for the 2017 proxy season. material risk. Meanwhile, the European Union (EU) recently passed a regulation that will generally require importers of tin, ■■ We refiled proposals with health care companies Ensign tantalum, tungsten and gold (“3TG”) into the EU to establish Group and Acadia Healthcare. Acadia, which manages more management systems to support due diligence, conduct than 500 behavioral health care facilities with the capacity due diligence and make certain disclosures concerning the to care for more than 17,000 patients, agreed to disclose 3TG that they import into the EU. This rule will be effective sustainability information on its website. Dialogue with the in 2021 and will ensure that EU importers of these minerals company has focused on patient safety and quality of care, meet international responsible sourcing standards, set by along with employee safety. OECD; ensure that these smelters and refiners of 3TG source responsibly; help break the link between conflict and illegal ■■ Following dialogue during 2016, we filed a proposal at exploitation of minerals; and help end exploitation and abuse Texas Roadhouse, a casual dining restaurant with 86 of local communities, including mine workers and the support locations as of year-end 2016. The company prioritizes its of local development. workplace culture and role in the community, though there is little disclosure to enable investor understanding of the Anti-Corruption Provision, Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Act company’s approach or performance. Calvert attended In February 2017, the U.S. Congress used the Congressional the 2017 annual meeting and the company committed to Review Act to overturn a proposed SEC rule that was a longproduce a description of its sustainability program. delayed attempt to implement Section 1504 of the DoddFrank Act (the Cardin-Lugar anti-corruption provision). Calvert ■■ In April 2017, electric utility OGE Energy followed through spoke with key legislative offices in an effort to oppose the on its commitment to Calvert to strengthen its disclosure repeal of the rule. Section 1504 was intended to help investors of sustainability programs including its efforts related understand a set of risks to the securities of oil, gas and mining to improving air quality, adding renewable energy to its companies ranging from volatility in commodity pricing to generation mix and workplace safety. acute social, political and regulatory risks related to natural resource extraction in countries with poor governance. In September 2017, Calvert wrote to 142 small companies that Whether it is the threat of production disruptions in the Niger have limited disclosure related to material ESG matters. We River Delta, nationalization or abrupt changes of tax policy have initiated conversations with some of these companies. Our risks in Venezuela, or tenuous license to operate in Guatemala, letters and dialogue emphasize the growing investor interest in project-specific social and political risks are becoming more ESG matters, and the academic research linking ESG disclosure significant as companies push further into the frontiers of and performance to financial performance. For these smaller petroleum and mineral exploration. firms we highlight the focus on a small set of key performance metrics that SASB recommends for disclosure. These business and investment risks are driven to a great extent by concerns related to government and corporate Calvert also worked with SASB to increase companies' accountability and the interest of citizens to know how their sustainability disclosure across multiple industries. This increased nation’s resource wealth is being shared. In order to increase transparency helps investors better understand the risks and investor understanding of extractive company exposure to opportunities presented by material ESG issues. We sent letters these risks and to enhance governmental accountability to to nine companies during the comment period in the spring citizens of resource-producing countries, Calvert has advocated to encourage them to comment on the finalized standards. for regulation that would require extractive companies to These companies included Unilever, the Walt Disney Company, disclose the payments they make to governments. While the ExxonMobil, Toyota Motor and Caterpillar. This facilitated U.S. originally led the way on this standard, parallel disclosure introduction of SASB analysts, who then followed up directly requirements are now on the books in the EU, Canada and with each company. Norway. Reversing course will cause the U.S. to lag what has become a global transparency standard. The SEC is mandated Proxy Voting by Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Act to institute a rule and, Calvert takes its proxy voting responsibility very seriously. As so, must develop a new proposal. Calvert plans to continue to shareholders of a corporation, our clients have the right to make the case for the value of meaningful extractives industry participate in the financial growth and success of the corporation revenue transparency. Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 19 Photo by Reed Montague as well as the right to vote on important matters concerning the covered 44,958 proposals. Calvert voted on issues ranging from company’s policies, practices and governance. climate change and energy to board diversity and sustainability reporting. In ESG-directed proxy proposals, Calvert voted We vote according to established proxy voting guidelines, which contrary to management 91.8% of the time. are aligned with the Calvert Principles. These guidelines, available on our website, integrate corporate governance and social All votes are posted to our website within 72 hours of being cast, responsibility into a “sustainable governance” model. We apply and in almost all cases, in advance of the meeting so our clients these guidelines to both domestic and international holdings. and the general public can easily see how we voted. Over this past proxy season, which ran July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017, we voted 99.6% of the time at 4,466 meetings, which 20 Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress This information contained in this report is solely for informational purposes. References to specific companies and securities in this report do not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold such securities, or an indication that Calvert or its affiliates have recommended such securities for any product or service. The opinions expressed in the report represent the good faith views of the Calvert at the time of submission, and are not investment advice and should not be relied on as such. Opinions and other information contained in the article are subject to change, without notice of any kind, and may no longer be accurate after submission. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Calvert assumes no duty to and does not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Calvert Research and Management: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — 2017 Annual Joint Communication on Progress 21 www.Calvert.com For more information on any Calvert fund, please contact your financial advisor or visit calvert.com for a free summary prospectus and/or prospectus. An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses of an investment carefully before investing. The summary prospectus and prospectus contain this and other information. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. Calvert funds are available at NAV for RIAs and Wrap Programs. Not all funds available at all firms. Calvert mutual funds are underwritten and distributed by Calvert Investment Distributors, Inc., member FINRA, and a subsidiary of Calvert Research and Management. 3/29/18
