Corporate responsibility 2018 Contents About the Investec group 1 01 Corporate responsibility at Investec 04 Profit Message from the chief executive officer 3 Our business impact 42 Communication and stakeholder engagement 5 Creating value for stakeholders 7 Governance, risk and compliance Highlights 8 Governance, risk and compliance 53 Information technology 56 People Procurement 57 Supporting our people 14 Transformation in South Africa 22 Appendix Supporting our communities 23 Independent assurance statement 59 Communities and conservation 32 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (GRI Standards: core option) 61 Planet Policies and programmes 73 Direct operational impact Contact details 74 35 About this report Using this report For easy reading we have provided cross-referencing tools set out below: Scope and reporting framework This corporate responsibility report Page references Assured information Website highlights Investec’s corporate Refers readers to information Denotes information that has Indicates that additional responsibility performance over been externally verified; for information is available on elsewhere in the report the period 1 April 2017 to or to Investec’s 2018 scope of external assurance, our website: 31 March 2018. We incorporate integrated annual report see table on page 59 www.investec.com material information from the main geographies in which we operate. Oversight This report is intended to serve the The social and ethics committee (SEC), a sub-committee of the board, is responsible information needs of the stakeholder for monitoring the non-financial elements of corporate responsibility. The mandate of groups most affected by our this committee places a strong emphasis on the responsibility of the group towards the business – clients, employees, communities in which we operate, on social transformation in the workplace, on preserving investors, sustainability rating the well-being and dignity of our employees (including human rights), recognising the agencies, government, regulatory challenges that climate change presents and supporting any meaningful activity that either bodies and analysts who will reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs life of, our planet. The SEC consists of the use the content for an analysis following board members: of our corporate responsibility S Koseff – chief executive officer performance. This report also B Kantor – managing director focuses on the most material F Titi – former chairman* aspects of our business in relation CA Carolus – non-executive director to our sustainability strategy. Lord Malloch-Brown KCMP – chairman** PRS Thomas – non-executive director*** Our approach to reporting has followed guidance from the King We also have employees in each of the major geographies in which we operate who Code of Governance Principles drive our corporate responsibility objectives as well as various forums discussing these for South Africa (King IV) and considerations. Feedback on relevant corporate responsibility issues is provided to board in accordance with the Global members at board meetings. Four meetings were held during the reporting period. Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards: * F Titi stepped down as chairman of SEC on 1 April 2018. core option) sustainability reporting ** Lord Malloch-Brown KCMP was appointed as chairman of SEC on 1 April 2018. guidelines. An index of the GRI *** PRS Thomas was appointed to the committee as representative of Investec Bank Limited. Standards indicators, together with our response to each of them, can Assurance be found on pages 61 to 72 of this Investec Internal Audit performed a limited assurance review of the quantitative and qualitative report. information contained in this report. KPMG has provided limited assurance over selected environmental, human resources and corporate social spend key performance indicators. The assurance statement can be found on pages 59 and 60 of this report. About the Investec group Investec’s purpose is to create and manage wealth for all stakeholders. This is not only about driving profits. Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to grow our core businesses so we can have a positive impact on the success and well-being of communities, the environment and on overall macro-economic stability. Our mission Our values Our responsibility We strive to be a distinctive specialist We seek talented people with passion, For Investec, corporate responsibility bank and asset manager, driven by energy, stamina and the tenacity to is about building our businesses commitment to our core philosophies ‘break china for the client’. Our client to ensure we have a positive and values. focused approach relies on our ability impact on the economic and social to leverage resources and provide a progress of communities and on We provide a diverse range of distinctive offering. We promote an entrepreneurial spirit based on the the environment, while growing and financial products and services to a highest ethical standards and within the preserving clients’ and stakeholders’ select client base in three principal context of risk consciousness, castwealth based on strong relationships markets: the UK and Europe, South iron integrity and moral strength. Our of trust. Africa and Asia/Australia as well as people are empowered, enabled and certain other countries. We focus inspired to perform distinctively within This commitment to corporate on delivering distinctive profitable an environment of meritocracy. We responsibility means integrating solutions for our clients in three encourage open and honest dialogue social, ethical and environmental core areas of activity namely, Asset to create a culture that stimulates considerations into our day-to-day Management, Wealth & Investment extraordinary performance. Through operations. A key element of this is and Specialist Banking. our strong respect for the dignity and solid corporate governance that worth of individuals, we embrace ensures sustainable management diversity and unselfishly contribute to colleagues, clients and society. with a long-term vision. The Investec distinction The Investec distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture, which is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, client-centric approach and an ability to be nimble, flexible and innovative. We do not seek to be all things to all people and aim to build well-defined, value-added businesses focused on serving the needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively. Client focused Specialised strategy Sustainable business Strong culture approach • Clients are at the core of our • Serving select market niches • Contributing to society, • Strong entrepreneurial business as a focused provider of macro-economic stability culture that stimulates • Striving to build business tailored solutions and the environment extraordinary performance depth by deepening • Enhancing our existing • Well-established brand • Passionate and talented existing, and creating, new position in principal • Managing and positioning people who are empowered client relationships businesses and geographies the group for the long term and committed • High level of service by through organic growth and • Depth of leadership • Balancing operational being nimble, flexible and select bolt-on acquisitions. risk with financial risk • Strong risk awareness innovative. while creating value for • Material employee stakeholders ownership. • Cost and risk conscious. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 1 Corporate responsibility (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Message from the chief executive officer Our role in society experience, appropriate regional balance We are also committed to supporting the Corporate responsibility at Investec between South African and non-South environment that our communities live in Investec has a deeply-rooted tradition of African board members and reaching our and the natural resources our people and active corporate citizenship and we are gender diversity target of 30% females on businesses rely on. Investec’s conservation mindful of our responsibility to live in society the board (currently 20%). The board has strategy is focused on funding a number of and not off it. As a distinctive financial also played an integral role in encouraging biodiversity projects which help to ensure institution with specialist skills in lending and participating in diversity initiatives the sustainable co-existence of Africa’s rich and investing, we play a critical role in across all our operations. There is more wildlife and the vulnerable communities funding a stable and sustainable economy detail on this and other governance matters they compete with for limited natural that contributes to our communities and in volume one of our 2018 integrated resources. Our key focus is on educating is cognisant of the world’s limited natural annual report. children to teach them the importance of resources. This report talks to the many caring for wildlife but also about the vital projects and activities that are having a Further to this, the group published its contribution that tourism and conservation tangible impact on the world we live in. first gender pay gap report as required by present for future employment and legislation in the UK and we are dedicated career opportunities. We have reached Our people to improving our position in line with our almost 12 000 children, largely in rural commitment to promoting diversity at all communities, through our conservation Caring for our people is at the heart levels of the organisation. We also remain programmes in the past five years. of Investec’s approach to corporate committed to transformation in South Africa responsibility. People who work at and fund a number of initiatives to create a Investec are generally characterised by more equitable society. Investec has been Our sustainability an enduring enthusiasm, tenacity and intimately involved in the CEO Initiative to, recognition desire to challenge the status quo in their among other things, formulate the Youth efforts to meet clients’ expectations. We Our sustainability efforts continue to be Employment Service (YES) programme recognised, with Investec Limited now have a strongly embedded culture of to address the unemployment issue ranked as one of four industry leaders on uncompromising integrity that guides our among young people. At the launch of the the Dow Jones Sustainability Investment behaviour to do the right thing. In return, programme by President Cyril Ramaphosa (DJSI) Emerging Markets Index, and we provide staff with a safe and healthy towards the end of March 2018, Investec Investec plc ranked as one of 15 industry work environment. As part of the move to committed to finding employment for leaders on the DJSI World Index and one our new London head office at 30 Gresham approximately 1 200 youth annually for of nine in the DJSI Europe Index. We were Street, we created a stimulating learning the next three years. We see this as an also included as a leader in the RobecoSam environment to encourage collaboration and knowledge sharing. In the past year, we important investment in the transformation Sustainability Yearbook 2018, which spent £22.5 million (2017: £22.9 million) on of our country and the future of the group. recognises the world’s most sustainable the learning and development of our people companies, for moving the needle in ways with the group learning and development Our communities that will help realise the United Nation’s spend at 1.9% of staff costs. This exceeds Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). our target of a minimum of 1.5% for the Our approach to corporate social investment (CSI) is to provide our group. In South Africa, where education is beneficiaries with a ‘hand up’ instead of Our commitment to severely lacking, we gave 9.7% of our full time staff bursaries to further their learning. a ‘hand-out’. We believe this promotes human rights and the While awards don’t drive our activities, lifelong skills that will transform their lives SDGs we were pleased to be recognised as the and, in turn, enable them to help others around them. In the UK, the Beyond In the past year, we became a full second most attractive employer in South Business social enterprise incubator which participant (previously only a signatory) to Africa by professionals and fourth by we run in partnership with the Bromley the UN Global Compact, increasing our university students in the 2017 Universum by Bow Centre, won several awards commitment to the ten principles with Most Attractive Employer Awards. recognising the community impact of this respect to business and human rights, partnership. In South Africa, our flagship labour, environment and anti-corruption. Diversity and inclusion Promaths programme contributed to We also support other global sustainability codes aimed at ensuring beneficial We have a deliberate strategy to build a 4.8% and 5.0% of the country’s total relationships between all stakeholders, diverse workforce and actively promote an mathematics and science distinctions and the social and ethics committee, a inclusive workplace. We are committed to respectively in the 2017 academic year. sub-committee of the board, monitors our a number of diversity initiatives as part of Since inception 12 years ago, Investec progress. We continue to advance the ten this strategy, including the 30% club in the has funded over 7 000 previously principles within our sphere of influence by UK and South Africa, the UK HM Treasury disadvantaged learners through the entrenching them into our strategy, culture Women in Finance Charter and The Promaths programme with 84% having and day-to-day operations. Diversity Project in the UK. In considering completed, or in the process of completing, the composition of the board, we are tertiary education. This will go a long way We recognise the role that the private mindful of a number of aspects including towards helping us achieve our aim of sector, and in particular the financial skills, experience, knowledge, race, creating active economic participants sector, can play in advancing the SDGs to nationality and gender. We are focused who can contribute towards building and build a more resilient and inclusive world. on maintaining the necessary banking growing the South African economy. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 3 Message from the chief executive officer (continued) Investec has committed to participate Outlook conscience and is conscious, not only Corporate responsibility at Investec and collaborate with clients, investors and of our duty to clients and shareholders, public stakeholders to support delivery In the past year, sound growth in the core but also to the individuals within the of the SDGs. We will take a multifaceted earnings drivers for our three business organisation and the broader communities approach by looking at the contribution areas and solid client activity levels we serve. We are therefore proud and that our existing businesses can make and supported underlying performance. The happy to hand over a solid, sustainable and at the same time consider new business group has continued to make strategic caring organisation to the next generation opportunities to finance sustainable investments to ensure it remains of leaders, knowing that they are wellsolutions to these socio-economic issues. competitive and relevant in the markets in equipped to take the group from strength We are committed to moving capital to which it operates. to strength. areas where it is most needed but also to Looking forward, we believe that our ensuring profitable impact. strategic priorities, together with the Through our various activities, the group diversity of our business model will ensure already contributes to a number of SDG the group is favourably positioned to targets and we have included some of expand in core markets, supporting future Stephen Koseff these impacts, where relevant, throughout growth and delivering value to all our Chief executive officer, Investec group this report. For example, one of the greatest stakeholders. 30 June 2018 environmental impacts we can have is This is the last review I will be writing to support the transition to a clean and on Investec’s corporate responsibility. energy-efficient global economy. Investec Bernard Kantor, Glynn Burger and I, three Power and Infrastructure has financed of the founders of this business, will be eight projects globally in the past year stepping down from our executive roles with an installed capacity of approximately on 1 October 2018. We leave a quality 1 450MW of clean energy. Overall, clean franchise that has been built by many energy comprises 88% of our total energy entrepreneurial leaders for almost 40 years lending portfolio. We believe this type of and has the resilience to thrive through financing is the most meaningful way we all conditions. It is a business that has a can contribute to climate change. 4 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Communication and stakeholder engagement Building trust and credibility among our stakeholders is vital to good business Corporate responsibility at Investec The board recognises that effective Another objective is to show a balance We also recognise that from time to time communication is integral in building between the positive and negative aspects we may be required to adhere to public stakeholder value and is committed to of our activities in order to achieve a disclosure obligations in other countries providing meaningful, transparent, timely comprehensive and fair account of our where we have operations. and accurate financial and non-financial performance. The Investor Relations division has a information to primary stakeholders as As a requirement of our dual listed day-to-day responsibility for ensuring defined below. The purpose is to help companies (DLC) structure, we appropriate communication with these stakeholders make meaningful comply with the disclosure obligations stakeholders and, together with the assessments and informed investment contained in the applicable listing rules Group Finance and Company Secretarial decisions about the group. of the UK Listing Authority (UKLA), the divisions, ensures that we meet our public We endeavour to present a balanced Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) disclosure obligations. and understandable assessment of our and other exchanges on which our We have a board-approved policy position by addressing material matters shares are listed, and with any public statement in place to ensure that we of significant interest and concern. disclosure obligations as required by comply with all relevant public disclosure the UK regulators and the South African We seek to highlight the key risks to which obligations and uphold the board’s Prudential Authority (previously known as we consider ourselves exposed and our communication and disclosure philosophy. the Banking Supervision Division of the responses to minimise the impact of South African Reserve Bank). these risks. We engage regularly with our stakeholders listed below: Employees Investors and shareholders Clients Rating agencies • Communication policy • Annual general meeting • Four investor presentations • Four investor presentations • Quarterly magazine • Four investor presentations • Regular email and telephone • Regular email and • Staff updates hosted by • Stock exchange communications telephone communications executive management announcements • Comprehensive investor • Comprehensive investor • Group and subsidiary fact • Comprehensive investor relations website relations website sheets relations website • Regular meetings with • Regular meetings with • Tailored internal investor • Shareholder roadshows and executive management investor relations team, relations training presentations • Tailored presentations group risk management and executive management • Induction training for new • Regular meetings with • Annual and interim reports employees. investor relations team and • Tailored presentations • Client relationship managers executive management in each business. • Tailored rating agency • Annual meeting with booklet investor relations team and • Annual and interim reports. group company secretarial, the chairman of the board, senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee • Regular email and telephone communication • Annual and interim reports. Government and regulatory bodies Equity and debt analysts Media Suppliers • Active participation in a • Four investor presentations • Regular email and telephone • Centralised negotiation number of policy forums • Stock exchange communications process • Response and engagement announcements • Stock exchange • Ad hoc procurement with all relevant bodies on • Comprehensive investor announcements questionnaires requesting regulatory matters relations website • Comprehensive investor information on suppliers’ • Industry consultative bodies. relations website environmental, social and • Regular meetings with ethical policies. investor relations and • Regular meetings with executive management investor relations and • Regular email and telephone executive management. communications • Annual and interim reports. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 5 Communication and stakeholder engagement (continued) Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Corporate responsibility at Investec Macro-economic environment less concerned that profitability may be Investec remains committed to black and sustainable returns lower and more interested in how we are economic empowerment and over time managing asset quality, liquidity and capital achieving the targets set out in the revised It’s been a difficult operating environment in an unpredictable macro environment. We Financial Sector Code (FS Code). in both South Africa and the UK with the regularly review our risk appetite framework volatility expected to continue. We have been and are comfortable that we have robust Reputation investing for long-term growth which may risk management processes and systems State capture in South Africa and corporate result in having to sacrifice some short-term in place. and audit scandals have heightened the returns. Hence, the focus has been on awareness around who we deal with and building resilience and creating franchise value Cyber crime what process is taken to ‘on-board’ clients. that generates appropriate long-term returns. A significant amount of time and resources The financial services industry is a highly We will continue to focus on the growth attractive target for cyber criminals and with have been spent on anti-money laundering levers available to improve our returns, increased digitalisation comes heightened (AML) training with 98% of South African, including growing our client base and vulnerability. Investec’s cyber resilience UK and Australian banking employees core revenue drivers, leveraging off of our strategy is based upon a threat-driven having passed with an average of above investment into the business and managing approach to cyber security, rather than the 80% during the past financial year. our liquidity and optimising our capital contemporary compliance-driven approach. structure. We believe that our strategic Regular targeted attack simulations by New regulations priorities, together with the diversity of specialist companies, against the group as We have received a number of questions our business model that has been built a whole, are used to measure and improve with respect to the regulatory and over many years, will ensure the group our cyber defences. We also employ world accounting frameworks in which we is favourably positioned to grow in core class security professionals and believe that operate. The board has focused on a markets, supporting future growth and people, operating within a risk conscious number of new regulations, policies and delivering value to all our stakeholders. culture, and not just technology, are key practices including IFRS 9, Markets in to maintaining resilience against security Financial Instrument Directive (MiFid) II, Succession threats. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), King IV and the Advanced Internal Ratings Succession of the group’s existing founder Gender and diversity Based (AIRB) approach to capital. leaders has been an ongoing agenda item for most stakeholders over the past few Stakeholders have been interested to find years. In February 2018 we announced our out how Investec is looking at various Non-financial reporting succession plan which was well received by diversity issues, including gender and There are increased expectations around most stakeholders. It is acknowledged and reporting on the gender pay gap as social impacts and in particular nonaccepted that the next year will be a time of required by UK Companies Act. Investec financial benchmarking and reporting. The transition as the previous leaders hand over signed up to the 30% Club in both South Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on and the next generation take up the helm Africa and the UK committing Investec Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) as the new leadership of the group. Limited and Investec plc to a target of 30% recommendations relating to the disclosure females on the board by 2020. Investec of various financial exposures to climate risk Executive remuneration Bank plc and Investec Wealth & Investment are gaining momentum. We acknowledge UK have also signed up to the HM Treasury The updated executive remuneration policy the TCFD recommendations that were Women in Finance Charter which sets will need to be voted in at our annual released during the past financial year and targets and links executive remuneration general meeting in August 2018. We have have embarked on a process to understand to deliverables. engaged extensively with shareholders to the relevance of potential climate scenario’s ascertain and incorporate their views on Investec Asset Management has signed for our business and will incorporate these executive remuneration. Where appropriate, up as a founder member of The Diversity recommendations in the 2019 financial we will be reducing the quantum of Project in the UK. reporting cycle. executive remuneration as well as We have also seen increased interest We also published our first gender pay gap simplifying the structure to ensure stronger in the role that the private sector will report. alignment to strategy with relevant targets play in advancing the United Nations and measurements in place for monitoring. Transformation in South Africa Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Investec is committed to participating Board governance Stakeholders have been concerned about and collaborating with clients, investors the challenges facing South Africa with and public stakeholders to support the There has been heightened scrutiny on very slow economic growth, rising political delivery of the SDGs. Through our core board governance in general, particularly uncertainty, downgrades of sovereign activities, we contribute to a number as corporate and audit firm scandals have debt and low business and consumer of specific SDGs and targets and have increased over the past year. Investec confidence. Investec welcomed the included the intersections, where relevant, has spent a significant time on board positive sentiment and message at the throughout this report. In South Africa, refreshment and composition, ensuring State of the Nation Address by President we are participating in an industry-wide that the structure and shape of the board Cyril Ramaphosa in February 2018 to initiative with the Bankers Association of is appropriate. eradicate state capture, corruption and South Africa (BASA) to review and map Risk appetite restore investor confidence and rule of our business activities, products and law. Investec has been intimately involved programmes against the SDGs to assess Rating agencies, in particular, are in the CEO Initiative to, among other where Investec currently has the greatest questioning if our risk appetite framework is things, formulate the Youth Employment contribution and to determine the potential relevant and appropriate given the volatile Service (YES) programme to address the opportunities to collaborate as a sector for macro-economic environment. They are unemployment issue among young people. maximum impact. 6 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Creating value for stakeholders Materiality Corporate responsibility at Investec In identifying material issues, consideration is given to those issues we believe have the potential to significantly influence our ability to have a positive impact on the sustainability of our business and on overall macro-economic stability as well as contributing to the success and well-being of our communities and the environment. Due to the nature of Investec’s business, the material aspects identified by stakeholders are considered unlikely to change in the short to medium term and we only do a more comprehensive process of engagement with internal and external stakeholders every three years. The issues and concerns identified by our various stakeholders affirms that our core corporate responsibility issues have not materially changed and we continue with our core focus areas as described throughout this report. Investec’s corporate responsibility encompasses three key areas of people, planet and profit, including our contribution to the six capitals and our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Key for SDGs SDG 3 Good health and well-being SDG 4 Quality education SDG 5 Gender equality SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation SDG 7 Affordable and clean energy Creating sustained long-term wealth SDG 8 while contributing Decent work and to society, macroeconomic growth economic stability and the environment SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure SDG 11 Sustainable cities and communities SDG 13 Climate action SDG 15 Life on land SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG 17 Partnerships for the goals Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 7 Highlights Corporate responsibility at Investec People Human We depend on the experience and proficiency of our people to perform and deliver superior capital client services. Purpose and priorities Impact In the UK, we are progressing towards a more agile environment with flexible work Providing a safe and healthy work environment that values physical encouraged where appropriate as well as psychological well-being 72% of employees in South Africa participated in employee wellness interventions Learning and development spend as a % of staff costs is 1.9% for the group (target of > 1.5% for the group) Learning and development spend of Investing in our people and growing talent and leadership £22.5 million (2017: £22.9 million) 21 CAs graduated from the CA programme in the past year and were retained in our business Voluntary staff turnover rate in South Africa is 8.8% (2017: 7.8%) and 8.4% (2017: 10.9%) Retaining and motivating staff through appropriate remuneration in the UK and reward structures 5% of Investec shares are held by staff (excluding directors’ holdings) Respecting and upholding human rights by entrenching a valueParticipant to the United Nations Global driven culture through the organisation that is supported by strong Compact and remain committed to the ethics and integrity 10 principles 49% female employees 20% females on the board (target of at least 30% as per the 30% club) Promoting diversity and equality at all levels of the group Made good progress towards the target of 33% females on the board by 2020, as per the Hampton-Alexander Review For information on our BEE transformation refer to page 22 Intellectual We use our specialist financial skills and expertise to provide efficient solutions for clients capital and have a robust risk management process in place. Purpose and priorities Impact Consistent contribution to the group’s performance from asset and wealth management businesses of 36.9% of Maintaining a diversified portfolio of businesses that supports operating profit (2017: 36.2%) on an ongoing performance through varying economic cycles basis (excluding group costs) Annuity income as a percentage of ongoing operating income is 76.3% (2017: 72.0%) Ongoing credit loss ratio remains at lower Leveraging our expertise in risk management to protect value end of its long-term average trend at 0.26% (2017: 0.29%) Trained 195 frontline consultants on Ensuring solid and responsible lending and investing activities environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices in South Africa and the UK 8 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Highlights (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Social and We leverage key stakeholder relationships to enhance our impact on society and the macrorelationship economy. capital Purpose and priorities Impact Building deep durable relationships with our clients and creating Customer accounts (deposits) up 6.5% since new client relationships 31 March 2017 Investing in our distinctive brand and providing a high level of Voted South Africa’s eighth most valuable service by being nimble, flexible and innovative brand 1.2% CSI spend as a % of operating profit (2017: 1.2%) Unselfishly contributing to society through our corporate social (target of >1% for the group) investment (CSI) programmes CSI spend of £7.2 million (2017: £7.1 million) Contributing to the transformation of the financial sector in Investec will be rated under the revised South Africa Financial Sector Code for the first time in 2018 One of the first signatories to Youth Committed to youth employment in South Africa Employment Service (YES) programme People recognition • Voted second most attractive employer by professionals and fourth by students in South Africa in the 2017 Universum awards • Investec CEO, Stephen Koseff won the Lifetime Achievement Award presented by the 2018 African Banker Awards • Winner of the Community Impact Award 2017 for our flagship programme, the Beyond Business social enterprise incubator we run in partnership with Bromley by Bow Centre • Winner of the Business of the Year award by Business Charity Awards 2017 (for Beyond Business) • Winner of the National CSR Awards 2017 in the individual Community (Legacy) Project Award category (for Beyond Business) • Winner of the Community Partners award in the Lord Mayor’s Dragon Awards 2017 (for Beyond Business) • Reaccredited winner in the Responsible Business Awards 2017 (for Beyond Business) • Received the Financial Innovation Awards 2017 – Innovation in Sustainability or Social Responsibility Awards for our Invest for Success programme run in partnership with Arrival Education. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 9 Highlights (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Planet We support the transition to a low-carbon economy and believe we can make a meaningful Natural impact in addressing climate change. We consider any meaningful activity that either capital reduces the negative impact, or prolongs the life, of our planet. Purpose and priorities Impact 88% of our energy lending portfolio relates to Funding and participating in renewable energy clean energy Carbon emissions reduced by 6.1% Limiting our direct operational carbon impact (Refer to pages 37, 39 and 40 for emission reduction targets) 51% increase in number of children reached through our Coaching for Conservation programme (approximately 12 000 reached Protecting biodiversity through various conservation activities since 2013) Investec Rhino Lifeline has supported the rescue of 70 rhino since 2012 R2.5 million spent on water initiatives to Ensuring the security of natural resources in all our operations ensure continuing of business in our Cape Town office during the 2017/2018 drought Planet recognition • Investec group was awarded a B for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) climate scoring • Investec’s Energy Management System that covers 23 of our buildings in the UK, Ireland and Channel Islands was certified to the international energy standard ISO 50001 • In our UK head office, the Environment Management System retained the international environment standard ISO 14001 • Our UK head office won the Chairman’s Cup for its waste management processes in the Corporation of London’s Clean City Award Scheme for 2017 • The coordinator of Investec’s Coaching for Conservation children’s programme at the Good Work Foundation won a silver in the Eco-Logic Awards in the Eco-Youth category. 10 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Highlights (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec Profit Financial We create sustained long-term wealth by growing our core businesses. capital Purpose and priorities Impact Our capital light activities contributed 56% to group income Maintaining a balanced and resilient business model (target of > 50% of our income from capital light activities) Healthy capital and leverage ratios in excess of regulatory requirements (target a leverage ratio of > 6%) Maintaining a sound capital base and strong liquidity Cash and near cash to customer deposit ratio of 41.4% (target of > 25%) Adjusted EPS* growth of 10.1% (2017: 16.9%) Organically growing our business (target of 10% > UK PRI) Group cost to income ratio 66.9% (target of < 65% in Pounds Sterling) Focusing to improve the returns and operational efficiency ROE of 12.1% overall group and 14.1% on an ongoing basis (target of 12% – 16% over a rolling five-year period in Pounds Sterling) 4.3% increase in dividends per share Creating value for shareholders Dividend cover of 2.2 times (target of 1.7 – 3.5 times) * Adjusted EPS is before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items and after non-controlling interests and deduction of preference dividends. Technological We deliver efficient and effective information technology to support our businesses and capital facilitate our digital strategy. Purpose and priorities Impact 90% of all servers now virtualised reducing our data centre storage footprint in South Africa by 80% Aligning architecture across the group and reducing our application and data footprint Migration of the UK data centres to a fully hosted energy efficient environment reducing the energy footprint Completed a number of enhancements to our digital Creating an international platform for clients with global capability access to products and services which is both high-tech and high-touch For more information refer to page 22 in volume one of our 2018 integrated annual report Investing in technology to deliver exceptional client Click & Invest successfully launched to market experience Extensive simulations on various cyber threats Maintaining a cyber resilient strategy based on a were conducted during the period and we are threat-driven approach rather than the contemporary comfortable with our procedures in place compliance-driven approach All staff are required to do regular training on the prevention of cyber crime Profit recognition • Won the Best Digital Bank in South Africa and most Innovative Digital Bank in Africa in the Best Digital Bank Awards 2017 • Joint 1st Robo-Advisor for Click & Invest in the MyPrivateBanking Research Awards 2017 • Winner of the Online Personal Wealth Awards 2018 for best newcomer. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 11 Highlights (continued) Contributing to society, macro-economic stability and the environment Corporate responsibility at Investec For Investec, corporate responsibility is about building our businesses to ensure we have a positive impact on the economic and social progress of communities and on the environment, while growing and preserving clients’ and stakeholders’ wealth based on strong relationships of trust. This commitment to corporate responsibility means integrating social, ethical and environmental considerations into our day-to-day operations. A key element of this is solid corporate governance that ensures sustainable management with a long-term vision. Value added statement 31 March 31 March £’000 2018 2017 Net income generated Interest receivable 2 491 009 2 230 765 Other income 1 607 007 1 525 789 Interest payable (1 730 611) (1 550 870) Other operating expenditure and impairments on loans (467 982) (439 962) 1 899 423 1 765 722 Distributed as follows: Employees: Salaries, wages and other benefits 795 420 757 390 Communities: Spend on corporate social initiatives 7 167 7 054 Government: Corporation, deferred payroll and other taxes 550 610 522 984 Shareholders: 261 435 242 440 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 227 908 216 602 Dividends paid to preference shareholders 33 527 25 838 Retention for future expansion and growth: 284 791 235 854 Depreciation 28 804 25 006 Retained income for the year 255 987 210 848 Total 1 899 423 1 765 722 External recognition and group memberships Although we are not driven by awards and recognition, Investec participates and has maintained its inclusion in the following world-leading indices. These indices have been designed objectively to measure the performance of companies that meet global recognised corporate responsibility standards. Aris Prepoudis, CEO, RobecoSam: 2018 2017 2016 “I congratulate Investec whole heartedly for being included in The Sustainability Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) (Investec is a Yearbook 2018. The companies included member and Investec Asset Management is a B AAin the Yearbook are the world’s most signatory investor) sustainable companies in their industry and are moving the ESG needle in ways that Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA) Signatory Signatory Signatory will help us realise the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals by 2030” Dow Jones Sustainability Investment (DJSI) Index* 73 69 69 (score out of 100) ECPI Index Constituent n/a n/a FTSE4Good Index Included Included Included FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index Series Constituent Constituent Constituent MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series (Investec plc) AAA AAA AAA – intangible value assessment (IVA) rating STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices Member Member Member United Nations Global Compact Participant Active Active United Nations Principles for Responsible Signatory Signatory Signatory Investment (UNPRI) * Investec Limited ranked as one of four industry leaders on the DJSI Emerging Markets Index; Investec plc ranked as one of 15 industry leaders on the DJSI World and one of nine in the DJSI Europe indices. 12 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Corporate responsibility (continued) Corporate responsibility at Investec People Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 13 Supporting our people Our people People At Investec we position our culture as a strategic differentiator. We prize our flat structure and meritocratic approach and uphold an environment that encourages self-starters to drive their careers in line with business objectives. We employ passionate and talented people who are empowered and able to perform extraordinarily. Our people strategy Attract, retain, develop and Retain and drive performance Ensure that performance motivate people who can through appropriate management is motivational perform extraordinarily aspirational remuneration and and constructive reward structures We invest significantly in a number We reward people meaningfully for Our culture of open and honest of opportunities for developing and performance and contribution. dialogue promotes immediate and direct upskilling employees, and in leadership performance-related feedback between programmes to enable current and the leader and his or her team, to help future leaders of the group. individuals identify and address their development needs. Learning and development (L&D) 5% of Investec shares are held by All employees engage in some type spend as a % of staff costs is 1.9% staff (excluding directors’ holdings) of formal or informal performance for the group (target of > 1.5% for Voluntary staff turnover rate: discussion every year. the group). • South Africa: 8.8% (2017: 7.8%) • UK: 8.4% (2017: 10.9%). Headcount 12 000 10 000 4.6% 702 687 545 8 000 576 601 495 495 521 5 103 5 282 6 000 3 748 3 986 4 199 4 720 3 680 3 661 increase in permanent 4 000 employment 2 000 3 036 3 625 3 827 3 671 3 560 3 701 3 926 4 162 In line with growth aspirations 0 (mainly in Wealth & Investment 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and Specialist Banking) Year UK and Other Southern Africa Temporary employees and contractors 14 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our people (continued) People Talent attraction, retention and development Investec has a national and global footprint with diverse business units and functions. Internal mobility is a valued mechanism for retention of individuals and enhances competitiveness. We continue to encourage internal mobility across teams, divisions, regions and geographies as a retention strategy, and where required, recruit externally to address any identified skills gaps. Our graduate recruitment strategy has seen the attraction and retention of exceptional talent 7.3% across the business. It focuses on employing graduates at a ‘grass roots’ level and developing them into skilled, strategic thinkers and leaders. of all hires in South Africa were internal We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for developing and upskilling employees, e.g. through bursaries, leadership development, public programmes, coaching, technical and professional skills. Our Human Resources (HR) and Organisational Development (OD) teams play a critical role in assisting the business to achieve their strategic objectives, which are always matched to learning strategies and market trends. They are also involved in group-wide activities such as an induction programme for all new employees, providing learning advice to individuals and facilitating the development of both group-wide and bespoke learning programmes. All employees are invited to participate in one or more culture and values dialogues. Recognising and rewarding our people Our remuneration practices comply with the principles of local regulations, while continuing to reward people meaningfully for performance and contribution. 5% of Investec shares are held by staff Our remuneration strategy is based on the philosophy that employees are innovative, entrepreneurial and work in an environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance. In line with our philosophy of employee ownership, all employees across the (excluding directors’ holdings) organisation are provided with staff share awards and the opportunity to participate in our longterm growth. Further information is provided on page 167 in volume one of our 2018 integrated annual report. Employee engagement Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate and direct performancerelated feedback between the leader and his or her team, to help individuals identify and address their development needs. At Investec, performance is viewed within the context of relationships, namely the individual’s relationships with others, the team, the business unit and the organisation as a whole. Successful relationships are functional, engaging, defined by quality conversations and are able to be leveraged to meet business objectives. Team and individual performance All employees engage in some type objectives are aligned to business objectives. Team and individual performance of performance discussion management has both appraisal and development components. At Investec, 100% of employees engage in some type of formal or informal performance discussion every year where employees are encouraged to give their leader honest feedback. This process has the following tenets: • It is fair and honest, defined by dialogue that is both respectful and reflective of individual views and team perceptions • Driven by the employee and the leader • Involves ongoing, timeous two-way feedback • Disciplined, responsible conversations. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 15 Supporting our people (continued) People Working at Investec The policies and business practices of Investec are outlined in Becoming Acquainted with Investec (and regional equivalents) and in the compliance handbook which are easily accessible to employees in all of Investec’s locations. These are intended to guide conduct and ensure our actions and attitude reﬂect the group’s values and philosophies at all times. 10 Human rights The Investec group remains committed to the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) principles of the United Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our Nations (UN) Global culture and values demonstrate our belief that as an organisation we can have a positive Compact impact on the success and well-being of local communities, the environment and on overall macro-economic stability. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights standards and are not complicit in any human rights abuses. We do not have a formal human rights policy for the group because this would fall within the ambit of our Code of Conduct which expresses our strong culture and values including unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others. Furthermore, we adhere to the relevant laws in all our jurisdictions and strive to advance the UN principles within our sphere of influence. The Investec head of sustainability sits on the interim board of the Global Compact Network South Africa. We support the international agenda to abolish human trafficking, slavery, forced and child labour and welcome the legislated UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the Act). Our philosophy as an organisation is to respect the dignity and worth of the individual. We uphold the constitutional rights of our employees at all times, do not practice forced or compulsory labour and do not employ children. We are committed to addressing the requirements of the Act and ensuring that our supply chain is compliant with the regulations prescribed therein. Freedom of association Zero We fully support employees’ rights to freedom of association. There is no representative trade union for Investec and we are not aware of any employees who are part of a trade union. trade unions We do, however, uphold the constitutional rights of the individual to freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining and the right to be a member of a union of choice. Whistle-blowing policy and protected disclosures One of Investec’s values requires employees to conduct all internal and external dealings with integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust. Integrity and confidentiality are critical to our reputation and sustainability. Integrity and confidentiality Our whistle-blowing policy aims to encourage employees to raise concerns or disclose are critical to our reputation and information about possible fraudulent, unethical, criminal or other improper behaviour or workplace misconduct in total confidentiality and anonymity and without fear of retribution. sustainability We seek to protect all employees who disclose unlawful or irregular conduct by the company, its employees or other stakeholders. We have a number of channels that employees may use to raise concerns including the Investec Integrity Line which is an external, independent helpline to ensure confidentiality of the issue reported and anonymity of the individual. Retrenchment policy 0.7% Where it becomes necessary for Investec to terminate employment based on operational requirements, the procedure to be followed is in accordance with Investec’s retrenchment of employees retrenched policy/practices which are more favourable than local regulatory requirements. We conduct in the last financial year consultation for a period which exceeds the minimum prescribed period, during which we (2017: 0.7%) attempt to ﬁnd a suitable alternative position for the affected employee. 16 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our people (continued) 30 occupational injuries Health and safety A group-wide formal health and safety programme identiﬁes and manages all health and People safety risks, and carries out regular safety audits. Health and safety is overseen by a (2017: 64) committee that meets quarterly to review any concerns. Zero fatalities In South Africa, Investec’s HIV/Aids policy and management forum extends to all permanent employees. 72% Employee wellness Investec values the physical, financial and psychological health, well-being and safety of of employees in South Africa participated our people. We provide employees with a bespoke employee assistance and wellness in one or more employee wellness programme. The comprehensive and integrated programme, which is an expression of our interventions focus on care and concern for employees, provides personalised interventions offered in (2017: 66%) face-to-face counselling and coaching sessions. These interventions are provided by a multidisciplinary team of select health and other professionals who are all specialists in their ﬁelds Reviewed the leave entitlement of practice. We also host wellness days for our employees to raise awareness and educate and disability procedure taking into them around health issues through an interactive approach. consideration the needs and well-being of our employees In line with our commitment to improving the quality of life of our employees, our leave entitlement and disability procedure have been reviewed and adjusted, taking into consideration the needs and well-being of our employees and current best practice in the marketplace. Family-friendly policies and work practices We have a number of policies and practices that help to balance family needs. We are also progressing towards a more agile environment, with flexible work encouraged where Progressing towards a more agile appropriate. environment Investec in South Africa is piloting a project that looks to redefine the principles and philosophies in terms of time around work output and value. The TIME project will facilitate performance management that is deliverables based only and not on hours worked. Creating an environment that reflects our culture The HR division in South Africa has redesigned its work space to focus on the employee Redesigned work space in our experience by connecting people with their environment. The space is open with less private Sandton office areas that increases opportunities for spontaneous discussions, collaboration and improved relationship building. The aim is to enhance the employee experience, resulting in greater satisfaction, retention and productivity. Discrimination We endeavour to prevent and/or eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, nationality and sexual preference (or any other basis as envisaged by the South Africa Bill of Rights in the Constitution or regional equivalents). 3 Investec has a formal grievance procedure (and a written policy) to deal appropriately with any incident which may occur. Furthermore, there are several informal avenues for employees who wish to discuss concerns, e.g. OD, HR, Employee Relations and our independent allegations of discrimination external consultants. There have been no confirmed incidents of discrimination for the 2018 financial year. Three allegations of discrimination have been reported, two of which have been reviewed through the appropriate internal grievance procedure and were subsequently dismissed by an independent chairman. The third allegation is under investigation at the time of writing this report. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 17 Supporting our people (continued) People Learning and development We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for the development and upskilling of our employees, and in leadership programmes to enable current and future leaders of the group. Investec HR’s Learning and Development (L&D) team is mandated to develop and retain people who can perform extraordinarily in support of business objectives in a manner consistent with Investec’s culture and values. To achieve this, we employ talented people and then enable their professional and personal growth and development. We believe that employees should be the driving force behind their own development and should be proactive in identifying and addressing development needs, allowing them to maximise learning opportunities most relevant to their unique requirements. We target a minimum of 1.5% learning and development spend as a % of staff costs for the group Group learning and development spend 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa Asset Management 459 551 7 910 748 255 847 4 290 402 Wealth & Investment 648 198 11 158 129 678 659 11 380 718 Specialist Banking 15 003 359 258 268 967 13 777 983 231 048 929 Total Southern Africa 16 111 108 277 337 844 14 712 489 246 720 049 UK and Other Asset Management 827 281 14 240 883 751 355 12 599 796 Wealth & Investment 1 064 397 18 322 620 1 359 141 22 792 021 Specialist Banking 4 491 462 77 316 362 6 110 812 102 474 839 Total UK and Other 6 383 140 109 879 865 8 221 308 137 866 656 Total group learning and development spend 22 494 248 387 217 709 22 933 797 384 586 705 Total group learning and development spend as a % of staff costs 1.9% 2.1% 9.7% External learning Investec’s external learning includes public programmes, conferences, seminars and courses and provides employees with development opportunities to enable the acquisition of knowledge of full-time South African employees and skills necessary for career development within Investec. Our educational bursary scheme granted bursaries in the last year provides employees with focused educational opportunities to enable the acquisition of (2017: 9.2%) qualifications. 21 Internal learning Our internal learning programmes include general staff induction, bespoke induction for qualified CAs completed the CA new leaders, personal and interpersonal skills, technical and professional skills, leadership programme in the past year and programmes, mentoring and coaching as well as our learnerships and Chartered all were retained in the business Accountant (CA) trainee programmes. A total of 239 CAs have graduated from the programme since inception with 28 CAs having joined the programme in 2018 (2017: 20). (2016*: 25) * Academic year: January – December 2016. 18 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our people (continued) People Diversity and inclusion A diverse workforce is essential to our ability to be an innovative organisation that is able to adapt and prosper in a fast changing world. We recognise the benefits of a diverse workforce being able to contribute alternative perspectives and challenge the status quo, which is integral to the Investec culture. Diversity principles 49% 20% • We believe in the importance and benefits of diversity and foster a culture that is supportive and inclusive of female employees women on our board (2017: 49%) (2017: 20%) different perspectives and experiences • As a global specialist bank and asset manager, diversity ensures that we represent the diversity of our global Diversity commitment client base • Investec is a member of the 30% club in both the UK and South Africa committing to a • Our commitment to diversity is goal of 30% women on the board fundamentally about ‘doing the • We are making good progress towards the target of 33% female board representation right thing’ by 2020, as per the Hampton-Alexander Review • We are progressing towards a working environment that is more • Investec Bank plc and Investec Wealth & Investment UK have signed up to the UK HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter committing to: having a senior executive agile and responsive to the needs team member responsible for diversity and inclusion; meeting set targets for diversity; of all individuals, with flexible work publishing progress reports annually; and linking pay of senior executives to delivery of arrangements encouraged where these targets appropriate • Investec Asset Management have publicly committed to achieving a target of 30% of • In terms of diversity, we commit to equal women in senior leadership by 2023 and beyond compensation on a like-for-like basis • We will work proactively to rebalance • Investec Asset Management has signed up as a founder member of The Diversity our organisation in line with the societies Project in the UK. in which we operate by empowering communities through entrepreneurship Our approach and education, and leveraging the value The group’s approach is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and attitude, with in our diversity the deliberate intent to build a diverse workforce and promote an inclusive workplace, • We will measure and track progress appropriately and fully representative of the jurisdiction’s population. We endeavour to annually prevent and/or eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, • We will work towards achieving our religion, age, disability, nationality and sexual preference. People with disabilities are an targets through concrete actions essential part of a diverse talent pool and are always considered, with every effort made (refer to pages 238 to 240 in volume to accommodate and facilitate an accessible environment. In the event of employees one of our 2018 integrated annual becoming disabled while in our employ, we are committed to ensuring their continued report). employment. Employee gender composition – permanent employees Southern Africa UK and Other Total 31 March 2018 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Executive directors on Investec DLC board 2 – 2 2 – 2 4 – 4 Senior managers* Asset Management 165 116 281 89 25 114 254 141 395 Wealth & Investment 101 36 137 75 14 89 176 50 226 Specialist Banking 706 510 1 216 121 42 163 827 552 1 379 Total senior management 972 662 1 634 285 81 366 1 257 743 2 000 Rest of employees Asset Management 270 473 743 223 159 382 493 632 1 125 Wealth & Investment 59 144 203 685 571 1 256 744 715 1 459 Specialist Banking 1 079 1 621 2 700 1 276 880 2 156 2 355 2 501 4 856 Total rest of employees 1 408 2 238 3 646 2 184 1 610 3 794 3 592 3 848 7 440 Total 2 382 2 900 5 282 2 471 1 691 4 162 4 853 4 591 9 444 * The definition of senior managers is different for Southern Africa and the UK and Other due to the different regulatory guidelines of the respective geographies. These also include executives that are represented on the subsidiary level boards. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 19 Supporting our people (continued) Gender pay analysis Hourly and bonus pay gap People The Investec group’s (comprising Investec Investec plc Investec Limited plc and Investec Limited) gender pay gap statistics are based on a snapshot Mean % Median % Mean % Median % of hourly rates of pay in the pay period encompassing 5 April 2017, and bonuses paid during the 12 months to 5 April 2017. Hourly gap 40.3 41.2 34.4 29.3 The methodology utilised is based on the UK gender pay gap legislation but differs slightly where local practices dictate, and where required to more accurately reflect Bonus gap 73.9 74.1 73.3 34.1 the gap at Investec. We are confident that across our Mean – The mean figure represents the difference between the average of men’s and women’s pay organisation, men and women are paid expressed as a percentage of the average male pay. equally for doing the same job. Our gender Median – The median represents the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of men’s and pay gap occurs primarily because there women’s pay expressed as a percentage of the male midpoint. is a lower proportion of women in senior Proportion receiving a bonus leadership and revenue-generating roles which attract higher market levels of pay. Investec plc Investec Limited We are dedicated to improving this in line with our commitment to promoting diversity. Percentage Percentage We have established targets and have the measures in place required to meet these. Male 82.3 78.1 We are committed to advancement and holding ourselves publicly accountable. Female 83.8 78.3 Proportion of men and women within each pay quartile Each quartile represents an equal number of employees Investec plc Quartile Upper 81% 19% Upper middle 69% 31% Lower middle 50% 50% Lower 38% 62% Male Female Investec Limited Quartile Upper 64% 36% Upper middle 43% 57% Lower middle 31% 69% Lower 43% 57% Male Female For more detail, please refer to volume one of our 2018 integrated annual report. 20 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our people (continued) Diversity programmes We have various processes to encourage debate and dialogue around valuing diversity and difference. Emerging and established leaders are People invited to participate in discussions with the executive leadership around all issues related to talent management and diversity. South Africa Our Zebra Crossing initiative in South Africa, aligned to our employment equity plan, aims to raise levels of multi-cultural awareness of staff at Investec and enable them Approximately to appreciate and celebrate the richness of our diverse population and to take these 3 500 insights back into the business. Let’s Talk about Race dialogues have been held with groups of employees in South Africa and piloted in our UK office. These are unstructured employees have participated in discussions, facilitated by an OD representative, where participants are encouraged to our Zebra Crossing and Women in confront unconscious bias and misconceptions around any aspect of diversity. Leadership initiatives since inception We also have a number of Women in Leadership initiatives where women and men at in 2009 Investec have the opportunity to participate in the conversation around gender. Our clients and external stakeholders are also invited to participate in these events. These rich and informative dialogues help us to create an appropriate environment for women to thrive as leaders, employees and entrepreneurs and serve as role models for the next generation. UK and Other Investec Inspire in the UK is the umbrella for Investec’s employee-led diversity and inclusion programme, which is sponsored by senior executives. The first network that was developed under Inspire was our gender balance network, recognising that attracting, Investec Inspire developing and retaining female talent, is very important at all levels of the business, and helping to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, can thrive at Investec. It was started is the flagship diversity and inclusion by Investec Asset Management to enable the sharing of knowledge and experience as initiative for the UK and other regions well as to provide inspiration and support for women at Investec. Other diversity initiatives in the UK include the establishment of a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT+) Network and a Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Network. The UK Investec Inspire framework also includes Inspire YoungMinds, a network aimed at supporting and inspiring future leaders. Although we are not driven by awards and recognition, we are proud to be recognised for our efforts. • Voted second most attractive employer by professionals and fourth by students in South Africa in the 2017 Universum Awards • Investec CEO, Stephen Koseff, won the Lifetime Achievement Award presented by the 2018 African Banker Awards. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 21 Transformation in South Africa People Transformation in South Africa In South Africa, Investec remains committed to black economic empowerment. Highlights for the year Our approach involves: • The appointment of Fani Titi • using our entrepreneurial expertise to foster the creation of new black entrepreneurial as Joint CEO of Investec from platforms 1 October 2018 • serving as a leading source of empowerment financing • Investec will be rated under the • investing significantly in learning and development opportunities for both our employees revised Financial Sector Code as well as other South Africans (FS Code) for the first time in 2018 • encouraging internal transformation by bringing about greater representivity in our • Investec was one of the first workplace signatories to the Youth • continually striving to achieve greater representation at all levels of the business through Employment Service (YES) initiative the effective implementation of our employment equity plan. • R5 million initial capital allocated to YES initiative set up the Promaths Bursary Fund Through the CEO Initiative in South Africa, the Youth Employment Service (YES) in 2017 and a further R3 million programme, in partnership with a number of corporates, government and SMMEs, allocated in the past financial year has committed to finding employment opportunities for unemployed youth via paid • Khulasande Capital Partnership II internships. Investec CEO, Stephen Koseff, is a co-convenor of this initiative. was launched during the year YES was launched in March 2018 and the first 20 youth were employed by Investec • Launched Izandla Property Fund in partnership with the Sabi Sands Pfunanani Trust from 1 April 2018. Investec has in June 2017. committed to finding employment for approximately 1 200 youth annually for the next three years. Khulasande Capital Partnership II Khulasande Capital Partnership II was launched during the year as a partnership between Investec Limited and the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT). Khulasande Capital is a black owned and controlled private equity and investment vehicle that contributes to the broad-based South African society and economy. EDT is a charitable trust with black beneficiaries focusing on the development of the South African economy through educational and entrepreneurial activities. Izandla Property Fund The Izandla Property Fund was launched in June 2017. Izandla Property is a majority black owned property company supported by Investec Property and Investec Property Fund. It aims to create value to fund the initiatives of the EDT, their majority shareholder, by accessing quality real estate assets and providing our property clients with a B-BBEE partner who will own, manage and develop their property assets. Investec Property supports Izandla Property with skills, expertise and knowledge while Investec Property Fund serves as the capital partner of Izandla Property. 22 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our communities People Our communities Our Corporate Social Investment (CSI) endeavours are central to the group’s values of making an unselfish contribution to society. Our approach to CSI focuses on education, entrepreneurship and the environment. In keeping with our business model of Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate many well-established partnerships and independent, highly autonomous business with partners, so as to leverage resources volunteering initiatives to support these units, supported by a strong centre, there and expertise and help ensure a lasting partners. Further, we make donations is no single overriding approach to social impact as well as long-term sustainability to charities in response to requests for investment within the group, although clear for our projects. assistance across all regions and business commonalities exist. Each of the regions has areas within the group. This allows us pursued social investment as appropriate The active involvement of our people, to allocate meaningful grants in areas to their location and where they are in the through volunteering, remains at the core which might not fall within our main CSI evolution of their business. of our social investment strategy. We have focus areas. CSI spend as a % of operating profit* Percentage 2.0 We target a minimum 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.0% 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0 of group 1.0 CSI spend as a % of 0.5 operating profit* 0 * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non2015 2016 2017 2018 operating items, taxation and after other Year non-controlling interests. Investec Limited Investec plc Investec group Investec’s purpose is to create and manage wealth Professionals and entrepreneurs Creating wealth become our clients requires a thriving We focus on supporting youth or staff and partner with us to economy with active economic to become active economic create wealth participants participants as the most effective Shared value for all way to create opportunities for stakeholders employment, wealth creation and stimulate socio-economic growth. Educated and skilled people are able to get To become employment or create economically active, their own business people need to be employing others educated and skilled (entrepreneurship) Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 23 Supporting our communities (continued) People CSI spend across the group 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Year ended £ R £ R Southern Africa Asset Management 7 116 122 500 11 354 190 406 Wealth & Investment 43 321 745 725 70 472 1 181 771 Specialist Banking 477 356 8 217 249 628 016 10 531 476 Group Corporate Social Investment 4 942 116 85 073 960 4 411 031 73 970 474 Total Southern Africa 5 469 909 94 159 434 5 120 873 85 874 127 UK and Other Asset Management 259 612 4 468 981 395 735 6 636 250 Wealth & Investment 110 506 1 902 259 74 877 1 255 645 Specialist Banking 219 716 3 782 208 372 564 6 247 681 Group Corporate Social Investment 1 107 384 19 062 600 1 089 898 18 276 968 Total UK and Other 1 697 218 29 216 048 1 933 074 32 416 544 Total Investec CSI spend 7 167 127 123 375 482 7 053 947 118 290 671 Total Investec CSI spend as a % of operating profit* 1.2% 1.2% * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests. Staff volunteering Through our staff volunteering programme we support and encourage staff participation and engagement as we believe that far more can be achieved through our collective knowledge, expertise and influence than through cash donations alone. Our people play a pivotal role in our CSI programmes giving selflessly of their time, money, goods and skills to support our communities. We foster a culture of participation by offering Highlights for the year a number of opportunities for staff to get involved, some of which are outlined below. • > 9 000 hours spent on volunteering We offer staff a payroll giving programme in our South African, UK and Australian offices. (2017: > 7 400 hours) In South Africa, our Touch by Giving programme allows staff to donate money on a • South Africa: 886 staff volunteered monthly basis, or once off, to 12 pre-selected and vetted charitable organisations, and > 4 700 hours Investec matches all staff contributions. We also encourage staff to volunteer in their (2017: > 3 400 hours) own communities. Through the Cradle Project, staff have the opportunity to present • UK: > 4 400 hours charitable donation requests to a forum and possibly receive funding for projects in (2017: > 4 000 hours) which they are involved. • In South Africa, we facilitated In the UK, our payroll giving programme, Give-As-You-Earn, enables staff to donate 9 general staff volunteering money to a charity of their choice. Staff fundraising endeavours are supported events and 19 community events through employee charity funding while small grants are made to local charities within for business units which replaced our focus areas. All staff are also given two days paid leave to volunteer with our their traditional teambuilding community partners. events. We also launched an internal campaign, Sharegood, to encourage further staff participation • In the UK, staff donated > £544 000 to charity through payroll giving (2017: > £485 000) and a further £156 800 (2017: £158 700) was raised by staff, including through Investec sponsored events. 24 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our communities (continued) Southern Africa People Our strategy in South Africa focuses on the support and empowerment of Our objectives are twofold: talented individuals within a defined • To facilitate an increase in the number of entrepreneurially-minded matriculants as continuum of interactions through school well as those with a decent pass in English, mathematics and science and, who have and university to the workplace. an aspiration to proceed beyond matric • To facilitate access to quality tertiary education, support and celebrate excellent performance thereafter. CSI spend Investec Limited R’million 10 000 R94mn 195% R86mn 8 000 R69mn R70mn R60mn 6 000 R46mn increase in total CSI 4 000 R32mn R39mn R35mn spend for Southern Africa R28mn 2 000 since 2009 (R560 million spend since 2009) 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year CSI divisional spend by category (%)^ Percentage 100 6% 3% 5% 7% 80 60 84% 89% 84% 81% 40 20 10% 8% 11% 12% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Philanthropic and other Education Entrepreneurship ^ Excluding business units CSI spend and operational costs for Southern Africa. Education Our strategy in South Africa focuses on creating opportunities, through education, that equip and enable young people to become active economic participants in society. We support and empower talented individuals within a defined continuum of interventions through school and university to the workplace. Highlights for the year • 81% of South Africa’s CSI spend was allocated to education • Promaths contributed 4.8% and 5.0% of South Africa’s mathematics and science distinctions respectively* • R5 million initial capital allocated to set up the Promaths Bursary Fund High school Tertiary Workplace in 2017 and a further R3 million • Promaths • Student bursaries • Work readiness allocated in the past financial year. • High school bursaries • Teacher development • Mentorship * Academic year: January – December 2017. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 25 Supporting our communities (continued) Promaths People Highlights for the year Our flagship educational programme, Promaths, is aimed at supporting the education system by providing extra tuition in mathematics and science to learners in grades • 325 distinctions in 10 – 12 at selected schools across the country. Investec currently funds 3 900 learners mathematics from 1 254 learners in eight centres. Since inception of the Promaths programme 12 years ago, Investec (2016*: 263 distinctions). has funded over 7 000 disadvantaged learners through the programme. This is 4.8% of the country’s It is important to note that the programme does not seek to replace the roles of distinctions in mathematics mathematics and science educators in schools, but rather to supplement their efforts • 393 distinctions in science in order to improve the performance of high-potential learners in these subjects in their from 1 238 learners schools. (2016*: 288 distinctions). During the year, Investec conducted an independent review on the Promaths initiative This is 5.0% of the country’s to establish the extent to which we have helped disadvantaged people to further their distinctions in science. education and the impact on both the economy and the social landscape. Of the 10% sample of the 7 000 former Promaths beneficiaries: 100% 99% 84% 27% passed mathematics passed science completed, or are completing, are employed in matric in matric tertiary education of which 44% of which 28% of which 59% of which 67% received a distinction received a distinction are studying at university support family members financially Bursaries and alumni programmes Highlights for the year High school bursaries: In pursuit of affording academically and financially deserving high school learners access to quality education around the country, Investec, in partnership • 35 high school bursaries with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT), awarded bursaries to 35 high school awarded (2016*: 27) learners in grades 10 – 12 in 2017. Twelve learners matriculated in 2017 producing 61 • 112 bursary students from first distinctions. year to honours level (2016*: 115) University bursaries: Investec awards young South Africans, with academic potential and • Promaths Bursary Fund launched, in financial need, the opportunity to study towards financial sector related degrees at various awarding ten bursaries to local universities. The 112 bursary students in 2017 varied from first year to honours level. students Promaths bursaries: Investec CSI launched the Promaths Bursary Fund in 2017 awarding • 1 208 Promaths Alumni at ten bursaries to students. The fund aims to provide bursaries to Promaths Alumni who are university (2016*: 577) academically and financially deserving. • 15 merit awards allocated (2016*: 17). Promaths Alumni: Investec supports ten Promaths Alumni societies that aim to connect, motivate and empower ex-Promaths learners who are now studying at tertiary institutions around the country. A total of 1 208 students were on the alumni programme in 2017. Investec Merit Awards @ Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU): In partnership with NMMU, Investec CSI offers merit awards to individuals who do extremely well academically and are in need of financial assistance. The 15 merit award recipients in 2017 received small once-off bursaries to enable them to register and gain access to university. * Academic year: January – December 2016. 26 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our communities (continued) People Career guidance Highlights for the year Investec has made career guidance central to its education offerings to encourage learners • > 4 000 registered users on to aspire to an excellent pass rate, provide guidance around subject choice and tertiary Career Xplora study opportunities as well as expose learners to the corporate world and opportunities • 403 JuniorTukkie’s high school available within the financial sector, specifically at Investec. This is achieved through three achievers with an average of 70% initiatives: • 390 learners exposed to the Career Xplora working environment at Investec. Investec, in partnership with Brainwave Careers, run an innovative mobile career guidance platform called Career Xplora. This mobile application (app) enables real time chats between facilitators and learners about subject selection, career guidance and opportunities post matric. JuniorTukkie Programme The JuniorTukkie Programme, run in partnership with the University of Pretoria, is an initiative aimed at identifying top academic achievers at high school level and assisting them to make informed study and career choices. The programme is open to learners from grades 9 – 12 with an average of 70%. Investec CSI supports the grade 11 empowerment week and the grade 12 preparation conference. A Day @ Investec This initiative invites grade 11 learners to spend a day at the Investec offices exposing learners to different careers within the financial sector in a more practical manner. Learners spend the day with a staff member in one of the five regional offices, being exposed to the working environment at Investec. Work Readiness Programme Highlights for the year University students have limited or no exposure to the world of work and often lack the • 57 students who attended the Work soft skills needed to get a job, stay employed, and advance in employment. In response to Readiness Programme (2016*: 58). this challenge, Investec hosts an annual Work Readiness Programme aimed at assisting the transition from tertiary education to the working environment. Selected students from Investec programmes attend this week-long programme to experience our dynamic environment and acquire the skills required to thrive in the world of work. Mentorship Programme Highlights for the year To complete the educational support loop, Investec also addresses the need that many • 148 mentees were partnered with university students have for advice and mentorship. The Mentorship Programme pairs 115 Investec mentors Investec staff volunteers with bursary recipients. In this role, staff members become (2016*: 130 mentees and personal mentors, offering students a sounding board for educational and other decisions 90 mentors). or difficulties. In many instances, mentors also draw on the skills and expertise of other colleagues to assist bursary students with particularly challenging university courses. The programme culminates in the Mentorship Appreciation Day when all mentors and mentees reflect on the programme and acknowledge the successes. Teacher Internship Programme Highlights for the year Investec’s partnership with the Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa (ISASA) • 18 student teachers completed the and the Department of Education, aims to develop quality teachers in mathematics, science development programme (2016*: 34) and English. The ISASA programme provides prospective Senior and Further Education and • 11 teachers were placed in public Training (FET) teachers with bursaries to study for a four-year Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) schools (2016*: 8) or a one-year postgraduate (PGCE) degree at UNISA. Interns are placed in ISASA host • 128 student teachers currently schools for the duration of their undergraduate or postgraduate education studies. on the three-year programme Each student teacher is allocated a mentor over the four-year period to ensure positive (2016*: 170) role modelling, strong support and quality supervision. The students also attend academic • 90 ISASA host schools (2016*: 60). camps, which offer ongoing motivation and support to bolster the professional and academic development. On completion of the internship, qualified teachers are required to take up posts in public state-funded schools to ensure the transfer of skills. * Academic year: January – December 2016. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 27 Supporting our communities (continued) Entrepreneurship People Our strategy in South Africa supports the growth of young South African entrepreneurs from school-going age to working entrepreneurs, in order to grow the South African economy and create employment opportunities. Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) Highlights for the year Investec supports JASA’s Entrepreneurship Academy Programme in furthering its goal • 327 learners from of stimulating an entrepreneurial mindset as well as life skills amongst grade 10 and 11 disadvantaged committees learners. The 24-week programme, hosted in ten disadvantaged schools across the participated (2016*: 350). country, provides over 300 learners with practical hands-on skills to launch and manage their own small businesses. 30 learners were selected to participate in Investec’s Junior Innovators Competition prior to the final competition. Young Entrepreneurs Programme (YoungTreps) Highlights for the year Investec’s Young Entrepreneurs Programme, in partnership with the EDT, takes aspiring • 54 entrepreneurs given global entrepreneurs from different sectors on overseas trips to expose them to countries that exposure through sector specific are sector leaders. The trip itinerary is designed based on the entrepreneurs selected as trips abroad well as the sector focus, and includes visits to think tanks, universities, start-ups, venture • 225 entrepreneurs are part of the capitalists, angel funders, leading companies, thought leaders as well as formal and informal alumni programme. opportunities to network and showcase their businesses. In the last year, our YoungTreps Programme hosted four international trips with a different sector focus for each trip: agriculture, manufacturing, education and renewable energy. The YoungTreps Alumni Programme brings together entrepreneurs from different sectors exposing them to presentations of interest and networking opportunities. Philanthropic initiatives We recognise that there are many other needs and related causes that fall outside of our key focus areas and therefore allocate a small portion of the budget to philanthropic initiatives and ad hoc donations. Philanthropic donations include our support of the Investec Soccer League, the Field Highlights for the year Band Foundation, enke: Make Your Mark and the Sounds of Celebration programme. Our ad hoc donations are to charities across all regions in South Africa in response to requests • 84 ad hoc donations made worth received. Donations are between R5 000 and R20 000 in areas which fall both within and R1.9 million (2017: R1.8 million). outside of our main focus areas. Mauritius In Mauritius, the CSI strategy focuses on projects and initiatives within the education, Highlights for the year environment and sports development sectors. Our CSI projects are directed at communities • £58 786 spent on CSI projects in or beneﬁciaries that are ﬁnancially disadvantaged and we aim to provide long-term Mauritius (2017: £73 128) sustainability where possible. • 68% of staff participated in the Our key project within the education sector is our support of the Guy Rozemont annual volunteer drive. Government School which includes a variety of initiatives. In the environment sector we support the Mauritian Wildlife Foundations’ Learning with Nature Education Project and the Protection of Animal Welfare Society. Our support of the sports development sector includes the Tranquebar Black Rangers Volley Ball Club and Sailing Pour Tous. For more detail, please refer to Investec Bank (Mauritius) Limited’s 2018 annual report. * Academic year: January – December 2016. 28 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our communities (continued) UK and Other People Our strategy in the UK focuses on education, entrepreneurship and the We champion CSI by: environment. We partner with local • Building dedicated charitable partnerships organisations in all of our projects. Our people form an integral part of our • Harnessing our diverse resources and collective talent approach and volunteer their time, skills • Engaging all of our people in making a positive difference. and money in all of our key initiatives. CSI spend Investec plc £’million £2.0mn £1.9mn 18% 2.0 £1.7mn £1.6mn £1.6mn £1.6mn £1.6mn £1.5mn £1.5mn 1.5 £1.4mn increase in CSI spend 1.0 since 2009 (£16.3 million 0.5 spend since 2009) 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year CSI spend by category (%) Percentage 100 8% 10% 13% 22% 80 27% 27% 22% 25% 60 21% 33% 37% 40 32% 20 44% 30% 21% 27% 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Philanthropic and other Education Entrepreneurship Environment Education Through the education projects we support, we aim to empower young people to achieve their goals in life. While we recognise the importance of academics, our community partners also focus on employability, life and interpersonal skills. Arrival Education Highlights for the year Investec partners with Arrival Education, a social enterprise that focuses on talent management • 1 600 Arrival Education learners with young people from challenging backgrounds and minority ethnic groups. Arrival Education supported by Investec in the past aims to raise aspirations and develop the mindsets and skills required for learners to achieve ten years success in their lives. Investec, the founding partner in Arrival Education’s Success4Life programme, hosts volunteer-led success talks, workshops and coaching sessions in our • > 5 600 hours spent volunteering London office. Despite facing many barriers, Investec’s support has enabled learners to develop for Arrival Education in the positive mindsets, remain engaged in education and go on to achieve remarkable success. past ten years • Received the Financial Innovation In 2017, Investec engaged in Arrival Education’s newest programme, the Access Network. Awards 2017 – Innovation in The initiative includes workshops and coaching sessions at our London office for ambitious and Sustainability or Social Responsibility talented 16 – 18 year olds from disadvantaged backgrounds who are interested in pursuing Awards for our Invest for Success a career in business. Investec supported 70 students in 2017 with 50 Investec employees programme. volunteering on the programme. Twenty three employees also volunteered to become coaches to the students. Investec hosted ‘Invest for Success’, in partnership with Arrival Education, an innovative six-month programme designed for students wanting to succeed in the financial industry. Over the duration of the programme, 23 volunteers supported 40 students, contributing 221 volunteer hours. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 29 Supporting our communities (continued) People La Mare De Carteret Primary School Highlights for the year Investec partners with La Mare De Carteret Primary School, one of the two social priority • > 400 volunteering hours spent primary schools in Guernsey, that support learners with special educational needs through supporting learners. funding and volunteering. Investec volunteers in our Guernsey office spent over 400 hours in the past year supporting the learners with mathematics, coding, sports, gardening, outdoor learning and breakfast clubs. Morpeth Secondary School Highlights for the year Morpeth is a fully inclusive, mixed comprehensive secondary school situated in one of • Supported > 70 learners to the most disadvantaged London boroughs in east London. The learners are from diverse attend outdoor residential excursion backgrounds and minority ethnic groups, with a high proportion on the disability spectrum programmes and with special educational needs. Learners’ challenges include barriers to further • 20 year 9 learners on the Morpeth education, training and employment opportunities. Investec supports a number of Morpeth Young Apprentice programme. programmes that include their annual bursary, outdoor residential excursion (Outward Bound), drumming and breakfast club programmes. Through our support, we aim to assist the school to achieve academic success and create high aspirations for all learners. Morpeth Young Apprentice Our volunteers help to deliver the Morpeth Young Apprentice skills development and work experience programme for 20 select year 9 learners. Marino College Highlights for the year This year marked the ten-year anniversary of our partnership with Marino College in Dublin • 21 students mentored this year where our employees act as mentors to students. The initiative involves mentor meetings (2017: 22). with students on a monthly basis over a two-year period, arranging mock interviews, work placements and providing guidance to the students as required. Entrepreneurship Our roots are based in the spirit of entrepreneurship and we strive to nurture an entrepreneurial spirit in our staff, clients and the communities local to our offices. Bromley by Bow Centre Highlights for the year The Bromley by Bow Centre focuses on economic regeneration in the London Borough • 139 entrepreneurs were given of Tower Hamlets. In 2011 we became the sole funder of the centre’s Beyond Business advice (2017: 107) programme, a social enterprise incubator which provides start-up funding and advice to • 86% of launched enterprises entrepreneurs looking to start their own social enterprise businesses. continue to trade beyond their third The launched enterprises tackle a variety of needs including youth unemployment, year since 2011 (national average social exclusion, vulnerable families, community cohesion, homelessness, mental health, approximately 50%) rehabilitation of ex-offenders and food poverty. Many of the entrepreneurs are female, black • Winner of the Business of the and of ethnic minority. Year award by Business Charity Awards 2017. Our volunteers sit on the selection panel, offering advice to shortlisted aspiring entrepreneurs and grant start-up funding to successful applicants. We also run the annual Beyond Business College at Investec providing the successful applicants with specialist support in addition to guidance on an ongoing ad hoc basis. 30 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Supporting our communities (continued) Environment People We focus on improving the environment for communities local to our offices through engaging our employees. Trees for Cities Highlights for the year Trees for Cities is a charity which engages local communities and schools to plant trees, • 14 urban community greening shrubs and to grow food, reconnecting urban areas with nature. Teams of our people from projects supported by Investec. our London, Reading, Leeds, Liverpool and Sheffield offices have rolled up their sleeves to volunteer with the charity, helping to deliver 14 urban community greening projects including planting food gardens in schools, planting trees, and outdoor maintenance. Australia Investec Australia’s CSI focuses on educational and entrepreneurial programmes that Highlights for the year play an important role within the communities in which we operate. • 35 students benefited from the We partner with the Australian Business Community Network (ABCN), a not-for-profit experience of professional mentors organisation on a mentoring programme. ABCN pairs professionals in businesses with from Investec (2016*: 32) students in high-need schools. The mentoring programme aims to inspire young people to see beyond their community’s expectation of them and to widen students’ awareness of the • 90% of students who participated range of personal, educational and vocational choices they have available to them. Investec in ABCN programmes completed participates in two of ABCN’s programmes, namely GOALS and FOCUS. year 12 (2016*: 93%) • A$16 660 donated by employees, GOALS is one-on-one mentoring in a group environment that aims to widen choices of and matched by Investec. students considered to be at risk of disengaging from school or with limited aspirations. FOCUS is group mentoring for year 11 female students with female mentors in leadership positions, exploring the challenges of leadership through shared experience and personal reflection. Investec Australia’s matched giving programme matches employees donations, including work place giving and salary deduction options (to the value of A$2 000) for each employee to a registered Australian charity of their choice. In the past financial year, employees donated A$16 660 which was matched by Investec. * Academic year: January – December 2016. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 31 Communities and conservation People Communities and conservation Given Investec’s African roots and our desire to make a meaningful contribution to the world in which we live, we recognise the value in protecting and supporting the economy of wildlife. The sustainable and responsible protection of wildlife resources can have important conservation, economic and social benefits. Tourism is a key driver of economic growth and development, particularly in impoverished rural communities where the land and its natural resources are their only key assets. Investec’s conservation strategy is focused on funding a number of biodiversity projects which help to ensure the sustainable co-existence of Africa’s rich wildlife and the vulnerable communities with which they compete for limited natural resources. Our projects focus on youth education, raising awareness, research and monitoring, community upliftment, youth employment, and the recognition of conservation heroes. Investec Rhino Lifeline Highlights Investec Rhino Lifeline (IRL), established in 2012, focuses on youth education, the rescue of • Approximately 12 000 children have orphaned and injured rhino, and demand reduction in consumer countries. Our approach is participated in our C4C education to focus on both the demand and supply side of the rhino crisis. We partner with specialists, programme since 2013 registered charities or NGOs, supporting their efforts in a hands-on way through awareness, • 70 rhino have been rescued by our fundraising and donations. partners with our support since 2012 Education • Extensive awareness campaign in Education plays a pivotal role in the fight to save the rhino and aligns with the group’s June 2017 in China and the East broader CSI strategy. IRL’s focus is on educating children in communities living alongside reaching about 20 million Chinese game reserves, increasing awareness not only of the importance of caring for wildlife but viewers also the vital contribution that tourism and conservation present for future employment and • R1 million donated to the Open career opportunities. Learning Academy at GWF in the Bushbuckridge area of Mpumalanga, In the past year, our partnership with Coaching for Conservation (C4C) saw a 51% increase in the number of children reached. This was largely due to the successful rollout of the South Africa in the past year C4C programme by the Good Work Foundation (GWF) in the critical Bushbuckridge • The C4C coordinator at GWF, area alongside the Kruger National Park (KNP). IRL also donated R1 million towards Sibusiso Mnisi, won a silver in the GWF’s Open Learning Academy (OLA), a continuous, full year programme supporting 2018 Eco-Logic Awards in the rural learners from grades 4 – 7, bolstering their digital, English and mathematics literacy. Eco‑Youth category. This year, OLA is working with 4 445 learners from eight rural schools in the area, with a specific conservation focus. Rescue Investment in IRL since 2012 Orphaned rhino calves and rescued rhino play a critical role to the ultimate survival of the species. IRL supports two of South Africa’s most established rhino rescue centres: Care for Wild and the Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre (HESC). These partnerships also provide an important awareness platform and fundraising vehicle. In the past year: R16.7mn • R52 000 raised by staff for Care for Wild • R70 000 donated to Care for Wild for the planting of indigenous grass for rhino grazing. This was to offset the carbon impact of printing the 2017 annual reports • R78 000 raised for HESC at the 2017 St Mary’s Investec Hockey Festival. Education 65% Demand reduction Rescue 25% Reducing demand for rhino horn in consumer countries is essential to the reduction Demand reduction 10% of poaching and protection of rhino for the future. Working with WildAid, HESC and Cathay Pacific, IRL brought a distinguished Chinese ambassador to South Africa in June 2017 for an educational rhino and wildlife experience. IRL’s focus for the next year • C4C to reach a further 5 900 children • C4C and GWF to pilot a new online conservation education app as a grade 6 follow-up programme • IRL continues to explore possibilities for educational and awareness projects in the demand reduction space. 32 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Communities and conservation (continued) People Youth skills and employment Highlights Through the CEO Initiative in South Africa, the Youth Employment Service (YES) programme, • Investec was one of the first in partnership with a number of corporates, government and SMMEs, has committed to signatories to YES finding employment opportunities for unemployed youth via paid internships. • Investec CEO, Stephen Koseff, is a YES launched in March 2018 and the first 20 youth were employed by Investec in co-convenor of YES partnership with the Sabi Sands Pfunanani Trust (SSPT) from 1 April 2018. Some of these youth are graduates of GWF. Furthermore, the SSPT have committed funding and • Investec has committed to finding support to the roll out of more satellite GWF education centres in the Bushbuckridge employment for approximately area which will further upskill youth to enable them to participate in local employment 1 200 youth annually for the next opportunities in conservation and tourism. At the same time, Investec has collaborated with three years. the Entrepreneurship Development Trust and Innovation Africa to provide water, through solar water pumps, to the Bushbuckridge community. Investec is collaborating with GWF and the SSPT to align our efforts and focus on youth education, adult learning, skills development, community renewal and youth employment. This is critical in our aim to support the economy of wildlife and accelerate transformation in South Africa. BirdLife South Africa Highlights The Power and Infrastructure Finance (PIF) business partners with BirdLife South Africa to • > R4.1 million spent since inception help minimise the environmental impact of renewable energy projects on the local birdlife. in 2012 PIF ensures that all renewable energy facilities they support comply with international Impact: Improving the long-term environmental standards and BirdLife South Africa helps developers and project financiers, environmental sustainability of such as Investec, gain a better understanding of the potential impact on birds and on renewable energy and minimising the improving environmental performance. BirdLife South Africa promotes relevant research, negative impact on biodiversity. facilitates the flow of information, and provides guidance so that high risk sites can be avoided and impacts adequately assessed, monitored and mitigated during project planning and beyond. In this way, Investec and BirdLife South Africa help refine decision-making for further developments and improve the long-term environmental sustainability of renewable energy in the region. Wild dog Highlights Investec has supported the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s Carnivore Conservation Programme • > R1 million spent since inception since 2013, funding the research and monitoring of the wild dog populations in the Kruger in 2013 National Park (KNP). Wild dog is South Africa’s most endangered carnivore and the population in the KNP is the largest and most viable in the whole of South Africa, numbering Impact: the wild dog population in the 250 dogs in 22 packs. Therefore, the conservation of this population of wild dogs is critical. KNP has grown by 46% since 2012. The current focus of the project is to empower key communities on the western boundary of the KNP to promote safe, sustainable and practical solutions for the co-existence of wild dogs and humans living in the communities on the western border of the park. IAM Tusk Conservation Awards Highlights Investec Asset Management (IAM) has been supporting the annual Tusk Conservation • > £2 million advertising value Awards for the past six years. They are recognised as one of the most prestigious awards in African conservation and acknowledge the contribution made by extraordinary people Impact: Generating international towards conservation. In shining a light on these inspirational individuals the awards intend coverage for Tusk to raise global awareness around both the immediate and long-term challenges facing our natural world. • Post year-end, IAM received the Venture Philanthropy Africa Achievements over the past six years can be categorised into three areas: financial Award in the 2018 Private Equity grant provision, international profile, and ongoing project support. Incorporated into our Africa Awards for their support commitment is the annual £40 000 grant given to the winner of the Prince William Award of Tusk. for Conservation in Africa. By 2016, the awards provided a platform generating international coverage for Tusk and its award winners amounting to in excess of £2 million (approximate equivalent advertising value). Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 33 Planet Direct operational impact Direct operational impact Planet Our planet Investec’s environmental policy takes into account the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we consider any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet. Direct operational impact Highlights for the year In recognising that we have a responsibility to understand and manage our wider carbon footprint, our approach is focused on limiting our direct operational impact and creating • Group carbon emissions reduced awareness to encourage positive sustainable behaviour. The key focus areas to reduce our by 6.1% (2017: 7.9%) operational carbon footprint include: • Reduction of 7.9% in scope 2 • reducing energy consumption emissions (2017: 4.1%) • reducing overall waste • Emissions per average employee • reducing water usage reduced from 7.05 tonnes of CO2 to 6.23 tonnes of CO2 • increasing waste recycling rates • Emissions per m2 office space • promoting sustainable travel reduced from 0.39 tonnes of CO2 to • promoting sustainable procurement. 0.36 tonnes of CO2 We acknowledging that we cannot continue consuming natural resources at the current • As part of Investec’s response to the rate and need to ensure our sustainability efforts are more in line with the aspirations of the Cape Town Day Zero water crisis, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are therefore exploring various opportunities we spent R2.5 million on water as we work towards our ultimate goal of becoming carbon neutral. For example: initiatives to ensure continuity • ensuring the security of natural resources in all operations of business. • drawing energy from renewable sources and, if possible, sharing the excess with our communities • eliminating plastic waste (in particular, single-use plastic) • offsetting business travel emissions • sourcing only from responsible suppliers. Emissions per average employee for the group Emissions per m2 office space for the group Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO2 10 0.5 8.44 0.43 8.03 8.20 0.41 8 0.4 0.39 0.39 7.31 7.05 0.36 0.36 6.23 6 0.3 4 0.2 2 0.1 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year Year Breakdown of group emissions Over the past six years our intensity indicators have remained relatively constant. In 2015 we enhanced our data collection processes to cover a broader scope of our operations. Since then, Investec group has reduced energy consumption as a result of electricity reduction initiatives, even though our headcount increased. Travel emissions reduced due to a change in the emission factors and through continuous collaboration through video conferencing and effective leveraging of international teams. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 35 Direct operational impact (continued) Group carbon footprint Planet Our respective carbon footprints have been calculated according to the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). Our environmental data collection system allows us to track and manage our direct operational impact. This tool imports data from various sources, consolidates the information and calculates our carbon footprint. The implementation of this tool allows us to produce reliable emissions data, accurately build a history of our carbon footprint and will assist in setting targets for future emissions. Every year we endeavour to improve the thoroughness of our data collection processes. 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 2 168 1 710 26.8% Energy Natural gas kWh 462 2 508 683 431 2 341 511 7.2% LPG stationary L 24 16 055 36 23 978 (33.3%) CO2 purchased kg 1 567 – 452 100.0% Diesel L 44 17 113 268 102 395 (83.6%) 1 Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 1 433 884 766 404 87.1% 2 Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 204 1 100 363 209 1 092 169 (2.4%) Scope 2 32 394 42 096 188 35 192 43 407 612 (7.9%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 32 394 42 096 188 35 192 43 407 612 (7.9%) 3 Scope 3 26 018 27 604 (5.7%) Paper Paper consumption t 404 411 499 506 (19.0%) Waste General waste t 18 53 15 47 20.0% Employee travel Rail travel km 71 1 624 080 128 2 675 459 (44.5%) Road business travel km 216 1 184 132 248 1 325 898 (12.9%) Taxi km 36 217 033 32 175 321 12.5% Commercial airlines km 25 273 83 234 230 26 682 75 891 968 (5.3%) 4 Total emissions 60 580 64 506 (6.1%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 108 108 115 372 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 869 794 Intensity Emissions per average employee 6.23* 7.05* Emissions per m² office space 0.36 0.39 Water consumption per average employee 11.11 12.60 1 Diesel consumption in South Africa reduced significantly as less power outages were experienced. 2 Refrigerant consumption in South Africa increased due to milk fridge’s installed in the pause areas thereby preventing 6 300 plastic milk bottles from going to landfill every month. 3 Energy consumption declined as a result of electricity reduction initiatives across all our office, despite a headcount increase. 4 Travel emissions reduced due to a change in the global emission factor. There has also been continuous collaboration to encourage greater use of video conferencing and effective leveraging of international teams. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. Assessment parameters Consolidation approach: Operational control Emission factor data source: DEFRA (2017), IEA and Eskom (for South Africa electricity) Intensity ratio: Emissions per average employee Emissions per office space m2 Independent assurance: Limited assurance provided by KPMG for the year ending 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018 36 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Direct operational impact (continued) Highlights for Southern Africa Planet We have achieved a 10% reduction in energy since 2014, in spite of a 10% 32.5% growth in staff headcount. We have revised our reduction target to 14% by 2020. reduction in energy since 2014 Our biggest energy consumption is from airconditioning systems (heating and cooling), lighting and information technology. During the last year, we spent approximately R3 million on power management equipment R3 million and consolidation and modernisation of electrical and airconditioning spent on power infrastructure. In addition to the efficiencies gained through infrastructure management equipment improvements, consolidation and decommissioning activities in the data centre have resulted in further energy consumption reductions. As a result and consolidating and of these initiatives, the consumption figures for 2018 are 3% lower than modernisation of electrical 2017. Further consolidation and modernisation activities are planned for the 2019 financial year. infrastructure Investec Team Green manages Investec’s internal environmental initiatives. In the past year, we launched a campaign to try and eliminate single‑use plastic in the Sandton office. We removed plastic straws from 6 300 the Sandton dining room, replaced plastic spoons with wooden sticks milk bottles prevented from as stirrers and introduced milk fridges in the pause areas to reduce the number of plastic milk bottles going to landfill. going to landfill every month Investec offices and Investec staff joined millions of people across the Participated in world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 22 March 2018 at 20:30. Earth Hour Investec staff partner with Interwaste in an initiative called Tops and Tags. In the past year, we donated an additional six wheelchairs to worthy 18 900kg recipients, bringing the total of wheelchairs donated to 43. As a result, of plastic waste prevented we prevented 18 900kg of plastic tags polluting landfills. from going to landfill In response to the Cape Town water crisis, Investec spent R2.5 million R2.5 million on water initiatives to ensure the continuity of our business. We also spent on water saving donated R400 000 for boreholes in the Khayelitsha community in the initiatives in Cape Town office Cape. Staff donated 105 250 litres of water to 152 identified care homes in Cape Town. to ensure business continuity through the water crisis South Africa energy reduction target Percentage Our offices in Southern Africa, 0 comprising 68% of the group floor space, set an energy reduction -2 target of 10% with 2014 as a base -4 year. We achieved our 2020 target in 2018 and revised it to 14%. -6 10% -8 -10 -12 electricity -14 reduction -16 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 target Original % target reduction % reduction achieved Year % forecast reduction Revised % target reduction achieved Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 37 Direct operational impact (continued) Carbon footprint for Southern Africa Planet 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 1 705 1 185 43.9% Energy LPG stationary L 24 16 055 36 23 978 (33.3%) 1 CO2 purchased kg 1 567 – 452 100.0% Diesel L 43 16 513 266 101 795 (83.8%) 2 Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 1 433 884 674 352 > 100% 3 Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 204 1 100 363 209 1 092 169 (2.4%) Scope 2 27 027 27 638 508 28 942 28 734 733 (6.6%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 27 027 27 638 508 28 942 28 734 733 (6.6%) 4 Scope 3 12 874 14 485 (11.7%) Paper Paper consumption t 97 104 112 119 (13.4%) Waste General waste t 13 23 9 21 44.4% Employee travel Road business travel km 33 178 478 55 291 818 (40.0%) Commercial airlines km 12 731 37 352 459 14 409 41 949 167 (11.6%) 5 Total emissions 41 605 44 712 (6.9%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 75 840 84 562 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 268 242 Intensity Emissions per average employee 7.69* 8.70* Emissions per m2 office space 0.37 0.40 Water consumption per average employee 14.02* 16.46* 1 LPG stationary gas was particularly high in the previous year due to gas leaks in the period. 2 Diesel consumption reduced significantly as less power outages were experienced. 3 Refrigerant consumption in South Africa increased due to milk fridges installed in the pause areas thereby stopping 6 300 plastic milk bottles from going to landfill every month. 4 Energy consumption declined as a result of electricity reduction initiatives, despite a headcount increase. 5 Travel emissions reduced due to collaboration to encourage greater use of video conferencing and effective leveraging of international teams, and a change in the global emissions factor. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. 38 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Direct operational impact (continued) Highlights for the UK and Other Planet Between 2009 and 2018, our UK head office reduced energy consumption 45% reduction in energy by 45% despite a headcount increase of 81.3%. consumption since 2009 The Energy Management System (EnMS) that covers 23 of our buildings in the UK, Ireland and Channel Island offices was certified to the international energy standard ISO 50001 in March 2018. We have reduced the energy cost in our UK head office by £3.2 million since 2009. Our EnMS achieved Our UK head office’s Environment Management System (EMS) which ISO 50001 certification covers the environmental aspects of the building remains certified to the international environmental standard ISO 14001. The UK head office won the Chairman’s Cup in the Corporation of London’s Won Clean City Awards Scheme for the third time. The only organisation to do this in its 24 year history. Chairman’s Cup The UK head office ‘disposable free friday’ initiative in the staff canteen has for best practice in seen a reduction in disposable food boxes of 23 800 to date. waste management Team Green ran a campaign around recycling in conjunction with the UK’s National Recycle Week across 14 offices, reaching over 2 800 of our people. In conjunction with World Water Day in March, Team Green ran a plastic campaign across 20 of our offices, reaching over 3 200 of our people, highlighting the issues of single-use plastic and the devastating effects plastic waste has on our oceans. Raised awareness around plastic waste across The UK head office re-bottled their own pure drinking water for hospitality, refilling 16 471 litre bottles avoiding 9 743kgs of glass waste. 20 of our offices We continue to encourage active travel amongst our staff and run cycle to work schemes. Investec staff joined millions of people across the world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 22 March 2018 at 20:30. In the past year, Investec led an £8 million investment in Propelair, a premium water efficient toilet system business. We trialled this system in 300 000 litre water some of our own washrooms, resulting in a 300 000 litre reduction in water reduction from installing a usage over the 12-month trial. This system will be implemented in all of our new office’s washrooms when we move premises in 2018. more efficient toilet system UK gas reduction target Percentage Our UK head office, comprising 9.7% 0 of the group floor space, set a gas reduction target of 72% by 2020, -10 with 2008 as a base year. This target -20 will be reviewed during the course of the next financial year as this office is -30 moving to new premises. -40 72% -50 -60 -70 gas -80 reduction 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year achieved Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 39 Direct operational impact (continued) Carbon footprint for UK and Other Planet 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Tonnes of Consumption Tonnes of Consumption Variance in CO2 in unit of CO2 in unit of tonnes of CO2 Units equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent Notes Scope 1 464 525 (11.6%) Energy Natural gas kWh 462 2 508 683 431 2 341 511 7.2% Diesel L 2 600 2 600 – Refrigerant Refrigerant kg – – 92 52 (100.0%) 1 Scope 2 5 367 14 457 680 6 250 14 672 879 (14.1%) Energy Electrical energy consumption kWh 5 367 14 457 680 6 250 14 672 879 (14.1%) 2 Scope 3 13 143 13 019 1.0% Paper Paper consumption t 307 307 387 387 (20.7%) Waste General waste t 4 30 6 26 (33.3%) 3 Employee travel Rail travel km 71 1 624 080 128 2 675 459 (44.5%) 4 Road business travel km 183 1 005 654 193 1 034 080 (5.2%) Taxi km 36 217 033 32 175 321 12.5% Commercial airlines km 12 542 45 881 770 12 273 33 942 801 2.2% Total emissions 18 974 19 794 (4.1%) No scope Water Water consumption kl 32 267 30 810 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 601 522 Intensity Emissions per average employee 4.39* 4.93* Emissions per m² office space 0.35 0.37 Water consumption per average employee 7.47* 7.67* D  ata has been gathered in line with requirements of the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK. We use the operational control method to determine what is included in our scope of reporting. Materiality set at a group level was 5% with all facilities estimated to contribute >1% of total emissions included. The GHG report is the same as our carbon footprint report, and covers our energy usage across our UK and Other offices only. 1 No refrigerants were purchased in the past year. 2 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent declined due to changes in emission factors. Consumption decreased slightly, however, we have stopped any further energy efficiency initiatives in our 2 Gresham Street office as we prepare to relocate to 30 Gresham Street in 2018. 3 Tonnes of CO2 equivalent declined due to changes in emission factors. 4 Rail travel decreased largely due to less travel on national rail as more employees adapt to an agile working environment. * Includes permanent and temporary employees. UK energy reduction achieved against target Percentage Our UK head office, comprising 0 9.7% of the group floor space, set an electricity reduction target of 35% -5 by 2020, with 2008 as a base year. -10 This target will be reviewed during the course of the next financial -15 year as this office is moving to new -20 premises. 34% -25 -30 -35 electricity -40 reduction 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Year achieved Original % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction achieved 40 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Profit Our business impact Our business impact Our business impact Profit Investec has a holistic approach to sustainability which is not limited to our daily operational activities. We recognise the important role our various businesses play in having a positive environmental and social impact. Sustainability is not just our responsibility, it also presents various commercial opportunities. As a distinctive financial institution with specialist skills in lending and investing, we play a critical role in funding a stable and sustainable economy that contributes to our communities and is cognisant of the world’s limited natural resources. Investec provides capital and liquidity for economic growth and development. In our asset management business, we are investing responsibly for a more sustainable future and are shaping the global imperative for sustainable development through focused engagement with clients and stakeholders. Highlights for the year Our business impact recognises the opportunities for our clients and businesses in cleaner • 88% of our energy lending portfolio and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, protecting natural resources, responsible is clean energy lending and investing, and responsible property management. Investec recognises the • Participated in £1.2 billion of risks of climate change and is committed to supporting the transition to a clean and renewable energy projects around energy‑efficient global economy. We believe that the greatest impact Investec can have on the world climate change is to support the transition to a clean and energy-efficient global economy. • Eight Investec funded projects Through our private client activities, we believe that the widest and most positive influence have an installed capacity of Investec can have is to support our clients and stakeholders in attaining their social and approximately 1 450MW of clean environmental aspirations. We offer clients the opportunity to give back to society or energy contribute to socio‑economic development through our private banking rewards programme • Investec Property Fund implemented and through the Investec philanthropy services offering. two rooftop solar projects for We recognise the business opportunities that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) two malls in South Africa reducing present and are evaluating key focused SDGs within our various core capabilities to have a both the cost of electricity and the long-term sustainable contribution. demand from the country grid We are also embedding ESG considerations into our daily business operations and • Trained 195 frontline staff processes through the following: on environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices in • An established group ESG policy South Africa and the UK • Incorporated ESG considerations in to the credit and investment decision-making • Investec philanthropy services process distributed R29 million to various • Established an ESG guidebook to assist consultants charities on behalf of clients of which • Provide ESG training for consultants. 50% went to education initiatives • Collaborated with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust and Innovation Africa to bring water to rural South Africa • Investec Asset Management invests in an initiative to provide low-income African households with highquality solar systems • Post year-end, Investec Asset Management also received the Credit Deal of the Year award for Akuo Kita Solar in the 2018 Private Equity Africa Awards. 42 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Our business impact (continued) Investec Asset Management Profit Investec Asset Management (IAM) is deeply committed to creating a better, sustainable future. We are conscious of our responsibility, both as investors of other people’s money and of our broader responsibility to society. Through our core investing activities, our leadership in the industry, our environmental initiatives and our commitment to our local communities, we seek to make a positive impact in all that we do. We look at a broad set of activities that are aligned with achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) recognising sustainable development as the greatest challenge to humanity. As a result, our sustainability activities are organised into three focus areas: Invest Engage Inhabit On behalf of our clients, we invest Through focused engagement We believe that change starts at responsibly for a more sustainable with our clients and stakeholders, home and therefore take direct future. we generate and provide insight responsibility for our environmental to shape the global imperative for and social impact. sustainable development. Invest Case study On behalf of our clients, we invest responsibly for a more sustainable future. Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund How we allocate capital arguably presents the biggest impact for our industry and • The Emerging Africa Infrastructure it is under the ‘Invest’ umbrella that we aim to tackle this challenge. In our role as a Fund (the fund) is a publicglobal asset manager we assume a stewardship role over the assets that we manage. private partnership created to We monitor, evaluate and, if necessary, actively engage or withdraw capital to preserve mobilise capital into private sector or add value to our clients’ portfolios. infrastructure projects across sub‑Saharan Africa in 2002 Our approach and commitment to this priority is outlined in our stewardship policy and • The fund has invested over is overseen by our internal Investment Governance Committee (IGC), which includes US$1.2 billion in 63 projects in senior leaders from around the business. We are a signatory of the United Nations 19 countries Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), the UK Stewardship Code and the Code for Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA). We are also involved in various • With this mandate, we allocate advocacy organisations which allow us to better engage on issues of active ownership capital, on behalf of our client, on a global scale with other investors. to much-needed infrastructure projects in Africa that will stimulate As a fiduciary of our clients’ money, it is our legal obligation to make sure we economic development, growth and consider all material risks and opportunities to our investments. We believe that the employment consideration of material ESG risks and opportunities allows us to better understand • 100% of the portfolio applies to risks and identify companies that are better placed to create long-term shareholder SDG 8 and 9 value. We focus on adding value across our investment teams (spanning equity, fixed income, multi-asset and alternatives) through ESG integration. We have • 59% of the portfolio applies to SDG 7 developed an internal framework which enables us to apply a consistent approach • Over 42 million people have to integration analysis, and allows our investment teams to develop their own unique benefited from new or improved approach to ESG. access to SDG 9 from the fund. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 43 Our business impact (continued) ESG integration framework Profit Case study 1 2 4Factor™ investment process Universe Fundamental • ESG is an integral part of 4Factor’s screening analysis stock analysis and is incorporated into how they assess the quality of the company, the shortand longterm impact on earnings progression ESG as well as the potential effect on company valuations integration • 4Factor focuses on energy, materials framework and power sub-sectors • They assess an ESG rating and controversy analysis produced by an 5 3 external research provider. This helps to get some early insight into what Reporting Portfolio construction the material issues are and whether the company is a leader or laggard • The investment professional then 4 proceeds by doing their own ESG analysis using Mercers ‘TRIP’ Engagement (technology, resources, impact, policy) framework to assess the Our investment teams largely integrate ESG analysis at the fundamental analysis stage, potential impact of ESG factors where they form a qualitative, quantitative or a mix of both account for material ESG issues. We obtain company ESG analysis from a number of sources, including external service • The ESG factors assess a climate providers. These sources allow us to build a view of how well the companies are identifying, change sector flag based on carbon managing and planning for these long-term issues. In addition, Investec Asset Management intensities of the sub-sector that the has an exclusion policy for cluster munition manufacturers. This applies to all investment company operates in and the carbon products, and complies with Luxembourg legal requirements. emissions of the industry relative to To aid the effective integration of ESG analysis, Investec Asset Management’s dedicated the performance for each fund. ESG team has worked closely with each of the investment teams to establish the integration programme. The programme includes a focus on team awareness, training, ensuring effective use of research and data, facilitating research efforts, and participation in external initiatives and active ownership responsibilities. It is important to note that this is not an ‘add-on’ process but is integrated within the process. Each programme is catered for the nuances and intricacies of each team’s respective investment processes. Active ownership While all investment teams follow the fundamental principles of our stewardship policy, the manner in which they play an active ownership role is determined by an assessment of the costs and benefits to our clients as well as the particular nature of the investment strategy. Any strategy of intervention in terms of active ownership will be subject to portfolio decisions on whether to remain invested in the company, with the protection and enhancement of the value of client portfolios being the central objective. Engagements take place as an integral part of our investment process. The investment teams initiate engagement based on their investment processes and priorities. In addition, Our ‘Invest’ approach contributes to the a supporting engagement strategy targets material ESG themes and specific holdings that following SDGs: are significant to IAM and our clients. We engage to improve transparency of information, accountability of boards and to preserve and encourage the creation of sustainable value. It is important that we measure and monitor engagement progress. Investec Asset Management votes at shareholder meetings throughout the world as a matter of principle. We believe that once we become investors, that is to say part-owners of a company, we assume a duty of stewardship and therefore take responsibility to support or sanction. We follow the international corporate governance best practice principles, as embodied by the International Corporate Governance Network. We also take into account regional/country-specific market practice as the underpinning infrastructure for our decision‑making. Ultimately the ESG view is in-house. Once we become a holder of the asset we become active owners and engage with the company or issuer, as necessary, to make sure the management of the risks are of a high standard and minimise any risks of future events that may destroy value. We recognise that we have a responsibility and opportunity to lead the conversation around sustainable development and encourage our clients on their journey towards more sustainable long-term investing. 44 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Our business impact (continued) Engage Through our various Profit Through focused engagement with our clients and stakeholders, we generate and engagements, we aim to provide insight to shape the global imperative for sustainable development. empower our clients with We believe it is important to not only manage our clients’ assets in a responsible manner but also to proactively engage our clients and stakeholders on the subject of sustainability and insight and knowledge to encourage our clients on their journey towards more sustainable long-term investing. support their long-term Through the Investec Investment Institute, our strategic insights and engagement platform we provide in-depth analysis and research to global financial institutions on key geopolitical, investment objectives. economic and investment trends that shape portfolio strategy and asset allocation decisions. Our work draws on our investment capabilities and partnerships with leading academics and practitioners. Our goal is to empower our clients with insight and knowledge Our ‘Engage’ approach contributes to the to support their long-term investment objectives. Portfolio resilience, sustainability, and ESG following SDGs: applied to investing have been central themes of the Institute’s work that we continue to share with our clients. Our leadership is fully engaged with a series of global organisations committed to the advancement and implementation of sustainable development: • The Business and Sustainable Development Commission • The Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism • The SDG Centre for Africa • The UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network • The UNPRI. Our dialogue with international business, governments, labour and civil society leaders aims to articulate and quantify the case for participation in moving towards sustainable development. This includes the imperative to build new policies and mechanisms to build a future where businesses can perform, creating inclusive sustainable growth and widespread job creation, and the achievement of the SDGs. These initiatives aim to explore current and future disruptive business models, understanding what they mean for sustainable development and to map out new financing mechanisms the world will need to reach the SDGs, moving beyond traditional corporate social responsibility and voluntary partnerships. Inhabit We have taken steps We believe that change starts at home and therefore take direct responsibility for our to mitigate our carbon environmental and social impact. footprint from travel We take responsibility for inhabiting our ecosystem in a manner that ensures a sustainable future for all. From our internal Green Team through to our work in conservation and emissions through communities both in South Africa and globally, we support the preservation of our natural world, supporting a better tomorrow for future generations.* strategic partnerships in * Further detail on our ‘Inhabit’ activities is included in the relevant sections throughout this report. South Africa and the UK. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 45 Our business impact (continued) Profit Investec Power and Infrastructure Finance Investec recognises the risks of climate change and is committed to supporting the transition to a clean and energy-efficient global economy. If we are to decarbonise global energy fast enough to avoid the most severe impacts of climate change and progress towards the 2°C goal, clean renewables must be an essential Highlights for the year part of raising global ambition high enough to make the goal possible. • Participated in £1.2 billion of We require that all power and infrastructure-related projects comply with applicable renewable energy projects around environmental, planning, labour and procurement laws and do not fund or invest in projects the world which do not have acceptable environmental impact assessments, do not comply with • Financed eight projects, with an procurement and labour laws, and either do or could reasonably be expected to breach installed capacity of approximately acceptable behavioural, ethical or moral standards. We target transactions in countries with 1 450MW of clean energy established laws that comply with World Bank standards and that have due processes that • Clean energy makes up 88% of our are applied reasonably and effectively. If not, sponsors and suppliers are obliged to give total energy lending portfolio (which undertakings and comply with such standards. features biomass, wind, waste, solar An important aspect of our approach is a deliberate focus on financing infrastructure and hydro projects). solutions that promote renewable energy and we have developed strong expertise in this sector. In the US, Investec is recognised as the go-to funding source for the US roof-top solar industry. Energy portfolio split Clean energy 88% Other energy sources 12% Ferrybridge Multifuel 2 (FM2) – Energy from Waste (EfW) Investec co-financed £207 million of debt for Wheelabrator Technologies Inc’s (WTI) Power generation capacity multifuel power station, Ferrybridge Multifuel 2 (FM2) in the UK. The power station will have an installed capacity of around 70MW and will be able to produce enough energy of 70MW – enough energy to power approximately 160 000 homes. The FM2 power station is classified as a to power around nationally significant infrastructure project, as it will generate over 50MW. 160 000 homes Multifuel power stations generate electricity and heat from a range of low carbon fuel Project Date Power sources including fuels produced from waste, known as waste-derived fuels. The wasteCountry Role type closed capacity derived fuels are produced from materials such as municipal solid waste, commercial UK Lead Waste Sept 2017 70MW and industrial waste and waste wood. These are first processed at an off-site facility to arranger remove recyclable materials, with the remaining materials delivered to the power station by road or rail to be used as a low carbon fuel. The multifuel power station utilises waste materials that would otherwise be disposed of to landfill, thus saving valuable landfill space. FM2 is expected to treat on average 570 000 tonnes of waste-derived fuels per annum. The first EfW plant, FM1, has been operational since July 2015. FM2 is currently under construction and due to be completed and produce power in July 2019. 46 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Our business impact (continued) Profit Ingenious Infrastructure – Power generation portfolio Investec provided bridging finance to Ingenious Infrastructure in the UK towards their Power generation portfolio portfolio of power generation projects. The portfolio is dispersed across solar, wind and anaerobic digestion technologies. dispersed across solar, wind and anaerobic Anaerobic digestion is a multi-stage process converting organic material into a number of products including methane. The methane can either be used to produce electricity digestion and heat or can be further processed and injected into the National Gas Grid. Inputs to Project Date Power the process include farm waste, food waste or purpose grown crops. The technology Country Role type closed capacity is well established, particularly in continental Europe, but growth in the UK market is UK Bridge Solar July 2017 60MW more recent. facility wind and anaerobic digestion Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners – Biomass power plant Investec co-financed £250 million of senior debt to Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners Energy to power around to acquire, construct and operate two straw-fired power plants in the UK, i.e. the Brigg and Snetterton plants. 152 800 homes, offsetting 550 000 tonnes of CO2 Brigg is a 41MW straw-fired biomass plant that has been operational since April 2016. Snetterton is a 44MW plant that has been operational since April 2017. The plants are a year located in the highest yielding straw regions of the UK (Lincolnshire and Norfolk). They Project Date Power source straw feedstock locally and benefit from both low transport costs and local Country Role type closed capacity feedstock oversupply. The majority of fuel requirements are contracted on a multiUK Lead Biomass October 85MW contract, medium to long-term basis (3 – 8 years). arranger 2017 The plants generate clean, green energy and are able to operate with variable fuel mixes co-firing straw with rape, miscanthus, woodchips etc. The two plants combined produce energy equivalent to the consumption of 152 800 households, saving over 550 000 tonnes of CO2 a year. Eco Energy World – Solar projects Investec Australia assisted Eco Energy World (EEW) expand their solar portfolio Power generation capacity in Australia. EEW, a UK-based renewables developer focused on global development of solar projects, secured an A$10 million development finance facility. of 900MW Investec will help fast-track the development of EEW’s already well-advanced Australian Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity portfolio of Queensland solar projects totalling in excess of 900MW of potential capacity. The facility will be utilised to fund late-stage development costs including network Australia DevelSolar Sept 2017 900MW studies, grid applications fees and land acquisition payments. opment finance facility Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 47 Our business impact (continued) Profit Lincoln Gap – Wind farms Investec has provided finance totalling A$39 million to the Lincoln Gap wind farm which Power around 155 000 has approval for up to 59 wind turbines. The project can deliver 212MW of power and will have 10MW grid scale battery storage (to be upgraded up to 30MW in the future). homes, offsetting 600 000 tonnes of CO2 each year Lincoln Gap in South Australia is an ideal location for a wind farm. Situated far from any residences or communities, the site has an excellent wind resource, and great access to Project Date Power the grid. The project is expected to export over 800 000MW a year and, using the 10MW Country Role type closed capacity battery storage, will make a significant contribution to renewable energy while helping Australia Provider Wind Nov 2017 222MW with grid stability and reliability. of working capital The wind farm will operate for more than 25 years, providing green, clean energy. It is and ‘letter of credit’ expected to power around 155 000 homes, offsetting over 600 000 tonnes of CO2 a year. SunPower Corp. – Residential solar installations Investec arranged $53 million in financing for SunPower Corp., a US panel manufacturer, Investec was recognised for residential solar installations. as the go-to funding Investec has been a significant lender for US residential solar deals. In 2016 Investec source for the US roof-top arranged approximately $880 million in debt financing for US rooftop-solar developers and financiers, more than half of the $1.5 billion raised market-wide. solar industry Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity USA Lead Solar Sept 2017 54MW arranger Bokpoort – Concentrated Solar power project Investec provided debt financing for the Bokpoort Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) project. Solar generation capacity It is a CSP thermal energy power plant, located near Groblershoop in the Northern Cape province of South Africa (SA), and has a capacity of 50MW. of 50MW The plant has consistently exceeded all the key focus areas of the Renewable Energy Project Date Power Country Role type closed capacity Independent Power Producer Procurement (REIPPP) programme in terms of socioeconomic and enterprise development. It has received several awards over the last two SA Junior Solar Nov 2017 50MW years for these achievements, while at the same time setting several production records. and senior lender Ejuva I & II – Solar PV energy projects Investec provided senior funding for the construction and operation of two solar energySolar generation capacity generating facilities Ejuva I & II, located in Gobabis, in the Omaheke region, Namibia. Both of 2 x 5MW solar PV plants, will have a capacity of 5MW each. Project Date Power The electricity output will be sold under a 25-year Power Purchase Agreement. The Country Role type closed capacity expected development impacts from the projects include: diversification of Namibia’s Namibia Senior Solar May 2017 10MW energy mix; contribution to increased generation capacity in Namibia; reduction of carbon lender emissions by producing green, emission-free electricity; promotion of employment and skills development during construction and operation; and providing a positive demonstration for solar development in Namibia and neighbouring countries. 48 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Our business impact (continued) Clean energy fund Investec has a proven Profit Notwithstanding the commitment made by various governments, development finance track record of investing institutions and NGO’s investment in the energy sector in Africa over the year remains below the requirements to meet the increasing demand. The slowdown in the world economy has and funding this sector potentially had an effect on the investment in this sector, while in South Africa the impasse between the government and the state utility and the issue of the revised draft integrated with an excess of energy plan for South Africa has seen the roll out of additional generation capacity delayed. $800 million arranged Given the uncertainty of the timing of investment in new generation capacity in South to date. Africa under the programmes run by the Department of Energy, many large energy users are investing in self generation particularly in environmentally friendly solar and battery technologies. Investec has a proven track record of investing and funding in this sector with in excess of $800 million arranged to date. Recognising the opportunity to play a role in funding and transforming the energy sector, Investec is creating an energy fund to invest in and acquire equity instruments in private unlisted companies that are undertaking renewable energy projects in sub-Saharan Africa with an initial focus on operating assets in South Africa. We expect that a significant portion of the future investment in sub-Saharan Africa will be in renewable and clean energy technologies. The fund manager will have a minimum 51% black shareholding which will see the transfer of skills to black employees, thereby facilitating the creation of a new majority black-owned investment manager and contributing to the transformation of the fund management industry. The nature and scope of the fund allows investors, not all of whom are natural long-term investors in infrastructure, to exit their investments earlier than would traditionally be allowed with these types of investments. Investec Property Fund (IPF) Sustainability is a key focus area for IPF which includes exploring alternate renewable energy sources and energy efficiency opportunities while still aiming to manage the increasing cost of occupation for clients. Investec Property Fund, managed by Investec Property and 26.75% owned by Investec Highlights for the year Limited, actively explores sustainable business development. IPF tracks and benchmarks consumption across the portfolio in order to identify such energy efficiency opportunities as • Solar rooftops implemented at well as monitoring improvements. Fleurdal Mall provides 22% of their monthly energy consumption IPF implemented two solar projects on the rooftops of Fleurdal Mall in Bloemfontein and Musina Mall in Musina, to reduce both the cost of electricity and the demand from the • Solar rooftops implemented at grid. The Fleurdal Mall Solar Photovoltaic (PV) plant went live in November 2016 and is Musina Mall provides 24% of their producing approximately 22% of the mall’s monthly consumption. Musina Mall’s Solar PV monthly energy consumption plant went live in October 2017 and is producing approximately 24% of the mall’s monthly • Exploring the roll out of a further consumption. The success of these projects has resulted in IPF exploring the roll out of eight Solar PV plants Solar PV plants at a further eight sites. The technology will continue to be rolled out across • Rolling out second phase of AMP feasible buildings and result in more sustainable developments, and a reduction in both the (enterprise supplier development cost base of IPF as well as the cost of occupation for clients. hub) in 2018 Over the next 12 months IPF will continue with the roll out of sustainability initiatives through • BEE rating level 4 under the revised a comprehensive programme involving further capital investment. In addition to the direct Property Sector Charter of 2017. capital spend on the properties, the majority of which is expected to be value enhancing through returns on investment for IPF and improved efficiencies for its clients, IPF is engaging in the process of obtaining an Existing Building Performance (EBP) rating from the Green Buildings Council for several of its properties. IPF supports an enterprise and supplier development initiative known as AMP. The purpose of AMP is to create a hub to bring together various disciplines of the property industry to facilitate collaboration in a space that will nurture and grow their offerings, services and projects. As part of IPF’s enterprise and supplier development offering we have provided these entrepreneurs with subsidised office space, skills, mentorship and assistance with facilitating procurement opportunities. In 2018 we are rolling out the second phase of AMP where IPF will identify additional black-owned small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) in the property sector to partner and collaborate with to further develop and nurture entrepreneurial talent in the property sector. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 49 Our business impact (continued) Profit Private client activities Through our private client activities, we believe that the widest and most positive influence Investec can have is to support our clients and stakeholders in attaining their social and environmental aspirations. We offer clients the opportunity to give back to society or contribute to socio-economic Highlights development through our private banking rewards programme and through the Investec Wealth & Investment philanthropy services offering. • Investments to the market value of The philanthropy services offering has become more strategic in nature due to the move R576 million towards supporting more long-term solutions. Clients are able to live out their values through • R29 million of income derived and creating and leaving a legacy in society, while receiving tax benefits from South African allocated to charities Revenue Service (SARS) for their contributions. • 50% of allocations go to education Through the philanthropy offering, individuals, families and businesses can either choose to initiatives exercise their altruistic objectives by making charitable investments to an established Wealth • Creating opportunities for clients & Investment Public Benefit Organisation or create a legacy through the establishment of to invest in funds that grow qualifying a private charitable foundation. Income generated by the investments in these foundations privately-owned SMMEs. is paid annually by the foundation to various selected charities representing a number of different sectors. The offering provides advisory, risk management, investment and administration services in order to maximise client’s objectives. Furthermore, greater impact can be achieved due to collaboration. Allocation of funds At 31 March 2018, Wealth & Investment managed philanthropy foundation investments to the market value of R576 million. These funds have derived income for distribution to charities on behalf of the clients to the value of R29 million. This income is distributed by Investec charitable trusts on behalf of the foundations, in accordance with the decisions made by the respective foundation trustees. The income distributed to charities is aligned to some of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Fifty percent of funds were allocated to education and 29% allocated to social welfare. During the year, the Wealth & Investment division also exposed clients to the opportunity of investing into funds to grow qualifying privately-owned SMMEs. These funds aim to improve South Africa’s economic growth and contribute towards goal 8 of the SDGs, ‘Decent work and economic growth’. The funds have been set up in accordance with Education 50% Social welfare 29% Section 12J of the Income Tax Act offering clients tax incentives for their contributions. Youth unemployment 12% Other 9% 50 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Our business impact (continued) Investec and the SDGs Profit We recognise the role that the private sector, and in particular the financial sector, can play in advancing the SDGs to build a more resilient and inclusive world. Investec has committed to participate and collaborate with clients, investors and public stakeholders to support delivery of the SDGs. We will take a multifaceted approach by looking at the contribution that our existing businesses can make and at the same time consider new business opportunities to finance sustainable solutions to these socio-economic issues. We are committed to moving capital to areas where it is most needed but also to ensuring profitable impact. Further to the case studies and business impacts already highlighted in this section, below are more examples of how our businesses are contributing to the SDGs. SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation Investec has taken an £8 million equity stake in Propelair, a UK company that uses innovation to reduce water consumption from cistern flushing by up to 84%. At the same time it reduces the energy required for water and waste processing. Investec has also collaborated with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust and Israeli company Innovation Africa, to bring water to rural South Africa. Solar water pumping systems provide over 20 000 litres of clean water per day, per village. SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy As a key part of its strategy, the Investec Power and Infrastructure Finance team has focused on providing funding for renewable energy projects with private sector offtakers. To this end, the team has been mandated to provide funding for a utility-scale solar PV project with a large mining company as the offtaker, and has funded several portfolios of rooftop and ground-mounted solar PV projects with commercial offtakers. Two of these financing facilities were for the Mettle Solar Group, for the development of its portfolio that includes shopping centres, industrial buildings, a chain of safari lodges and an airport facility across South Africa, Namibia, Kenya and Seychelles. SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth Investec Asset Management has a Private Market capability which focuses on providing capital to African businesses to help them grow within their economies. In addition to this stimulation of economic development, the funds also contribute to alleviating poverty, a major issue on the African continent. The capability mobilises public and private funding to invest into businesses and to date they have: • deployed $3.7 billion through private market funds • contributed to the creation and retention of 7 000 permanent jobs • improved electricity, water and communication access to over 42 million people • developed over 67 gigawatts of renewable energy • introduced state-of-the-art technology to remove dissolved biogas from Lake Kivu’s estimated 55 billion cubic metres reserve. SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities Investec has provided capital investment to Engenie, a London-based company specialising in electric vehicle rapid charging, which will allow Engenie to reach its network target of 1 500 rapid chargers across the UK. This will significantly improve the pollution problem in the city of London. In South Africa, Investec Property developed Cornubia Mall in Mount Edgecombe which was opened to the public in September 2017. The mall has brought infrastructure, jobs and skills transfer, and improved transport to residents within the Cornubia development and surrounding communities. It created more than 2 500 temporary jobs during construction and provided about 1 100 permanent jobs. Retailers were encouraged to employ from the surrounding communities. Investec assisted with 1 100 work readiness programmes and almost 300 people were hired. Furthermore, a 112-year old historic Natal Fig tree was preserved during construction and incorporate in the design of the mall, including room for growth. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 51 Heading (continued) Governance, risk and compliance Governance, risk and compliance Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, Governance, risk and compliance functions and organisational structure. Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes. We operate under a dual-listed companies Integrity Highlights for the year (DLC) structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations Investec has a strong culture of entrenched of both the UK and South Africa before values, which form the cornerstone of • Investec has complied with all the adopting the appropriate standard for our behaviour towards stakeholders and provisions of the UK Corporate the group which also complies with against which we measure practices and Governance Code and the King requirements in both jurisdictions. activities to assess the characteristics of IV principles in South Africa in good governance. accordance with the practices We believe that sound corporate disclosed in volume one of our governance depends on much more than Directors and employees are required 2018 integrated annual report mere compliance with regulations. Good to conduct themselves with integrity, conduct and ethical practice is embedded consistently and uncompromisingly • Fani Titi stepped down as in everything that we do at Investec. By displaying moral strength and behaviour chairman of the group and acting in accordance with our values and which promotes trust. Sound corporate Perry Crosthwaite, a former principles, we believe that good governance governance is implicit in our values, culture, senior independent non-executive is ensured. processes, functions and organisational director, became the chairman on structure and the structures designed to 1 April 2018 The board oversees and monitors, on an formalise oversight of all businesses and • Key areas of focus for the past ongoing basis, how the consequences of processes. year have been succession, the group’s activities affect its standing as a executive remuneration, board responsible corporate citizen. Employees are encouraged to deal with composition and diversity issues openly and honestly, by sharing This oversight and monitoring is performed information directly and at any level which • A significant amount of time and against measures and targets agreed with they feel appropriate. resources have been spent on management in the workplace, economy, anti-money laundering training society and the environment. with 98% of South African, UK and Australian banking employees Our values require that directors and having passed the training with employees act with integrity and conduct over 80% during the past financial themselves to promote and maintain trust, year having due regard for: • Extensive simulations of various • the legal requirements of the region in cyber threats were conducted which they operate during the period and we are • the code of corporate governance comfortable with our procedures applicable in that jurisdiction in place • the standards of conduct and • All staff have been undergoing competence required of a financial extensive training on the service provider prevention of cyber crime. • ethical business practice, which includes fairness, accountability, responsibility and transparency.   or more information on values, F   or more information on corporate F refer to page 1. governance and risk management, refer to volume one and volume two of our 2018 integrated annual report. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 53 Governance, risk and compliance (continued) Compliance Governance, risk and compliance Investec remains focused on maintaining the highest levels of compliance in relation to regulatory requirements and integrity in each of our jurisdictions. Our culture is central to our compliance Conflict of interests A significant amount of time and resources framework and is supported by robust have been spent on anti-money laundering The group is required to manage its policies, processes and talented training with 98% of South African, UK conflicts of interests in dealing with clients professionals who ensure that the interests and Australian banking employees having to ensure the fair treatment of clients. of our customers and shareholders remain passed with an average of above 80% Investec has both regulatory and fiduciary at the forefront of everything we do. during the past financial year. obligations to ensure that all potential or Below is a summary of Investec’s view on certain issues of international interest from actual conflicts of interest to which it is Corruption and bribery party are identified timeously, mitigated a compliance perspective. Investec is committed to conducting our where possible, and appropriately activities free from any form of bribery or  more comprehensive list of A managed. corruption. We have policies in place to policies is included on page 73. Whistle-blowing policy and ensure our conduct does not contravene protected disclosures any of the local laws in the jurisdictions in Risk management which we operate including the UK Bribery Our whistle-blowing policy aims to Act and the Prevention and Combatting of Risk management is critical to our encourage employees to raise concerns Corrupt Activities Act in South Africa. operations and in order to deliver value to or disclose information about possible all stakeholders, we continuously seek to comply with international best practice. In fraudulent, unethical, criminal or other Market abuse and insider order to comply properly with acceptable improper behaviour or workplace trading misconduct in total confidentiality and standards of corporate governance and Market abuse includes insider trading, anonymity and without fear of retribution. international best practice, we continuously market manipulation and false, misleading We seek to protect all employees who review our practices and all employees or deceptive statements, promises disclose unlawful or irregular conduct are expected to adhere with the required and forecasts. The offence of market by the company, its employees or other standards. manipulation includes the manipulation stakeholders. of security prices (up or down) as well as Conduct risk We have a number of channels that creating a false impression of the volumes Investec has continued to focus over employees may use to raise concerns of trading in a security. The consequences the period on delivering good customer including the Investec Integrity Line which is of market abuse include civil and/or outcomes and effectively managing an external, independent helpline to ensure criminal penalties, and internal disciplinary conduct risk throughout our business. confidentiality of the issue reported and investigations which may result in dismissal This has included continued and ongoing anonymity of the individual. to the individual concerned. investment in, and enhancement of, our conduct risk framework and a sustained Financial crime, anti-money Anti-trust and anti-competitive focus on maintaining the highest levels laundering and terrorist practices of regulatory compliance throughout our financing Investec is committed to compliance with businesses. anti-trust and anti-competitive laws in all of Investec supports the objectives of global efforts to combat money laundering and the jurisdictions in which we operate. Confidentiality of information terrorist financing through the Investec Investec’s approach to privacy and Anti-Money Laundering and Combating Training confidentiality of information is to ensure we of Terrorist Financing Policy. Actions or Training has become of paramount respect and protect all personal information activities that conflict with local regulatory importance as the regulatory environment which we hold and ensure adherence to requirements, or with this policy, can have within which we operate imposes increasing all local and international legislation for serious implications including fines and/ obligations on Investec and its employees. handling personal information. or imprisonment imposed by the relevant Investec will regularly insist that employees authorities and/or disciplinary action undertake appropriate training to maintain imposed by Investec. the threshold of competency and compliance required. 54 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Governance, risk and compliance (continued) Environmental and social risk management Governance, risk and compliance Investec’s environmental policy takes into account the challenges that climate change presents to the global economy. Investec will consider any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet.  T  his section should be read • our operational activities are assessed together with the full risk report in for compliance with relevant Highlights for the year volume two of our 2018 integrated environmental, health and safety, and • Training of 195 frontline banking annual report. labour rights regulations consultants on environmental, • we regularly review sensitive sectors and social and governance (ESG) We believe that as a niched specialised activities prone to bearing environmental practices in South Africa and the UK financial services organisation, and and social risks. given our positioning in the developed • Developed and distributed an ESG The group will avoid exposures to any guidebook based on IFC guidelines and emerging worlds, we can make a transactions that involve: to assist consultants in identifying meaningful impact in addressing climate change. • undue damage to high conservation opportunities and managing potential and/or protected environmental areas social and environmental risks. Investec supports international best practices regarding the responsibilities • forced labour or child labour of the financial sector in financing and • the production and trade of controversial investing transactions. or military weapons or ammunitions • In the case of a number of large infrastructure and energy projects, there Social and environmental risk • the production or trade in any product or is potential conflict between larger, considerations are implicit in our values, activity deemed illegal under the country nationwide development imperatives culture and code of conduct and are of operation’s laws and regulations. (e.g. additional power generation or road applied as part of our environmental and Any transactions with a corporate involved transportation) to enhance the sociosocial risk framework. in transactions in the following activities economic welfare of the region, and In particular, the following factors are requires stringent escalation to the senior locally affected parties whose quality of taken into account when a transaction is group policy forum, Policy Executive Risk life stands to be adversely affected by evaluated and approved or declined based Review Forum: relocation or job loss on sustainability considerations: • The production and trade in radioactive • These trade-offs are a matter for local materials parties and their representatives. While • Environmental (including animal welfare we should remain aware of them, it is and climate-related impacts) • The production of harmful or addictive not our responsibility to pass judgement • Social considerations (including human substances on such trade-offs. Key to this, rights) • Activities that involve early drug testing however, is that we target transactions • Macro-economic considerations. on humans in countries with established laws that • Activities that involve any form of testing comply with World Bank standards  efer to page 16 for R and that have due processes that are on animals. considerations regarding human applied reasonably and effectively. If not, rights and modern slavery. We follow the guidelines supplied by the sponsors and suppliers are obliged to International Finance Corporations to give undertakings and compliance with Our approach categorise our general finance and lending such standards. activities into high, medium and low risk. The group supports the precautionary Investec Asset Management approach to environmental management Equator Principles and strives to minimise and prevent Our approach and commitment to investing in projects or dealing with We fully support the key provisions of the ESG considerations is outlined in our counterparties where potential and Equator Principles (EP) but we are not stewardship policy and is overseen by our unmitigated environmental degradation currently a signatory to EP for the following internal Investment Governance Committee might result. The group recognises that reasons: (IGC), which includes senior leaders from identifying and quantifying environmental • While the principles are adhered to, our across the business. risk should be part of the normal process current internal framework is robust of risk assessment and management within We are a signatory of the United Nations and, on a project-by-project basis, in businesses. For example: Principles for Responsible Investment accordance with World Bank standards (UNPRI), the UK Stewardship Code and • as part of our client on-boarding as well as the standards of the legal and environmental frameworks of the the Code for Responsible Investing in process, we would assess where South Africa (CRISA). appropriate potential clients for various countries in which the projects are types of risks including whether they are undertaken. Furthermore, we have We are also involved in various advocacy behaving responsibly in their business enhanced procedures to evaluate and organisations which allow us to better activities actively avoid, manage and mitigate engage on issues of active ownership on a the potential social and environmental • environmental and social risks are global scale with other investors. impacts of the projects we support identified and assessed as part of F  or more detail on Investec Asset transaction due diligence processes Management’s ESG activities, refer to page 43 to 45. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 55 Information technology Information technology (IT) Governance, risk and compliance Our vision is to continuously deliver efficient and effective information technology that enables business and excellent client service, within acceptable risk tolerance. Key infrastructure-related developments reducing our environmental The key principles underpinning footprint and improving our IT efficiency during the period include the our IT strategy are: following: • Aligning architecture across the group • Increased collaboration through unified communication technologies, providing the ability to leverage global teams and reduce business travel • Reducing our application and data footprint • Continued focus on virtualisation as the cornerstone of our computer and storage infrastructure • Commoditising common • Continued consideration of cloud-based services to reduce physical infrastructure functions and processes and energy requirements • Leveraging our digital offering • Consolidation of databases to further reduce the hardware footprint, power and • Continuing to improve our cooling requirements security. • Migration the UK data centres to a fully-hosted energy efficient environment • Adoption of more energy efficient technologies in the new London office • Continued reduction in physical paper requirements. Key business application related development: Cyber crime • Continued consolidation and merging of technology and support teams across Cyber resilience remains a boarddivisions and geographies level agenda item. We continue • Continued leverage of the Global Client Support Centre in South Africa and the digital to investigate and implement new channel technology that is fit for purpose • Increased use of single security and service management applications across the and effective in dealing with a group fast-changing and evolving threat landscape. We maintain active • Increased use of online software solutions that require little to no local server participation in the global cyber resources security industry to stay current and • Exploration of a variety of emerging technologies including machine learning, artificial relevant. Regular targeted attack intelligence and robotics to improve automation and efficiency. simulations by specialist companies are performed against the group to measure and improve our cyber Security and risk management defenses. These are complemented We continue to build information security and risk management capabilities across the by non-technical simulations group while promoting the responsible handling of personal data. Our strategy is to involving board members and senior enable business and protect information assets by proactively identifying and mitigating leadership. We run a centralised threats to our people, processes, technology and data. This approach is underpinned cyber security team to leverage by three core security principles: defence in depth, security by design and role-based specialist resources and manage access. Emphasis is placed on group-wide coordination and efficiency, enabled by a incidents effectively. group target architecture. We run campaigns to raise and maintain staff awareness of information security risks and responsibilities. 56 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Procurement Procurement Governance, risk and compliance We recognise the potential for our procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for change in respect of the different aspects of sustainability. We continue to engineer, within select industries and change outcomes across economic, social and environmental fronts. In the UK, we work together with our suppliers to source goods and services in a Our supply chain statement way that achieves value for money on a whole life basis. This means that whatever incorporates standards on human we procure must benefit Investec, society and the economy, whilst minimising rights, labour rights and environmental damage to the environment. For example, we are committed to ensuring that 100% and anti-corruption principles as set of our beverage offering has the Fairtrade label. A product that carries the Fairtrade out in the UN Global Compact. certification mark has met the rigorous Fairtrade standards, which focus on improving We will not knowingly engage with labour and living conditions for farming communities and on promoting a way of farming any supplier who: that doesn’t harm either people or the environment. • is not operating in compliance In South Africa, our procurement practices seek to meet the B-BBEE requirements with all applicable environmental, of the Department of Trade and Industry’s Codes of Good Practice and we have labour and anti-corruption laws an established process for monitoring and measuring our procurement efforts. and regulations of the countries in Environmentally responsible partners are key in the procurement process and we which they operate, manufacture focus on sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and existing vendors. or conduct business Our largest suppliers of personal computers and server equipment subscribe to an • has a significant impact on the electronic code of conduct, which assists in monitoring compliance across several environment and not maintaining areas such as environmental impact, labour, health and safety. an effective environmental We always consider the Energy Star rating system before purchasing equipment policy and/or environmental to assess its energy efficiency. Our banqueting team sources products bearing the management system that Rainforest Alliance Certification seal which assures rigorous environmental, social supports environmental protection, and economic criteria are considered in order to achieve long-term sustainability. prevention of pollution Approximately 90% of our third party spend is from local suppliers. • is using any form of forced or involuntary labour • is employing children • is not providing equal opportunity for all employees regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion • is not respecting the right of their employees to freely associate and collectively bargain within the boundaries of the applicable law • is not treating their employees with respect and dignity and not providing a work environment free of harassment, intimidation and bullying • is not providing a safe and healthy working environment in order to prevent workplace accidents and injuries • is engaging in bribery, collusive practices or any other form of corruption to obtain or retain business. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 57 Appendix Independent assurance statement Independent assurance provider’s limited assurance report Appendix To the directors of Investec Limited and Investec plc. We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on selected corporate responsibility information, as described below, and presented in the 2018 annual corporate responsibility report of Investec for the year ending 31 March 2018 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including social, environmental, carbon and assurance specialists with relevant experience in corporate responsibility reporting. Subject matter We are required to provide limited assurance on the following selected corporate responsibility information prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI Standards’) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard, supported by Investec’s internally developed guidelines, and collectively referred to as ‘Investec’s reporting criteria’. Table 1: Scope of the 2018 limited assurance engagement Category Selected corporate responsibility information Coverage/reporting boundary Environmental Total gas consumption (refer to pages 36,38 and 40) (Natural gas (kWh), CO2 (kg) and LPG (l)) Total water consumption (kl) Total weight by paper usage (tonnes) Total emissions (tonnes CO2 eq) relating to: Group, UK and Other, and Southern • Direct emissions (scope 1) – gas, refrigerants, generators and African operations firm-owned vehicles • Indirect emissions (scope 2) – purchased electricity • Other emissions (scope 3) – business travel (including cars, taxis, rail and air), paper and waste Emissions per m² of office space Human resources Spend per region, per service line (Specialist Banking, Asset (refer to pages 14, 17, 18 Management, Wealth & Investment) on employee learning and and 19) development (Rands and Pounds Sterling) Employee headcount per region, per service line (number) Group, UK and Other, and Southern African operations Permanent and temporary employee headcount per region (number) Incidents of discrimination recorded (number) Corporate social Corporate Social Investment (CSI) spend across the group per Group, UK and Other, and Southern investment region, per service line (Rands and Pounds Sterling) African operations (refer to pages 24, 25, 28 UK and Other CSI spend per focus area of spend (Pounds Sterling) UK and Other operations and 29) Southern Africa CSI spend per focus area of spend (Rands) Southern African operations Directors’ responsibilities that are free from material misstatement, issued by the International Ethics Standards whether due to fraud or error. The directors Board for Accountants, which is founded The directors are responsible for the are also responsible for determining the on fundamental principles of integrity, selection, preparation and presentation appropriateness of the measurement and objectivity, professional competence and of the selected corporate responsibility reporting criteria in view of the intended due care, confidentiality and professional information as noted in the table above users of the selected KPIs and for ensuring behaviour. in accordance with Investec’s reporting that those criteria are publicly available to KPMG applies the International Standard on criteria. This responsibility includes the Report users. Quality Control 1, and accordingly maintains the identification of stakeholders and a comprehensive system of quality control stakeholder requirements, material issues, Our independence and quality including documented policies and commitments with respect to corporate control procedures regarding compliance with responsibility performance and design, We have complied with the independence ethical requirements, professional standards implementation and maintenance of internal and all other ethical requirements of the and applicable legal and regulatory control relevant to the preparation of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants requirements. Report and supplementary appendices Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 59 Independent assurance statement (continued) Our responsibility Summary of work performed the information in the Report or our Appendix independent limited assurance report that Our responsibility is to express a limited Given the circumstances of the may have occurred since the initial date of assurance conclusion on the selected engagement, the procedures performed its presentation on the Investec website. corporate responsibility information based included the following, but were not on the procedures we have performed necessarily limited to: Restriction of liability and the evidence we have obtained. We • Conducted a series of planning Our work has been undertaken to enable us conducted our engagement in accordance meetings with various parties involved to express a limited assurance conclusion with the International Standard on in Investec’s reporting and management on the selected corporate responsibility Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 processes in order to gain a general information to the directors of Investec (Revised), Assurance Engagements other understanding of the processes in accordance with the terms of our than the Audits or Reviews of Historical • Tested the processes and systems at engagement, and for no other purpose. Financial Information and ISAE 3410, and group level which generate, collate, We do not accept or assume liability to Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse aggregate, monitor and report selected any party other than Investec, for our work, Gas Statements, issued by the International key performance indicators and for this report, or for the conclusion we Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. inspected related documentation have reached. These Standards require us to plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited • Inspected supporting documentation assurance about whether the selected and performed analytical procedures corporate responsibility information is free on a sample basis to evaluate the data from material misstatement. generation and reporting processes against the reporting criteria A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with • Evaluated whether the selected ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 information presented in the Report is involves assessing the suitability in the consistent with our overall knowledge circumstances of Investec’s use of its and experience of the performance at KPMG Services Proprietary Limited reporting criteria as the basis of preparation Investec. Per NG Morris for the selected corporate responsibility The procedures performed in a limited Director information, assessing the risks of material assurance engagement vary in nature Chartered Accountant (SA) misstatement of the selected corporate from, and are less in extent than for a 30 June 2018 responsibility information whether due to reasonable assurance engagement. As KPMG Crescent fraud or error, responding to the assessed a result the level of assurance obtained 85 Empire Road risks as necessary in the circumstances, in a limited assurance engagement is Parktown and evaluating the overall presentation substantially lower than the assurance Johannesburg of the selected corporate responsibility that would have been obtained had 2193 information. A limited assurance we performed a reasonable assurance engagement is substantially less in scope engagement. Accordingly, we do not than a reasonable assurance engagement express a reasonable assurance opinion in relation to both risk assessment about whether Investec’s KPIs have procedures, including an understanding been prepared, in all material respects, of internal control, and the procedures in accordance with the accompanying that will be performed in response to the Investec reporting criteria. assessed risks. Limited assurance conclusions The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and Based on the procedures we have included inquiries, observation of processes performed and the evidence we have followed, inspection of documents, obtained, nothing has come to our attention analytical procedures, evaluating the that causes us to believe that the selected appropriateness of quantification methods corporate responsibility information set out and reporting policies, and agreeing and in the subject matter paragraph for the year reconciling information with underlying ended 31 March 2018 are not prepared, in records. all material respects, in accordance with the Investec reporting criteria. Other matters The maintenance and integrity of the Investec’s website is the responsibility of Investec management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either 60 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Appendix This report, inside cover: GRI 101: Foundation Scope and reporting framework GRI 102: General disclosures Organisational profile 102-1 Core Name of the organisation Investec. 102-2 Core Activities, brands, products, and services Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 to 23. Corporate responsibility report: Page 1. About the Investec group. 102-3 Core Location of headquarters Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 246. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg for our Southern African operations and in London for our UK and Other operations. 102-4 Core Location of operations Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 24 and 25. Operational footprint. 102-5 Core Ownership and legal form Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 23. Operating structure. Volume one, pages 166 to 170. Shareholder analysis. 102-6 Core Markets served (including geographical Integrated annual report: Volume one, breakdown, sectors and type of customers) pages 24 and 25. Operational footprint. 102-7 Core Scale of the organisation Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 24 and 25. Operational footprint. 102-8 Core Information on employees Corporate responsibility report: Pages 14 and 19. and other workers Number of employees is shown by division and by geography. Permanent, temporary and contractors are split. 102-9 Core Supply chain Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 24 to 27. Corporate responsibility report: Page 1. 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organisation and its Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 9 to 17. supply chain Highlights. Pages 5 to 8. Operational and strategic report. 102-11 Core Precautionary principle or approach Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 16 to 20. Risk management, credit and counterparty risk management. 102-12 Core External initiatives Corporate responsibility report: Page 12. Corporate responsibility memberships. 102-13 Core Membership of associations Corporate responsibility report: Page 12. Corporate responsibility memberships. Strategy 102-14 Core Statement by the CEO Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 5 to 8. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 3 and 4. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 40 to 50. Financial review. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 94, 100,101,113 and 114. Divisional questions and answers. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 3 to 12. Corporate responsibility at Investec. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 61 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Ethics and integrity 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms of Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 to 19. behaviour About the Investec group. Corporate responsibility report: Page 1. About the Investec group. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 175. ethics Corporate responsibility report: Page 16. Whistle-blowing policy and protective disclosure. Governance 102-18 Core Governance structure Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 116 to 165. Corporate governance. 102-19 Delegating authority Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. Corporate governance report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-20 Executive level responsibility for economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. environmental, and social topics Corporate governance report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, environmental, and social topics pages 172 and 173. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 5 and 6. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, and its committees pages 116 to 170. Corporate governance. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 163 to 165. Statement of compliance. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 140 to 145. governance body Corporate governance report, DLC nominations and directors’ affairs committee (nomdac). 102-25 Conflicts of interest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 165. Conflict of interest. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 132 to 136. purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 143. Skills, body knowledge and experience. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 132. performance Corporate governance. What we did. Page 134. Effectiveness. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. environmental, and social impacts Corporate governance report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. Social and ethical responsibility. Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 18. Corporate responsibility considerations. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social Integrated annual report: Volume one, topics pages 146 to 150. Corporate governance report, DLC social and ethics committee. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. reporting Social and ethical responsibility. 62 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Communication and stakeholder engagement. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 5 to 6. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns No critical concerns were raised during the reporting year ending 31 March 2018. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 146 to 150. Social and ethical responsibility. 102-35 Remuneration policies Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 244. Remuneration report. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 244. Remuneration report. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 189. Remuneration outcomes for 2018. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 5 to 12. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 244. Remuneration report. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 244. compensation ratio Remuneration report. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Corporate responsibility report: Page 5. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements Corporate responsibility report: Page 16. Freedom of association. 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Corporate responsibility report: Page 5. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 172. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 5 to 12. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 172 to raised 174. Integrated annual report: Volume one page 135. Feedback from board on stakeholder engagement. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 6 to 7. Communication and stakeholder engagement and materiality. Reporting practice 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated financial Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 23. statements Operational structure. Investec Import Solutions (Pty) Ltd is excluded from the sustainability report. 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic boundaries Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 14 to 17 and page 174. Corporate Responsibility. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 5 to 12. Corporate responsibility in an Investec context. 102-47 Core List of material topics Integrated annual report. Volume one, page 173 Corporate responsibility report: Pages 6 to 7. 102-48 Core Restatements of information We have not restated information presented in our carbon footprint. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 63 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) 102-49 Core Changes in reporting Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 2. Ongoing and statutory information. 102-50 Core Reporting period 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. 102-51 Core Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2018. 102-52 Core Reporting cycle Annually. 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report Corporate responsibility report: Page 74. Contact details. 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the Corporate responsibility report: Inside cover: About this GRI Standards report. 102-55 Core GRI content index This table. 102-56 Core External assurance Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 174. Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Assurance and pages 59 and 60 of the corporate responsibility report. GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Integrated annual report: Volume one page 174. boundary Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Scope of reporting section. Corporate responsibility report: Inside front cover. Scope of reporting. Corporate responsibility report relates to all operations and geographies section. Corporate responsibility report: Materiality pages 5 to 12. 103-2 The management approach and its There were no grievances filed with regards to components environmental impacts for the reporting year ending 31 March 2018. There were no grievances filed regarding labour practices for the reporting year ending 31 March 2018. There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination for the reporting year ending 31 March 2018, however there were three allegations reported. Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. Discrimination. There were no grievances filed regarding impacts on society for the reporting year ending 31 March 2018. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate responsibility report: Pages 8 to 12. GRI 200: Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 14. distributed Corporate responsibility report: Page 12. Value added statement. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 18. Corporate opportunities due to climate change responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Investec follows the defined contribution pension retirement plans schemes. We have two small defined benefit plans which were inherited as part of legacy acquisitions and which have been closed to new contributions. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial assistance was received from the government. Investec has never received financial assistance from the government, even during the financial crisis. 64 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 200: Economic standards (continued) GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Standard entry level wage exceeds the local minimum compared to local minimum wage wage in all geographies. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 238 to 240. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from We do not disclose this level of information. the local community GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Corporate responsibility report: Pages 46 and 49. Power supported and infrastructure finance. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 14, 175 and 183. Highlights. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 7 to 11. Creating value for our stakeholders. GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Integrated annual report: Volume two, Pages 74 to 76. corruption Operational risk. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 54 and 55. Compliance 205-2 Communication and training about antiIntegrated annual report: Volume two, Pages 74 corruption policies and procedures to 76. Operational risk. Corporate responsiblity report: Page 53. Governance, risk and compliance. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 74 taken to 76. Operational risk. Investec has an anti-money laundering (AML) policy as well as a compliance manual and handbook that explains the procedures to follow should there be incidents of corruption. Investec has established and maintains policies, procedures and controls to ensure that, in accordance with regulatory requirements, all staff report information or other matters which come to their attention in the course of their employment and which give reasonable grounds for knowledge or suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing activity. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 206 and anti‑trust, and monopoly practices volume two, page 8. No legal actions have been taken against Investec for anti-competitive behaviour, however, Investec Limited continues to cooperate with the Competition Commission Authorities in South Africa with respect to their ongoing investigation into alleged collusion in relation to foreign exchange. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 65 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 300: Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Direct operational impacts. 301-2 Recycled input materials used Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Not relevant. As a niche specialist financial services materials organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not relevant for Investec. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 302-3 Energy intensity Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet and services section: Direct operational impacts. GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts. 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services withdrawal of water organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-3 Water recycled and reused Corporate responsibility report: Pages 35 to 40. Planet section: Direct operational impacts for details on initiatives to reduce water usage. Investec does not recycle water. GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Not applicable for Investec which operates within urban or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of locations where biodiversity impacts are minimal. high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and As a financial services provider we do not have a direct services on biodiversity impact. However, though our project finance and property business we ensure that environment impact assessments are completed for transactions. Corporate responsibility report: Page 55. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Corporate responsibility report: Pages 32 and 33. Communitiers and conservation. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national There are no material impacts on biodiversity, therefore conservation list species with habitats in areas this is not relevant. affected by operations 66 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 182. Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 182. Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 182. Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 182. Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 182. Corporate responsibility report: Page 36. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services (ODS) organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services other significant air emissions organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-3 Significant spills Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services and/or runoff organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Not relevant. As a niched specialist financial services regulations organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. environmental criteria Only screened in our South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. chain and actions taken Only screened in our South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 67 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 400: Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 69. Corporate responsibility report: Page 14. Corporate responsibility. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 185 to 244. are not provided to temporary or part-time Remuneration report. Benefits are broken down by gross employees remuneration, variable short-term incentives by division and variable long-term incentive plans. 401-3 Parental leave Investec is committed to principles of equality and has relevant employment policies and practices in place. Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. GRI 402: Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Not applicable as there is no representative trade union for changes Investec and all operational changes will be in accordance to the Labour Relations Act. GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. Health and management-worker health and safety safety. committees Health and safety policy: Members of the senior executive are responsible for ensuring that subordinate heads of business units are held accountable for their performance in managing the occupational health and safety in areas under their control. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. Health and diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and safety. number of work-related fatalities As a bank, work-related diseases and fatalities are not a common occurrence. While we recorded 30 occupational injuries in the past year these would be minor and unlikely to result in a significant loss of work days. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of As a bank, work-related diseases and fatalities are not diseases related to their occupation a common occurrence. Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. Health and safety. 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal There is no representative trade union for Investec. This agreements with trade unions indicator is therefore not applicable. 68 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 400: Social standards (continued) GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per We do not show average hours of training per year per employee employee and by employee category. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 175 to 176. Corporate responsibility report: Page 18. Group training spend split by geography and division. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 176. transition assistance programmes Corporate responsibility report: Pages 18 and 19. Employee strategy section. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 175. performance and career development reviews Corporate responsibility report: Page 15. Performance review process. 100% – this is part of the remuneration and performance evaluation procedure for annual increases and bonuses. GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 176. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 3 and 19. Employee gender composition. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 238 to 240. women to men Corporate responsiblity report: Page 20. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination for actions taken the reporting year ending 31 March 2018, however there were three allegations reported. Corporate responsibility report: Page 17. GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right Corporate responsibility report: Page 16. Working at to freedom of association and collective Investec. Investec is not aware of any operations or bargaining may be at risk suppliers in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may have been violated. GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. incidents of child labour Investec has a group procurement statement. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. incidents of forced or compulsory labour Investec has a group procurement statement. GRI 410: Security practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Security personnel are trained on risk and interpersonal policies or procedures and communication skills as well as how to approach a situation when an incident takes place. Specific human rights training does not take place. GRI 411: Rights of indigenous people 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of No incidents relating to indigenous rights occurred during indigenous peoples the reporting year. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 69 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 400: Social standards (continued) GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Corporate responsibility report: Page 16. Human rights rights reviews or impact assessments which covers 100% of our operations. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Corporate responsibility report: Page 18. Working at procedures Investec. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Corporate responsibility report: Pages 43 to 45. contracts that include human rights clauses or Responsible asset management. that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 178 to 180. impact assessments, and development Corporate responsibility report: Pages 23 to 31. programmes Corporate social investment. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Not relevant. As a financial services company with a negative impacts on local communities limited physical presence, our operations have a very limited direct impact on local communities. However, we may indirectly have an impact through, for example, our property developments or project finance type transactions. In these instances, all required community impact assessments are done and community engagements are performed. GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. criteria Investec has a group procurement statement. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Corporate responsibility report: Page 57. Procurement. actions taken Investec has a group procurement statement. GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Neither Investec Limited, nor its subsidiaries, made political donations during 2018 financial year (2017: R3.5 million) Investec Limited annual report: Page 154. GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Not relevant given the services based nature of Investec’s product and service categories offerings. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Not relevant given the services based nature of Investec’s the health and safety impacts of products offerings. and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service Corporate responsibility report: Page 54. Compliance. information and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Corporate responsibility report: Pages 54. Compliance. product and service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents of non-compliance with marketing communications regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. 70 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix GRI 400: Social standards (continued) GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches No complaints were received from regulatory bodies of customer privacy and losses of customer concerning breaches of customer privacy. data GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 94 and 95. the social and economic area There have been no incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Corporate responsibility report: Page 54. Compliance. No significant fines. Financial services sector specific disclosures Specific disclosure on management approach FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social Corporate responsibility report: Profit, People and Planet components applied to business lines sections. Refer to our environmental policy on our website www.investec.co.za. FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 18. environmental and social risks in business lines Corporate responsibility considerations. Corporate responsibility report: Page 55. Environmental and social risk mangement. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 18. of and compliance with environmental and Corporate responsibility considerations. Corporate social requirements included in agreements and responsibility report: Pages 55. Environmental and social transactions risk mangement. FS4 Process(es) for improving employee Corporate responsiblity report: Pages 42 and 55. competency to implement the environmental In South Africa, the local banking industry has developed and social policies and procedures as applied training material to train staff on environmental and to business lines social risks relating to the different business areas. Staff are encouraged to attend any training or development that is relevant for their area of business. We have also developed ESG guidelines for consultants to use to identify potential ESG issues and trained 195 frontline consultants in ESG practices in South Africa and the UK. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business Corporate responsiblity report: Pages 42 and 55. partners, regarding environmental and social Interactions with clients, investees or other business risks and opportunities partners or interested parties takes place across the organisation, depending on the type of business and type of deal. For example, Property group would engage with their client and local community when doing a property development. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 71 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued) Appendix Financial services sector specific disclosures (continued) Sector specific performance indicators FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 24 to 26. specific region, size and by sector Our operational footprint. FS7 Monetary value of products and services Not calculated. designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services Not calculated. designed to deliver specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Internal Audit would monitor this in the ordinary course of implementation of environmental and social business. policies and risk assessment procedures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Investec Asset Management webpage on stewardship the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting http://www.investecassetmanagement.com/southafrica/ organisation has interacted on environmental or individual-investor/en/investment-expertise/stewardship/ social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Not calculated. However, we have an ESG system in negative environmental or social screening place in our asset management business. Corporate responsibility report: Pages 43 to 45. Investec asset management. FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental Corporate responsibility report: Pages 43 to 45. or social issues for shares over which the Investec asset management. Investec Asset reporting organisation holds the right to vote Management webpage on stewardship http://www. shares or advises on voting investecassetmanagement.com/southafrica/ individualinvestor/en/investment-expertise/stewardship. Product responsibility society performance indicators. Product responsibility society performance indicators FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically Investec is not a retail bank and does not bank to the disadvantaged areas by type mass market. Our target market is very niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Investec is not a retail bank and does not bank to the services for disadvantaged people mass market. Our target market is very niched: high income, high net worth, corporate, government and institutions. This indicator is therefore not relevant. However, as a result of our commitment to transformation in South Africa we partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial sector and its products thereby enabling them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. Disclosure on management approach FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial All products and policies undergo significant reviews and products and services authorisation by the Liability Product and Pricing forum which incorporates ethical requirements. Product responsibility performance indicators FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type Corporate responsibility report: Pages 23 to 31. of beneficiary Supporting our communities. Investec has partnered with GIBS on the Investec GIBS Savings Index as well as Junior Achievement South Africa (JASA) to improve consumer’s knowledge and understanding of the financial sector and its products thereby enabling them to make more informed decisions about their finances and lifestyle. 72 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Policies and programmes At Investec we believe in cast iron integrity Compliance Planet Appendix in all internal and external dealings, • Allocations policy We recognise that effective environmental consistently and uncompromisingly • Anti-bribery and corruption policy management is an essential part of displaying moral strength and behaviour embedding this philosophy into the which promotes trust. • Anti-money laundering and combating organisation and is therefore committed of terrorist ﬁnancing policy The policies and business practices of to operating an effective environmental Investec are outlined in BAWI (Becoming • Breaches policy management system compliant with Acquainted with Investec) and in the • Business policy King IV in South Africa and ISO 14001 in Compliance Handbook. They are intended the UK head office. • CASS breaches and error policy to guide employee conduct and ensure that • Chinese walls and wall crossing policy The management system is initially at all times employees actions and attitudes • Client communications and financial focused on the activities and operations of reflect the group’s values and philosophies. promotions policy supporting functions which have a direct Below is a list of some of the policies in this environmental impact. regard. • Compliance manual • Complaints policy We have the following policies in place: Human resource • Conduct risk policy • Policy on environmental and social risk practices in lending and financing practice and policies • Conflicts of interest policy activities • AIDS policy • Data protection and information • Policy on environmental and social risk • Business casual attire policy management policies practices in investment activities • Cell phone scheme • Employee participation (EP) policy • Group procurement policy. • Disability procedure • Financial promotions – policy standards and approval • Employee assistance programme • Fraud policy • Employee integrity policy • Gifts and entertainment (hospitality) • Equal opportunities policy policy • FAIS – Rendering financial advisory and • Inducements policy intermediary services to clients • Investment recommendation policy • Flexible work practice policy • Market abuse policy • Grievance resolution policy • Market rumours policy • International travel scheme • Market sounding policy • IT acceptable usage policy • Media queries policy • Learning and development policy • Order and best execution policy • Leave policy • Outside business interests (OBI) policy • Local travel and transfer practice • PAIA (Promotion of Access to • Maternity scheme Information Act) Manual • Motor accident claims practice • Personal account (PA) dealing policy • Motor vehicle scheme • Records management policy • Retrenchment policy • Sanctions policy • Retirement policy • Senior managers handover policy • Security and access control policy • Training and competency policy • Sexual harassment policy • Vulnerable clients policy • Substance abuse policy. • Whistle blowing policy. Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 73 Contact details Tanya Dos Santos Appendix South Africa Telephone +27 (11) 286 7059 tdsantos@investec.co.za Melanie Janse van Vuuren South Africa Telephone +27 (11) 286 7035 melanie.JanseVanVuuren@investec.co.za Setlogane Manchidi South Africa (CSI) Telephone +27 (11) 286 7189 setlogane.manchidi@investec.co.za Samantha Mooi South Africa (Environment) Telephone +27 (11) 286 7445 samantha.mooi@investec.co.za Susie Steyn UK (CSI) Telephone +(44) 20 7597 4187 CorporateSustainability@investec.co.uk Teresa O’Brien UK (Environment) Telephone +(44) 20 7597 4620 teresa.o’brien@investec.co.uk 74 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 Notes Appendix Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 75 Notes Appendix 76 Investec corporate responsibility report 2018 77 Specialist Banking | Asset Management | Wealth & Investment
