Communication on Progress (COP) support of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Member: Fellgroup Reporting period: 2016-2017 1 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, 2016 was an important year for Fellgroup given that we have incorporated Sustainability and Impact Maximization into the core strategy of our company. In this sense, Corporate Social Responsibility is embedded into our business processes enabling us to ensure we pay particular attention to the impact of our activities and support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Moreover, we are keen at addressing the Sustainable Development Goals, as far as we can. 2017 was even more exciting as we expanded our team, created an office in Benin and thus can now call ourselves an international business. Setting a local team has incorporated knowledge, creativity, innovation and diversity to our operations. In a world subject to ever increasing international competition, placing corporate responsibility is a core value for our organization and is reflected by our Sustainability Model (Creating meaningful projects, adding & sharing value and building strong relationships). Backed by a solid organizational structure and years of experience, our company continues to transform itself towards continuous improvement. Fellgroup, by embracing the values of the UNGC and displaying a responsible attitude, is ready to respond to the social, environmental and economic challenges of the world today. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is submitting an annual Communication on Progress (COP). We commit to yearly communicate the initiatives we have implemented according to the Global Compact COP policy which includes: A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continuous support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. A description of the practical actions we have undertaken to implement the ten Principles. Measurement of outcomes of our initiatives. I am personally committed to supporting the Global Compact and acknowledge that we all have a role to play in this initiative. Respecting the ten principles of the UNGC and engaging our stakeholders is very important to us. 2 Overview: ............................................................................................................................... 4 Main changes: .................................................................................................................................. 4 Our Sustainability Model ........................................................................................................ 5 Human Rights and Labour Rights ............................................................................................ 6 Anti-corruption principles and sustainability ........................................................................ 12 Overall Results: .................................................................................................................... 15 Sustainable Development Goals: .......................................................................................... 16 Fellgroup SDGs: .............................................................................................................................. 17 Goal 1: No Poverty ......................................................................................................................... 18 Goal 4: Quality Education ............................................................................................................... 20 Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation ................................................................................................ 23 Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth ................................................................................... 25 Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure .............................................................................. 29 SDG Indicators and Contribution Summary: .......................................................................... 32 Contact Information ............................................................................................................. 36 3 Overview: Fellgroup is a global organization, based in Austin & Benin with partners around the world who are committed to doing great work, on time, every time. Many of our projects have been completed in what can best be described as difficult circumstances. We are committed to delivering new and challenging projects around the world, including engineering, construction, and a diverse array of sustainable development programs as we make progress towards our goal of improving lives worldwide. Over the next decade we will not only continue with our excellent track record, but expand our presence globally and further our role of implementing sustainable programs that will touch as many lives as possible. Main changes: In 2016 we decided to Implement a Sustainability framework and an Impact maximization Plan into the company strategy. In 2017 we established our office in Benin, enabling us to effectively achieve our objectives while making sure we were addressing positive impact throughout all projects. In this sense the main changes implemented were: We have created and developed a Sustainability Framework and an Impact Maximization Process to ensure that we achieve our objectives. We have tested the Sustainability framework and Impact Plan with some projects to make sure it suits our reality. We have implemented the framework into all completed projects and ongoing projects. We have engaged in investing 10% of project profit back to the project environment. We have developed an online System to receive feedback and project status: Verve. Increasing awareness and transparency in our projects. We have embedded the SDGs as far as we can into our operations. 4 Our Sustainability Model Each project builds upon what Sustainability is to Fellgroup: Create meaningful projects: Projects that meet the needs and expectations of the area and of the community. Projects that will last on the long-term and that bring out the most of the community in which they are integrated. Projects that empower all. Add and Share Value: Projects that involve and integrate all interested parties to ensure that they are heard and that the needs and expectations are identified and taken into consideration. Projects that enable the areas development. Projects that adhere and optimize resources. Accountable projects. Establish Long-term Relationship with stakeholders: Projects that will create, foster and maintain strong and long-term relationships with the stakeholders involved. Enabling the community to develop and Fellgroup to grow as well. Our Principles towards sustainability include: Prioritize meaningful projects and sustainable results. Accountable and optimized use of donor funds. 5 Implement sustainable infrastructure beneficial to community. Build long-term relationships with our employees, partners, subcontractors and the community where we operate. Strive to improve our engagement and performance. Guarantee customer and beneficiary satisfaction. Human Rights and Labour Rights The following principles are covered: • Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy and goals: At fellgroup we have incorporated a Sustainability Policy which clearly states our intentions to comply to the wellbeing of all of our interested parties. Paying special attention to our employees and the communities in which we operate: “Understanding the needs and expectations of the people who are intended to benefit from some new infrastructure or facility should be a top priority. Fellgroup was established in order to address this key issue, deliver projects with the involvement of all stakeholders, and eventually empower those individuals and communities for whom we work. Fellgroup is committed to improving living conditions for people where we work in the present and long into the future. We strive to make lasting improvements, leave each community in a better position than when we arrived and have a positive impact on peoples’ lives.” 6 Human Rights and Labour practices principles are present in our Code of Conduct and in our Guideline for Sustainable projects assuring we address these principles at a management level and at a project level. Code of Conduct section: Human Rights: We are each entitled to a workplace that observes and respects basic human rights. We must observe all applicable wage and hour laws that govern our work, and never use or tolerate the use of child or forced labor. As a company that believes in the power of acting with integrity, we seek to advance respect for human rights. High priority is given to: o Complying with labor laws and regulations. o Respecting individual differences and opinions: preventing all forms of discrimination and harassment. o Safety equipment, systems and procedures that protect our people and facilities. o Preserving the environment and our occupational health. o Defining, communicating and ensuring compliance with our policies and internal procedures. o Fostering an environment of mutual respect, and complying with the laws, rules and regulations of the countries where we operate. Guideline for Sustainable projects: Criteria for team selection and conditions: When selecting the team and the conditions for the projects give priority and relevance to the following criteria: Competences and experience: All people working in the project must have the correct competences and experience to successfully perform their job. Ensure that you have a prepared and qualified team. In line with Fellgroups Code of Conduct and Vision: All people working in the project must be in line with our Code of Conduct. Ensure when contacting suppliers that they receive a copy. Availability: The team established for the project must have availability when required. Make sure the people needed are indeed available. 7 Implementation and measure of outcomes: Our Sustainability Score calculation for each project takes into consideration the following aspects related to Human Rights and Labour practices: Indicator Description Involve all relevant stakeholders in process, including Stakeholders/ Community contractor, client, and customer and also community beneficiaries. Offer education & training in project operation and Training maintenance to local individuals or groups. Local Labor Skilled and unskilled labor sourced from within project vicinity. Feedback proactively solicited with positive responses on Surveys project and contractor performance. Provided that this framework was launched in 2016 and that the sustainability rate can only be completed once the project has ended, the data pressented show that for the projects completed within the time frame. For 2016 a total of 6 projects are considered and for 2017 a consolidated total of 19 projects (13 more than in 2016). The Indicators of 2017 have served to better determine the goal we want to set as our target. Indicators related to Human Rights and labour Practises are as follows: Result 2016 Results 2017 Indicator (6 projects (19 projects Actions/Explanation 2017 considered) considered) The projects that have been evaluated up until now were already closed when the framework was set in place. This left us with not many options to effectively Stakeholders/ 54% 77% Community implement Stakeholder engagement. However, this KPI has increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. 8 Training consisted mainly in providing operation and maintenance in the use of facilities and equipment. Depending on the characteristics of the projects the 63% 88% training needs vary. This KPI has increased Training as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects, where training on Health , Safety & Quality has been Implemented. We are very committed towards using as much local labour as possible. This KPI 90% 97% result reflects our efforts. This KPI has Local Labor increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. Depending on the client of certain projects the use of surveys is more common or not. This KPI will be 67% 89% monitored further with New Projects. This Surveys KPI has increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. 0 Incidents reported on Human Rights or Labour Issues. 9 Environmental principles The following principles are covered: Environmental Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Policy and goals: Guideline for Sustainable projects: During the design and execution phases of our projects we pay special attention to the gathering of Resources and the Use of environmentally friendly solutions. The criteria to follow during these phases are as follows: Choose materials and designs taking into consideration those that least impact on the environment. Optimize the use of resources. Include Stakeholders Inputs if related: including stakeholder’s inputs if possible is crucial for an effective engagement. Use Local Resources and suppliers: the more local resources used the more inclusive the project will be. Always bearing in mind that suppliers adhere to best practices and law on employees, resources and business practices. Assure Health and Safety measures: guarantee health and safety measures are covered. Assure Quality Materials: always strive to use the highest quality materials Assure the Provision of Training means if necessary: competences are very important, if encountered with a situation where training needs to be given ensure appropriate training is given and evaluate the competences after the training meet expectations. Develop a Risk management: ensure appropriate analysis and evaluation of risks. Implementation and measure of outcomes: Our Sustainability Score calculation for each project takes into consideration the following aspects related to Environmental practices: 10 Indicator Description Locally and easily available materials used whenever possible: Local Materials Promoting the Local use of Resources in our projects. Implementing renewable energies where possible Access Safe & reliable access to project location for all stakeholders. Provided that this framework was launched in 2016 and that the sustainability rate can only be completed once the project has ended, the data presented show that for the projects completed within the time frame. For 2016 a total of 6 projects are considered and for 2017 a consolidated total of 19 projects (13 more than in 2016). The Indicators of 2017 have served to better determine the goal we want to set as our target. Indicators related to Environmental Practices are as follows: Result 2016 Results 2017 Indicator (6 projects (19 projects Actions/Explanation considered) considered) Depending on the characteristics of the projects and location the use of local materials 62% Local Materials 79% differs. This KPI has increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. Safe & reliable access to Access 100% project location for all 100% stakeholders was granted. 0 Incidents reported on Environmental Issues. 11 Anti-corruption principles and sustainability Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and goals Our Code of Conduct has a specific chapter to address these principles: “Anti-bribery We reject all forms of corruption. Paying or receiving bribes is illegal and highly unethical, and can lead to severe consequences for all parties involved, including jail for individuals and harsh penalties for the Company. We are committed to conducting our business with transparency and integrity, and will therefore ensure that all transactions comply with anti-bribery laws, including requirements to maintain complete and accurate books and records. Preventing Money Laundering We are committed to always prevent and avoid money laundering. to never facilitate or support money laundering: We will aim at minimizing the risk of and avoid being involved in arrangements or operations that may be or are related to proceeds of crime. We will take appropriate actions to evaluate our business relationships to ensure their integrity. Conflicts of Interest and Corporate Opportunities Fellgroup employees have an obligation to conduct themselves in an honest and ethical manner and to act in the best interests of the company. All employees should endeavor to avoid situations that present a potential or actual conflict between their interests and the interests of Fellgroup.” Implementation and measure of outcomes Our Sustainability Score calculation for each project takes into consideration the following aspects related to Anti-corruption practices: 12 Indicator Description Involve all relevant stakeholders in process, including Stakeholders/ Community contractor, client, and customer and also community beneficiaries. Feedback proactively solicited with positive responses on Surveys project and contractor performance. Project completed within budget constraints, allowing Budget company to profit. Provided that this framework was launched in 2016 and that the sustainability rate can only be completed once the project has ended, the data presented show that for the projects completed within the time frame. For 2016 a total of 6 projects are considered and for 2017 a consolidated total of 19 projects (13 more than in 2016). The Indicators of 2017 have served to better determine the goal we want to set as our target. Indicators related to Environmental Practices are as follows: Result 2016 Results 2017 Indicator (6 projects (19 projects Actions/Explanation considered) considered) The projects that have been evaluated up until now were already closed when the framework was set in place. This left us with not many options to Stakeholders/ 54% 77% effectively implement Community Stakeholder engagement. However, this KPI has increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. 67% 89% Depending on the client of Surveys certain projects the use of 13 surveys is more common or not. This KPI will be monitored further with New Projects. This KPI has increased as we have been incorporating the framework with the new projects. All our Projects were 100% 100 % completed within budget Budget constraints, allowing company to profit. Vezde Software: We have invested in transparency and higher awareness and control in remote projects by using VEZDE. This software enables us online, on time feedback and evidences from the projects. Photos and current status of projects is delivered enabling remote project managers to effectively control the status of the project and onsite workers to effectively show how are things going to stakeholders. 0 Incidents reported on Anticorruption Issues. 14 Overall Results: Status 2016 Status 2017 Current Status Goals/Target (19 projects) (30 projects) (33 projects) 146.301 197231 Positively impact a billion people by 212631 people people people the year 2039 100% Customer and Beneficiary satisfaction 100% 100% *based on feedback surveys provided by client. Employing our sustainability 100% 100% 31.58% framework for over 50% projects by 2017 & 100% by 2018 Achieving at least an average of 70% sustainability impact rating on 81.50% 90% projects 15 Sustainable Development Goals: At Fellgroup we are keen at addressing the Sustainable Development Goals, as far as we can. We have analyzed our operations and have addressed directly the following: • Goal 1: No Poverty • Goal 4: Quality Education • Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation • Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth • Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 16 Fellgroup SDGs: The following pages will show tables where we detail exactly how we are addressing and contributing to these SDGs. Here is the description for the content you will find in each of the columns: Where this is embedded SDG Goal in our operations: Contributes to SDG Related & Areas of Our Actions Our Process/ Indicator indicator action Policy/Method/ Person in charge Results of Specific Overall the specific description Which SDG Indicators A list of policies, processes, description indicator of our we strive to methodologies and of the action that enables approach contribute to and how positions that cover the we have us analyze towards the we do so. action. taken how well action. we´re doing. 17 Goal 1: No Poverty Where this is embedded in our operations: SDG Goal Contributes to SDG Our Process/ Fellgroup #1 Our Actions Indicator Policy/Method/ Metrics Person in charge 1.1.1 offering fair wage, local employment 97% Local No Poverty: opportunities and good Labour working conditions to We hire local men and women of Total Create Goods providers and different technical Employees that Improve backgrounds employees, with contract Peoples Lives independent of their Sustainability ensuring all 6-12+ Policy have in place race, sex and age. months: Empower Code of Conduct contracts and 24 Disadvantaged 1.2.1 & 1.2.2 Impact the necessary employees Groups offering fair wage Assessment necessary according to national Process tools & law and international Support Sustainability training to best practices, Total Decent Rating correctly generating local Employees Working Stakeholder carry out employment with Conditions Engagement their job. opportunities and good contract: working conditions to 9 office staff Create secure men and women of 15 on-site and decent different technical personnel. jobs backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 18 1.A.1 & 1.A.2 Working in meaningful projects directed towards improving and providing access to education (schools), water & sanitation We engage in (WASH), connection meaningful Sustainability (Roads) and health infrastructure Policy (Hospitals). Generating Sustainability projects that Code of Conduct local employment, using Rate: 90% will Impact local materials as much transform or Assessment as possible, contributing Total people improve Process to local development positively connection, Sustainability and providing training to impacted: education Rating ensure maintenance can 212631 and basic Stakeholder be done locally. All this needs for the Engagement contributes to reducing community. poverty as it generates local employment and provides the community with opportunities towards a sustainable future. Interaction with other Goals, according to UN Blueprint: 19 Goal 4: Quality Education Where this is embedded in our operations: SDG Goal Our Process/ Fellgroup Our Actions Contributes to SDG Indicator #4 Policy/Method/ Metrics Person in charge 4.1.1 Building new schools, allowing more student to attend to class in a safer and more productive Number of environment. Building projects schools that are designed related to towards an efficient education: 19 distribution of classes, enough space for each student, corridors that People ensure safety, toilets that Impacted: ensure sanitation, windows We design and 49190 Quality that assure natural light build Education We engage in and ventilation, common sustainable Overall: Infrastructure areas and offices that infrastructure. Improve Projects that ensure teachers and Schools that are Total of 33 Education provide students can perform their built based on projects Access education job in the best conditions. long-term (schools, buildings in 4.a.1 sustainability airports, Provide remote Schools have basic and enabling roads, library Access to areas. electricity, solar lighting, the highest and hospital) Training handwashing facilities, positive impact. single sex basic sanitation Sustainability facilities. Infrastructure is Rate: 90% adapted to better suit the school main challenges : Total people an efficient distribution of positively classes, enough space for impacted: each student, corridors 212631 that ensure safety, toilets that ensure sanitation, windows that assure natural light and ventilation, common areas 20 and offices that ensure teachers and students can perform their job in the best conditions. 4.7.1 School directors, teachers and parent All our association employees representatives were undergo the involved in the initial phases of design. Taking Training Number of necessary into consideration their Modules: people training to main challenges and trained: correctly feedback on the process Quality All involved: perform their we ensured they Assurance 24 staff job. Induction understood the Quality Control members. trainings and sustainability and inclusion Health & Safety continuous dynamic we want to for improvement with. We also extracted trainings. relevant information so that infrastructure is adapted to the users needs. 21 Interaction with other Goals, according to UN Blueprint: 22 Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Where this is embedded in our operations: SDG Goal Contributes to SDG Fellgroup Our Actions Our Process/ #6 Indicator Metrics Policy/Method/ Person in charge Total of 33 6.1.1 & 6.2.1 projects Building latrines and (schools, We design and We engage in hand washing stations airports, roads, Clean Water build sustainable Infrastructure at local schools. library and and infrastructure. Projects that Single sex basic hospital) Sanitation Through address sanitation facilities that Stakeholder sanitation ensure safety and Sustainability Ensure Access privacy which Engagement and clean Rate: 90% to Water and contributes to more efforts through water Sanitation hygene and safety in the entire systems. Total people toilets. process. positively impacted: 212631 23 Interaction with other Goals, according to UN Blueprint: 24 Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Where this is embedded in our operations: Contributes to Our Process/ Fellgroup SDG Goal # 8 Our Actions SDG Indicator Policy/Method/ Metrics Person in charge 8.2.1 & 8.3.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled Our employees labour), offering have in place fair wage Sustainability Decent according to according to law Guideline and Work and national law and all the necessary code of Total Economic international structures and Conduct. Employees Growth best practices benefits. We are Recruitment with contract: also flexible in (above average process. 9 office staff Support local wages), implementing Human & 15 onsite Decent good working best practices Resources personnel. Working conditions to such as flexibility, men and women Activities. Conditions remote work, of different extra holidays. technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 25 We strive towards 8.4.1 & 8.4.2 using as much as Use of local possible local resources as much Training Total resources, not as possible (staff, Modules: Employees Educate and only to contribute providers, receiving Train your to local materials and Quality training: local development but tools), limiting Assurance All involved, Workforce. also to ensure imports and Quality Control 24 staff maintenance and contributing to Health & Safety members. development can engage local be done locally. maintenance through training. 8.5.1 & 8.5.2 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled Sustainability We hire local labour), offering Policy providers and fair wage Code of employees, according to Conduct Create ensuring all have national law and Impact 97% Local decent in place contracts international Assessment Labour formaland the necessary best practices Process sector jobs necessary tools & (above average Sustainability training to local wages), Rating correctly carry out good working Stakeholder their job. conditions to men and women Engagement of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex 26 and age. 8.8.1 Conducting training on health and safety, quality assurance and quality compliance we We have an strive to educate economic strategy and reduce in place to assure fatalities and we grow, we injuries derived expand our from the Sustainability presence and construction Any growth Policy increase our profession. We Indicator: Code of positive impact for also provide all The total Conduct Drive all while doing so. workers with what revenue for Impact economic they need to Fellgroup at JV Assessment growth All our employees effectively and level for Process sustainability undergo the safely conduct 2017 is Sustainability necessary training their job. $ 3,125,853 Rating to correctly compared to Stakeholder perform their job. 8.10.2 $ 2,929,983 in Engagement Induction Encourage all 2016. trainings and employees and continuous vendors to improvement trainings. maintain bank accounts for payments 27 Interaction with other Goals, according to UN Blueprint: 28 Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Where this is SDG Goal Contributes to embedded in our Fellgroup Our Actions operations: #9 SDG Indicator Metrics Our Process/ We engage in Policy/Method/ Total of 33 meaningful 9.1.1 Person in charge Sustainability projects Industry, infrastructure Engaging in Policy Innovation and projects that projects that aim Code of Conduct Sustainability Infrastructure will transform towards Impact Rate: 90% or improve improving road Assessment Support the connection, status and Process Total people Development of education and building Sustainability positively Infrastructure basic needs for connection Rating impacted: the community. infrastructure. 212631 9.2.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), We hire local offering fair Sustainability providers and wage according to national law Policy employees, and Code of Conduct ensuring all international Impact 97% Local have in place Support Inclusive best practices Assessment Labour contracts and industries locally (above average Process 79% Local the necessary local wages), Sustainability Materials necessary tools good working Rating & training to conditions to Stakeholder correctly carry men and Engagement out their job. women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. Create Innovation We´ve We´ve designed Vezde App Systems for addressed the 9.a.1 and built a used for all sustainable challenge of Engaging in software that projects 29 development lack of contracts and enables transparency joint ventures transparency to and that work all stakeholders accountability towards during the entire in the imporving project. VEZDE construction infrastructure in App forms part of sector. underdeveloped our quality countries and control and on regions. (schools, time feedback roads, hospitals, process. sanitation projects). 9.3.2 procure local materials and products from Total of 33 small scale projects Stakeholder We engage in vendors (schools, Engagement meaningful airports, supporting local (Materiality infrastructure roads, library industry Analysis) projects that and hospital) Upgrade and Quality Checks will transform development. Retrofit Impact or improve Investing in Sustainability Infrastructure Assessment connection, training assuring Rate: 90% Process education and health, safety Sustainability basic needs for Total people and quality Rating the community. positively standards are impacted: respected 212631 throughout project development. 30 Interaction with other Goals, according to UN Blueprint: 31 SDG Indicators and Contribution Summary: Goal 1: 1.1.1 offering fair wage, local employment opportunities and good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 1.2.1 offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices, generating local employment opportunities and good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 1.2.2 offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices, generating local employment opportunities and good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 1.A.1 Working in meaningful projects directed towards improving and providing access to education (schools), water & sanitation (WASH), connection (Roads) and health (Hospitals). Generating local employment, using local materials as much as possible, contributing to local development and providing training to ensure maintenance can be done locally. All this contributes to reducing poverty as it generates local employment and provides the community with opportunities towards a sustainable future. 1.A.2 Working in meaningful projects directed towards improving and providing access to education (schools), water & sanitation (WASH), connection (Roads) and health (Hospitals). Generating local employment, using local materials as much as possible, contributing to local development and providing training to ensure maintenance can be done locally. All this contributes to reducing poverty as it generates local employment and provides the community with opportunities towards a sustainable future. Goal 4 4.1.1 Building new schools, allowing more student to attend to class in a safer and more productive environment. Building schools that are designed towards an efficient distribution of classes, enough space for each student, corridors that ensure safety, toilets that ensure sanitation, windows that assure natural light and ventilation, common areas and offices that ensure teachers and students can perform their job in the best conditions. 32 4.a.1 Schools have basic electricity, solar lighting, handwashing facilities, single sex basic sanitation facilities. Infrastructure is adapted to better suit the school main challenges : an efficient distribution of classes, enough space for each student, corridors that ensure safety, toilets that ensure sanitation, windows that assure natural light and ventilation, common areas and offices that ensure teachers and students can perform their job in the best conditions. 4.7.1 School directors, teachers and parent association representatives were involved in the initial phases of design. Taking into consideration their main challenges and feedback on the process we ensured they understood the sustainability and inclusion dynamic we want to for with. We also extracted relevant information so that infrastructure is adapted to the users´ needs. Goal 6: 6.1.1 Building latrines and hand washing stations at local schools. Single sex basic sanitation facilities that ensure safety and privacy which contributes to more hygene and safety in toilets. 6.2.1 Building latrines and hand washing stations at local schools. Single sex basic sanitation facilities that ensure safety and privacy which contributes to more hygene and safety in toilets. Goal 8: 8.2.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices (above average local wages), good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 8.3.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices (above average local wages), good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 8.4.1 Use of local resources as much as possible (staff, providers, materials and tools), limiting imports and contributing to engaging local maintenance through training. 33 8.4.2 Use of local resources as much as possible (staff, providers, materials and tools), limiting imports and contributing to engaging local maintenance through training. 8.5.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices (above average local wages), good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 8.5.2 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices (above average local wages), good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 8.8.1 Conducting training on health and safety, quality assurance and quality compliance we strive to educate and reduce fatalities and injuries derived from the construction profession. We also provide all workers with what they need to effectively and safely conduct their job. 8.10.2 Encourage all employees and vendors to maintain bank accounts for payments. Goal 9: 9.1.1 Engaging in projects that aim towards improving road status and building connection infrastructure. 9.2.1 Generating local employment (informal hiring of skilled & unskilled labour), offering fair wage according to national law and international best practices (above average local wages), good working conditions to men and women of different technical backgrounds independent of their race, sex and age. 9.a.1 Engaging in contracts and joint ventures that work towards imporving infrastructure in underdeveloped countries and regions (schools, roads, hospitals, sanitation projects). 34 9.3.2 procure local materials and products from small scale vendors supporting local industry development. Investing in training assuring health, safety and quality standards are respected throughout project development. 35 Contact Information Fellgroup welcomes the opportunity to work with new clients and/or contractors worldwide in implementing design-build projects within the construction industry. In addition, Fellgroup is always interested in developing new relationships with qualified companies looking to share expertise and international connections. Email: fellgroup@fellgroup.com Austin Office: 4009 Banister Lane, Suite 350 Austin, TX, 78704 Phone: +1-512-765-6135 Benin Office: 218 Ave Proche, C/38 Guinkomey Conotou, Benin Phone: +229 61985454 36
