2016 Sustainability report Contents Contents ................................................................................................................................ 2 Foreword ............................................................................................................................... 3 1 Our company in 2016 ......................................................................................................... 4 2 Economy ............................................................................................................................ 5 2.1 The success of our company ....................................................................................... 5 2.2 Our customers ............................................................................................................. 6 2.3 Our suppliers ............................................................................................................... 8 2.4 Innovation .................................................................................................................... 8 2.5 Management system .................................................................................................... 9 3 People and society ............................................................................................................11 3.1 Corporate structure and governance ...........................................................................11 3.2 Stakeholders ...............................................................................................................13 3.3 Business practices and anticorruption .........................................................................13 3.4 Our employees ...........................................................................................................14 3.5 Sponsoring, memberships, charitable activities ...........................................................17 4 Environment ......................................................................................................................20 4.1 Operational aspects ....................................................................................................20 4.2 Product-related aspects ..............................................................................................21 5 Neosys at a glance ............................................................................................................23 Appendices ..........................................................................................................................24 Company profile................................................................................................................24 Notes on our report and GRI Index ...................................................................................26 Legend..............................................................................................................................32 Foreword As in the six previous financial years, in 2017 we are continuing our practice of reporting on the previous financial year at Neosys in the form of a GRI-compliant annual report. Although the GRI standard is primarily aimed at larger companies rather than at SMEs like us, it has now become a matter of course and an ‘ingrained habit’ for us to produce a ‘GRI report’. There are two main reasons for this: A GRI-compliant report provides us with the optimum link between an integral review and a report, which is in line with our management system (certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) and gives an innovative representation of our own performance with a focus on global sustainability. The GRI report is also intended to provide a specific example of how SMEs can be actively involved in preparing sustainability reports without incurring excessive costs. We advise SMEs on how to draw up GRI-compliant annual reports, and for that reason we lead the way by setting a good example ourselves. Although current political developments are putting a brake on globalisation, we are certain that, in the face of the rapid technical and economic development that we can expect in the future, it will still long be necessary to recognise and tackle deficits in the ecological, social and security spheres, in order to ensure that our systems and organisations are sustainable. As the world becomes more transparent and communications more immediate and direct, it is increasingly difficult to conceal or put off these deficits. Forward-looking economic policies, an environmentally-friendly attitude towards resources and confidence-inspiring relations with all business partners and stakeholders are therefore competitive advantages that make a crucial difference. We warmly invite you as a stakeholder in our company to join us in reviewing our activities and services during 2016. I would like to thank all our employees for their great dedication and our customers for their trust in us during the previous year! Dr. Jürg Liechti CEO and President of the Board of Directors 1 Our company in 2016 Neosys AG is still an engineering company and service provider with its focus on sustainability. In line with our mission statement we are a skilled team of experts from the environment, engineering, safety, risk management, social responsibility and management systems sectors that works for companies, authorities and organisations in Switzerland and worldwide to analyse, advise, plan, calculate, measure and draft surveys and reports. Developments – Impact – Opportunities: Overall, 2016 was a year of turnaround for our company. After the company recorded an annual loss for the first time in its history in 2015, the necessary and in some cases painful changes have been made in order to restore the company’s financial success. On the one hand, this has meant staff changes and winding down loss-making activities. But on the other, it has also meant making investments and resolutely developing our ‘star products’. Despite high and in some cases unexpected costs for this restructuring, we managed to close the 2016 reporting year with a positive result again. Independently of the other business units, the Technology – Environment Business Unit had an excellent year. Many thanks to all employees involved! While Neosys AG’s future market prospects are not entirely untroubled, they are definitely positive and auspicious on the whole. Particularly worthy of note are our legal services, which in 2016 once again achieved sales growth of around 10% and have now become a business unit in their own right as part of the restructuring. Our chemical safety services are also experiencing a positive development and appear to have potential for further growth. There are critical open questions concerning, firstly, Switzerland’s inexorable deindustrialisation, which could prove disadvantageous for large and important Neosys services such as environmental impact and accident risk assessments, and, secondly, the general state of the construction market. The development of Swiss legislation on energy and CO 2 will also be significant for mid-term development. Since controversial political decisions need to be taken in this area (‘Energy Strategy 2050’, new CO2 law), it is difficult to make predictions. Our formulas for responding to these developments are, firstly, to continue to invest heavily in our strengths and, secondly, to occupy new niches with creativity and broad-based expertise. Examples include ratings, app-based risk portfolios, conflict minerals and biodiversity. We are therefore looking forward to the coming years with confidence and relish the opportunity to meet both existing and new challenges. 2 Economy 2.1 The success of our company Current status and indicators The past reporting year was marked by the aftermath of the preceding year. It proved to be some time before the measures that were taken took effect. We managed to improve the situation and return to profitability by year-end. The utilisation of staff remained unbalanced in some areas. The ongoing work on our database LexPlus also involved considerable personnel resources again. Consequently, staff productivity increased to 1.44 (previous year: 1.36) but is still below the long-term reference value of 1.50. The net turnover (C1) ended the reporting year at almost 11% below the budgeted value (see table below for the essential indicators). Overall, our operating profits showed positive values again with 82 kCHF in 2016, but were still substantially below the budget objectives. The cash flow was around 50% of the budgeted value. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 Gross sales, all of Neosys kCHF 3,327  3,771 3,395 3,637 HR costs, all of Neosys kCHF 2,531  2,595 2,637 2,637 Net sales (C1), BUs only kCHF 3,124  3,499 3,096 3,380 HR costs, BUs only kCHF 2,175  2,276 2,281 2,333 EBIT kCHF 82  275 -50 225 Operating result kCHF 52  206 -57 170 Cash flow kCHF 163  325 46 245 Dividends distributed kCHF 26 0 85 EBIT rate of return % 2.6  7.9 -1.6% 6.7% Staff productivity --1.44  1.54 1.36 1.45 The following graphic shows the breakdown of costs, as in previous years. As usual, around 80% are attributable to direct and indirect staff costs. Due to the predominance of staff costs at Neosys, the performance of the company depends on a good staff return, that is, a high offsetable utilisation of the existing staff capacities. There has been a slight change in the distribution of costs compared with the previous year. The proportion of costs for wages, training, premises, maintenance, repair, IT and depreciation has risen slightly. Changing from a defined benefit pension plan to a defined contribution one allowed social security costs to be reduced. Assessment The financial parameters for the reporting period are pointing in the right direction. We are confident that this development is not yet an end. Measures  Continuation of controlling with existing instruments.  Rapid provision of support for employees with low productivity.  Continue training measures for new employees, with the aim of achieving good productivity and quality of work as quickly as possible.  Critical analysis of the products as part of the strategic process. Systematic controlling of the product yield figures. Promotion of the products that are doing well. 2.2 Our customers Current status and indicators Our customers are companies, authorities (departments and municipalities) and organisations (associations, international organisations, NGOs, etc.) in Switzerland and abroad. Our customer base has included a broad range of sectors and industries for many years. Neosys AG provides personal support and consulting services that are tailored to our customers and their requirements. Our customer relations, strongly characterised by personal contact, have provided us with direct feedback about our customers’ satisfaction with our work and the services we offer. In addition, we use a questionnaire to systematically obtain information on customer satisfaction, to enable us to continually improve. The rate of return of customer questionnaires in 2016 was 22.4% of those sent out (37 out of 165), which is slightly more than last year (around 21.6%). Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 Weighted perOverall average customer satisfaction 91.4  90 85.0 88.1 centage Overall average customer satisfaction % ‘very good’ 75.6 65.1 67.7 Weighted perAverage of criteria 1-8 93.5  90 86.7 89.3 centage Average of criteria 1-8 % ‘very good’ 81.2 69.6 70.6 Customer satisfaction continues to be at a high level and last year exceeded the high target that we set. In the reporting period all the parameters covered in the questionnaire except one were above 90%. Assessment The negative trend for customer feedback was brought to an end. The aim to once again achieve the weighted percentage target for the customer questionnaire (in respect of questions 1–8) was achieved. Measures In order to maintain the very positive values, the measures agreed last year should be continued:  Structured analysis of the causes of quality problems by the company management. Discussion of complaints in the marketing and management meetings. Constant awareness-raising.  Project management training to increase the competence of HR management.  Deadline monitoring within each Business Unit. BAUMANN FEDERN AG – hazardous substances The hazardous substances audit, carried out by the Neosys AG Hazardous Substances Safety Adviser, and the subsequent inspection by the Hazardous Goods Adviser Ordinance (GGBV) inspector in the Canton of St. Gallen went smoothly. The implementation by Neosys AG and the BAUMANN FEDERN AG staff in charge of hazardous substances was rated as exemplary. The audit report, the annual report of the Hazardous Substances Safety Adviser and the implementation, instructions, checklists and accompanying documents were completed in impeccable fashion. The closing statement: ‘Professional implementation.’ Many thanks to the Neosys AG Hazardous Substances Safety Adviser and all employees of BAUMANN FEDERN AG for their part in this success. Hans-Ueli Kessler Head of Health, Safety and Environmental Protection BAUMANN FEDERN AG, Ermenswil 2.3 Our suppliers Current status and indicators Supplier management is of relatively low overall importance to Neosys AG, as most of the value chain comes from the work of the employees and only very little is contributed by suppliers. However it does have an important role in certain cases. The procurement process was overhauled last year and suppliers divided into three categories. The suppliers categorised as relevant/strategically important partners are now assessed at intervals of three years. A recommendation regarding a continuation of the partnership is made and any necessary measures are defined. The next assessment was due to take place in spring 2017. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 Reviewed suppliers/service partners Number 1 --0 1 Exclusion of suppliers Number 0 --0 0 For years we have been purchasing recycled paper and 100% organic produce for the fruit provided for employees’ breaks. The IT products used are sourced from an electronics company that is a leader in the field of fair working conditions. In accordance with the Management Handbook, the (internal) list of criteria that relate to the sustainable acquisition of products is applied. Neosys has defined a code of conduct that includes the locally valid environmental, work safety and occupational legislation, as well as the ILO core conventions and the payment of social security contributions and taxes. Our strategically important service partners and suppliers (categories A and B) have been informed of this code and asked to confirm their compliance by means of self-declaration. Assessment In the past, relevant suppliers have been assessed and evaluated in accordance with the specifications. The systematic checks will be improved by a revision of the underlying process. Measures  Conduct a periodic evaluation of the relevant suppliers. 2.4 Innovation Current status and indicators In 2016 there were a total of five innovation projects, three of which were still ongoing at the end of the reporting period and two of which had been completed. The main activity consisted in preparing master data for the legal database LexPlus and developing an ESG index. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 Innovation projects handled (as at end of Number 5  5 7 7 the year) Working hours spent on innovation proHrs 1422.7 --1233.0 770.5 jects The measures specified for the previous year were fully implemented. Assessment The innovation process is being utilised and a pleasing number of innovation projects have been initiated. The expenditure on development projects has increased to such an extent that increased attention has to be given, as part of the development control process, to whether the development work undertaken is really worthwhile. Measures  Review of innovation activities at the strategy workshop.  Continue controlling as before. 2.5 Management system Current status and indicators Neosys AG has an integrated management system. The company’s quality management has been ISO 9001-certified since 1994. The management system is expedient and is developed further on a regular basis. In 2016 it underwent a re-certification audit with no reservations. We are delighted about this result, and readily take on board the auditor’s advice on continuous improvement. The management system is currently being updated to enable recertification according to the amended standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 in May 2017. This requires a new process and several new or revised documents. Our own legal compliance is monitored using the same tool that we supply to our customers; since March 2015 this has been our LexPlus legal database. The investigation in the spring of 2015 showed according to our own estimation that Neosys AG complies with the legal requirements in the areas of the environment and safety. There are no proceedings open against Neosys AG. External communication takes the form of sustainability reporting in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Assessment The integrated management system has proven itself for the running of the company. It is generally well-accepted and is run efficiently. Combining the management system and the sustainability report also opens up numerous synergies for obtaining information and disseminating it to stakeholders internally (including the management itself) and externally. Measures  System update to enable re-certification according to ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 in May 2017.  Carry out at least two internal IMS training courses per year for all employees. Focus on critical areas for efficient work.  Continue induction training for new employees.  Continue to address pending quality list and customer complaints list under the agenda item ‘Management system’ at company management meetings.  Align GRI report to the current version of the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. 3 People and society 3.1 Corporate structure and governance Current status and indicators At the end of the 2016 reporting period the Board of Directors at Neosys AG consisted of four people, of whom one was a major shareholder and two were external parties. As an SME not listed on the stock exchange, it is our policy for our Board of Directors to be composed firstly of the major shareholders responsible, and secondly of selected external individuals who can support Neosys with their network of contacts. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is the majority shareholder and also the CEO. This constellation results from the management buyout in 2006 and is intended to help stabilise the company. It is reviewed at regular intervals. The company has its headquarters in Gerlafingen (Canton of Solothurn) and an additional office near Lausanne. Neosys operates both throughout Switzerland and internationally, and believes it makes sense to provide its services globally. It does not have a proactive strategy for expansion, but responds to opportunities for cooperation. Neosys AG is divided into three Business Units (BU). The former ‘Management Systems and Compliance’ BU was restructured in October 2016. ‘Legal Services’ has been established as a business unit in its own right. The ‘Management Systems’ part was incorporated into the ‘RisCare’ BU and is temporarily operating there, as is the former ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ BU. The company management consists of the heads of the Business Units (one is also the CEO) and the Director of Finance and Administration. The market meeting has an essential role as an important committee to discuss the company’s management and organisation. It regulates the issues relating to product design, marketing and the corporate image. It comprises all employees with project manager status (excluding freelancers). The strategy committee reviews the corporate strategy on an annual basis. It has a new composition every year, which is decided by the Board of Directors, and in which at least the Board of Directors and the company management are represented. This flexibility makes it possible to adapt the participants to the current situation and to the form of the strategic meeting according to the specific situation. Assessment The governance structure has proved itself to date, in that it has led to the continuous development of the company and its performance. Measures No measures are planned in the area of corporate structure. From the Neosys AG service portfolio: Building inspection for asbestos and other hazardous substances The municipality of Derendingen is planning to redevelop the town centre. Before the project Derendingen Mitte can be carried out, it is first necessary to demolish a double gymnasium, the school assembly hall, an old detached house, a sports ground with red polymeric surfacing and various tarmac surfaces. Materialart Schadstoff Anzahl Proben mit Due to Article 16 of the Waste OrdiProben Befund nance (VVEA, successor to the TVA), Fliesenmörtel Asbest 11 2 which came into force on 1.1.2016, Fensterkitt Asbest 2 2 the developers must provide inforKunststoffbeläge Asbest 5 1 mation about the type, quality, quantiDeckenplatten, Eternit Asbest 3 2 ty and planned disposal of construcFugenkitt PCB 3 2 tion waste if this waste might contain Asphalt PAK 2 0 hazardous substances. Sportplatzbelag Schwermetalle 1 1 Consequently, Neosys AG was comTotal 27 10 missioned to inspect the buildings and facilities scheduled for demolition in order to identify any hazardous substances so that they could be properly removed and disposed of prior to demolition. The primary focus was on asbestos and PCB in the buildings, heavy metals in the sports ground and PAH in the tarmac surfaces. During an inspection carried out in collaboration with those responsible for the buildings, we identified all building sections that could in principle be classified as potentially contaminated due to the year of construction, and made a record of them. On this basis, a sampling plan was developed. For all building sections of the same kind classified as suspicious, a single sample was taken. Overall, we had 27 construction material samples removed and tested in the laboratory. In addition, the area of building sections classified as suspicious was measured in running metres. The laboratory results confirmed that ten of the construction material samples contain hazardous substances and that these materials therefore need to be removed and disposed of in conformity with relevant laws before demolition can commence. Rolf Gerber Neosys AG, Technology-Environment 3.2 Stakeholders Current status and indicators Neosys AG associates closely with numerous individuals and groups internally and externally. In 2010, as part of our strategy development, we undertook a general identification of our stakeholders to gain an initial overview of their number and variety. Based on this, over the past few years the management carried out a more detailed analysis. For both Neosys overall and our individual Business Units, this showed a very complex pattern of different groups of stakeholders. All the stakeholders identified in detail within these categories have interests in our activities that vary in nature and intensity, and exert different degrees of influence on them. We seek to maintain an ongoing dialogue with all stakeholder groups. The instruments for this are included in our communication concept, an important instrument being our GRI reports. Assessment The analysis of the stakeholders was an essential stage in ensuring that our reporting conforms with the GRI standard published in 2016. We continue to ensure that the selected mix of instruments remains appropriate for an SME. Measures  Making contact with the relevant stakeholders and clarifying their requirements.  Where necessary, specification of additional instruments for communication with stakeholders.  Incorporating the requirements found into the design of the annual report. 3.3 Business practices and anticorruption Current status and indicators In accordance with our corporate values we seek to ensure ethical conduct towards all our partners and stakeholders. Because it is important to our credibility and identity, many aspects of ethical conduct have already been applied implicitly to date. Thus, for example, complaints and criticisms from customers, neighbours, social groups, employees etc. are recorded in a list and pursued by the management system manager. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 Employees who were given anti% of people 91%  75% 27% approx. 40% corruption training Cases in which there was any suspected Number 0 --0 0 corruption Complaints from stakeholders with regard Number 0 --0 0 to environmental or social aspects At home, i.e. in Switzerland, we generally assess the risks connected with corruption as low. However, in the case of projects abroad we perceive an increased risk of being confronted with activities that could be described as corruption. In order to be able to counter these, we formulated and adopted an in-house anticorruption policy in 2013, including integration into the provisions of the employment contracts, specifications for the tender phase and order processing. This includes a description of the possible risk situations and the relevant preventive measures and procedures in cases of suspicion. In 2016, we once again carried out anti-corruption training for our employees and made sure employees who joined the company after these guidelines were introduced were aware of them. Potential risk situations or cases that could fall under the category of corruption are dealt with as an agenda item in the monthly management meetings and a list compiled. There were no cases of this kind in the 2016 reporting period. Assessment The anticorruption policy introduced in 2013 provides a practical framework with regard to corruption and attempted illegal influence by third parties which may affect us in the course of our activities. The internal training that was carried out brought our employees up to date on these matters. Measures  The aim is still for at least 75% of the workforce to be trained in this: Anticorruption training is carried out periodically for employees.  Maintain the list for recording and pursuing situations that involve the risk of corruption. 3.4 Our employees Current status and indicators As at 31.12.2016, Neosys AG has 15 ½ full-time equivalent posts (FTE) with employment contracts in accordance with Swiss law (excluding ancillary staff). As at the reporting date these posts are divided between 20 people, which represents a decrease. There are also non-time-limited cooperation agreements with seven further people (freelancers). The number of female employees was 17.5% of the FTE, which also represents a decrease. At the end of the reporting period the management was made up of only one woman out of four people (21.6% of the FTE). Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 FTE as at Staff 15.45 --19.93 16.45 31.12. Total percentage of women % FTE 17.5 --34.0 33.1 Percentage of women in management % FTE 21.6 --44.4 37.2 Percentage of women on supervisory % per capita 25 --25.0 25 board Ratio of highWage spread est to lowest 3.17 2.29 2.69 wage Wage ratio women/men PL1 0.994  1.000 1.040 1.012 Wage ratio women/men PL3 0.872  1.000 0.864 0.921 Wage ratio women/men PL4 1.190 1.151 n.a. % FTE Fluctuation 10.3  <8 16.7 17.6 (departures) Number of Occupational accidents/illnesses 0  0 0 0 cases Absence rate (occupational acci% 0  0 0 0 dents/illnesses) Total absences (excluding approved % 4.13 --6.78 2.42 absences and maternity/paternity leave) Overall satisfaction Scale 0-10 6.97  7.00 7.81 7.68 Time spent on further training Hrs/FTE *J 141 --102 121 Once again, several employees left Neosys during the reporting year; this means that fluctuation once again exceeded our target in 2016, at 10.3%. We are planning to replace the departures and bring the number of employees back up to around 20 FTEs in the medium term. The distribution of employees by age can be seen from the following diagram. The age statistics have again changed in comparison with the previous year due to people leaving and joining the company: the percentage of those under 30 has decreased from 21% to 14%. Occupational health and safety policy: Many Neosys employees are not office workers, often carrying out their activities at customers’ premises in a wide range of working environments – in foundries or power plants, at chemical works, scrap processors, building sites, etc. This give rise to health risks, which were assessed by internal Neosys safety officers. The measures required to protect employees from work-related accidents or illnesses were determined, including the need for personal protective equipment. Periodic training courses and exchanges of experience are held to enable employees to prepare themselves properly for site visits and to be aware of the risks at customers’ premises. The overall absence rate remained high in the reporting year due to the ongoing illness of one employee at the start of the year. The employee satisfaction questionnaire was carried out for the second time using the new method defined in spring 2016, with slightly modified questions. At 6.97, the result was markedly below the previous year’s value (7.81), and participation in the survey was also markedly lower. It is not easy to identify reasons for the decreased satisfaction and participation based on the feedback that was received. Assessment Neosys offers all of its employees modern terms and conditions of employment with opportunities for specialist and personal development, a good level of operational freedom and high delegation of responsibility. The motivation of our employees is one of Neosys AG’s most important resources. The satisfaction value is just about tolerable (target 7.0). The decrease compared with the previous year may be related to the company’s turnaround. It now needs to be analysed, something to which the Culture Group and company management are contributing in equal measure. The most important instrument for continuous improvement is the evaluation of the suggestions that are made together with the survey. Recent examples of the implementation of suggestions include the redesign/expansion of the office premises in Gerlafingen, and the training of all employees in the company’s cost structure and basic calculation principles. The overall wage spread is 3.2, which is typical for a Swiss SME. It has increased compared with the previous year, due to the fact that in 2016 there were interns with somewhat lower wages than permanent employees. The salaries of male and female employees are not completely equal. The deviations from equality are investigated on a regular basis. In 2016, the deviations from ideal value 1 went in both directions, depending which function level is analysed. The excessive deviations for project manager categories 3 (m>f) and 4 (f>m) are determined by the aspects of age and experience of the employees in question and there is therefore no infringement of the pay equality law. At 4.2% of working hours, the absence rate is still far too high. However, it can be explained by the long-term absence of an employee due to illness, and has been rectified since mid2016. Measures  Further detailed examination of the various responses to the employee questionnaire.  The women/men wage ratio will now be recalculated taking account of age (based on wage bracket). Birth of the new Neosys business unit ‘Legal Services’ ‘Neosys legal services have been on the market for a long time. The high demand for this product has made it sufficiently important for it to be organised as a business unit in its own right, starting in October 2016. Due to my experience in legal compliance issues, I was given the opportunity to head this new business unit. I was very glad to accept this amazing challenge. The service, which is known throughout Switzerland, is set to become even better and more convenient for our clients in future, in particular thanks to the online tool LexPlus.’ Simon Kröni, Dipl. Ing. UAS, MAS Head of the Legal Services Business Unit (LS) at Neosys AG 3.5 Sponsoring, memberships, charitable activities Current status and indicators It is part of the Neosys philosophy to be active in local sponsoring and to be a member of industry and specialist organisations relevant for our company. Having reached a high point in 2015 (when there was extra sponsorship for a single event), in 2016 sponsorship expenditures returned to markedly lower levels, around the same as in previous years. The largest part (CHF 3,000) was again spent on a Christmas donation to a social institution in the local area around the company headquarters. We make further donations in support of events by local associations and organisations. Due to the company’s broad spectrum of activities and the large number of relevant associations and organisations, membership subscriptions have slightly increased compared with last year. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 Measurement 2016 Sponsoring, donations CHF 4,600 --8,900 4,400 Membership subscriptions CHF 21,108 --20,417 20,442 In addition to financial contributions, Neosys AG is also active in a number of bodies which contribute to honing society’s awareness of sustainability, and correspondingly in events without any reimbursement of expenses (e.g. the Interest Group for Ecological Purchasing [IGÖB] Office, Swiss Association of Independent Safety and Security Engineers and Consultants [SSI] etc.). We look on these as platforms for networking with other specialists, gaining new ideas and raising awareness of our company and its services to a wide range of potential cooperation partners and customers. A number of our employees are active as volunteers for social issues (NGOs, politics, churches, professional associations, etc.). Neosys AG welcomes charitable and political activities by its employees. These are not supported financially or by granting work time off; however, any flexibility in working hours that this requires is granted. Assessment The high sponsorship contributions of 2015 returned to the level of previous years. Membership subscriptions remain high. The impact of savings measures that have been agreed will only become evident next year. However, the maintenance of networks is very important for the positioning of Neosys AG in the marketplace. Measures  Continued sponsoring as provided by the budget.  Checking the memberships to ensure cost/benefit balance. From the Neosys AG service portfolio: The new UN sustainability goals – Swiss companies have a part to play too. The UN’s new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have been in force for several months. The 17 goals and 169 specific targets, which were adopted by Member States in 2015 as part of the ‘2030 Agenda’, are intended to tackle economic, environmental and social challenges, not just in developing countries but across the world, and to achieve improvements by 2030. These challenges include securing a sustainable energy supply, promoting investment and fostering the sustainable development of cities. Switzerland is among the countries to have pledged to measure its implementation of the goals against relevant indicators and regularly report on its performance. It is not just authorities and NGOs who have a part to play. Rather, the idea is to create incentives for nonstate actors to make an active contribution. Accordingly, companies are especially important partners when it comes to achieving the goals. Tools for measuring key indicators as a source of information already exist or are currently being developed. Links exist with other initiatives and systems, including reporting procedures and the environmental management systems certified according to the standard ISO 14001 used at many companies. Many companies are already collecting data about their environmental and social performance, such as energy consumption and emissions values. The SDGs now offer a framework that allows companies to show to important stakeholders – customers, suppliers or a critical public – how they are contributing responsibly to sustainable development. This enables them to secure long-term opportunities in an increasingly sustainability-focused market environment and to proactively manage risks, for example those resulting from new legislation. We would be happy to provide you with advice and support regarding the specific opportunities that the SDGs open up for your company. Jörg Schmidt Neosys AG, CSR 4 Environment Our legal compliance is regularly checked as part of the environmental management system. No failures to comply with the environmental legislation have been found. The main relevance of our activities is on two levels. In terms of our own effect on the environment, the emphasis is above all on mobility, followed by the office infrastructure. The second level concerns our indirect effect, i.e. through the projects we carry out for our customers. These indirect (Scope 3) effects are likely considerably more significant than the direct ones. Unfortunately, it is difficult to measure these effects to a reasonable degree of accuracy without incurring excessive costs (cf. the example in 4.2). We nevertheless ask our customers the right questions and give them active support in increasing their contribution to the environment. 4.1 Operational aspects Current status and indicators Our greenhouse gas balance for 2016 is around 38.7 tonnes of CO2 and has increased considerably in comparison with the last assessment period, even though once again no journeys by air were undertaken in 2016. The reason for the increase is the expansion of our offices, which has resulted in higher oil consumption for heating the building. Since we are leaseholders, we have no influence over the type of heating. Unit of Target Indicator 2016 2015 2014 measurement 2016 CO2 emissions, actual t CO2 38.7 --25.9 30.0 CO2 emissions, compensated % CO2 emissions 100  100 100 100 CO2 emissions per capita t CO2/FTE 2.26 --1.39 1.71 Kilometres by car km/FTE 4,658 --4,190 4,929 Rail/car modal split KmR/(kmC+kmR) 0.630  >0.6 0.597 0.598 Kilometres by air km/FTE 0 --0 404 Waste generation kg/FTE 140.9 --225.31 52.6 Electricity consumption kWh/FTE 887 --923 1,098 Proportion of green energy kWhG/kWhtot 1.000  1.000 1.000 1.000 Proportion of self-generated electricity % 10.7  14 1.6 Paper consumption kg/FTE 13.6  28.9 28.9 35.9 Water consumption Litres/FTE 9.2 --10.8 11.1 The three sources of emissions, ‘Heating’, ‘Car travel’ and ‘Air travel’ are compared in the following pie chart. All CO2 emissions attributable to Neosys are compensated for by the High value in the 2015 reporting year due to the disposal of old materials from the archive. purchase of certificates from the Fair Recycling Foundation (Zurich). Our ‘attributable’ CO2 emissions are therefore zero. The electricity consumption for office operations and for rail travel is not calculated in the greenhouse gas footprint. This is due to the fact that we buy in electricity from 100% renewable sources and therefore do not offset the amount of approx. 24 g CO2/kWh calculated by the Federal Government for the Swiss electricity grid. While total travel for customer activities has slightly increased compared with last year, in 2016 we managed for the first time to surpass our target for the train/car modal split. Travel by train accounted for 63% of kilometres travelled. After the exceptionally high volume of waste in 2015 due to the disposal of old materials from the archive, the amount of waste generated decreased again in the reporting period. The indicator ‘Self-generated electricity’, which was measured for the second time, is worthy of note. At 10.7%, it was slightly below the 14% target. Assessment The key figures in the area of the environment have shown a pleasing development, in particular with regard to the rail-car modal split and the consumption of electricity and paper. The ‘Smart Flower’ still had a few teething problems and was repeatedly out of service for whole days at a time. The electricity produced can, at a surprisingly high 88%, be used for our own consumption. The rest is fed into the electricity grid. Despite a reduction in electricity consumption, it was not quite possible to achieve the proportion of self-generated electricity that we aimed for. This is probably due to the aforementioned teething problems and possibly also the larger than expected effect of shade from trees. Measures Our environmental objectives have been updated as follows for 2017:  Maintenance of climate-neutral operation (attributable CO2 emissions = 0) by as high a proportion as possible of rail travel; by offsetting the remaining emissions (e.g. purchasing emissions certificates or climate tickets).  Maintain the transport mode split to a rail proportion > 63%.  Maintain the specific paper consumption at < 15 kg/FTE.  Increase our self-generated electricity to 14% of our consumption. The corresponding measures consist of promoting rail travel and the electronic office, and continuing with CO2 compensation by means of reputable offset certificates. 4.2 Product-related aspects Current status and indicators Our direct, business-related environmental impact – as indicated above – is quite low (office administration and business travel). However, we can indirectly achieve positive environmental effects among our customers by means of the services and advice we provide in the area of sustainability. Such effects are designated ‘Scope 3 effects’. We believe that particular significant levers among what we offer are:  Introduction of environmental and energy management systems  Legacy consulting and redevelopment  Environmental technology (waste air, noise, NIR, etc.) and CO2 projects  Waste management  Energy management  Eco-balances There are no universally recognised guidelines for measuring these indirect effects and we can only estimate them qualitatively, but we believe they are very large relative to our direct environmental effects, as the example to the right shows. Accordingly, the indirect effect of our product ‘CO2 services’ on our customers’ CO2 emissions could well be two orders of magnitude greater than our own, direct CO2 emissions. Assessment With regard to quality, our impact is all the greater the more and the bigger the projects we have with highly environmentally relevant clients. This situation is certainly satisfactory today. Our aim to increase this impact further goes hand in hand with our growth activities. Measures Develop and establish new, indirectly very effective products such as: Eco-balances for organisations/companies; Ratings; Biodiversity management for companies. 5 Neosys at a glance : satisfactory  : poor Code for achievement of objectives : good  to be monitored  Measures Unit of measFINANCE 2016 Target 2016 2015 2014 urement Net sales (C1), BUs only kCHF 3124  3499 3096 3380 HR costs, BUs only kCHF 2175  2276 2281 2333 EBIT kCHF 82  275 -50 225 Operating result kCHF 52  206 -57 170 Cash flow kCHF 163  325 46 245 EBIT – yields % 2.6  7.9 -1.6 6.7 Staff productivity 1.44  1.54 1.36 1.45 Unit of measQUALITY 2016 Target 2016 2015 2014 urement Customer complaints Number 0 --3 0 Weighted perCustomer satisfaction 91.4  0.90 85 88 centage Suppliers/service providers checked Number 1 --0 1 Exclusion of suppliers Number 0 --0 0 Innovation projects Number 5  7 7 7 Working hours on innov. projects Hrs 1422.7 --1233.5 770.5 Unit of measEMPLOYEES 2016 Target 2016 2015 2014 urement Staff FTE 31.12. 15.45 --19.93 16.45 Total percentage of women % FTE 17.5 --34 33.1 Percentage of women in management % FTE 21.6 --44.4 37.2 Percentage of women on supervisory board % 25.0 --25.0 25.0 Wage spread 3.17 --2.29 2.69 Wage ratio w/m PL1 0.994  1.000 1.04 1.012 Wage ratio w/m PL3 0.872 1.000 0.864 0.921  Wage ratio w/m PL4 1.19 1.151 n.a. Fluctuation % FTE 10.3  <8 16.7 17.6 Occupational accidents/illnesses Number of cases 0  0 0 0 Overall satisfaction Scale 0-10 6.97  >7 7.81 7.68 Time spent on further training Hrs/FTE 141 --102 120.5 Unit of measCOMPANY 2016 Target 2016 2015 2014 urement Employees trained in anticorruption % 91  75 27 ca. 40 Suspected corruption cases Number 0 --0 0 Stakeholder complaints Number 0 --0 0 Sponsoring, donations CHF 4600 8900 4400 Membership subscriptions CHF 21108 20417 20442 Unit of measECOLOGY 2016 Target 2016 2015 2014 urement Kilometres by car km/FTE 4658 --4190 4929 Train/car modal split % 63.0  60 59.7 59.8 Kilometres by air km/FTE 0 --0 404 CO2 emissions (without compensation) t CO2/FTE 2259 --1.393 1.705 Waste generation kg/FTE 140.9 --225.3 52.6 Electricity consumption kWh/FTE 887 --923 1098 Proportion of green energy kWhÖ/kWhtot 1.00  1.00 1 1.00 Electricity own production % 10.7  14 Paper consumption kg/FTE 13.6  36.8 28.9 35.9 Appendices Company profile 1 Name Neosys AG 2 Brands, products, Analysing, consulting, planning, calculating, measuring and drawing up exservices pert reports in the areas of environment, environmental technology, safety, risk management, social responsibility, management systems and legal compliance. The range of products can be viewed at http://www.neosys.ch/en/our-areas-of-expertise.html 3 Organisational strucOrganisational chart see under http://www.neosys.ch/en/organigram.html ture Offices in Gerlafingen and Lausanne (Epalinges) (CH) 4 Headquarters Gerlafingen (CH) 5 Countries in which Neosys is fundamentally active in countries in which there are customer orthe organisation is ders. From a fiscal law perspective as a company and from a labour law peractive spective as an employer, Neosys is only active in Switzerland. 6 Ownership structure Joint-stock corporation under Swiss law. Three major and 11 minor shareand legal form holders solely from the company management, the Board of Directors and the workforce. 7 Markets A Specialist environmental tasks for companies and official authorities, audits (CH) B Environmental technology, environmental engineering for industry and construction companies (CH, EU) C Technical safety and security consulting (CH) D Advice and support for municipalities, cantons and public institutions, as well as for companies, regarding sustainable corporate management/development (incl. sustainable procurement) and CSR E Expertise and engineering services for businesses, on behalf of governmental and non-governmental organisations F Management system consulting (ISO 9/14/31/50001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) and legal services (CH, D, A) F Company management, strategy consulting, risk management (CH) H CO2 project development, CO2 audits in Switzerland and abroad 8 Scale Number of employees: As per 31.12.2016: 15.45 FTE spread across 20 people, plus seven freelancers with an estimated joint effective capacity of 0.15 FTE Net sales (financial accounting): As per 2016: CHF 3.327 million Overall capitalisation: Balance sheet total in 2016: CHF 2.15 million, of which equity: CHF 1.41 million (65.7%) Breakdown of sales according to country/region: Mainly Switzerland (>90%). No detailed breakdown obtained in 2016 Number of products/services offered: 69 pursuant to product overview 9 Significant changes The former ‘Management Systems and Compliance’ Business Unit was rein the reporting year structured. The Management System Services Division (as per 31.12.16 100% FTE) was incorporated into the ‘RisCare’ Business Unit. A new Business Unit was created out of the Legal Services Division (as per 31.12.16 500% FTE). 10 Prizes received None Notes on our report and GRI Index Our sustainability reporting in flux “Our sustainability reports are a key instrument for regularly providing our partners and stakeholders with transparent information on our performance and activities. By doing this at a reasonable cost, we demonstrate to our customers a practicable way in which even an SME can be active in this area and meet the challenges it involves. In 2016, the landscape of sustainability reporting was once again in flux and marked by various developments. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines have become established as the standard for the disclosure of non-financial performance and are the point of reference for an increasing number of political initiatives and regulations across the globe. 2015 was the last time that the G3/3.1 version of the GRI guidelines could be applied. Since then, the G4 version, which appeared in 2013, has been solely applicable, but it has already been superseded by new GRI standards. There is now another transition phase until 2018, during which companies can continue reporting according to G4. In autumn 2015, the United Nations adopted its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Many ideas for how these goals can be implemented have now been contributed. Companies are encouraged to support these goals and to report on how they are contributing to them. In addition, the standard ISO 14000, which was amended in 2015, also emphasises external communication. In conjunction with the other initiatives, this reinforces the opportunity to communicate the achievements of the management system to the outside world too. According to G4 guidelines, a sustainability report should include topics that reflect the organisation’s key economic, environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence the judgements and decisions of stakeholders (principle of materiality). This requires a process which ensures that the content is oriented towards the interests of the stakeholder groups; the connection to sustainable development and management systems is also specified. The high reporting requirements can represent a hurdle for SMEs with limited resources. At any rate the GRI guidelines provide helpful orientation when drawing up a report, for example concerning the procedure and possible subjects to be covered. Having established this basis, the specifics of the report are then open to individual choice, linking it, for example, to the documentation and communication requirements of an environmental management system. We continue to base our reporting on the GRI standard and are now applying the current G4 guidelines for the first time; we also have the connection to our management system and the SDGs in view. Right from the start of producing the report, we have focused on the interests of our stakeholder groups. Through continuous exchange with them, we attempt to report on topics that are important to our stakeholder groups and to ourselves. Following a solid stakeholder analysis in recent years and a process of compiling key topics, we are working in dialogue with our stakeholders on further prioritisation.” Dr. Jörg Schmidt Project manager at Neosys AG (CSR) The present report covers the period from 1.1.2016 until 31.12.2016. It represents the seventh public sustainability report of Neosys AG, relates to all departments and areas of activity of Neosys AG, and is repeated on an annual basis. The report was drawn up by an internal work group. Contact person: Dr. Jörg Schmidt, joerg.schmidt@neosys.ch, 032/ 674 45 05. The report uses data from the Neosys AG management system and also represents the public part of the annual review of the Neosys AG management system, which has been approved by the company management. For the first time, the report was produced ‘in accordance’ with the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in line with the ‘Core’ option criteria. It has not been verified externally. The following table (GRI Index) lists the sections of the report corresponding to each of the requisite criteria and/or provides relevant supplementary notes. For the first time, our disclosures also make reference to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the notes for the GRI criteria include the symbols of related SDGs. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General standard disclosures Section Notes STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Foreword organisation ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name Company profile G4-4 Brands, products and services Company profile G4-5 Location of headquarters Company profile G4-6 Location of operations Company profile G4-7 Ownership and legal form Company profile G4-8 Markets served Company profile G4-9 Scale of the organisation Company profile G4-10 Total number of employees Company profile G4-11 Collective agreements There are no relevant collective agreements G4-12 Supply chain Neosys AG provides its customers with consulting services; there are no product supply chains G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Foreword G4-14 Precautionary principle or approach Foreword G4-15 External charters, principles, initiatives Foreword Member of the UN Global Compact Initiative G4-16 Membership of associations 3.5 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial stateAs an SME, Neosys AG has no subsidiaries or consolidated ments financial statements G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect The basis for the reported data is the management system; boundaries the report content was coordinated with the stakeholder group interests identified in the stakeholder analysis G4-19 Material aspects See table of Specific standard disclosures (below) G4-20 Description of the boundaries of material aspects withThe boundaries of the material aspects are defined by Nein the organisation osys AG’s business activities at its sites. G4-21 Description of the boundaries of material aspects outThe boundaries of the material aspects are defined by Neside the organisation osys AG’s business activities at its sites. G4-22 Restatements There were no restatements of information as defined in the G4 guidelines G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope No relevant changes have been made and aspect boundaries GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONT.) General standard disclosures Section Notes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups 3.2 G4-25 Selection of stakeholders 3.2 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 3.2 Individual stakeholder groups’ interests and opportunities to influence were identified in detail in the stakeholder analysis, and suitable tools for communicating with the individual groups were defined G4-27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder en3.2 gagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 01.01. to 31.12.2016 G4-29 Date of most recent report 30 April 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact See page 25 G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option, GRI Index and external assurSee page 25ff (the present table is the GRI Index) ance of the report G4-33 Practice with regard to seeking external assurance for No external assurance planned the report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure 3.1 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Codes of conduct and of ethics 3.3 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material aspects Section Notes MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMA) Neosys AG has an integrated management system, which is certified according to the amended standards ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 and which includes economic, environmental and social aspects (section 2.5) ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2.1 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obli2.1 There are no outstanding benefit plan obligations gations G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from governNeosys does not receive any subsidies, but it does receive ment orders from public institutions Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 3.5 Certain services are provided for various associations that and services provided primarily for public benefit are not invoiced for, but which have marketing potential G4-EC8 Type and extent of significant economic impacts 4.2 With regard to the environmental impact of our products and services Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally2.3, 3.3 based suppliers SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONT.) Material aspects Section Notes ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 4.1 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 4.1 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 4.1 services Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 4.1 Water is only used for sanitation purposes. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 4.1 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions related to energy (Scope 2) 4.1 Greenhouse gas carbon offsets G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 4.1 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 4.1 Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 4.1 Only waste water from sanitation facilities included in total water consumption (see section 4.1) G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Household waste in waste incineration, paper/PET to recycling, organic waste to compost, electronic goods are returned to retail Products and services G4-EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of prod4.1 ucts and services Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No fines or non-conformities, review as part of the EMS non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting prod4.1 ucts and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 2.3 The self-declaration for our suppliers includes environmenusing environmental criteria tal aspects. SOCIAL Labour Practices and Decent Work – Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and 3.4 employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not No fixed-term contracts, with the exception of internships. provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Benefits are not dependent on the type of employment, but significant locations of operation on the function. For example, management employees are given a company car or an SBB first-class railcard, employees a half-fare railcard. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONT.) Material aspects Section Notes Labour practices and Decent Work – Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational dis3.4 eases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total numNo occupational accidents or illnesses. ber of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Labour practices and Decent Work – Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by 3.4 gender, and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender All employees receive a review on a regular basis. and by employee category Labour practices and Decent Work – Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 3.1, 3.4 of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Labour practices and Decent Work – Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 3.4 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Human Rights – Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 2.3 The self-declaration for our suppliers includes aspects relatusing human rights criteria ing to human rights (ILO criteria)... Human Rights – Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and cor3.4 rective actions taken Statements on pay equality, no incidents. Human Rights – Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right Such occurrences are considered extremely improbable for to exercise freedom of association and collective the type of operations performed by Neosys AG and as a bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and result there has been no detailed examination; the selfmeasures taken to support these rights declaration for our suppliers includes aspects relating to human rights (ILO criteria) Human Rights – Child Labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having signifiSuch occurrences are considered extremely improbable for cant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures the type of operations performed by Neosys AG and as a taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child result there has been no detailed examination; the selflabour declaration for our suppliers includes aspects relating to human rights (ILO criteria) Human Rights – Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having signifiSuch occurrences are considered extremely improbable for cant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory lathe type of operations performed by Neosys AG and as a bour, and measures to contribute to the elimination result there has been no detailed examination; the selfof all forms of forced or compulsory labour declaration for our suppliers includes aspects relating to human rights (ILO criteria) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONT.) Material aspects Section Notes Society – Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 3.2 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Society – Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations as3.3 sessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption poli3.3 cies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 3.3 Society – Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and No political contributions were made. recipient/beneficiary Society – Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive There are no legal proceedings with regard to antibehaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and competitive behaviour. their outcomes Society – Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number No fines or penalties. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility – Product and Service Labelling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 2.2 Product Responsibility – Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 2.2 Customer data are only forwarded with the customer’s conbreaches of customer privacy and losses of customsent. Sensitive data are saved so that they are inaccessible er data even internally. Product Responsibility – Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonNo fines. compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Sustainable Development Goals: SDG symbols used in the table: Gender equality (SDG 5) Decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) Climate action (SDG 13) Through our services, we also contribute to SDG 6 (Clean water and sanitation),11 (Sustainable cities and communities) and 12 (Responsible consumption and production). Legend A Austria a Year AG Aktiengesellschaft (joint-stock corporation) BoD Board of Directors BU Business Unit C1 Contribution margin 1 (net profit) CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CH Switzerland CHF Swiss francs CM Company Management CO2 Carbon dioxide, the most significant greenhouse gas CSR Corporate Social Responsibility D Germany EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes EMS Environmental Management System ESG Environment, social and governance; standards that take environmental, social and governance issues into account when assessing and rating companies f Female employee FTE Full-Time Equivalent GHG Greenhouse gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative – organisation that produces international guidelines for sustainability reporting Hr Hour IGöB Interest Group for Ecological Purchasing, Switzerland ILO International Labour Organisation IMS Integrated Management System ISO 9001 International standard for quality management ISO 14001 International standard for environmental management IT Information Technology kCHF Thousand Swiss francs kg Kilogram km Kilometre kWh Kilowatt-hour LS Neosys Legal Services Business Unit m Male employee MSC Neosys Management Systems and Compliance Business Unit NGO Non-Governmental Organisation OHSAS 18001 ‘Occupational Healthand Safety Assessment Series’ standard for management systems PM Project manager SME Small and medium enterprise(s) SSI Swiss Association of Independent Safety and Security Engineers and Consultants t Tonne
