Contents Introduction by U Nyo Myint, Managing Director 3 of KBZ Group of Companies. Introduction 6 Human Rights 9 Labour Rights 27 Environmental Issues 34 Anti-corruption 38 Analysis & Strategy for May 2018– May 2019 40 Statement by U Nyo Myint KBZ Group Managing Director “I am delighted by the development I have witnessed within the KBZ Group over the last twelve months. We have now reached a new level as practitioners of best international business standards. Our Code of Conduct and policies have been firmly embedded across our subsidiaries and are progressively being implemented and monitored. We have introduced a number of new policies since our last report in 2017. These are outlined in the report below.” 3 3 “Signing up to the UN Global Compact in May 2015 was a significant demonstration of our intentions as an organization. Even before then and subsequently we have strived to ensure we match or exceed the highest standards of international compliance in all the business we conduct. We fully subscribe to all the principles of the UN Global Compact encompassing human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to being an exemplary corporate citizen with consideration for all our stakeholders.” “We recognise this is an evolutionary process that will continue as long as we operate and we are proud of the progress we have made. As the largest private entity employer in Myanmar, we have a large number of stakeholders who are directly impacted by our presence across the country and so we are well aware of our duty of responsibility.” “We believe sustainable development is a cornerstone of not just our own future as a business entity, but that it also plays a vital role in supporting the societies in which we operate. In addition to our strategic plans for responsible business, we are firm believers in philanthropy. Contributing to those in need during a transitional stage in our country is an act we see as an obligation rather than an option.” 44 “Our philanthropic work has primarily been directed towards poverty alleviation through: • Health Initiatives • Education Enhancement • Women’s Economic Empowerment • Support for Environmental Conservation • Disaster Reduction, Relief and Recovery • Support for the Peace Process “We wholeheartedly believe these initiatives not only benefit society generally, but also our organization as a whole as it is embraced by all our stakeholders.” “We are also proud to report that for the sixth consecutive year, KBZ has again been recognised as the highest tax payer in the country. Furthermore KBZ was again deemed to be one of the top ten transparent organisations in the country by the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business for the forth successive year.” “We look forward to another successful year in 2018-2019 in collaboration with all our stakeholders.” U Nyo Myint Managing Director 55 Introduction In May 2015, KBZ Group became a signatory of the UN Global Compact. KBZ remains dedicated to its adherence to each and all of the Global Compact core principles. KBZ is fully committed to meeting its obligations towards the requirements of the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Similarly it continues to follow the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core conventions and the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance standards. 66 KBZ has implemented social safeguards to ensure all employees and other stakeholders work in a secure environment and that it treats them with respect and dignity. There is significant diversity within the KBZ workforce, which we believe contributes enormously to our Group’s success. Our core values as an organisation determine the way in which we behave. With that principle in mind, we have implemented a Code of Conduct across the supply chain throughout our Group to which we expect all our staff, suppliers and contractors to comply to. Our Code of Conduct: http://www.kbzgroup.com.mm/sites/default/files/kbz_coc_eng.pdf Accountability for the implementation of this Code of Conduct and the more detailed stand-alone policies outlined below is designated to KBZ Managers at all levels in all our companies. It is their responsibility to communicate the importance of the Code and policies to all staff, suppliers, contractors or other engaged parties/stakeholders to ensure the standards expected by KBZ are universally met. This ongoing process includes regular training and follow up support/engagement. Quarterly reports on issues are sent to the central Group team and promptly responded to after due consideration according to the nature of the situation. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Each of our companies is responsible for developing their own KPIs and reporting on results and oucomes. Our KPIs are established and implemented according to a four stage process: 1. Formulation of Strategies (Mission, Values, Goals, Objectives, Incentives, Mapping) 2. Planning (Budgets, Forecasts, Models, Initiatives, Targets) 3. Monitoring/Analysis (Performance Analysis and Reporting) 4. Review/Adjustment (Interpret/Assess success, Change as necessary and Reformulation as required) We review KPIs annually at Group level at our Annual General Meetings. Our subsidiary companies are required to do the same. Examples of Group wide KPIs are included below. Group KPIs • To increase our total annual spending on philanthropic and CSR projects by 15% by the end of 2019 • To provide external or internal training to a minimum of 35% of our employees on an annual basis to improve the performance of KBZ Group • To be recognised by media, industry adjudicators and other independent assessing organisations as the business leaders in Myanmar for our societal footprint. • To achieve a 10% net profit growth across the Group by the end of 2019 • To expand the physical presence of our business activities nationally, regionally and further afield by a minimum of 20% before the end of 2020 • To attain UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COPs) Advanced status by 2020 7 • To retain at least 90% of our staff annually across the Group while recruiting new staff with the necessary skill sets to help us grow • To ensure there is adequate disability access in all our working spaces and public areas before the end of 2021 • To strengthen our culture as an equal opportunities employer through our staff training processes through our comprehensive managerial training programmes by end of year 2019 BOD Training 8 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere. As an employer of more than 80,000 staff across a wide variety of sectors, KBZ is making a significant contribution to the Myanmar economy and the wellbeing of its employees who are all paid in accordance with or in significant excess of the minimum wage requirements. 99 The Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation (BFM) is an award winning philanthropic foundation founded by KBZ eleven years ago. The mission of the foundation is to uplift the lives of the under-privileged and impoverished at the grass roots level. Its goal is to help alleviate poverty in Myanmar in the long term. Since its inception, BFM has contributed more than Kyats 138 billion towards philanthropic causes (in excess of US$10 million). Migrant workers account for approximately 10% of the Myanmar population and predominantly stem from minority ethnic groups. They are often exploited and abused because of a lack of proper travel documentation and thus legal protection. Many live in poor conditions, surviving on minimal wages or on charity in refugee camps. KBZ has and continues to work to support and help repatriate such individuals and families to restore them to a dignified life in their homeland. Repatriates Students on departure As part of our youth development and enhanceStudents are provided with mentoring by the ment programme, KBZ has partnered with an Head of KBZ CSR Department. 16 students from ASEAN Foundation based in Jarkarta, Indonesia, the Institute of Medicine I, University of Yangon, to support Myanmar University students to the Yangon Technological University, Northern attend Model ASEAN meetings every year since Yangon University, Thanlyin University, Dagon 2016. KBZ has provided support through financial University and Taunggyi University have attendcontributions for their travel costs and ed Model ASEAN Meetings in both Laos and the other expenses. Philippines. 10 SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. KBZ has some agricultural interests and continues to ensure these are maintained to international standards of compliance. In conjunction with this work, BFM has provided fresh drinking water through tube wells as well as irrigation to support healthy living in rural areas. KBZ Bank has also supported the improvement of standards of living for women agricultural producers in the central part of Myanmar by providing access to finance, partnering with Action Aid Myanmar. During the first year pilot phase in 2017, KBZ invested in the region of Kyats 100 million (approximately US$75,000) to 120 women farmers and traders in Pakokku, Magway region. Female farmers from five villages within Pakokku township are now eligible to obtain financial access (loans) from KBZ Bank. The aim is to promote sustainable income through improved access to capital and alternative livelihoods with a focus on women’s empowerment. The crops harvested include chillies and peanuts. The project is key to KBZ Bank’s corporate shared value and impact investment agenda. Action Aid and KBZ Bank also provide financial literacy and book-keeping training to the Women Agro Producers Network, and assist access to markets for borrowers through KBZ Bank’s local and national networks. Agro-women’s empowerment 11 Both parties will look at lessons learnt from the first phase of the project to best assess how to take the next steps. On the back of our analysis we will formulate plans to provide further access to finance for small-scale farmers more broadly within the country. KBZ’s emergency disaster relief has impacted on broad tracts of Myanmar’s affected regions and has reinvigorated livelihoods and sustainable agriculture. To date, the KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation (BFM) has donated more than US$7.2 million to support communities seriously affected by the flooding in multiple states and divisions across Myanmar. BFM has spearheaded the flood relief and recovery operations in collaboration with volunteers from KBZ Bank branches countrywide. On the ground, KBZ Directors and Co-Founders of BFM, Daw Nang Lang Kham and Daw Nang Kham Noung personally worked side by side with other KBZ volunteers, local NGOs and INGOs to deliver relief aid and urgent medical care. Flood relief volunteers Rebuilt accommodation for flood victims 12 Help centres were set up in Yangon, Mandalay and Magwe to handle donations and coordinate distribution to all the affected areas. Aid deliveries were made on a daily basis. They were delivered to stricken areas by various means including a chartered MAI Airbus A320 and Air KBZ ATR 72-600s, which are owned and operated by KBZ Group of Companies. KBZ Bank also paid for MI 17 helicopters, Y8 trucks, cargo ships, boats, and twenty-twowheeler trucks. To scale up relief operations in hard-to-reach areas, BFM contributed monetary support ranging from Kyats 10 million (approximately US$850) to Kyats 300 million (approximately US$25,500) to NGOs and INGOs on the ground depending on their size and capacity. As the flooding continued, it spread to Rakhine State, the Regions of Sagaing, Pegu, Ayeyarwady and ultimately upper Myanmar and the hilly regions of Chin State causing landslides. To assist the process of recovery and the rebuilding of communities, BFM focused its efforts on two of the worst affected areas of flooding, Kalayin in Sagaing Division and Hakhain in Chin State. SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. KBZ ensures that all its staff work reasonable daily hours according to legal requirements and have the right to periodic rest and leisure breaks with paid holidays according to or beyond national requirements. KBZ has a policy of equal pay for equal employment as well as respect for the right for free choice of employment in accordance with Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). KBZ has a strict policy to negate under age employment. In Myanmar where identity documentation is not always reliable, we do our utmost to ensure we are completely compliant with and fully supportive of the eradication of child labour throughout our businesses and wider initiatives in the country in general. SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. We implement regular training courses across the Group to ensure all our staff are both prepared for the work they are carrying out and to support them to strengthen their skills in preparation for moving on to a higher level. For this purpose we use internal trainers, external trainers and consultants to provide the necessary range of knowledge and expertise. We have Bank training centres in Yangon and Mandalay providing residential training for all our staff from across the country. 13 SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. In addition to KBZ’s work to support women in agriculture, KBZ also supports women living in rural areas of Myanmar who are producing traditional crafts that are sold in local markets. Through the provision of microfinance loans and vocational trainings, they are able to expand their business, generate additional income and develop the necessary skills to become self-sufficient. The majority of the members of KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation’s microfinance program in Hlegu and Tike Kyi are broom producers whose livelihoods utilise local resources available in their villages. BFM is proud to support these women entrepreneurs in redesigning and repackaging their traditional Myanmar brooms in conjunction with the livelihood development programme of Action Aid at Mboutik in Nyaung Oo. This improves the quality of the finished product leading to a better return on sales. Traditional brooms with a difference 14 Women’s Week Opening Forum To mark the launch of the first ever Women’s Week Myanmar from the 6th-12th March 2017, KBZ and the Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement hosted the Women’s Empowerment Forum in Naypyitaw a platform to share best practices for Women’s Empowerment strategies in the workplace and in communities. The aim was to inform, discuss and strategise the best approaches to deliver the fifth goal of the UN Sustainable Development GoalsGender Equality. The Ministry of Social Welfare, Relief and Resettlement is leading the campaign towards Gender Equality in Myanmar, in alignment with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), the international treaty signed by the Myanmar Government in 1977. With their support, the forum attracted over 200 key business leaders from across Myanmar to attend the forum to help us create a unified pledge against gender discrimination. Representatives of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Union of Myanmar Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry (UMFCCI), the Myanmar National Committee for Women’s Affairs (MNCWA), the Gender Equality Network (GEN), UN Women and Action Aid participants, along with model ASEAN students and social enterprises such as Yangon Bakehouse and Akhaya Women participated in the forum as technical partners. The forum was the first occasion at which we handed out our KBZ safety alarms, which have both a manual whistle and alarm siren. Carrying these devices, women can feel an increased sense of confidence and reassurance when feeling under threat in public places. 15 SDG 6: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Drilling for a commodity more A KBZ water bowser precious than gold KBZ makes significant contributions through its BFM Foundation to provide sanitary water supplies to staff and local communities in the vicinity of its areas of operation and further afield. All of our staff have free access to sanitary drinking water in the workplace. Canteens are managed under hygienic conditions. Our Water Supply Project is a heartfelt personal mission of U Aung Ko Win, Chairman of the KBZ Group and the Honorary Chairman of the KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation. One of KBZ’s primary goals is to help improve the living standards and eradicate poverty in Myanmar’s underdeveloped areas. KBZ has invested Kyats 8 billion (approximately US$ 6 million) to support this Water Supply Initiative and is spearheading the Project in Southern Shan State. During the summers of 2013-2014, residents in the regions of the Southern Shan State suffered from severe drought. They were entirely relying on rainwater or water from ponds as far as a two hour walk from their homes for both domestic and agricultural use. The drought was a huge threat to the livelihoods of this crop-producing state and to the nation. The agricultural sector in Myanmar accounts for 60 per cent of the country’s GDP. The majority of the crops such as onions, pulses, tea leaves, fruits and other vegetables for both domestic consumption and 16 export originate from the Southern Shan State. Before the launch of the water project in March 2014, KBZ through BFM donated 5,000 gallons of drinking water every day to the drought-affected areas. Despite our effort, each household received only five gallons of water a day. These shortages ignited a strong desire in the hearts of the KBZ family to commence the ‘Water Project’ in the hope of making water accessible and sustainable for everyone for generations to come. The Water Project is operating throughout the country via three methods: drilling tube wells reconstructing lakes distributing water by water bowsers in remote areas Despite problematic geophysical conditions, the Water Supply Project is now successfully operating in the neighbourhoods of Kalaw, Bawsine, Heho, Pindaya, Taungyi, Hopone and Nansan City through BFM water distribution and management systems such as water pumps, water taps, water tanks and tube wells. Clean drinking water is now easily and widely available at schools, hospitals, monasteries, and communal bathing areas and in front of numerous houses. The Water Project is on-going and will continue until there is no shortage of potable water, water fit for sanitation purposes and water for agricultural use. 17 In addition to 6 drilling machines borrowed from the Water Resources Utilisation Department (WRUD), KBZ Bank purchased a new drilling machine from the UK in an effort to achieve even more positive outcomes. Drilling tube wells in Shan State is extremely challenging as water sources are hidden under layers of impenetrable lines of rocks, limestone, silt, clay, minerals and caves. Finding sources depends on the use of expertise and high quality equipment. Drilling machinery imported from the UK 18 In order to optimise the water distribution project and to alleviate the overdue need for water in Nyaung Oo District and Mandalay Division, BFM has made reparations to the Ma Gyee Shwe Guu Lake. Following completion, the lake is now able to store 14 million gallons of water and supply water to 5 villages nearby. BFM has previously repaired 5 other lakes and 2 dams in total. The drought season came early to Myanmar in 2016. Prompted by the high demands for water in Central Myanmar, KBZ Group via BFM distributed drinking water via 43 brand new water bowsers throughout the affected areas. Each water bowser has the capacity to carry up to 3000 gallons of water, sufficient to supply approximately 300 households. KBZ Group staff monitor the logistics and distribution plans for the bowsers in their respective project areas. KBZ’s CSR initiatives are formulated with achievable objectives in mind to support communities and other stakeholders on a long-term basis. Village water supplies 19 20 KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation received the Euromoney Achievement Award for CSR in 2015 for its life-changing Water Project and its broader commitments. Daw Nang Lang Kham at the awards ceremony 21 Daw Nang Lang Kham receiving her award from President U Thein Sein SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. As the Nation’s leading tax payer for the sixth year running, KBZ contributes significantly towards the Government to support implementation of state supported health & welfare, education and other projects such as access to energy. In 2015, KBZ teamed together with the World Bank to implement a solar energy project. The collaboration has supported participating energy companies installing solar panels. The World Bank has guaranteed 50% matching funds while KBZ provides credit for the remaining 50%. This forms part of the National Electrification Process. Effectively this affords companies the opportunity to carry out implementation of solar power systems at half price with extremely favourable credit conditions. The project is currently scheduled to run until 2021. Through KBZ’s extensive employment and fair remuneration packages, its staff and extended family continue to benefit from access to affordable, reliable and modern energy in the Myanmar context. KBZ Group has made sustainability and equality its two most important missions in its drive to improve and support the development of the country, its communities and its own companies along with other institutions focused on supporting the betterment of the nation. 22 Chairman U Aung Ko Win in collaboration with the World Bank IMPLEMENTATION Our training is not restricted to our own staff, but extends to our stakeholders. An example is KBZ’s Women’s Empowerment project which has included financial literacy, computer training, leadership skills and basic healthcare knowledge. At this year’s annual KBZ Leadership Summit, KBZ’s Chairpersons focused on our Visions and Missions. Our ambition was to seek avenues whereby we could improve the quality of life for people in Myanmar through our banking services and other areas of activity. We also made a roadmap to outline our ambitions under the direction of our bank’s new CEO, Mike DeNoma. The participants at the summit all pledged their commitment to our values with their signatures, and engaged in activities that embody each of our corporate values. BFM’s social initiative projects primarily focus on five important sectors; Disaster Relief and Recovery, Women’s Empowerment and Health, the Environment, Youth Development and Education and Community Engagement. BFM has donated in excess of Kyats 3 billion towards the Myanmar peace process (more than 2.2 million USD) over the last 18 months via the National Reconciliation and Peace fund. KBZ believes a peaceful and prosperous Myanmar is beneficial for our people, the country’s stability and the strengthening of its economic environment. 23 BFM has worked together with the Ministry of Health & Sports and Smile Asia to support treatment for patients to receive evaluation for cleft palettes at the Yangon General Hospital and in Taunggyi in Shan State. As a local partner, KBZ Group volunteers committed a significant amount of time to provide expertise in logistics, administration, customs clearance, management & recruitment to ensure the success of the ongoing project. Cleft palette patients The number of KBZ disabled employees has more than doubled over the past 12 months and the necessary facilities to support both staff and customers in our work and public areas has been methodically implemented. Our Human Rights Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/60.html 24 Our HSE Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/70.html Our Land Acquisition Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/69.html Our CSR Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/99.html When undertaking any new projects, KBZ is committed to carrying out Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) to ensure land acquisition, environmental considerations and social impacts are in accordance with local law and international standards, while taking in to consideration the interests of all stakeholders. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Since KBZ partnered with Smile Asia in 2016 in Shan State it has collaboratively provided free cleft lip and palette operations to 362 children and held two missions in both Yangon and Taunggyi. Our next mission will be our fifth in the central part of Myanmar. For these children, this is a place where they can discover their smiles and their quality of life and emotional confidence is markedly improved. We are grateful to the Ministry of Health and Sports, Regional Governments, the Yangon General Hospital and the Taungyi Women’s and Children’s Hospital working for working together with us as a team to transform young people’s lives. Over the last two years, in partnership with the International Organization for Migration (IOM), KBZ has led several rescue missions for more than half a thousand Myanmar fishermen who were enslaved in Indonesia. It has also helped to repatriate more than 3,000 migrant workers from Malaysia and hundreds of fishery workers from India who were in desperate need to return home due to ill-treatment or for family reasons. They were provided with free Myanmar Airways International flights chartered by KBZ Bank. KBZ has successfully built almost 200 wells and safe water facilities across the country. This has a dramatic impact on an estimated quarter of a million people in Myanmar with hugely positive health implications. Repeatedly recognised as the biggest tax payer in Myanmar, KBZ makes an enormous contribution to support those in need in one of the poorest countries in the region. Staff retention and recruitment at KBZ is emblematic of its reputation as an employer of choice and an organisation for whom its staff is proud to represent. KBZ Bank has opened new one-stop services centre to help small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to secure better access to finance. The One-Stop SME Banking Centres (OSBC) offers a range of services to meet the needs of growing businesses, such as enhancing access to finance and improving financial literacy. 25 By launching the centres, Myanmar’s largest private bank seeks to facilitate the expansion of enterprises in multiple sectors and regions throughout the country. The centres will operate as information hubs as well, with a team of banking professionals who are well-placed to advise SMEs on managing their growth plans, cash-flow projection, financing issues and other challenges. A beautiful smile 26 LABOUR RIGHTS ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Dynamic business models and sage leadership has led KBZ to being a leading Myanmar conglomerate, voluntarily choosing to meet the highest international business standards. Although the process is challenging across such a large organization in a developing country, the implementation has moved with impressive speed. All senior management is committed and signed up to Group Policies and have cascaded these principles across their specific areas of influence. 27 27 Included in our Code of Conduct and Stand-alone policies we state our commitment to collective bargaining and freedom of association. KBZ is an equal opportunities employer, regardless of gender, age, disability, religion, sexuality, nationality, ethnicity or any other distinguishing factors. It does not tolerate discrimination of any nature. No form of harassment is tolerated either within or outside the workplace. This applies to our processes of hiring staff, evaluation of staff performance, promotions, training & development, disciplinary processes, compensation and termination of contracts. We strive to ensure any of these issues are dealt with in a professional way in a spirit of mutual respect and trust. We abhor any form of forced, compulsory, bonded or child labour in our country or elsewhere and will work to support ways to eliminate such practices. We will alert HR to any of these cases and actively look for ways to support families and individuals that find themselves in vulnerable situations within our Group. We work together with a range of local, national and international organizations to provide input and take advice. SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. KBZ Bank has introduced IT innovations in the banking sector including mobile banking, e-commerce and online banking through KBZ Gateway. It has also established the broadest network of ATMs and branches across the country. KBZ Bank branches now exceed 500 across all Myanmar States and Regions. KBZ has partnered with Visa, MasterCard, Union Pay International and JCV to facilitate international payments. KBZ Gateway has worked in conjunction with Asia Satellite Communications (AsiaSat) and satellite service provider Hughes Network Systems to provide people and businesses with telecoms and internet connectivity stretching even to the more remote parts of the country. Access to such life-changing services has brought significant development in urban, but more particularly in rural areas. KBZ staff are made aware of both its rights and obligations in the workplace through induction training programs and subsequent training or provision of updates through various means including email and website as well as workplace notices and management engagement. These make clear appropriate avenues to express concerns through our Grievance and Whistleblowing mechanisms, which are multi-fold according to the nature of the concern. These are outlined in the relevant policies. The first port of call is generally through a line Manager. However our Group Human Resources Department is also on hand to give support in providing advice and guidance regarding career issues. Every member of staff has an annual review to assess performance and to consider training requirements to support career development in line with their particular strengths and each individual’s potential directions of progression. We have an active inclusion process to support people with disabilities and have ensured facilities are in place wherever practicable to support their requirements. KBZ has been recognised by the Government for its activities in this respect. KBZ prides itself on inclusion and equal opportunities. 28 KBZ is committed to inclusivity Through our banking services and extensive branch outreach, we offer banking services including personal service, cashpoints, insurance and mortgages. As the largest bank in the country, we provide a vital stability that supports sustainable development and growth in the country as well as giving confidence to investors. Our investment into the airline sector has provided connectivity to both nationals and foreign visitors through our multiple routes internally and internationally. Our two airlines our proud to have achieved international accreditation and look forward to continuing to care for our customers. 29 SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries. As one of the poorest countries in South East Asia, we endeavor to primarily raise standards at home in order to restore our country’s parity with our neighbours. However our longer term perspective continues to be that we should be more significant in our regional activities and thereafter expand outside Asia. As a Group that respects and supports international laws and regulations as well as any legislation and accepted norms within any country within which we have a presence we strive to be a responsible global entity. IMPLEMENTATION Future entrepreneurs Aside from our policies and training courses to help the development of Myanmar in its efforts to match regional and international standards, we are supporting a broad range of social initiatives to enhance livelihoods and education. We stand in support of MCRB’s Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) initiative to ensure the operations of KBZ have no negative impact on stakeholder’s human rights. According to the Singapore Management University Business Families Institute, 82% of family owned businesses surveyed indicated that non-family advisors are valuable in developing and mentoring their next generation for critical roles in the future growth of the business. While we remain predominantly a family owned Group, we embrace this concept and have engaged the best quality international and national advisors to support us in our decision making as we move forward. 30 We are also looking to nurture new talent in Myanmar which inspired us to sponsor the KBZ Myanmar Entrepreneur of the Year Awards 2017. This award is for outstanding individuals who demonstrate passion, dedication and excellence in their business endeavours and an awareness of the needs and importance of their customers and stakeholders. KBZ Brighter Future Myanmar Foundation has taken pride in sending outstanding matriculation students to Japan on exchange visits on an annual basis in collaboration with the Myanmar-Japan Association. The aim for the exchange programme is to promote relations between the two countries, while at the same time rewarding the outstanding Myanmar matriculation students. In partnership with the ASEAN Foundation, KBZ also sends eight students from universities from all over Myanmar to attend Model ASEAN meetings. KBZ has sent two cohorts of students to Vietnam and the Philippines in 2016 and 2018. In gratitude, these students have all voluntarily given their time to work with various KBZ led community engagement projects. Earlier this year, a community talk was orchestrated for Myanmar domestic helpers in Singapore. It was organised by the Humanitarian Organisation for Migration Economics (HOME) and Helping Hands, an organisation that provides aid to Myanmar domestic helpers. With KBZ/BFM’s sponsorship, the event was attended by more than 100 domestic workers with a focus on rights and health. For reference visit: www.bfi.smu.edu.sg KBZ Group has undergone a period of significant change and transformation over the last year. We have reviewed our corporate structures to identify areas in need of strengthening and instigated systems to facilitate the development of our burgeoning companies. We have also transformed and re-engineered our business processes. We very much understand that political changes, economic changes and foreign policies necessitate that we need to adapt accordingly in a changing environment. We are identifying and developing our next generation of leaders and trusted advisors to support our passage to ever stronger business practices. KBZ strongly values the support of its stakeholders through which it retains and strengthens its social license to operate. Stakeholder mapping has identified that the following constituents represent the primary constituents for KBZ: • Staff • Customers • Local Communities • Government (National, Local & Foreign) • Environment • Suppliers/Contractors/Consultants • Shareholders • Regulators • Partners • Ethnic/Opposition Leaders • Lobby Groups • International institutions • Civil Society Groups 31 KBZ prefers not to rank or position stakeholders in a positional matrix format as we believe all our stakeholders deserve equal consideration in accordance with their particular nature of engagement with our organisation. This approach sits in line with our alignment towards equal opportunities and engagement with broader society beyond purely business interest. Our Grievance Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/58.html Our Employment Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/59.html Our Equality and Diversity Policy www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/81.html Our Social Media Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/61 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • To retain at least 90% of our staff annually across the Group while recruiting new staff with the necessary skill sets to help us grow • To ensure there is adequate disability access in all our working spaces and public areas before the end of 2021 • To strengthen our culture as an equal opportunities employer through our staff training processes through our comprehensive managerial training programmes by end of year 2019 Approximately 60% of our staff at KBZ Bank are women and they occupy a significant share of senior management positions. We also retain a majority of women staff in our airlines and substantial proportion in our other subsidiaries. BFM sponsored a total of 40 students on scholarships to Japan over the previous two academic years. KBZ currently has a number staff employed with declared disabilities and provides facilities throughout its banks for disabled access. It also provides braille pamphlets and documents for staff or customers with impaired vision. We are continuing to strengthen our efforts across the Group to embed inclusion through training and implement required facilities. KBZ has erected prominent signboards across its banks and other organisations in both public areas and staff communal areas outlining Grievance and Whistle-blowing Polices to encourage feedback to help KBZ improve its management and operational activities. Within KBZ we have undertaken a range of internal audits to ensure our practices are in line with international standards. Results of these help us to improve performance with the support of international consultants. Child labour in mining is an area that has been carefully monitored and almost 50 cases have been identified and managed over the past two years. In these cases, suitable support was provided for the 32 child and the family to subsidise the loss of income and thereby enabling a return to school. All miners are obligated to wear hard hats and protective boots in their everyday operations. Our airlines continue to be internationally accredited with the necessary requirements for disability access as well as any pre-flight and on-board support that passengers may require when travelling with us. This includes accommodating the company of guide dogs and providing wheelchair access. Our commitment is to treat all of our passengers with care, dignity and respect. Our current international consultants are sourced from across the globe and include experts in, Compliance, Mining, CSR/Philanthropy, Banking & Finance, Legal affairs, Airlines, PR and IT. This forms part of our dedication to improve our operations as well as part of our risk management process. Outside expertise can help to ensure KBZ strengthens is skillsets and professionalism taking us forward to meet the standards to which we strive. Our training courses and processes have helped to cascade an understanding of our policies across the KBZ Group. A large majority of our 80,000+ staff have already signed up and we will again continue to further pursue implementation over the coming 12 months. KBZ has provided microfinance loans, financial literacy, computer training, leadership skills and basic healthcare knowledge to more than 25,000 women across the country. KBZ has sponsored scholarships for 500+ students who have since graduated from university with degrees ranging rom a Bachelor Degree to Ph.D. level in Nursing, Economics, Nautical Engineering, IT, Technology, Education, Medicine, Science and Fine Arts. Every Summer, volunteers from BFM visits regional schools to donate school accessories and motivate the students. This is a rewarding experience and team strengthening activity bringing hope and inspiration to less developed parts of Myanmar. Dozens of schools have been supported over a number of years. Microfinance training 33 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. A key element of our approach to environmental issues is stakeholder engagement. We consider this to be a vital part of our Environmental Management. This necessitates implementation of due diligence processes in consideration of potential new projects with support of the necessary internal or external expertise. This includes carrying out ESIAs on new projects of a significant scale. 3434 SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Our Procurement Policy reflects our commitment to ensure all our sourced materials are in line with our environmental and ethical standards. Our Environmental Policy reinforces the concept of sustainable business practice within our Group, which in combination with our auditing processes and our work alongside organisations such as MCRB help to us ensure we meet the levels to which we aspire. SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Our Airline MAI is still unique in Myanmar as the only airline to be IATA compliant and is working towards achieving a zero carbon footprint. KBZ’s primarily office based industries such as the bank have policies implemented and adhered to for recycling paper, for not printing documents unless necessary and to minimise use of electricity as far as is practicable. For many of our employees we provide shuttle bus services to and from work both for their benefit and for the associated environmental benefits. Our vehicles are regularly serviced with a low carbon footprint, especially in comparison to local transport facilities. It is also more convenient and environmentally protective than staff driving their own cars to work. SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. This is not a sphere of business in which KBZ is directly active, having no fisheries or marine interests. However KBZ has provided extensive support to disaster affected areas in the Delta region of Myanmar in the aftermath of devastating floods and storms in recent years. SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Our agricultural operations are managed in accordance with our environment policy respecting the local communities in the areas in which we are active. We support these communities with our water supply efforts and school provisions. We ensure all agricultural activities are carried out responsibly and do not have negative impacts on the environment. We ensure all our agricultural land is unencumbered with any relocation issues or ‘land grabs’. We regularly monitor the social impact of our operations. 35 IMPLEMENTATION In our mining operations, we have taken precautions to ensure our activities protect both our mine workers and local communities. We have recently engaged external auditors to help ensure we meet the relevant international standards of compliance to which we aspire and implement any new measures accordingly. A recent Landfill fire in Hlaingtharyar Township, Yangon’s largest rubbish dump of approximately 300 acres caused major air pollution problems in several townships on the city’s outskirts. Firefighters were working around the clock to extinguish the blaze. The Yangon Regional Government and Yangon City Development Committee (YCDC) made arrangements to obtain bio-foam to put the fire under control and to control the smoke from the fire. Our Foundation – Brighter Future Myanmar – and associated companies donated Kyats 340 Million (more than US$250,000) to the Yangon Regional Government and YCDC to support their efforts. We believe such actions are one of our fundamental civic duties to not only support our communities, but also to highlight the importance of reducing non-biodegradable waste. 36 Firefighters working in challenging conditions Our environment policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/68.html Our Sustainability Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/84.html MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our operations have successfully reduced their carbon footprints by approximately 5% over the last 12 months and our airlines are making steady progress towards the goal of having a zero carbon footprint. The Group consistently carries out ESIAs on all new projects of significant scale. All KBZ suppliers are required to sign up to our relevant policies as part of our working collaboration. Tens of thousands of people in Yangon’s outskirts have been relieved of toxic emissions emanating from the rubbish dump fire in Hlaingtharyar. 37 ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT OF POLICY, GOALS SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. We have a policy of zero tolerance towards any forms of corruption, bribery or collusion therewith or any failure to report cases thereof. In the case of gifts or entertainment we have a strict threshold as outlined in our anti-corruption policy. 38 This policy applies to all staff regardless of seniority and also includes our contractual agreements with suppliers and other contractors, consultants, etc. Our reporting mechanisms are included in both the Code of Conduct and our Grievance and Whistle-blowing policies. Appropriate channels, according to the nature of the situation or case are clearly outlined there within. KBZ will rigorously examine cases whenever they are raised or identified under the terms within these policies. KBZ Group is committed to being a leader in exemplary business practice by demonstrating internal accountability values and matching or exceeding highest international ethical standards. BFM has carried out significant development work in regions across the country in areas of conflict and poverty or affected by natural disaster in association with local organisations to enhance sustainable development. SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. KBZ Group is dedicated to engagement with local, regional and international think-tanks and other influential institutions to improve its own performance as a corporate citizen and build itself as a leader of sustainable development both in Myanmar and internationally. IMPLEMENTATION KBZ’s policies have been implemented with considerable vigilance to ensure the Group retains its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. This is considered extremely important for the Group as a whole. We have continued to rigorously ensure these standards have been maintained and have acted accordingly should they have been breached. We train and expect employees at all levels to understand and respect our policies as an obligation of their terms of work. Our Anti-corruption Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/57.html Our legal and Compliance Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/62.html Our Whistle-blowing Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/63.html Our Procurement Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/64.html Our Risk Management Policy: www.kbzgroup.com.mm/node/83.html 39 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES KBZ ranked No 1 in the terms of transparency in the 2014 Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business’ Pwint Thit Sa Report. It has retained a ranking within the top ten companies ever since. Civic mindedness is a value that is included in Metta, the employee-elected principle that guides KBZ's policies. It means we are aware of our responsibility to serve as an example of a committed corporate citizen, and that includes paying the taxes due to the government for the development of our country. This year we received a Presidential Award for paying the highest tax in Myanmar for the sixth consecutive year. KBZ was accorded with the honour of being the Financial Times Bank of the Year in Myanmar 2017 for the 5th consecutive year. ANALYSIS & STRATEGY FOR MAY 2018 MAY 2019 • To achieve a 10% net profit growth across the Group by the end of 2019 • To expand the physical presence of our business activities nationally, regionally and further afield by a minimum of 20% before the end of 2020 • To attain UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COPs) Advanced status by 2020 We have carried out further training over the last year initially through Board Members, Managing Directors and line Managers across our subsidiaries to cascade knowledge throughout our organisation. This process has been supported by external consultants and with the help and guidance of the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. We will continue to evaluate and implement the most effective mechanisms to improve our performance as an Group. Almost all of our staff has now signed up to our Code of Conduct and other policies firmly reflects our Vision and Mission for business operations to be sustainable and responsible in our practices. This is now firmly ingrained within our organisational DNA. Over the next 12 months, we will also continue to strengthen our reporting processes to further reflect on our Group transparency. We will continue to engage with organisations with an interesting our operations such as the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business and Global Witness, the Government and all our other Stakeholders to help guide and improve our business decisions. BFM has been established for more than ten years now and has donated significantly more than US$100 million for the benefit of Myanmar society. Business Integration of KBZ’s CSR and philanthropic activities are deemed as a fundamental part of organisation’s philosophy. We believe that our commitments as leading corporate citizens not only benefits ourselves, but all of our stakeholders for the betterment of all concerned. It not only helps the communities in which we work, the reputation of our businesses, the morale of our staff, but also the welfare of Myanmar as a whole. We see it as an important booster to perform as well as a driver to ensure our brand is well perceived as a champion of responsible business. Incorporating these measures are a key to our long term sustainability and the contributions we can make to our society. 40 OUR GROUP STRUCTURE The beneficial owners of the KBZ Group are as follows: 1. Aung Ko Win, Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 2. Nan Than Htwe, Deputy Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 3. Nang Lang Kham, Director, KBZ Bank 4. Nang Kham Noung (Marlene), Director, KBZ Bank 5. Nang Mo Hom, medical student Each of the above holds an equal stake (20%) in the KBZ Group of Companies. KBZ Group Board of Directors The KBZ Board consists of 7 members from across the Group. 1. Aung Ko Win, Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 2. Nan Than Htwe, Deputy Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 3. Nang Lang Kham, Director, KBZ Bank 4. Nang Kham Noung (Marlene), Director, KBZ Bank 5. Nang Mo Hom, Medical student 6. U Nyo Myint, Senior Managing Director 7. U Moe Sann Aung, Managing Director The Group BOD has meetings quarterly according to operational needs. It is regularly attended by all BOD members, unless in exceptional circumstances. When unable to attend, a well briefed representative attends on a Directors behalf in absentia.. Directors receive orientation and training programmes in accordance with the requirements of their roles by peers or external consultants. These may run in concordance with AGMs, or on an individual basis as appropriate. It is important that all Directors appreciate our Values and Vision so they can contribute positively to our Mission and Goals. The Board policy is focused on multiple strands to ensure the long term success and sustainable growth of subsidiary KBZ companies through: • Managing and monitoring adherence to KBZ’s values and Codes of Conduct across the group • Ensuring the health and safety of staff • Empowering staff through a conducive environment to meet their full potential • Mapping and consulting with all stakeholders in decision making processes in consideration of impacts • Identifying solutions to reduce environmental impact • Assessing the progress of each KBZ company to identify where performance levels are and to identify areas for advancement • Policy reviews • Strategic planning 41 The composition of the Group’s Board of Director’s is reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the composition fully represents the diversity of the whole group. Nominating Committee The Group nominating committee meets annually or more regularly if required. In conjunction with the subsidiary companies, it agrees the make up of the numerous BOD's across the Group. 1. Aung Ko Win, Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 2. Nan Than Htwe, Deputy Chairman, KBZ Group of Companies 3. Nang Lang Kham, Director, KBZ Bank 4. Nang Kham Noung (Marlene), Director, KBZ Bank 5. Nang Mo Hom, Medical student Group Companies Boards of Directors All KBZ companies have a separate Board of Directors that consist of 6 to 10 members. The composition of the Boards varies according to each organisation. KBZ aims to ensure there is always a balance of members that include company Senior Executives, external independent industry experts and other stakeholders to provide a balanced and sustainable approach to responsible, profitable growth and the enhancement of livelihoods and communities in which we operate. Management Committees Each KBZ company has its own Management Committee that reports to the Group’s BOD on a quarterly basis. The committees are made up of Executive Officers with oversight from their respective subsidiaries’ BOD’s. Audit Committee Each KBZ company has an audit committee. They consist of KBZ staff, external consultants and non-Executive members with sectorial expertise. They meet quarterly or more regularly according to needs within the Group. As a Group, we conduct both internal and external audits to ensure we are meeting the standards of best international practice. Remuneration/Compensation Committees Under the guidance of KBZ Group, subsidiary companies implement equal and fair remuneration and compensation to all staff, contractors, suppliers and other parties according to Group standards and in accordance with or in excess of legal requirements. Committees meet on a quarterly basis and include a majority of non-Executive Directors. Our Group website : www.kbzgroup.com.mm 42
