Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 2 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN 3 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 25 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 4 Environmental Impact 26 Solar Energy 27 INDEVCO Overview 5 Raw Materials 28 Strategy & Analysis 14 Circular Economy & Waste 29 Ethics & Integrity 15 Governance 17 Social Impact 33 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Occupational Health & Safety 34 Reporting Practice 21 Employee Diversity & Inclusion 35 Material Topics 23 Supporting Arab Womenʻs Wellbeing 36 Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East 39 Empowering Youth in Lebanon 42 GRI Content Index 45 APPENDIX A: Export Countries 47 APPENDIX B: Origin of Suppliers 47 APPENDIX C: INDEVCO Code of Conduct 48 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 3 14-102 A Message from Our Chairman We’re observing the global awareness that we’re At our first INDEVCO Sustainability Summit, our all together, embarked on one big ship, and we leadership formally defined important topics and must care for this ship for all of us to survive and engaged key stakeholders to rank our sustainability thrive. Our corporate philosophy, “What is good priorities. for the community is good for the company” We released our first GRI-referenced report for is more relevant than ever. Our personal and 2016 and communicated publicly about our public involvement will continue to take a global activities. Sharing information at this early People First approach. stage of reporting reflects our willingness to In 2017, reporting our sustainability initiatives stand accountable to our employees, customers, became a clear focus for us at INDEVCO. I’m shareholders and other stakeholders. very proud of the tangible progress we made We solidified our public commitment to universal in setting the system to define, measure, and sustainability principles by joining UN Global report our priorities. Throughout this process, Compact (UNGC) as a Signatory member. As Resources, Inc., our vertically integrated paper we became aware of the importance of officially CEO, I’ve pledged to incorporate the UNGC’s and corrugated manufacturing group in the USA, communicating progress to our stakeholders. 10 Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, to DS Smith PLC and DS Smith Holdings, Inc., environment and anti-corruption into our decision who took control in August 2017. The sale was a making and strategic planning. We’ll submit our strategic move whereby we became one of the first Communication on Progress in 2018 and are largest shareholders of DS Smith. In Saudi Arabia, Reporting our engaging with our local Global Compact Network Lebanon. In addition, we have aligned initiatives, after merging all companies under Napco National CJSC, we restructured in preparation for an initial sustainability for which we can show quantifiable impact, with UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). public offering. initiatives has become I’d like to thank our INDEVCO family members In fact, to more fully quantify our impacts, we’ve set worldwide, who steer us to the sustainable future our a clear focus for us. the target to automate data before 2020. This is the children deserve. We have much work to do, and I only path to true visibility that will allow us to set look forward to progressing on this path together. goals, targets, and timelines toward 2025. The greatest changes from last year happened with Neemat G. Frem our regional headquarters in the USA and Saudi INDEVCO Chairman & CEO Arabia. We sold an 80% equity stake of Interstate Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 4 GENERAL Disclosures In this GRI-referenced report, the numbers in the side margins represent GRI Standards disclosure numbers. All data included in this report is as of 31 December 2017. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 5 INDEVCO Overview 1-102 In 1956, our founder Georges N. Frem launched Over the decades, we expanded both vertically 3 a business that would grow from a communityand horizontally, moving from paper and 4 oriented philosophy to over 70 manufacturing corrugated manufacturing to plastics and jumbo 5 6 plants and commercial operations around the tissue manufacturing, raw materials for our highly 7 world. competitive consumer and away-from-home Over 60 years INDEVCO sal is a joint stock company (Société brands that rival top multinational brands in the of commitment Anonyme Libanaise) headquartered in Ajaltoun, Middle East region. We have further established to the communities in Lebanon with regional headquarters at Napco leading scrap collection and recycling services, as which we operate National CJSC in Dammam, Saudi Arabia and at we grow a circular economy in our core locations INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. in Doswell, Virginia, USA. of operations. Other sister companies supply these divisions with renewable energy solutions, 9,900+ employees converting machinery and parts, ink, furniture, and in over 70 operations advertising and media services. in 19 countries Global manufacturer Today, our 35+ plants in 8 countries export to customers in around 90 countries, including of consumer and manufacturers, distributors, retailers, wholesalers, Exporting to institutions, government ministries and ~ 90 countries away-from-home municipalities, and non-profit organizations. disposables, jumbo tissue Serving rolls, paper corrugated, 17 sectors and plastic raw materials and packaging Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 6 Target Sectors B2C B2B Away-From-Home Agriculture Beverage Building & Chemical & Construction Petrochemical Consumer Retail Dairy & Food Healthcare Household Care Ice Cream Hygiene Other Personal Care Plastics Converting Manufacturing Converting International HQ Regional HQ Distribution Hubs Manufacturing Locations Ajaltoun, Lebanon Dammam, Saudi Arabia England Egypt Lebanon Renewable Retail & Tissue Transportation Doswell, Virginia, USA USA Ghana Saudi Arabia Energy Wholesale Converting & Warehousing Export Countries Greece UAE See full list in Appendix A Iraq USA Learn More www.indevcogroup.com/raw-materials-packaging-products www.indevcogroup.com/consumer-afh-disposables-products Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 7 102-2 Products & Brands B2C Away-from-Home Disposables Consumer Packaged Goods Paramedical Adult Care Examination Disposables Hygiene Wear Baby Care Patient Supplies Sanitizers Family Care ® ® Professional Feminine Care Foodservice Disposables Household Care ® Janitorial Supplies ® Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 8 B2B Supporting Products & Services Corrugated & Folded Cartons Advertising & Media Folding Cartons Integrated Marketing & Communications Corrugated Sheets Customer Events Corrugated Containers Exhibition Management POP Displays & Shelf-Ready Packaging Content Strategy & Development Social & Digital Media Furniture Manufacturing & Prefab Installations Flexible Packaging Furniture Manufacturing Office, Kitchen & Wardrobe Manufacturing Plastic Raw Materials Prefabricated Home Installations Plastic Films & Packaging Paper Sheets & Packaging Machinery, Parts & Service Hygiene & Tissue Converting Machinery High-Precision CNC Parts Automation, Power Management & MEP Services Renewable Energy Solutions Lighting: LED & Solar Printing Power: Biomass & PV Solar Paper Making Waste: Management Sorting Lines, Flexographic & Rotogravure Inks Plants, Composting & WTE Solutions Virgin & Recycled Jumbo Tissue Rolls Printing Plates Water: Hydropanels, Solar Heaters, Virgin & Recycled Linerboard PV Pumping Systems Recycled Corrugated Medium Recycling Scrap Collection, Segregation & Washing Scrap Recycling Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 9 Operations & Employees 102-7 8 9,987 Employees* 76 Operations in *US-based Interstate Resources, Inc. employees involved in the majority acquisition by DS Smith PLC and DS Smith Holdings, Inc. are not included in this count. Variation from last year also exists, because INDEVCO HR teams are refining data automation for our Middle East 19 Countries operations. 38 38 Manufacturing Commercial Companies Facilities & Sales Offices Male Female As a privately-owned company, net sales are not publicly provided. 9,348 639 93.6% 6.4% Employees Countries Consumer & AFH 3,980 11 Disposables Full-Time Part-Time Corrugated & 9,866 121 Folded Cartons 1,760 6 Flexible Packaging 2,548 5 Permanent Temporary Paper Making 715 2 9,440 547 Recycling 117 2 Supporting 867 6 Products & Services Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 10 102-9 Supply Chain 102-11 Precautionary Approach Centralized Supply Chain INDEVCO Board of Directors monitors INDEVCO centralized Procurement and Logistics global risks as a critical part of our corporate at headquarters to streamline processes and begin strategy, overseeing risk management 8,740+ to systematize data within the supply chain. Our policies and procedures, as well as effects business units purchase machinery and spare parts, on our economic, environment, and social stewardship. Division senior executives, Suppliers raw materials, packaging, logistics and transport, warehousing, and travel services from global in consultation with INDEVCO service suppliers. departments, fully engage to understand and manage the magnitude of traditional See full list of supplier countries in Appendix B and geopolitical risks that affect our 65 operations. They support a culture of awareness, including risks associated Supplier Code of Conduct with product materials, development and Countries innovation, as well as the privacy and rights To improve supplier screening and audit, of our stakeholder groups. INDEVCO formalized a basic Supplier Code of Conduct in 2017. Our purchasing units are putting into place follow-up mechanisms to ensure compliance with our code. See Supplier Code of Conduct at http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO2017-Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf Paper Supply Chain of Custody For the first time, INDEVCO business units worldwide reported on the status of their paper supply chain of custody. See Specific Disclosures, Raw Materials 301-1 on p. 28 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 11 Significant Changes 102-10 Acquisition of Interstate Resources, packaging plants around the USA. ePac is the first Facility Openings American company to rely solely on digital printing Inc. & Relocation of INDEVCO technology to manufacture lay-flat pouches, stand up INDEVCO opened a new plastic scrap recycling plant North America Headquarters pouches, and laminated roll stock. in Bazyoun, Lebanon as a division of Masterpak sal. DS Smith PLC and DS Smith Holdings, Inc. completed the acquisition of Interstate Restructuring of Napco into a Closed Facility / Company Closings Resources, Inc., Phoenix Technology USA, Joint Stock Company (CJSC) INDEVCO liquidated three inactive companies in and St. George Timberlands on 25 August Lebanon (Cedex Plastics sal, Constrapak sal, N.K.Z. 2017, after it purchased 80% of the shares of In August 2017, our Saudi-based Napco group of sal) and initiated the process to close two inactive common stock in the capital of INDEVCO companies, established in 1956, merged and changed companies in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Management Resources, Inc. from Merpas their status as limited liability companies into one (LG-Sanita Limited Joint Venture, Phoenix Co. sarl (Merpas). closed joint stock company registered as Napco Technology FZ). National CJSC. The company was structured into B2B Through this strategic move, INDEVCO and B2C divisions. In addition to the head office in became one of the largest shareholders in Dammam, Napco National manages the following DS Smith. In addition, INDEVCO retained nine branches with a total of 15 manufacturing full ownership of Specialty Coating and facilities in Dammam, Riyadh, and Jeddah: Laminating in Doswell, VA and ownership of Greencoat® wax replacement corrugated • Easternpak Ltd. box brand with license to DS Smith to • Napco Composite Film Packaging (Compact) produce in North America. Subsequently, INDEVCO shifted its North • Napco Consumer Products Co. America headquarters from Arlington, • Napco Modern Plastic Products Co. Virginia to Doswell, Virginia and is known as INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. • Napco Multipak • Napco Packaging Systems Co. Ltd (Uniplast) Joint Partnership in the USA • Napco Riyadh Paper Products Co. INDEVCO Plastics entered into a joint partnership with ePac Flexible Packaging in November 2017 • National Paper Co. Ltd. to acquire equity in its growing network of flexible • United Plastic Products Co. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 12 102-12 External Initiatives INDEVCO business units across the Middle East and North Africa comply with a wide range of external charters, principles, standards, and initiatives. Environment Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Quality ISO 9001: 2008 QMS Custody Management ISO 9001: 2015 QMS ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental Management System Institute of Supply Chain Management (IoSCM) Standards of Operational Excellence Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Chain of Custody Manufacturing Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) Food Safety British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global & Contact Standards for Packaging Workplace 5S Methodology Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points Organization (HACCP) ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System Health & Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS) 18001: 2007 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 13 Association Memberships 102-13 The country represents the location of INDEVCO business units and the associations to which they belong. Individual employees are also actively involved and hold leadership positions and certifications in a wide range of professional associations. USA Lebanon Saudi Arabia UAE Industry Associations Business Associations Sustainability & Business Associations Business Associations Flexible Packaging Association (FPA) American Institute of Management (AIM) Ethics Associations Saudi Chamber of Commerce Dubai Chamber of Commerce European Association of Communication Caux Round Table & Industry Directors (EACD) Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO) Egypt Global Compact Network Lebanon Sustainability & Lebanese Chamber of Commerce Lebanese Solar Energy Society Ethics Associations Business Associations Rotary International (LSES) Industry Associations Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Society for Human Resource National Safety Council 6th of October Investors Association Composite Can & Tube Institute (SEDEX) Management (SHRM) UN Global Compact (CCTA) Egyptian Chamber of Commerce World Energy Council Egyptian Lebanese Businessmen Industry Associations European Core & Tube Association (ECTA) Egyptian-Cypriot Business Council Association of Byblos Industrialists EUROSAC Friendship Association Association of Lebanese Industrialists Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Sadat City Investor’s Association (ALI) Association (GPCA) International Flexible Packaging Network International Flexible Packaging (IFPN) Association (IFPN) Industry Associations Pulp & Paper Industry Intelligence (RISI) Chamber of Chemical Industries (CCI) Syndicate of Paper & Packaging Industries in Lebanon (SOPIL) Sustainability & Ethics Associations Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI) Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 14 STRATEGY & Analysis 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Monitoring global trends proves critical to INDEVCO’s success and growth. As a multinational group operating over 4 continents, INDEVCO assesses Regulations & Backlash • Stimulated governmental regulations, developments worldwide to manage key risks, identify profitable against Plastics multinational sustainability objectives, and consumer demand for renewable opportunities, and ensure effective stakeholder relations. Growing global pressure to and recycled raw materials, as well as transition away from single-use recyclable packaging Key Risks & Opportunities Impact plastic disposables and to • Introduced zero waste, no packaging recycle and regenerate other store concepts plastics in a valuable circular Terrorism / War • Propelled consumer-based anti-plastic • Closed access to borders & key markets economy movement on social media and in • Increased travel uncertainty Turmoil in key operating areas in purchase patterns • Turned spotlight on safety concerns the Middle East & Europe • Encouraged R&D and innovations in • Increased fear of Middle Easterners bioplastics • Increased focus on Circular Economy, Disruption & Transformation in • Solidified Saudi Arabia and Iran as especially for plastics, including waste Arab World competing heavy-weight influencers in collection, segregation and regeneration the region infrastructure Regional political, • Reflected transformation in Saudi Arabia • Increased stakeholder interest in economic & social upheaval through Saudi Vision 2030 diversification corporate sustainability initiatives plan to create a sustainable economy beyond oil and to create jobs Data Security & Privacy • Enforced corporate accountability to opportunities for Saudi nationals, ensure better security and privacy of citizen including women data, in compliance with upcoming 2018 • Continued currency devaluation in Egypt implementation of EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Ecommerce & Changing • Opened an online route-to-market for Purchasing Patterns manufacturers for direct channel to B2B and B2C customers Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 15 ETHICS & Integrity 102-16 26 Ethics & Integrity People and community are at the heart of our INDEVCO Board of Directors has final approval on corporate culture. Our philosophy and values were the company philosophy and values and charges set forth by the late Georges N. Frem, INDEVCO the INDEVCO Human Resources & Organizational Founder and Former Chairman. His successor, Development (HROD) Department with Neemat G. Frem, Chairman & CEO, added the 7th responsibility for cascading them. value, Precision, to advance our manufacturing expertise. Employees actively learn our philosophy and values during onboarding and training and in internal and marketing communications campaigns. Plants and offices display values décor What is good for the as a daily reinforcement of the foundation for community is good for the which the company stands. company. What is good for Learn More the company, we will strive www.indevcogroup.com/about-us to do excellently and in a way that enriches the lives of our people.” Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 16 102-17 Code of Conduct All business units require employees and members of governance bodies to adhere to INDEVCO Code of Conduct and other policies, available in English and Arabic on the Employee HR Portal, which outline common rules for behavior. Our employees are held accountable for behaving with integrity and transparency and in accordance with international professional standards and/or laws that apply to their responsibilities at INDEVCO. We have zero-tolerance of breaches of our code of conduct which emphasizes anti-corruption through employee accountability, no conflict of interest and bribery through gifts and other benefits. Our Audit department has set policies and procedures, grid-lines and validating points to thoroughly evaluate business units, divisions, and departments across the group worldwide with regular and surprise audits. These audits primarily intend to deter corruption, as well as identify any misconducts and violations of group policies, regulations, and international standards. Employees are urged to seek advice about and report breaches, misconduct, and incidents of corruption to internal audit or to management responsible for the business unit in which they work, with the possibility of going higher in the organization through INDEVCO HROD Department. See INDEVCO Code of Conduct in Appendix C, including ‘Breaches & Misconduct Reporting Process’ on p. 48 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 17 GOVERNANCE 102-18 30 Governance Structure 102-19 Sustainability Organization 31 32 INDEVCO’s Board of Directors, led by Sustainability Governance R&D Centers Chairman & CEO Neemat Frem, is comprised of six internal directors with management INDEVCO Chairman & CEO has delegated INDEVCO Flexible Packaging’s Polymer responsibility within the group. The board is responsibility for group-level sustainability Application Technology Center (PACT) and responsible for monitoring risk management engagement, data collection, automation, INDEVCO Paper Containers Innovation Center processes and regularly reviewing the group’s and reporting to INDEVCO Global work at the forefront of science and technology performance. Communications. Local community to pioneer sustainable products for their INDEVCO Chairman & CEO retains sponsorships in Lebanon are managed by the divisions. Business units adapt their responsibility for INDEVCO’s overall Chairman’s Office. sustainability strategies to R&D advancements sustainability strategy and compliance with for renewable, recycled and recyclable raw At present, an executive level position materials, as well as efficient packaging international laws and regulations and responsible for economic, environmental, and performance and lightweighting. Likewise, internal policies. He reviews and approves the social programs has not yet been appointed INDEVCO Consumer Products division align Sustainability Report to ensure all material to report to the Board of Directors. Nor has a brands and product portfolios according to topics are covered. Group Sustainability Committee been corporate and consumer sustainability identified to oversee the process of expectations. monitoring sustainability risks, opportunities, and strategies. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 18 102-12 International Standards & Guidelines Uniform codes and standards guide INDEVCO in ensuring good corporate governance and alignment with best practices, while allowing comparability for stakeholders to evaluate our performance. INDEVCO’s 2017 Global Sustainability Report is a non-financial report for our business units worldwide based on select GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) 2016 STANDARDS. Disclosure numbers are identified in the side margins throughout the document. In the future, we aim to publish our report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. As a Signatory Member of the UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC), as of September 2017, we will begin submitting a Communication of Progress (COP) in 2018 based on this report. Lebanon’s CAUX ROUND TABLE FOR MORAL CAPITALISM, originally launched by INDEVCO Founder, Georges N. Frem, is presently under reorganization and development into a formal chapter, with INDEVCO’s leadership support. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 19 UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations has set the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development action plan to meet 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to improve conditions for people, planet, and prosperity. At INDEVCO, our initiatives align with nine SDGs for which we can show measurable impacts. ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL • Reducing energy consumption and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions • Supporting initiatives to improve women’s physical and emotional wellbeing through solar installations and absorption chillers throughout INDEVCO and children’s development in the Middle East North Africa region industrial complexes • Implementing objectives to improve employee health, safety, and job • Contributing to the transition to solar power in the Middle East through satisfaction partnerships with governments, funding agencies, and energy associations • Educating young women across Arab countries about menstrual hygiene and mothers about children’s creativity • Procuring renewable and sustainably-sourced raw materials • Supporting non-profit primary schools in Lebanon and educational initia• Innovating and manufacturing plastics converting raw materials that are tives for at-risk students renewable recycled and recyclable to reduce GHG emissions and to increase landfill diversion • Working in coalition and partnership to establish industrial and post• Addressing needs of female customers and employees. consumer waste recycling infrastructure • Increasing recruitment of women in Saudi Arabia • Monitoring and increasing the percentage of INDEVCO’s global • Providing internships and enhancing job skills of university students paper supply from sustainable sources • Recruiting nationals for meaningful work • Investing in infrastructure to create additional jobs • Working in partnership with government ministries and municipalities, • Supporting events and activities to celebrate the diversity of our workforce international organizations, industry associations, and NGOs in different countries • Increasing emplyoment opportunities for women in Saudi Arabia • Working in partnership with government ministries and municipalities, international organizations, industry associations, and NGOs Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 20 Audits & External Assurance STAKEHOLDER 102-56 102-40 41 42 Engagement INDEVCO does not tolerate breach of local 43 laws, regulations, international standards, and 44 international human rights, as well as internal policies. Key issues raised are managed at the relevant level of INDEVCO Internal Audit conducts an annual Internal Stakeholders the division in strategic, business, and customer audit of business units for presence of business experience action plans. Our companies regularly and sustainability objectives and reporting of engage with stakeholders through such Board of Directors required data. means as: Employees* A number of INDEVCO business units comply • E mployee Intranets, internal emails, surveys and the with Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit annual INDEVCO Global Leadership Conference (SMETA) and EcoVadis CSR Scorecard audit. External Stakeholders • A nnual Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) surveys, Net Promoter Score (NPS) surveys, customer visits and Consumers events, and campaigns Customers • Customer and consumer focus groups and panels Government Ministries & Municipalities Industry Associations • O ngoing support of schools and universities, including industrial research programs Local communities NGOs • A lignment with government ministries and Schools municipalities Shareholders Suppliers • S trategic partnerships with industry associations, environmental and humanitarian organizations Universities in Lebanon * INDEVCO companies adhere to national labor rights and regulations related to employees and workers in every country in which we operate. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 21 REPORTING Practice 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements AFRICA EUROPE & UK MIDDLE EAST Egypt Cyprus Iraq Interstate Paper Industries SAE UNIPAK CYPRUS Ltd. Sanita Consumer Products Ltd. Masterpak Nile for Plastic Products SAE Sanita al Rafidain for Consumer Products Ltd. Sanita Nile for Trading Ltd. England Jordan Sanita Consumer Products SAE Sanita UK Sanita Nile for Import & Trading Services Ltd. Sanita Marketing & Distribution Ltd. UNIPAKNILE Ltd. France Lebanon Gespa France SARL Ghana Altatrade SAL Sanita Consumer Products Ltd. (Ghana) Greece General Supplying Agencies Gespa SAL Gespa International SAL UNIPAK HELLAS Industrial & Commercial SA Tunisia Greentex SAL INDEVCO SAL Masterpak North Africa Ltd. Indevco Industrial Parks SAL Interstate Inks SAL Masterpak SAL Phoenix Machinery SAL PrePak SAL Sanita SAL Sanita Persona SAL Saudi Arabia National Paper Product Co Ltd. UAE Beaufort Overseas (FZ) LLC Beaufort RAK Ltd. Roto Packing Materials Industry Co LLC Rotopack Overseas Ltd. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 22 102-46 53 Materiality Assessment Materiality Matrix In 2017, INDEVCO Chairman & CEO launched Stakeholders our first annual Sustainability Summit in Beirut, Lebanon with the purpose of conducting a group-wide Materiality Assessment and Employee identifying key Stakeholder groups. During the Health & Safety materiality workshop, division teams and headquarter departments identified significant economic, environmental, and social impacts affecting internal and external stakeholders. Product 103-2 Stakeholder survey results, with internal Safety Employee stakeholder responses heavily outweighing Training & Development It’s important to note that we have not yet set 103-2 external responses, helped map a starting Product Innovation group-level goals and targets, as we are in the materiality matrix to identify the key material Waste Management & Recycling midst of a 3-year plan to automate collection of topics. Consistent with McKinsey 2017 Global HIGH Renewable Energy sustainability data, especially environmental. By Survey on Sustainability, INDEVCO engaging headquarter and division MIS and BI HIGH INDEVCO stakeholder groups rated Renewable Energy teams, we will gain visibility into our raw material, and Waste Management lower than Employee energy, water, emissions, and waste performance, Environment Health & Safety, Consumer Product Safety, and necessary to be able to set objectives for the Responsible Products Employee Health & Training. However, Social future. Data automation will ultimately allow us to investments in solar power and waste better ensure data accuracy, comparability, clarity, management continue to increase. Therefore, reliability, timeliness and completeness in our we retain these as material topics. reporting. Divisions manage social initiatives In parallel, we developed sustainability stories locally in line with business strategies describing the impacts of major initiatives not See and community needs. www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/ immediately obvious from GRI data. Each of these sustainability-and-resource-productivity/oursustainability stories includes a thorough We will conduct our next Materiality Assessment in insights/sustainabilitys-deepening-imprint explanation of the Sustainability Context. Stories 2019 to set our 2025 Sustainability Objectives and focus on initiatives which engage multiple business Plan. units within a division in one or more countries and initiatives across divisions in one or countries. Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 23 102-47 Material Topics GRI Disclosure Material Topics Topic Boundary RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS SOCIAL GRI 301 Regeneration INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging GRI 403 Employee INDEVCO / Napco Employees Raw Materials of Recycled Resins Plastics Converters Occupational Health & Safety INDEVCO / Napco HROD Department Health INDEVCO Insurance Department Mineral Fillers for INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging INDEVCO / Napco Division Strategy Plastics Converting Plastics Converters & Safety & Transformation Departments Oxo-Degradable INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging Plastics Saudi Standards, Metrology and Quality GRI 404 Employee INDEVCO / Napco Employees Organization (SASO) Training & Training INDEVCO / Napco HROD Learning Consumers Education & Development & Development Unit ENVIRONMENT GRI 405 Diversity INDEVCO / Napco Employees Diversity & Equal & Inclusion in INDEVCO / Napco HROD Department Responsible Paper GESPA sal Opportunity the Middle East GRI 301 Raw Materials Sourcing INDEVCO / Napco Division Purchasing Units Paper Brokers GRI 413-1 Arab Women’s INDEVCO / Napco Consumer Products Divisions Paper Manufacturers Local Wellbeing NGOs Communities Schools GRI 302 Solar Energy INDEVCO HQ & Divisions Universities Energy Phoenix Energy Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Childhood INDEVCO / Napco Consumer Products Divisions Agriculture of Tripoli & North Lebanon Development in Healthcare Institutions Egyptian New & Renewable Energy Authority the Middle East NGOs (NREA) Schools International Finance Corporation Universities United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Youth INDEVCO HROD Department Empowerment INDEVCO Polymer Application Technology GRI 306 Scrap Collection INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging in Lebanon Center (PACT) Waste & Recycling Agricultural Growers Phoenix Group Beverage Manufacturers Universities in Lebanon Gulf Chemical & Petrochemical Association University Placement Offices (GPCA) Faculty Members, Interns & Recruits Petrochemical Manufacturers Maronite Foundation Entrepreneurs in Lebanon Solid Waste INDEVCO Management Ghosta Municipality Waste-to-Energy Facilities Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 24 102-48 49 Restatements Contact Points for Questions 102-53 & Changes in Reporting Regarding the Report We have restated information regarding Dr. Ellen Kussman Feghali our restructuring in the USA and Saudi Arabia, as Vice President, Communications & B2B Marketing well as liquidations not yet completed by end 2017. Telephone: +961-9-209 108 Ext. 3155 Email: ellen.feghali@indevcogroup.com Material topics have been expanded on the basis of our first Materiality Assessment and formal Gacia Apikian Bazhouny Stakeholder Engagement survey. Within our Global Communications Specialist Responsible Products topics, we have removed Telephone: +961-9-209 108 Ext. 3162 Greencoat® Wax Replacement Corrugated PackEmail: gacia.apikian@indevcogroup.com aging, as DS Smith North America, Paper & Packaging Division is producing this product under license from INDEVCO in the USA. 102-50 51 Reporting Period, GRI Content Index 102-55 52 54 Cycle & Claim See p. 45 INDEVCO reports annually from January – December. Our most recent report was for the calendar year 2016. This GRI-referenced report covers the calendar year 2017. See our previous 2016 Global Sustainability Report at http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2016-Sustainability-Report.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 25 SPECIFIC Disclosures Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 26 ENVIRONMENTAL Impact 103 Management Approach As a group of manufacturers, we impact the and the power our manufacturing plants use, environment by utilizing natural resources as well as indirect impact on our raw and energy during production and by materialand packaging customers, generating waste and emissions in the government ministries and municipalities, process. In considering areas for greatest end consumers, and local communities. positive impact and in line with related UN Our management approach performance is Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we monitored through such external standards are actively engaged in the following as ISO 14001 Environmental Management initiatives: System and EU Ecolabel, as well as Sedex • Solar Energy Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) and • Responsible Paper Sourcing EcoVadis CSR Scorecard audits. • Responsible Raw Material Product Automating data collection across our plants Development by 2019 will provide the necessary visibility to • Circular Economy & Waste set clear goals and targets related to our The boundaries of these material topics current initiatives, as well as emissions and include direct impact on the raw materials water consumption and discharge Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/#environmental-sustainability Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 27 Solar Energy 302-1B Within the world’s Sun Belt, the majority of In 2017, Phoenix Energy signed an agreement to 4 INDEVCO’s manufacturing operations operate partner with Egyptian and German companies to OVERALL IMPACT with 300 to 345 days of sunshine per year. In build a 64 MWp solar plant in Benban Solar Park near 2017, member company Phoenix Energy in Aswan, Egypt, part of the International Finance Egypt Lebanon tripled the number of photovoltaic Corporation’s Nubian Suns Feed-In Tariff Financing Committed to launch construction in 2018 (PV) solar panels installed from the year before Program. Project launch is expected in Q1 2018 with of solar PV plant in Benban Solar Park: and increased power capacity with installations completion in 2019. 193,600 PV panels for sister companies within INDEVCO, as well as 64 MWp capacity external projects, in Lebanon. Working to increase adoption of renewable energy in 156,000 MWh / year the region, as well as expand infrastructure and INDEVCO consumer disposables company, technology for sustainable energy services, Phoenix Lebanon Sanita, invested in the largest privately-owned Energy contributes to UN SDG7 Affordable and Clean (not including INDEVCO) on-grid rooftop PV project at its facility in Zouk Energy. Phoenix Energy’s partnerships with governMosbeh. Sister company Unipak then launched 9,505 PV panels mental entities, ministries, and local and international its transition to solar, in order to power its NGOs also align with SDG17 Partnerships. 2.52 MWp capacity corrugated converting plant and offices in Halat. 3,638 MWh / year Learn more On external projects, Phoenix Energy partners http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCOImpact Inside INDEVCO 2017-Solar-Energy-Initiatives.pdf with government ministries, energy authorities, 8,490 PV panels in Ajaltoun, Halat, UN organizations, financing organizations, and Hosrayel, and Zouk Mosbeh, Lebanon local and national associations to replace fossil 2.25 MWp capacity fuel-based power with abundant solar energy. 3,249 MWh / year PV Panels Installed in Lebanon PV MWp Capacity Increase in Lebanon 6 2017 18,000 5 2016 6,000 4 3 2015 4,000 2 1 2014 1,000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 28 Raw Materials By sourcing and developing input raw materials Responsible Paper Sourcing 301 1 that are renewable or recycled, INDEVCO 2 business units support our customers in reaching their sustainable material goals and divert plastic In 2017, INDEVCO business units reported chain of % of INDEVCO Global scrap that would otherwise be landfilled or lost to custody certifications for their global virgin and Paper Supply Sustainably Sourced the environment. recycled paper suppliers for the first time. In Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, INDEVCO’s raw Nearly 74% of INDEVCO’s paper suppliers are materials replace virgin masterbatches for plastics reported to be certified by one or more sustainable production: MicroMB® mineral fillers produced in forestry bodies: Forest Stewardship Council (FSC, 26.1% Egypt and recycled resins produced in Saudi 98.5%), the Programme for the Endorsement of Arabia and Lebanon. Forest Certification (PEFC, 50.5%), and/or the 73.9% Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (0.10%). Yes INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. has granted DS Smith North America the license to produce No Greencoat® wax replacement corrugated packaging in the USA. Greencoat boxes are IMPACT % of INDEVCO Global preferred for their sustainable impact of Paper Supply Certifications eliminating unrecyclable wax boxes throughout the supply chain of the poultry, fresh produce, COUNTRIES seafood, and stone industries. Egypt FSC 98.5% Lebanon Facilitating a shift to environmentally-friendly raw Saudi Arabia materials and finished goods aligns with UN PEFC 50.5% UAE SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production, while greater visibility in our supply USA chain to track sustainable management of forests SFI 0.1% aligns with SDG15 Life on Land. We are also establishing partnerships with government entities and industry associations, which coincides with SDG17 Partnerships. Learn More Learn More www.greencoat.net http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2017-Responsible-Paper-Sourcing.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 29 301-1 2 Transition to Oxo-Degradable Plastic 301-1B 4 Mineral Fillers Films in Saudi Arabia In October 2016, the Saudi Standards, Metrology and Quality Organization (SASO) Manufacturers are increasingly turning to alternamandated a phased transition of plastic films under 250 microns, whether produced in or tive fillers produced from naturally abundant imported to Saudi Arabia, to be composed of approved oxo-degradable materials. minerals to replace fossil fuel-based virgin masterbatches in their packaging blends. In 2017, MasterThe first phase began in April 2017, affecting products produced by Napco National in pak Nile in Egypt (76%) and Napco National in Saudi Arabia: garbage bags and table covers. Saudi (24%) maintained steady production of calcium carbonate filler and septupled production While Napco National business units in Saudi Arabia secured the license from SASO and of talc filler, compared to the previous year. are producing the required oxo-degradable products, we have formally communicated our position that the extent of oxo-degradability is seriously debated and that it Sister companies utilized over 40% of the group’s compromises the recyclability of plastics. total calcium carbonate production. France banned oxo products in 2015, and Spain followed in 2017 by placing limits on Learn More labeling plastic bags as oxo-degradable. The United Nations Environment Programme http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/ (UNEP) confirmed its position that oxo-degradable products would not significantly INDEVCO-2017-Mineral-Filler-Initiative.pdf decrease the quantity of plastics or their negative impacts on the marine environment. INDEVCO and Napco National believe in the possibilities unleashed by formalizing a IMPACT circular economy of plastics, in line with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy initiative. Maintained steady production of CaC03 Eliminated GHG emissions by nearly 143,500 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO2E) COUNTRIES Egypt Saudi Arabia Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 30 Waste 306-2 Solid Waste CIRCULAR ECONOMY INDEVCO’s Phoenix Machinery financed The world is shifting from a ‘use-and-dispose’ and built the Ghosta Recycling Plant in mindset to a regenerative Circular Economy. Ghosta, Lebanon to process municipal solid This economy emphasizes innovation to waste from the Kesrwan region. The facility, redesign products to be re-used as raw owned by Ghosta Municipality and operatmaterial sources for new products until end ed by Solutions, Inc., sits on a 30,000 m2 plot of their lifecycle. The system designs out of land rented from St. Chalita Monastery. waste and pollution, reduces depletion of finite resources, and decreases energy Sister company, Phoenix Energy, equipped consumption in production. the plant with waste sorting lines, composting solutions, and Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) Our business units have been recycling scrap production equipment. for decades, INDEVCO offers solid waste The plant transforms organic waste to commanagement services, waste-to-energy 302-1 post (45%), recycled raw materials (10-15%), technologies, and plastic collection and the remaining 35-40% to RDF, which is recycling, as well as regenerated and recyclable raw materials. With plastics operations in four transformed into waste-to-energy in Lebanon. countries, the group has aligned with the ‘New Plastics Economy’ mindset to unleash greater The final 5% of waste goes to landfill. economic value and create more jobs from plastics recycling and regeneration. Our focus on circular economy, reducing virgin raw material consumption, and increasing reuse and recycling, aligns with UN SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production. 5% Compost Working closely with government entities, municipalities, petrochemical producers, and Recycled Raw Materials industry associations to further waste management and recycling infrastructure coincides with Refused Derived Fuel SDG17 Partnerships. 37.50% 45% Landfill 12.5% Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 31 306-2 Plastic Scrap Collection, IMPACT Sorting & Washing Diverted 55,855 m2 of plastic scrap from At present, 95% of the value of plastics packaging landfill is lost after first use, and only 14% is collected for recycling globally, according to the Ellen Eliminated associated GHG emissions MacArthur Foundation. Recycling is an by 598 metric tons of carbon dioxide economically viable option for up to 50% of plastic equivalent (MTCO2E) packaging. COUNTRIES INDEVCO business units, Napco National in Saudi Lebanon Arabia and Masterpak in Lebanon, maintained Saudi Arabia their volume of post-industrial waste recycled in 2017 at 96% and 4% of total respectively, while investing in new equipment in Saudi Arabia and establishing a new plant in Lebanon. Nearly 50% of scrap came from sister companies in 2017; they then convert recycled resins from their scrap into a range of premium recycled plastic applications. Our plants work in consultation with INDEVCO Polymer Application Center for Technology (PACT) to capture greater material value and reprocessing yields by sister companies. 301-1 2 Recycled Resins IMPACT Napco National in Saudi Arabia and Masterpak in Increased production of recycled resins by 62.5% Lebanon increased volume of regenerated resins in 2017. In Lebanon, INDEVCO invested in a new Eliminated associated GHG emissions by recycling plant to regenerate resins from agriculapproximately 75,235 metric tons of carbon tural film and post-consumer waste. dioxide equivalent (MTCO2E) Sister companies utilized 39% of the group’s total COUNTRIES recycled resin production. Lebanon Learn More Saudi Arabia http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2017Circular-Economy-Plastics-Initiative.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 32 OUR CIRCULAR ECONOMY of Plastics Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 33 SOCIAL Impact 103 Management Approach Our local community engagement is deeply rooted educational institutions (primary schools and in INDEVCO’s corporate philosophy ‘What is good universities), and other associations we support in for the community, is good for the company’. As our local and regional initiatives. corporate and brand outreach programs address unique social and cultural factors in the communities Within our social responsibility objectives, the in which we operate, we evaluated our areas of INDEVCO Chairman’s Office annually supports greatest impact in line with the UN Sustainable initiatives, reviews performance, and re-evaluates Development Goals (UN SDGs) and arrived at the future directions. following social responsibility objectives: Learn More • Supporting Arab Women’s Wellbeing http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/#social-responsibility • Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East • Empowering Youth in Lebanon Operations with Local 413-1 Internally, we work to ensure a healthy and safe work Community Engagement, Impact Assessments, and environment, a top priority for all divisions during our stakeholder engagement on material topics, as well as to improve our policy of diversity and inclusion. Development Programs • Occupational Health & Safety Our group’s local initiatives are concentrated in • Employee Diversity & Inclusion Lebanon and Saudi Arabia, as INDEVCO and Napco National corporate headquarters and The boundaries of these material topics begin related consumer disposables companies directly with our employees globally, then move champion social programs and campaigns in beyond to include indirect impacts of insurance support of Arab women and children, as well as companies, healthcare institutions, local NGOs, university students. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 34 403-1 4 5 Occupational Health & Safety All employees of INDEVCO operations are covered by internal Health & Safety OHSAS 18001 Standardized Safety Training Courses systems and processes. INDEVCO Certification Reporting Firefighting Basics Internal Audit Department and Safety & Firefighting INDEVCO Insurance Department audit Twenty five per cent (25%) of INDEVCO’s Data fields and terminology for business units accordingly. As Health & manufacturing facilities, including accident and incident reporting were First Aid Techniques Safety is a material topic, we will report corrugated, paper, plastics plants in standardized across divisions in 2017. Occupational Health & Safety accident and incident rates in the Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the Reporting automation coming year. will take place via INDEVCO Sanitation & Housekeeping UAE, currently hold OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety HR System in 2018. In 2017, INDEVCO business units Management Certifications, which are First Aid Video Series maintained OHSAS 18001 certifications, audited by Lloyd’s Register Quality audited by third parties, while Assurance and TUV NORD. Health & Safety Training Introduction to First Aid INDEVCO HROD Learning & In 2017, INDEVCO HROD Learning & Blood Donation Development unit managed Health & Safety courses and developed a series Development (L&D) managed over 70 Skin Burns & Wounds of online First Aid training for employee basic and advanced credit hours of onboarding. training courses to nearly 370 Correct Behavior employees (97% male; 3% female) Upper Airway Obstructions By providing access to health coverage across three divisions in Egypt, and essential health care services for Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia. Bleeding our employees, we align with UN SDG3 Poisoning Good Health and Wellbeing. Our INDEVCO L&D also developed a First health and safety training increases the Aid online video training series to be Fractures number of adults with relevant technical used during new employee onboarding CPR and vocational skills, consistent with beginning in 2018. SDG4 Quality Education. State of Shock Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/ INDEVCO-2017-Occupational-Health-Safety.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 35 405-1B Employee Diversity & Inclusion INDEVCO operations in Egypt, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are working to reach national IMPACT quotas for employment of people with disabilities. As part of this initiative, offices Employed over 150 persons with and plants are providing access areas, safe disabilities in Egypt, Lebanon, and passageways and signs, customized Saudi Arabia (95% male, 5% female) restrooms, and reserved parking spaces. In Lebanon, Sanita designed work spaces to accommodate employees with speech and hearing conditions, Down syndrome, and paralysis. In 2017, Sanita spoke at the UN ESCWA Workshop for International Day of Persons with Disabilities to discuss facilitating the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the workforce. Phoenix Group facilities, also in Lebanon, meet international standards for inclusive working conditions for disabled persons. Facilitating the employment and economic inclusion of persons with disabilities aligns with UN SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth (Target 8.5) and SDG10 Reduced Inequalities (Target 10.2) to achieve full, productive and decent work, as well as promote the social and economic inclusion of all. Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2017-Diversity-Inclusion.pdf See INDEVCO Diversity & Inclusion Policy at http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-Diversity-Inclusion-Policy.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 36 413-1 Supporting Arab Women’s Wellbeing Cultural norms in the Arab region affect Puberty & Menstrual women’s access to health-related information REACH and education. At INDEVCO’s consumer Hygiene Education disposable companies, Napco National in Saudi Arabia and Sanita in Lebanon, brand Program for School Girls Nearly 45,000 school girls 380+ schools teams delivered programs during 2017 on Teams from Napco National Fam and Sanita puberty and menstrual hygiene, career Private Miss Teen brands partnered with COUNTRIES orientation, breast cancer awareness, and over 380 schools in 4 Arab countries to Kuwait healthier and happier living in the Arabian develop and deliver personal development Lebanon Gulf and Levant countries. INDEVCO also culturally appropriate information to over Saudi Arabia works to strengthen the role of women in the UAE 45,000 female students. workforce. Our initiatives provide healthcare information Fam® Cares for Arab REACH and education needed to promote sustainable development, as well as use technology to empower women which Women’s Wellbeing 580,000+ women aged 18-45 coincide with UN SDG3 Good Health & on social media Wellbeing, SDG4 Quality Education, and In 2017, Fam® brand launched the I Take SDG5 Gender Equality. Providing inclusive Care of Myself; I Choose campaign to COUNTRIES and good working conditions for women promote Arab women’s wellbeing via Bahrain supports their effective participation in healthier and happier living. The integrated Kuwait economic life consistent with SDG5 Gender campaign shared a video series about Oman Equality, SDG8 Decent Work and Economic wellness choices encouraging work-life Qatar Growth, and SDG10 Reduced Inequalities. balance, fitness, and personal comfort on Saudi Arabia By establishing public-private and civil Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube, as well as UAE society collaborations, we also align with on pan-Arab satellite TV. SDG17 Partnerships. Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2017-Arab-Womens-Wellbeing-Initiatives.pdf Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 37 Fam® Cares for Early Breast Cancer Detection Since 2009, Napco National’s Fam® brand has partnered with Zahra Breast Cancer Association to promote public REACH awareness of early screening in Saudi Arabia during Breast Cancer Awareness Month in October. Breast cancer is the 21,000+ women in Saudi malls leading form of cancer for women in the Kingdom. Over 400,000 women aged 18-45 Each year, the program engages with women in Saudi malls in 3 Arab countries via social media in the Eastern, Central, and Western provinces. COUNTRIES In addition, Fam’s 2017 integrated campaign encouraged Kuwait social sharing of survivor stories in Saudi Arabia using the Saudi Arabia Ou3aber_bel_Wardi), a social#( #‫ اعبر_بالوردي_عن‬hashtag United Arab Emirates media campaign, The Will to Live (Iradat Al Hayat), across 3 Arab countries, and a pan-Arab satellite TV ad, Minutes are to encourage regular ,)#‫ (دقايق_تسوى_سنين‬Worth Years screenings Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 38 Passionate by Nature Program Strengthening the Role of Sanita Private’s Passionate by Nature program, running since 2010, expanded in 2017 with Women in the Workforce initiatives designed to help young women identify their passions and pursue careers that The MENA region has the lowest female lead to success and happiness. participation in the labor force at 22%, compared to the global average of 46%. Saudi Vision 2030 has Do It with Passion and Passionate Brain social media campaigns on Instagram, YouTube, and set equal opportunity as a key target, identifying Facebook, the In Passion career orientation program in Lebanese schools, and a viral women as critical to development of the society video campaign inspired young women to follow their dreams. and the economy. INDEVCO employs nearly 600 women in the MENA REACH region, including 100 women in Saudi Arabia, in its corporate offices and manufacturing plants. In 2017, 570,000 women aged 18-45 INDEVCO provided training to over 150 women in in 5 Arab countries via social media Lebanon, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. 75 Lebanese schools For working mothers in the group in Lebanon, 18,700 women in Lebanon via viral video INDEVCO’s maternity policy includes options for a flexible schedule and/or reduced work hours. COUNTRIES Iraq Jordan IMPACT Kuwait Lebanon Diversity in Saudi Arabia & the Arabian Gulf Saudi Arabia Over 110 female employees in the Gulf (2% of UAE the workforce) Training 26% of women across INDEVCO business units in MENA Work-Life Balance 100% of working mothers in Lebanon with a child 6 years or younger are eligible to benefit from INDEVCO’s maternity policy Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 39 413-1 Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East The private sector plays a critical role in Early Childhood Development (ECD) in the Middle East Early Learning Initiatives Raising Creativity North Africa (MENA) region, where investment is During 2017, Napco National’s Sanita Bambi® brand Educated mothers about among the lowest in the world, according to the team reached women and caretakers across 7 Arab stimulating children’s imaginaWorld Bank. Napco National brand teams in Saudi countries with three social media-based programs tions and learning through Arabia deliver ECD programs emphasizing creativity, devoted to early learning, as well as engaged play, experimentation and parent-child bonding, giving positive feedback, and families at Kids in Motion, Saudi Arabia’s popular exploration. hand hygiene. In Lebanon, INDEVCO supports kids’ festival. NGOs engaged in formal primary education and theater performance as a venue for self-expression. Campaigns shared Arabic-language educational Our childhood development initiatives for good videos and postings on Facebook, Instagram, Life is Short Twitter, and YouTube. hygiene against communicable diseases link to UN (El 3omer Ghafli) SDG3 Good Health and Wellbeing. Supporting programs that provide access to inclusive and Encouraged creating and quality education and lifelong opportunities for all REACH recording memorable aligns with UN SDG4 Quality Education. experiences for mother-child 2.5 million+ women bonding. Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCOCOUNTRIES 2017-Childhood-Development-Initiatives.pdf Bahrain Kuwait Oman Words Qatar Saudi Arabia Emphasized reframing UAE language to give positive direction for learning rather than to emphasize children’s poor behavior. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 40 Children’s Hygiene Quality Education Théâtre Athénée REACH REACH Through INDEVCO support, Théâtre Athénée 220,000 men and women 59,800 children through plays serves as an important platform for creativity and (including 3,800 free) self-expression for children and teens in Lebanon. VIEWS The theater initiates and produces workshop and Over 85,000 times 270 children and teens through productions which emphasize values of civic 12 workshops education, family principles, national belonging, COUNTRIES and appreciation of the arts. Bahrain COUNTRY Kuwait Lebanon Théâtre Athénée’s plays are broadcast on Télé Oman Lumière’s NourKids TV channel in Lebanon. Qatar Saudi Arabia UAE Sanita® Back-to-School Hygiene Program Napco National’s popular Hand Sanitizer brand launched Sanita® Back-to-School Hygiene Program in 6 Arabian Gulf countries, in alignment with Global Handwashing Day on 15 October. The initiative, directed at parents and teachers, communicated the importance of handwashing at critical times to prevent disease and save lives. Three expert how-to videos featuring medical doctors were broadcast over Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 41 Paradis d’Enfants Non-Profit Primary Schools REACH INDEVCO supports Paradis d’Enfants association, which runs 3 non-profit primary In 3 schools in Kesrwan, Lebanon: schools that help children in need gain equal access to quality education. In the 2000+ students 2017, the association concluded with other NGOs the Educating for Peace: 200+ teachers Conflict Resolution and Civic Education in Lebanese Schools project funded by 1300 alumni US Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI). MEPI Educating for Peace Program: 5 schools 500 students 40 teachers 50 parents COUNTRY Lebanon Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 42 413-1 Empowering Youth in Lebanon In 2017, the Middle East North Africa (MENA) These initiatives help improve relevant skills for region retained the highest youth employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship unemployment in the world, according to the linking to UN SDG4 Quality Education, as well as International Labour Organization (ILO), stimulate the economy and reduce youth with female participation the lowest due to unemployment through job creation in line with early marriage and motherhood. SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth. Developing relationships and programs with With our headquarters in Lebanon, INDEVCO educational institutions contributes to SDG17 engages heavily with local partners to elevate Partnerships. industry-university relations, to stimulate entrepreneurship among Lebanese youth, and Learn More to support cultural heritage programming for http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO2017-Empowering-Youth-Initiatives.pdf Lebanese descendants of emigrants. Photo Credit Lebanese American University graduates at the institution's 92nd commencement Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 43 Advancing Industry-University Relations REACH Institutional Support Student Initiatives & Support Institutional Initiatives MOUs & Technical Cooperation Agreements Lebanese Industrial Research Achievements Board of Trustees and advisory board (LIRA) Program participation at 6 universities with Universities Maintained MOUs and technical In 2017, INDEVCO Polymer Application Center for INDEVCO annually sponsors the Lebanese cooperation agreements with 3 Technology (PACT) maintained MOUs with Industrial Research Achievements (LIRA) Program universities American University of Beirut, Lebanese University, Forum of Technology and Industrial Innovations, Notre Dame University Louize, and Université which supports PhD dissertation research and Student Initiatives Saint-Esprit de Kaslik to guide Engineering interns Bachelor final year projects on technological and students with final-year projects in Chemical innovations in manufacturing. In 2017, INDEVCO Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Polymer Application Center for Technology (PACT) Tuition assistance to 390+ university Petrochemical Engineering, and Materials and and member company Phoenix Machinery students who are children of 285 Applications. supported 5 LIRA projects. INDEVCO employees Arab Student StarPack 2017 Competition Nearly 150+ interns from 20+ universities A technical cooperation agreement between and technical schools INDEVCO / Phoenix Group and Lebanese University supports the LU Faculty of Engineering INDEVCO member company, UNIPAK, continued to 150+ recruits from 20+ universities and with research and technical exchange, as well as support skill building in packaging design as a Gold technical schools support for advanced laboratory testing sponsor of the Arab Student StarPack 2017, an capabilities. evolution of Lebanon Student StarPack launched in 730+ students bussed from rural villages 2010. to higher education locations throughout the academic year through Georges N. Organized by LibanPack and the United Nations Frem Foundation’s Rural Transport Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), Arab Program Student StarPack 2017 attracted over 1,000 designers in 15 Arab countries. COUNTRY Lebanon Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 44 Stimulating Entrepreneurship Supporting Cultural Heritage of Lebanese Youth Programs for Lebanese Descendants The Olive Grove Co-Working Space Maronite Academy In 2017, INDEVCO established The Olive Grove, In 2017, the Maronite Foundation of the World, co-founda co-working space for Lebanese start-ups and small businesses. Located in ed by INDEVCO Chairman Neemat Frem in 2008, sponHamra within close proximity to the American University of Beirut and Lebanese sored the 5th Annual Maronite Academy at Holy Spirit American University Beirut Campus, the space fuels creativity, productivity, and University of Kaslik in Lebanon, hosting over 40 young sense of community among aspiring young Lebanese entrepreneurs. adults between 20-30 years old. The IMF 2017 country report on Lebanon cites brain drain – migration of top During the two-week stay, the descendants from 13 talent – as significant. The report found that, only 45% of AUB’s entire alumni countries learned about their Lebanese heritage. For population could be traced to living in Lebanon. In parallel, an Endeavor survey many, this was their first visit to Lebanon. Participants of entrepreneurial firms in Lebanon pinpointed scarcity of experienced came from Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, candidates, shortage of knowledgeable candidates, and talent retention as key Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Greece, Mexico, South recruitment challenges. Africa, Uruguay, USA, and Venezuela. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 45 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Description Page Table of Contents 2 Ethics & Integrity 102-14 A Message from Our Chairman 3 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards & Norms 15, 48-49 of Behavior GENERAL DISCLOSURES 4 102-17 Mechanisms for Advice & Concerns a 16 bout Ethics Organizational Profile Governance 102-1 Name of the Organization 5 102-18 Governance Structure 17 102-2 Activity, Brands, Products & Services 6-8 102-19 Delegating Authority, Executive Level 17 102-3 Location of Organization’s Headquarters 5 102-20 Responsibility for Economic, Environmental 102-4 Location of Operations 6 & Social Topics 102-5 Ownership & Legal Form 5 102-26 Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting 15 Purpose, Values & Strategy 102-6 Markets Served 6 102-7 Scale of the Organization 9 Stakeholder Engagement 102-8 Information on Employees & Other Workers 9 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups, Identifying 20 102-42 & Selecting, Approach to Stakeholder 102-9 Supply Chain 10 102-43 Engagement 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization 11 102-44 & its Supply Chain 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 20 102-11 Precautionary Approach 10 Reporting Practice 102-12 External Initiatives 12,16,18-20 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial 21 102-13 Memberships in Associations 13 Statements Strategy & Analysis 102-46 Defining Report Content & Topic Boundaries 22 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 14 102-47 List of Material Topics 23 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 46 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Description Page 102-48 Restatements of Information 24 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 102-49 Changes in Reporting 24 102-50 Reporting Period 24 Environmental 102-51 Date of Most Recent Report 24 301 Responsible Products (Raw Materials) 28-29 102-52 Reporting Cycle 24 302 Energy 27,30 102-53 Contact Points for Questions Regarding 24 306 Waste 30-32 the Report 102-54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with t 24 Social he GRI Standards 403 Occupational Health & Safety 34 102-55 GRI Content Index 24 405-1B Employee Diversity & Inclusion 35 102-56 External Assurance 20 413-1 Operations with Local Community 33 Engagement, Impact Assessments, and MANAGEMENT APPROACH Development Programs Arab Women’s Wellbeing 36-38 103 Environmental 26 Childhood Development in the Middle East 39-41 103 Social 33 Empowering Youth in Lebanon 42-44 Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 47 Appendix A: Export Countries | Appendix B: Origin of Suppliers A B A B A B A B AFRICA Uganda • Romania • • Algeria • CARRIBEAN • Serbia • Angola • Zambia Dominican Republic • Slovakia • Benin • AMERICAS Grenada • Slovenia • • Burkina Faso • Haiti • Spain • • Cameroon • Brazil • Sweden • Chad • Canada • • Switzerland • Congo • Guatemala • Turkey • • Djibouti • Mexico • • EUROPE Ukraine • Egypt • • Paraguay • • Albania United Kingdom • • Eritrea • Peru • Andorra • Ethiopia • Suriname • Austria • Gabon • United States • • MIDDLE EAST & ARABIAN Belgium • • Gambia • Uruguay • Bosnia Herzegovina • • GULF Ghana • • Bulgaria • • Bahrain • • Guinea • ASIA Cyprus • • Iraq • • Ivory Coast • • • Czech Republic • • Jordan • • Kenya • Afghanistan Denmark • • Kuwait • • Liberia • Azerbaijan • Estonia • Lebanon • • Libya • China • Finland • • Oman • • Madagascar • India • • France • • Qatar • • Mali • Indonesia • Germany • • Saudi Arabia • • Mauritius • Japan • Greece • • United Arab Emirates • • Morocco • • Korea South • Malaysia • Hungary • Niger • Pakistan • • Ireland • • Nigeria • OCEANA Philippines • Italy • • Senegal • Russia • • Malta • • Australia • • Somalia • Singapore • Monaco • New Zealand • South Africa • • Sri Lanka • Netherlands • • Swaziland • Taiwan • Poland • • TOTAL 83 65 Tanzania • Thailand • Portugal • Togo • Vietnam • Tunisia • • Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 48 Appendix C: INDEVCO Code of Conduct 1. Purpose 4.1 CORE VALUES Honesty: Acting and interacting with integrity, transparency, and credibility with self and In line with INDEVCO Group’s culture and core INDEVCO Group is committed to maintaining and towards others values, and in recognition of its determination to developing its corporate culture and respecting the 7 core values addressed hereafter which have Modesty: Behaving and communicating with humility, promote business ethics and personal integrity in guided its business since the foundation. sincerity, and respect towards others different transactions and interactions, INDEVCO Group has adopted a new code of conduct that The Group’s success is tightly woven into the core Precision: Working to high standards of accuracy clarifies the standards of behavior that are expected values which influence the way “we do” our job and without losing sight of the big picture of all employees in the performance of their duties. the way “we think” about managing and leading our Servant Leadership: Sacrificing self-interest for the 2. Scope business. In a true sense, the core values are vital, essential, lasting and intended to be acted upon. good of the group and serving others equally This code of conduct is applicable to all INDEVCO Therefore, all employees need to stand by these 4.2 INCLUSION & DIVERSITY Group’s employees in all operating countries. All values which are capable to unite and inspire us to employees must abide by the Code, employment achieve a healthier, stronger and more productive INDEVCO Group believes in a fair, respectful, guidelines, and other applicable policies as a work environment, as well as empower and energize inclusive and safe work environment, where diversity condition of their employment within INDEVCO INDEVCO Group to earn customers and is valued and where unlawful discrimination, violence, Group. bullying, and harassment in any form are considered stakeholders’ confidence while growing unacceptable. 3. Responsibilities consistently and mounting toward higher achievements. At INDEVCO Group, employees shall be: It is the responsibility of the top management and senior executives, as well as the Human Resources INDEVCO Group expects all employees to embrace • Instrumental in creating a work environment and Administration departments across INDEVCO the 7 core values in business and personal where all members cooperate fully, find a Group to monitor the compliance with the Code and relationships: sense of belonging, and have opportunities to ensure its proper implementation among employees. Entrepreneurial Drive: Displaying self-motivation in engage with the comprehensive community; 4. Code of Conduct taking calculated risks and initiatives of a significant strategic contribution • Ready to integrate the principles of equality of employment opportunity, natural justice and The Code of Conduct sets the standards for “how we Family Spirit: Creating a feeling of belonging, inclusion into their day-to-day practices and work together” to develop and deliver our products supporting and caring for each other, and being behaviors. and services, “how we protect the repute” of there in times of need INDEVCO Group and its affiliates, and “how we deal 4.3 PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL BEHAVIOR with” customers, suppliers, distributors, and other Hard Work: Going the extra mile to overcome third parties. challenges, get things done, and achieve business Employees are to perform their duties diligently, objectives impartially and meticulously. Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 49 They are expected to: 4.5 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE • Employees shall not improperly cooperate or coordinate INDEVCO Group’s activities with Treat other team members, colleagues, visitors, suppliEmployees collectively share responsibility and commitcompetitors; they shall not offer or solicit improper ers, customers, stakeholders with the highest standards ment for maintaining a healthy and safe workplace in payments or gratuities in connection with the of professional integrity, courtesy, respect and sensitivity which the welfare and dignity of staff and visitors are held purchase of goods or services for INDEVCO Group or to their rights; uppermost by: the sales of its products or services; • Strive to keep up-to-date with advances and • Ensuring strict adherence to all legislative requirements • Employees, who have a financial interest in a changes for professional and behavioral and all policies relating to occupational health and company that is in a position to influence a contract development relevant to their areas of expertise; safety including, among others, INDEVCO No Smoking for business between that company and one of Policy; INDEVCO Group, should immediately declare this • Seek improvement in the proficiency and interest to their direct manager; effectiveness of the services and products • Taking reasonable care for the health and safety of they deliver; themselves and of other persons at their place of work; • Employees, who work with family members or with persons with whom they develop close personal • Build professional reputation on the merit of their • Immediately notifying their direct manager of any relationships inside INDEVCO Group must be aware services and shall not compete unfairly with others; work-related injury or accident; that this has the potential to create a conflict of • Stick to company policies and regulations and • Never compromising the health, safety or welfare of interest* and must bring the matter to the attention of cascade them; others through unnecessary physical risk, the their direct manager and take immediate steps to consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs. resolve the conflict; • Conform with INDEVCO Group’s commitment to sustainability. * Involved in a decision relating to the selection, 4.6 CHILD LABOR appointment or promotion of another; or in a 4.4 ACCOUNTABILITY There shall be no use of child labor which shall be exploitsupervisory relationship to another and is responsible ative or shall jeopardize the health, safety, educational for employment-related decisions; or in a personal or Employees shall act with honesty and integrity and in development or morals of any child. No person below the family relationship to another and have direct accordance with any professional standards and/or laws age of 16 is employed by our affiliates. If the local legal assessing responsibility and legislations that have application to the responsibilminimum age for work is higher than 16, we employ no ities they perform for or on behalf of INDEVCO Group • Before engaging in any activity, transaction or one younger than the legal minimum age. in line with the core values; relationship that might give rise to a conflict of interest, employees must seek review and approval 4.7 CONFLICT OF INTEREST • Employees shall adhere to the policies and from: procedures of INDEVCO Group and support the The conflict of interest is assessed in terms of situations decisions and directions of the top management and Presidents/EVPs for the divisional staff where employees’ private arrangements, benefits, interits delegated authority (refer to FCA); ests, personal circumstances or personal or family relationExecutive Directors for the business unit staff ships could, or could be perceived to, impact on the • Employees shall take responsibility for their actions performance of their duties. CEO for Head Office departments and decisions and ensure not to exceed the authority of their position. • Employees shall not compete or enter into any activity • Employees must fill the Acknowledgment and Pledge that may be in real or apparent conflict of interest with Form for Conflict of Interest and submit it to the INDEVCO Group; Administration/Personnel Department Table of Contents Chairman's Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Impact Social Impact GRI Content INDEX 50 4.8 PERSONAL BUSINESS • Employees shall not benefit from customers or/and any business relationship between the company suppliers by getting loans, services, benefits or/and and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates and any of its • Employees must not be engaged in any personal any personal courtesies; suppliers or customers. business as it will have an adverse effect on their job duties at INDEVCO Group • Employees may give or receive a gift which is 5. Breaches & Misconduct offered as part of a social, cultural or ceremonial • Before engaging in any family/personal business, practice only. In that case, the gift must be Reporting Process employees must seek review and approval from: reported to management and shall remain the This Code is designed to promote and enhance the property of the company; Presidents/EVPs for the divisional and business unit ethical behavior of INDEVCO Group’s employees in staff • If employees are offered a bribe, the incident must the workplace; thus, breaches of the Code’s aforebe reported to the relevant manager immediately; mentioned points are dealt with seriously and fairly. CEO for Head Office departments if employees are unsure how to respond to a gift of • Employees must report misconducts* and • Employees must fill the Acknowledgment and money, they should seek advice from their direct breaches of this Code to the management that is Pledge Form for Conflict of Interest and submit it to manager. responsible for the functional or organizational unit the Administration/Personnel Department • Employees shall protect company resources from in which they work; any willful damage or destruction; 4.9 GIFTS AND BENEFITS • INDEVCO Group will use their utmost endeavors • Employees shall secure prior approval of the to protect employees who in good faith and with • Employees have a responsibility to behave with management before using the company assets for good grounds report breaches to the Code of integrity and impartiality including responding community projects. Conduct; appropriately to offers of gifts, benefits and hospitality, including when travelling overseas on • If, upon inquiry, the purported disclosure pursuant 4.12 NON-COMPETITION business trips; to the breach of the Code of Conduct was • Employees shall agree that for two years following assessed as untrue and was made with malicious or • Employees or members of their immediate families their termination of employment: mischievous intent, the action disclosure will in shall not solicit or accept directly or indirectly, gifts, itself constitute misconduct and a breach of this entertainment, benefits, favors or other economic -T hey will not directly or indirectly engage in any Code; consideration from any person, group, private employment or private business that is in compebusiness, or public agency that may compromise or tition with INDEVCO Group’s affiliates; • Employees found to be in breach of this Code may affect the impartial performance of the employee’s face disciplinary action, up to and including duties; -T hey will not directly or indirectly, either individuimmediate dismissal. ally or as an agent, employee, director or owner, • Employees shall not seek or accept commissions or or otherwise on behalf of or in conjunction with *U  nacceptable, dishonest and deceptive behavior allowances, directly or indirectly, from contractors or any person, firm, corporation, or other entity, such as dereliction of duty, failure to comply with other parties dealing with clients or internal/external cause or attempt to cause any supplier or custominstructions, prejudicial action to the health or parties in connection with work. Employees shall not er of the company and/or its subsidiaries and safety of others, bullying, harassing, intimidating, request, propose, or accept a commission on a affiliates not to do business with the company or overbearing or physically or emotionally contingent basis under circumstances in which their otherwise interfere or attempt to interfere with threatening. judgment may be compromised; http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com
