Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Table of Contents Statement from the CEO .................................................... 4 About Kamstrup........................................... 5 Striving for sustainable development ............................. 6 Responsible solutions........................................................... 7 CSR Policy............................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption...................................................................... 8 Supply management................................. 11 Setting clear directions .................................................... 12 Modern Slavery Act ............................................................. 12 Supplier responsibilities ..................................................... 12 CSR audits............................................................................. 14 What did we do in 2017?..................................................... 14 What do we expect in 2018?.............................................. 14 Energy and environment.......................... 15 Striving for a sound environment ................................... 16 Certification ......................................................................... 16 Kamstrup impacts and procedures ................................ 17 What did we do in 2017?.................................................... 20 What do we expect in 2018? ............................................ 20 Working conditions................................... 23 We value our employees ................................................... 24 Certification......................................................................... 24 Safety.................................................................................... 25 Employee development .................................................... 26 What did we do in 2017?.................................................... 27 What do we expect in 2018?............................................. 27 2 About the report This is Kamstrup’s corporate social responsibility report In connection to the UN Global compact, we want to be for 2017. It is a report of the management’s account of the transparent in our communication about our environmencompany’s actions and goals within sustainability for 2017. tal impact. Thus, the purpose of Kamstrup’s CSR Report It has been written in accordance with the Danish Financial 2017 is to provide stakeholders with a clear impression of Statements Act §99a and covers both Kamstrup’s headour processes in regards to our production, transportation, quarters in Denmark, subsidiaries, and branches. It has environmental impacts, work environment, human rights, been confirmed by an independent auditor that the reporanti-corruption and how we handle our suppliers. Additioting complies with the UN Global Compact and The Danish nally, we assess the initiatives we take to counteract these Financial Statements Act. impacts. 3 CEO statement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is of importance to We are devoted to protecting human rights and have strict Kamstrup. The sustainable management of the earth’s scarprocedures and policies in place to ensure these are upheld ce resources are issues of serious global concern. Already, at all times. Kamstrup is a staunch advocate of the imporscarcity of clean drinking water affects many people across tance of employee wellbeing and takes great care to ensure the world and will affect the quality of life for future geneits team members are provided with everything they need rations. to be healthy, happy and productive. At Kamstrup, we are inspired to do better, which is why we must always take an At Kamstrup, we have the ambition to make a meaningful inward look at ourselves to identify the ways in which we as contribution to the promotion of greater environmental a company can perform better. responsibility. We do this through our intelligent metering solutions, which are arming organisations around the world Part of that process involves this CSR Report and the reporwith the tools they need to run smarter, more efficient busiting associated with the UN Global Compact. This helps us nesses while making quantifiable impacts on the conservato identify areas where we are falling short, putting a spottion of natural resources. light on the areas which need extra focus. The pages, which follow will celebrate some of our successes in 2017 and outWith our intelligent metering solutions, we have contributed line the areas where steps have been put in place to drive to optimising energy efficiency and reducing water loss Kamstrup forward into 2018 and beyond. around the world. We are very much aware of the challenges our customers are facing today and the challenges they will face in the future. We use that knowledge to create environmentally friendly technologies that enable our customers to provide solutions Kim Lehmann, CEO that are more responsible for the communities they serve. We actively advocate ethical behaviour from all of our stakeholders and uphold a zero tolerance policy regarding corruption of any kind. About Kamstrup About Kamstrup Striving for sustainable development We focus on advancing our performance within sustainable Data is value development and it serves as our inspiration to create innoKamstrup values data privacy and therefore we handle vative solutions, which can contribute to moving our custocustomer and employee data in a secure way. It is of great mers’ businesses forward. importance that Kamstrup complies with the legal requirements and sets a high standard when handling data and As we continue to work towards our goal of creating prodeveloping of new products. In that regard, we see it as our gress for others, our solutions are helping organisations all responsibility to develop secure solutions that ensure our over the world to optimise their efficiency, identify new opcustomers comply with regulations and the General Data portunities for growth and promote environmental responProtection Regulation. sibility. Continuously improving ourselves Preserving scarce resources Sustainable development and environmental responsibiliWe want to contribute to the global agenda of preserving ties are not new for us, but we want to improve ourselves the scarce resources of water and optimisation of energy constantly. We already have processes and product soluticonsumption. We do so by delivering intelligent solutions for ons that accommodate standards drawn by the UN in their energy and water. We provide solutions that can collect and Sustainable Developments Goals. We continuously work to analyse metering data, monitor the distribution network and integrate sustainability in our processes. detect leakages and waste in the network. We want to contribute to the global agenda of preserving the scarce resources of water and optimisation of energy consumption. Kamstrup offices 6 About Kamstrup Components Dealer End-user Human rights, quality, Anti-corruption, working Saving energy and water. working conditions, conditions and safety, Meters have long shelf life. anti-corruption, RoHS, energy, environment, Consumption insights. confict minerals. human rights. Production Transportation Disposal Human rights, working Fuel use and CO2 reduction, Return systems at conditions, equality, product safety, anti-corruption. Kamstrup, recycling quality, waste, reduction of of waste. energy, reduction of dangerous substances, reduction of waste water, packaging, reduction of waste. Kamstrup’s responsible solutions i In each of the steps in Kamstrup’s model for responsible solutions, we focus on ensuring sustainable solutions. Responsible solutions In each of the steps in Kamstrup’s model for responsible Conditions that benefit our employees solutions, we focus on ensuring sustainable solutions. NatuIn addition, we pride ourselves in complying with relevant rally, we are aware that our activities in the value chain have occupational health and safety legislation and we are dedian environmental impact. cated to having a high level of health, safety and wellbeing among our employees. Determined to reduce our impacts However, we strive and aim to reduce these impacts caused Alignment is key by our production, transport, use and end-of-life treatment However, we cannot keep track of our environmental impact of our products and services. At Kamstrup, we also actively without considering the entire supply chain. In that regard, work to reduce our environmental impact by reducing the use we have included a number of environmental as well as ethiof energy and water. It is important to us that our effect on cal requirements that we expect all our suppliers to live up to. the environment is as low as possible, which is why we aim to continuously increase our ability to recycle our waste. 7 About Kamstrup CSR Policy Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, Kamchallenges and undertake initiatives that promote greater strup has formulated a CSR policy. As a general rule, all new environmental responsibility. We also encourage the develemployees are presented with the policy to ensure they are opment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technoaware of it and adhere to it. logies. Finally, we are opposed all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. In accordance with the UN Global Compact, we support and respect the protection of human rights and we take every available action to prevent being involved in human rights exploitations. All forms of forced and compulsory labour as All these principles mentioned above are the foundation of well as child labour are completely unacceptable and must Kamstrup’s corporate social responsibility. Our CSR Policy be eliminated if it is occurring. In addition, we want to upis implemented in the organisation i.e. from our handling of hold the freedom of association and recognise the right to suppliers to sales, production and disposal of our products. create collectives. In respect of our current or future employees, we do not discriminate in terms of age, sex, race, sexual orientation, In addition, Country Managers of our subsidiaries and branches national origin, physical or mental ability, marital status, have signed a declaration stating that they will commit to financial or social status. Furthermore, we take pride in and uphold the principles of our CSR Policy. taking a precautionary approach to environmental Anti-corruption At Kamstrup, we are dedicated to operating without any briTherefore, it is obligatory for all new employees to be introbery or corruption. We do however acknowledge the possibiduced to our anti-corruption policy and be informed about lity of corruption taking place and have steps in place that our practices. In 2017, we trained our sourcing and sales perensure we are ready to take action against any violations of sonnel in anti-bribery, which is a procedure we will continue the Global Compact’s 10 Principles or the Sustainable Develto do moving forwards. Furthermore, Country Managers and opment Goals (SDG). Any association with either bribery or Sales Managers from subsidiaries and branches will be oblicorruption, we perceive as immoral, illegal and punishable. ged to sign a declaration stating that they understand and comply with the 10 principles of the Global Compact herein anti-corruption. We work actively against all forms of corruption, including We have also introduced a whistle-blower scheme that emextortion and bribery in all our practices. Our zero-tolerance ployees can use to notify of misconduct. Misconducts can towards corruption is incorporated in the corporate identity include criminal actions, submission of misleading informaand is stated in our CSR policy. Across our organisation, tion to authorities, serious breaches of safety standards and our employees are aware that it is unacceptable to engage can be reported to one’s manager, the Executive Board or in the receiving or giving gifts, loans, payments or other the Chairman. remuneration, which can incite dishonesty or illegal acts, or which may be perceived as an attempt to influence objectiAt Kamstrup, we have not identified any corruption in our ves of commercial decisions. business in 2017. The consequences of the aforementioned actions could have a detrimental effect on market shares, create a negative reputation and lack of trustworthiness. In addition, these actions can constitute a precedent. 8 Supply management Supply management Setting clear directions Working with different suppliers all around the world raises we stand for at Kamstrup. Therefore, we have drawn up various challenges regarding compliance with relevant regustandards that we oblige our suppliers to comply with. Read lations. It is important that we do not compromise with our more about our supply management in this section. policy, and therefore we set clear directions toward what Modern Slavery Act In accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act, we impose website, you will find our Slavery and Human Trafficking on our sub-suppliers strict standards and demands against Statement, where you can read more about how we take compulsory labour and human trafficking. On our corporate action against modern slavery. Supplier responsibilities Kamstrup is prioritising its CSR efforts and has systematithe company must confirm that it only delivers products in sed these efforts within CSR and supplier management with compliance with current legislation. special focus on the purchase of materials, semi-finished products, subcontracted activities and deliverables included Supplier obligations in Kamstrup’s product range. Kamstrup requires suppliers to consider the environmental aspects of their activities and have an environmental improCSR Supplier statement vement programme. The suppliers must demonstrate enviWe continuously work to reduce our impact on the environronmentally sound manufacturing processes and comply ment caused by our products and services. In order to do with current legislation. that, we need to look at the entire supply chain, which means that we need to be attentive to our suppliers and our partThe material content and way of disposal must be provided ners. Therefore, we demand that our suppliers exceedingly upon request. Likewise, the supplier is expected to reduce fulfil the requirements and standards we have formulated. the environmental impacts of transport wherever possible. Suppliers sign a statement covering the themes; environWe oblige our suppliers to comply with health and safety ment, anti-corruption, human rights, labour issues, REACH requirements in accordance with the UN Global Compact and conflict. They also confirm that they obey with our principles 1-6 about human rights and working conditions. Code of Conduct as defined in the CSR Policy. Additionally, CSR supplier statements • makes sure it is not complicit in human rights abuses • only delivers products in compliance with the RoHS II directive and is aware of the legal requirement that • does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour possibly prohibited materials and materials subject to declaration must, without prior request, be communi• does not use child labour cated to Kamstrup. • does not discriminate in respect of employment • only delivers products not containing: Substances and occupation listed in the REACH Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern for Authorisation – ECHA, as publis• complies with all relevant environmental and hed on the echa.europa.eu website “Conflict minerals” occupational health and safety laws as defined in Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and also • works against corruption in all its forms, including urge it’s sub suppliers to observe the above principles. extortion and bribery 12 Supply management CSR risk approach Region CSR Risk Moreover, we take a risk-based approach to our supply management. Our suppliers are categorised according to Europe 2 their business importance and to CSR risk. CSR risk refers North America 2 to the division of regions with stated CSR risk by the Danish South America 3 Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs. The scale is measured from 1 – 5 where five is the highest CSR risk. Africa 5 Business importance refers to the availability of the supply Southwest Asia 4 for Kamstrup on a scale from 1 – 4 with four being the most important suppliers. See table and figure. Central Asia 4 North Asia 4 East Asia 4 South Asia 4 Southeast Asia 4 Our suppliers are categorised according to their business importance and to CSR risk. Oceania 2 CSR risk refers to the division of regions with stated CSR risk by the Danish Ministry CSR risk in various regions of Business and Economic Affairs. (Danish Ministry of Business and Economic Affairs) CSR supplier Information document Kamstrup’s suppliers with a low CSR risk of 1-2 as well as a scheme must fill out a Kamstrup self-assessment report low Business Importance of 1-2 can be approved by signing containing various questions within human rights, environthe CSR Supplier Information document and by confirming ment, health and safety. compliance with our Code of Conduct described in our CSR Policy. If the self-assessment report is considered satisfactory, the supplier will be approved. However, if the self-assessment In addition to the CSR documentation described above, supreport is deemed unsatisfactory, a CSR audit will be carried pliers within the olive areas in the supplier categorisation out. Finally, if both the CSR risk and the Business Importance are high, a CSR audit will also be conducted. CSR Risk Priority HIGH Supplier information Supplier information 5 Code of conduct Code of conduct Self Assessment CSR Audit 4 3 Supplier information Code of conduct Supplier information Self Assessment 2 Code of conduct 1 LOW Business importance LOWHIGH 1 2 34 Supplier categorisation scheme 13 Supply management CSR audits All results from CSR audits are handled and evaluated the In addition, a Kamstrup employee will act as an observing same way as our quality audits and our Segregation of Dutiparty and coordinator between participating parties before, es (SoD), which ensures that any purchaser cannot impleduring and after the audit. ment a new supplier singlehandedly. If an audit results in workplace conditions assessment To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according reports, it is a requirement to formulate action plans and to local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with perform on-going evaluation of the action plans. This will an external company, to perform audits of suppliers. The ensure that all Kamstrup’s partners will provide a safe work purchase department at our headquarters coordinates all environment for all employees. audits performed by an external auditing company. What did we do in 2017? What do we expect in 2018? We have focused on handling suppliers’ CSR conditi• Continue handling suppliers’ CSR conditions incluons including CSR self-assessments and audits. ding CSR self-assessments and audits • Provide local support from China to follow-up on suppliers’ CSR impact • Update Kamstrup’s CSR procedures To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according to local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with an external company, to perform audits of suppliers. 14 Energy and environment Energy and environment Striving for a sound environment In accordance with our policy regarding energy and environOur environmental impact ment, it is our ambition to find ways of minimising our negaThe major environmental impacts from the production tive impact on the global environment. facilities at our headquarters in Denmark and the US are shown in the table below. The table also shows the impact We proactively take a plethora of sustainable measures to from service activities in Poland and France and our offices. reduce our environmental impact. Read more about our We have implemented procedures and instructions where achievements from 2017 and our goals for 2018 in this needed in order to manage our impacts – those that are section. both expected and unexpected. Type of impact Stilling, Atlanta, Poland Sweden, Norway, Finland, Germany, Denmark USA France Switzerland, Holland, Spain, China, (production) (production) (service) Russia, Czech Republic, Austria (offices) Electricity High Medium Low Low Heating Medium Low Low Low Water High Low Low Low Waste water High Low Low Low Waste High Medium Medium Low Materials High Low Low Low Emissions to air Medium Low None None Visual, noise and vibration Low Low None None Environmental impact at Kamstrup’s locations. Certification Since 1997, Kamstrup’s headquarters has been ISO 14001 Legislation certified and thereafter our locations in Norway, Sweden, We follow relevant legislation and contracted agreements Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Switzerland becawith stakeholders. We constantly work towards compliance. me certified as well. In 2017, we have implemented ISO In 2017, we got a wastewater permit for our new water meter 14001:2015 standard. We also make yearly energy reviews production facility. Kamstrup works in close collaboration complying with ISO 50001. External and internal audits are with Skanderborg municipality to ensure low impact on the held regularly and the general conclusion is that our envilocal surroundings. Our subsidiaries also review compliance ronmental management system is well implemented. obligations regularly. Since 1997, Kamstrup’s headquarters has been ISO 14001 certified and thereafter our locations in Norway, Sweden, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Switzerland became certified as well. 16 Energy and environment Kamstrup impacts and procedures Materials Our products are developed with the following guidelines in mind to ensure a sustainable approach: 1. Use a small number of different materials and as far as possible use materials that can be recycled 2. Avoid dangerous or poisonous substances and materials in both the product and in the production processes 3. Material types are identified according to WEEE rules 4. We use the crossed out bin symbol as far as possible on our products to ensure reuse of materials Instructions about disposal of worn out products can be found in either in the technical manual or in the catalogue sheet for the product. Processes We aim to minimise our environmental impact. Therefore, all our production processes and changes are planned with a minimal risk of environmental harm from unforeseen incidents. Emissions Kamstrup’s main process with environmental impact is to Air illustrated in figure to the left. Noise Kamstrup maintains procedures and emergency plans in case of unexpected events. The consequences of such events include fire from lithium batteries and pollution of our facility from oil spills. For that reason, our employees are Materials trained in emergency response. Energy Products Water A massive rainsquall can cause flooding of our facilities. We are in the process of constructing a retentive basin for Waste and rainwater. Waste to Waste recycling water In addition, we monitor and evaluate environmental performance enabling us to take action if irregularities occur. In 2017, we have had two environmental spills without any imKamstrup’s main environmental impact process. pact on Kamstrup’s facility or surround area. Our emergency plan was used and learnings registered. 17 Energy and environment Energy In 2017, a new council was formed called the Energy Group. In 2016 and 2017, part of the electricity usage can be attriThis group will be working on proactive ways to coordinate buted to construction work being carried out. and initiate activities reducing use of energy and water waste. Our total heat consumption has increased due to our new production unit and new office building. We use electricity for both production, administration and in the canteens. In 2017, our total electricity usage had Numbers also show that consumption of electricity and decreased compared to the usage from 2016. Due to a cold heating per produced meter has decreased in 2017. summer, our cooling equipment has been in use for a shorThis is illustrated below. ter time and additionally a new energy server room is in use. Electricity (kWh) per meter Consumption of energy per produced meter Heating 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 Water Kamstrup’s main water consumption is used in the testing The consumption of water per employee has increased of our products and for sanitary use. In 2017, we have produdue to our highly increased production, which is illustrated ced more products and we have employed more people. below. (m3) Water consumption per employee (m3) 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 18 Energy and environment Wastewater Waste Our wastewater comes mainly from test benches and saniWe optimise our waste disposal by sorting waste in more tary usage. Our wastewater contains small amounts of than 40 fractions. We co-operate closely with waste handremains from our meters tested with water. lers to find new ways to reuse and recycle our waste. We analyse our wastewater yearly to monitor and act on the In 2017, we have reduced the total amount of waste and results. The authorities agree that we keep an acceptable Kamstrup has also increased the percentage of waste for level of contamination in the water. reuse and recycling. We have had by far the smallest amount of waste from meters, but more waste in terms of wood waste and cardboard. See table below. Waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Recycling (%) 36 49 52 61 50 74 69 72 Incineration (%) 63 50 47 38 49 25 31 27 Deposit (%) 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Total ton 197 256 289 336 296 541 568 532 Waste from production facilities at Kamstrup headquarters Carbon footprint Upstream We calculate the carbon footprint of Kamstrup’s products Resource extraction by using the internationally recognised program SimaPro. Suppliers Transport In addition, by using the life-cycle assessment (LCA) we can End of life measure and critique our environmental impact associated Disposal with all the stages of the product’s lifetime from raw mateRecycling Production rial extraction through materials processing, manufacturing, Manufacturing Packaging distribution, use, repair and maintenance, and disposal or recycling. By following LCAs, we can avoid a narrow outlook on environmental concerns. Use phase Consumer operations Distribution Standby mode Shipping Electricity Heat and Water Retail meters cooling meters meters Carbon footprint Ton CO2eq per 0,04-0,14 0,025-0,08 0,02-0,054 Carbon footprint of Kamstrup products. product Carbon footprint of our selection of products based on the raw materials phase to end-of-life and disposal phase, packaging material, 12 years of operation and 500 km. 19 Energy and environment What did we do in 2017? What do we expect in 2018? Our environmental goals include energy reduction In 2018, we will continue to measure and map our through activities in our production processes and energy use across our facilities with the aim of idenmapping of our kitchen waste for incineration to tifying further areas where reductions can be made. investigate whether further sorting is needed. Furthermore, we have planned several initiatives to achieve our goal to reduce energy and water consumption at our headquarters. In 2017, we have saved energy and reduced our environmental impact by: • Disposing of waste from canteens for use in fertiliser We are planning to: • Reducing electricity usage for leaks in the system • Produce more than 2 million meters to help save with pressured air energy and water • Reducing our pressure of pressured air • Install new ventilation equipment in our electricity • Optimising energy use from the pumps in our meter production unit ventilation system • Install LED lighting in our electricity and heat meter • Initiating an energy saving project with automatic production units power-off solutions at workstations in our produc• Run a campaign focusing on suggestions from tion facilities employees for energy reduction • Install automatic power-off equipment at work stations in our production facilities Other environmental initiatives included: • Repair leaks in our systems with pressured air • Implementation of ISO 14001 (2015 standard) • Establish one or more retentive basins to take • Training in the handling of dangerous goods preventive measures against flooding outside our facilities • Agreement with safety advisor for dangerous goods to help secure compliance • Meetings in the Energy Group to follow up on KPIs We are still working on implementing our goal of reducing the • Investigation of possibilities for reduction of energy used at the workstations in our production facilities. standby use in equipment in our production Kamstrup employees are encouraged to only use what • Conducted “Energy walks” to identify further they need, and engage in waste sorting at their respective possibilities for energy reduction locations. • Purchase of equipment to identify leaks in system with pressured air • Test of emergency plan and equipment for environmental spills • Risk assessments of environmental impact 20 Working conditions Working conditions We value our employees In accordance with our Occupational, Health and Safety CSR associated risks Policy, we aim to be a company with a high level of health, Our subsidiaries and branches, which primarily work in admisafety and wellbeing for all employees. We work hard to nistrative capacities and visit customers, face risks mainly accomplish that by preventing damages, work-related associated with design of work places and with driving. illnesses and accidents related to any of our activities. In 2017, no consequences of these risks i.e. poor physical In this section, you can read about our accomplishments work environment or accidents have been recorded at our from 2017, our goals for 2018 and more details about our subsidairies or branches. Kamstrup handles these risks by efforts to accommodate UN Global Compact principles on complying with legislation and by regular follow-ups during working conditions. audits. Providing a healthy and safe environment We strive to ensure our employees are provided with a healthy and safe work environment through a certified occupational health management system. Furthermore, our policy is to contribute to creating working conditions that comply with relevant legislation and observe applicable legislation and regulations. All employees shall be given the opportunity to develop skills required to handle their tasks and for future career options. Certification We pride ourselves in complying with relevant occupational and safety legislation. Therefore, we conduct work environment and safety assessments of our processes with our standard occupational health and safety management system (OHSAS 18001). We acquired the recertification of OHSAS 18001 in November 2016. Being OHSAS certified ensures us approval from the work environment council. In 2019, we expect the OHSAS 18001 standard to be replaced with ISO 45001. 24 Working conditions Safety We have based our production processes on precautionary In terms of workplace assessment, both the psychical safemeasures to ensure that there is no special risk of harm ty and the mental work environment is being assessed and from unforeseen incidents. it is effectuated every third year. However, if there is any suspicion of deviation from our safety and wellbeing policy, New methods to ensure safety which cannot be corrected within 14 days, a workplace Towards the end of 2016, we started to increase our focus assessment must and will be executed at once. on recording near miss incidents. We have continued to focus on recording accidents and near misses and in the table beSubstance management low you can see the collected totals from when we started We handle dangerous substances by storing them in special collecting data more frequently. safe rooms and lockers. The dangerous substances in question that we work with are oil, chemical waste and flammable The purpose of conducting safety assessments is to prevent liquids. unsuitable indoor climates, noise and stress. Safety assessments are carried out regularly, and help us to significantly reduce heavy lifting, pushing and pulling. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Near miss incidents 5 6 1 1 6 7 22 50 47 Accidents per 1,000,000 5 8 3 3 12 6 6 5 4 working hours Collected totals. The purpose of conducting safety assessments is to prevent unsuitable indoor climates, noise and stress. Safety assessments are carried out regularly, and help us to significantly reduce heavy lifting, pushing and pulling. 25 Working conditions Employee development In 2017, we gained 133 new employees resulting in a signifiAcademy is an opportunity for all Kamstrup employees to cant net-increase on 2016. We now have 1,260 employees attend courses to educate themselves further. We plan to whereof 1,014 of them are located at our headquarters in arrange more courses that can educate our employees and Denmark. motivate them to work effectively. Employee Satisfaction Survey Job rotation The Employee Satisfaction Survey has been conducted At Kamstrup, we welcome job rotation and think of it as a since 2010 in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, German, Austria part of our corporate identity. We believe that seeking a and Switzerland. The results for 2017 have shown overall job elsewhere within Kamstrup is a token of loyalty to the satisfaction from the organisation and there has been some company. Job rotation gives the opportunity of learning and improvement in certain areas compared to 2016. However, keeps us innovative and agile. there are always practices that can be improved, and therefore will be focusing on some specific areas going forward in 2018. We want to be a dynamic company with a wide range of Health and wellbeing opportunities for career development. Thus, job rotation It is of the utmost importance to have a healthy work envigives the opportunity to learn new skills and gain experienronment. Good health equals happier and more productive ces in new positions. It is important for us to be open to this employees, which in the end leads to a better work environkind of development, because we want to keep our capable ment. Therefore, we want to encourage our employees to employees when they seek new challenges. utilise the activities we offer at Kamstrup’s own premises such as our Fitness and Health Centre. As a part of our well-being initiative, we offer all employees Every manager at Kamstrup must support job rotation at our headquarters the opportunity to get a free health across the company, and all jobs are advertised on the check. We believe that our employees must be healthy and Intranet. A good manager is one who contributes to the happy to be productive and work effectively. development of the employees making them capable of valuable contributions in other departments as well as in Educating and motivating our employees the current department. It is essential to have a skilled and well-educated workforce. Therefore, all new employees go through an introduction programme when they join Kamstrup. In addition, Kamstrup It is of the utmost importance to have a healthy work environment. Good health equals happier and more productive employees, which in the end leads to a better work environment. 26 Working conditions What did we do in 2017? What do we expect in 2018? In our 2016 CSR Report, we said our goal for 2017 It is always our ambition to make sure we provide was to continuously develop our employees and our a healthy and safe working environment for all of organisation as a whole. our employees. We want to continue expanding our company in terms of acquiring talented people that can develop and push Kamstrup forward. Listed below you will find the accomplishments from 2017: Our 2018 goals are: • We have had 53 interns during 2017 divided across the divisions at Kamstrup headquarters. Following • A better result on the psychological work environthe completion of the internships, two thirds of the ment surveys compared to last year interns were employed by us. • Zero non-conformances on the layout of designated • Kamstrup Academy has held 76 courses for internal workstations or equipment (CE marking) employees • Zero harassment cases • We have entered various sponsorships supporting health and sports activities in local communities • At least three safety inspections in all areas in 2018 • We participated in the initiative Girls’ Day in Science • At least one work environment campaign at Kamthat motivates females to become engineers, develstrup in 2018 opers etc. • Attract top candidates to our company within the • We gained 133 new employees branch of natural science e.g. IT, technology, development etc. • Organise more courses with Kamstrup Academy to make our brilliant employees even better The Working Environment Committee and the HR Department will follow up on the goals and reassemble for on-going evaluation of the seven goals. As of January 1, 2018, we are using a system to register all accidents and near misses. This registration system will enable us to identify and reduce the risk of accidents, take preventive actions and prepare us for any accidents or incidents there might be. We want to continue expanding our company in terms of acquiring talented people that can develop and push Kamstrup forward. 27 Think forward Kamstrup A/S Industrivej 28, Stilling DK-8660 Skanderborg T: +45 89 93 10 00 F: +45 89 93 10 01 info@kamstrup.dk kamstrup.com
