Dai-ichi Life Holdings Sustainability Report 2017 Message from the President Internal Control over Financial 62 Reporting Message from the President 1 Information Property Protection 63 Handling of Antisocial Forces 64 Group Mission and DSR Management Internal Audit 66 *URXS0LVVLRQ9LVLRQDQG9DOXHV 4 +XPDQ5LJKWV$ZDUHQHVV 67 DSR Management 7 Stakeholder Communication Group Sustainability and Material Issues Stakeholder Communication 69 *URXS6XVWDLQDELOLW\$SSURDFK 8 6WDNHKROGHU'LDORJXH 70 Structure 10 Customers 75 0DWHULDO,VVXHV 12 Shareholders and Investors 76 3URFHVVIRU,GHQWLI\LQJ0DWHULDO,VVXHV 13 Community and Society 78 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU&XVWRPHUV 15 Business Partners 80 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRUDQ$FFRPPRGDWLQJ 18 Employees 81 :RUN(QYLURQPHQW ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQW 21 ：6RFLHW\ Relevant Materials ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU6RFLHW\DQG(QYLURQPHQW 28 GRI Content Index 83 ：(QYLURQPHQW ,62 107 ,QLWLDWLYHVIRU+HDOWK 32 6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQW*RDOV 6'*V 112 5HFRJQLWLRQIURP6RFLHW\ 37 Sustainability Data 116 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ([WHUQDO,QLWLDWLYHV 43 Governance %DVLF$SSURDFKWR&RUSRUDWH 47 GoYHUQDQFH &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH6WUXFWXUH 48 ,QIRUPDWLRQ'LVFORVXUH 53 (TXLW\KROGLQJVRWKHUWKDQWKRVHKHOG 54 VROHO\IRUWKHSXUSRVHRILQYHVWPHQW ,QWHUQDO&RQWURO 55 &RPSOLDQFH 56 5LVN0DQDJHPHQW 58 (QVXULQJ$SSURSULDWH2SHUDWLRQVDW 61 *URXS&RPSDQLHV ※7KLV3')ILOHFRQWDLQVHDFKSDJHIURP'DLLFKL/LIH+ROGLQJV‫ތ‬VFRUSRUDWHZHEVLWH 8SORDGHGRQ2FWREHU 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW Message from the President Seiji Inagaki President and Representative Director Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. Peace of Mind. In Communities and around the World. The Dai-ichi Life Group has constantly pursued what's best for its customers and for society over its long history. This approach is now represented by our Group Mission By your side, for life and embraced by everyone even when our businesses have expanded worldwide. This has been made possible by the unwavering commitment of our predecessors to constantly innovate. Having assumed the position as president in April 2017, my mission is to ensure we pass on this approach to pursue what's best for creating the future for our customers and society. At the same time, my role is to lead further innovation efforts together with the Group's leadership team. The Group adopted the mediumto long-term vision Peace of mind. In communities and around the world when it started the medium-term management plan, D-Ambitious, in fiscal 2015. Our goal is to become an insurance company that delivers what's best for every community and country where we operate and offers peace of mind to every customer. With this goal in mind, we are working group-wide to take on the challenges needed to achieve this vision. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/president/message.html 1 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW Achieved Record High Profits Driven by Three Growth Engines Fiscal 2016, the second year of our medium-term management plan, D-Ambitious, was represented by a challenging business climate with the Bank of Japan's introduction of a negative interest rate policy and worldwide political and economic uncertainty. Nevertheless, the Dai-ichi Life Group's three growth engines (the domestic life insurance business, the overseas life insurance business, and the asset management business) were able to generate solid results on the back of the diversification of its businesses and geographic coverage as well as optimal risk controls. Even today, we are moving forward with our growth strategy. Fiscal 2016 marked the sixth consecutive year the Dai-ichi Life Group has posted an increase in profits and a record high since our share listing. We also increased shareholder dividends for the fourth consecutive year as a result of our efforts to enhance shareholder returns. Due to broad changes in the business climate since we started D-Ambitious, we decided to make changes and revised certain targets. We believe these are necessary in order to carry out sustained value creation by implementing our growth strategy with a mediumto long-term perspective, without being affected by short-term economic volatility. The fundamental aspects of the Dai-ichi Life Group's growth strategy remain unchanged. We will also firmly maintain the target of a 40% total payout ratio. Toward Sustainable Growth in the Future Leveraging Our Ability to Take Advantage of Change The world is changing rapidly and growing more complex with advancements in science and technology. As a result, as symbolized by the term C to B (consumer-to-business), we have entered an era where customers with diverse values drive corporate activities and companies that fail to address the needs of these customers will be unable to grow. Now is precisely the time to evolve the spirit of innovation we have cultivated. We take advantage of the changes by foreseeing future trends and forge the future. With strong conviction, we will achieve further growth by forging the future through innovation for our customers with unsurpassed speed and with a customer-centered approach. Pursuing Further Value Creation and Group Synergies How do we forge the future through innovation? We believe it is achievable through strengthening the businesses that comprise the three growth engines and introduction of InsTech, which refers to initiatives aimed at new innovation creation unique to the life insurance business, collectively as a group. In the domestic life insurance business, while keeping an eye on the further diversification and growing sophistication of customer needs, we are engaged in various initiatives including the development of our sales rep channels, expansion of the insurance agent channel, and development of competitive products and services at our three brands. We will also quickly begin activities to raise efficiencies utilizing analysis of big data, improve productivity using our advanced consulting capabilities, and enhance competitiveness by providing new added value focused on health. In the overseas life insurance business, we will work to develop new channels and make investments in order to support organic growth to boost earnings in the United States and Australia. We will also aim for further growth in Asian countries by examining the potential for expanding into the Mekong region, which is a promising growth market of the future, ahead of our peers. In the asset management business, which is growing worldwide, we have established a global trilateral structure led by Asset Management One and Janus Henderson that covers Japan, the United States, and Europe, with an eye on further market growth. We will aim to achieve robust earnings growth supported by complementing the business in each market and achieving synergies of each company. Additionally, in terms of InsTech, we will combine the vast amount of customer data retained by the Group with outside data to lead the industry in providing new value in products and services, in order to offer peace of mind to customers, whose needs are expected to become more diverse in the future. The benefits of transitioning to a holding company structure will be leveraged when we forge the future with innovation. In addition to the flexible allocation of management resources and quicker decision-making at Group companies, we will pursue growth by utilizing the value creation synergies produced by exchanging diverse and talented personnel across the Group and sharing best practices. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/president/message.html 2 0HVVDJHIURPWKH3UHVLGHQW Lastly We will implement our various strategies with a mediumto long-term perspective while further reinforcing our group structure so that we are able to tackle the changes of tomorrow and forge the future through innovation. I kindly ask for your continuing support and guidance of the Dai-ichi Life Group as we move forward. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/president/message.html 3 Group Mission, Vision and Values｜Group Mission and DSR Management Group Mission, Vision and Values The Group companies contribute to comfortable lives with peace of mind and the development of local communities in their respective regions and countries, providing life insurance and related services by sharing the Group's principles (Mission, Vision and Values). We strive to maximize the value of the Group and aim for sustainable growth by sharing the Group's strategies with each company, moving forward together in the same direction. Group Mission, Vision and Values (1 min. 46 sec. (12,962KB)) Mission By your side, for life Since our foundation in 1902, the Dai-ichi Life Group has always put our customers first. This philosophy continues to guide us as we move forward. We contribute to local communities by passing on peace of mind through the provision of life insurance and related services. As part of the Dai-ichi Life Group, all our companies will continue to stand by the side of our customers and their loved ones, for life. History http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/group/mission.html 4 Group Mission, Vision and Values｜Group Mission and DSR Management Vision Thinking People First We aim to be a company that thinks of people first, from the following four perspectives, aspiring to become the most highly regarded life insurance company by customers. First in Quality First in Productivity First in Vital and Energetic Employees First in Growth Potential Values The Dai-ichi Life Group will help build a sustainable society by adopting its corporate action principles DSR Charter so it can continue to meet the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors, and employees. DSR stands for Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility, a unique framework for using the PDCA cycle company-wide to continually improve management quality and satisfy our social responsibilities to all stakeholders, while increasing the corporate value of the Dai-ichi Life Group. &XVWRPHUVDWLVIDFWLRQ We provide high-quality products and services with the intention of standing by the side of our customers for life. Everything we do is designed to exceed our customer's needs and deliver customer satisfaction. &RPPXQLFDWLRQ We hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders and sincerely accept their opinions, reflecting them in our corporate management. &RPSOLDQFH We set the bar high for ethical standards and maintain full compliance in all our business activities. We respect privacy and fully enforce the protection and management of personal information. 5HVSHFWIRUKXPDQULJKWV We respect the culture and customs of every country and region, always operating in a way that contributes to local development. We also respect human rights and proactively operate in a way that reflects this. 'LYHUVLW\ ,QFOXVLRQ We actively cultivate human resources by ensuring a rewarding work environment in which diversified human resources can play an active role. (QYLURQPHQWDOSURWHFWLRQ We actively engage in environmental protection on a daily basis, recognizing that preserving the global environment is our social responsibility. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/group/mission.html 5 Group Mission, Vision and Values｜Group Mission and DSR Management 6RFLDOFRQWULEXWLRQ We head social action programs, growing together with communities as an active corporate citizen. 3URPRWLQJKHDOWK We manage the Company to help improve the health of the people in our local communities. We also promote the mental and physical health of our employees. &UHDWLQJVXVWDLQDEOHFRUSRUDWHYDOXH Based on the eight principles above, we are working to create sustainable corporate value by effectively using our management resources, improving the productivity of our business, and maintaining and strengthening our financial base. For sustainability and sustainable evolution of society Explanation of the Group Logo The logo depicts the form of a shield used in ancient times on which a design expressing earth is featured. This is an expression of the commitment of the Dai-ichi Life Group's companies to protecting customers from disasters through concerted efforts in their global operations. In addition, the upward curving latitudinal line of the earth expresses the bright future of our customers and the Dai-ichi Life Group's determination to grow in order to continue standing by the side of our customers for life. Going forward, we will continue to stand by the side of our customers and their loved ones, for life, and make concerted efforts to deliver Peace of mind. In communities and around the world. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/group/mission.html 6 DSR Management｜Group Mission and DSR Management DSR Management In 1998 we launched Business Quality Improvement Activities that were expected to enhance the quality of operations from customers' diverse points of view and in 2001 became the first financial institution to receive the Japan Quality Award. After winning the award, we worked on consistently improving management quality even in the event of replacement of top management by shifting from CSR management to DSR management, which focuses on leveraging our unique capabilities, on occasion of our IPO, in part to evolve our efforts. As a result of continuing such activities, the organization has now become a place where each employee can think “outside the box” and make steadfast efforts to improve with an eye to what is best for customers. In addition, sharing favorable examples of DSR management and utilizing them have led to efficient problem solving and have accelerated recent growth of the Dai-ichi Life Group. We will create value continuously while evolving DSR management in the future. Changes in Business Quality Improvement Activities Each employee supports DSR management Share and recognize favorable examples of DSR (DSR Convention) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/group/dsr.html 7 Group Sustainability Approach｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Group Sustainability Approach The Dai-ichi Life Group adopts Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter) as important values that serve as a guide to employee behavior. These principles constitute guidelines for aiming at the sustainability of the Dai-ichi Life Group and the value chain based around the Dai-ichi Life Group, in addition to the sustainability of the earth and society, thus representing our basic policy. Values (Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter) The Dai-ichi Life Group has defined a DSR Charter, stating its corporate action principles for responding to the expectations of customers, society, shareholders, investors, and employees, and contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. DSR stands for Dai-ichi’s Social Responsibility, a unique framework for using the PDCA cycle company-wide to continually improve management quality and satisfy our social responsibilities to all stakeholders, while at the same time increasing the corporate value of the Daiichi Life Group. Customer satisfaction We provide high-quality products and services with the intention of standing by the side of our customers for life. Everything we do is designed to exceed our customer's needs and deliver customer satisfaction. Communication We hold ourselves accountable to our stakeholders and sincerely accept their opinions, reflecting them in our corporate management. Compliance We set the bar high for ethical standards and maintain full compliance in all our business activities. We respect privacy and fully enforce the protection and management of personal information. Respect to human rights We respect the culture and customs of every country and region, always operating in a way that contributes to local development. We also respect human rights and proactively operate in a way that reflects this. Diversity & Inclusion We actively cultivate human resources by ensuring a rewarding work environment in which diversified human resources can play an active role. Environmental protection We actively engage in environmental protection on a daily basis, recognizing that preserving the global environment is our social responsibility. Social contribution We head social action programs, growing together with communities as an active corporate citizen. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/attitude.html 8 Group Sustainability Approach｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Promoting health We manage the Company to help improve the health of the people in our local communities. We also promote the mental and physical health of our employees. Creating sustainable corporate value Based on the eight principles above, we are working to create sustainable corporate value by effectively using our management resources, improving the productivity of our business, and maintaining and strengthening our financial base. The Dai-ichi Life Group's Vision The Dai-ichi Life Group wishes to continue standing by the side of our customers at all times under our group mission “By Your Side, For Life”. To this end, we aim to create sustainable value and achieve growth for the Dai-ichi Life Group by seeking to achieve the Group vision “Thinking People First” and to be an entity that will continue to be selected by customers. In addition, we will contribute to the sustainable development of the community and society by fulfilling our social responsibilities through the life insurance business, while making maximum use of the Dai-ichi Life Group's management resources. Group Mission, Vision and Values DSR Management http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/attitude.html 9 Structure｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Structure Group Management Promotion System At the Dai-chi Life Group, the Committee for Dai-ichi Group's Social Responsibility Promotion is established to promote initiatives across the Group that contribute to continuously creating value for the Dai-chi Life Group and continuously developing local communities and society Furthermore, regarding matters discussed at the Committee, a reporting and instruction coordination system is established between the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board as required. Under the Committee's umbrella, special committees are established to address each of the themes deemed important to the Dai-chi Life . Group to increase the effectiveness of each initiative. By sharing and standardizing examples of initiatives among Group companies, we are aiming to further step up activities by demonstrating the synergistic effects of the Group. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/promote.html 10 Structure｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Roles of the Special Committees Special committees are established to address each of the themes deemed important to the Dai-chi Life Group to increase the effectiveness of each initiative. Futhermore, the matters discussed at Special Committees are reported to the Committee for Dai-ichi Group's Social Responsibility Promotion. Customer First Special Committee The Customer First Special Committee is required to use customer feedback collected extensively to improve operations. The committee focuses on examining and discussing specific measures to improve customer satisfaction (CS) and establishing systems to properly reflect its findings in business operations. The Director responsible for improving customer satisfaction chairs the committee. Work Smart Special Committee The Work Smart Special Committee aims to create a healthy, vibrant and positive workplace environment and to maximize added value for customers based on the Customer First principle. The committee examines and discussed specific measures to improve productivity and shares the initiatives of each business unit with other business units. The Director responsible for HR chairs the committee. Social Relation Special Committee The Social Relation Special Committee aims to realize the provision of new value to ensure that the Dai-ichi Life Group continues to be chosen by community and society. The committee examines and discusses issues with an eye to delivering initiatives that will solve social problems and creating businesses and ideas with emphasis on social value. The Director responsible for CSR activities chairs the committee. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/promote.html 11 Material Issues｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Material Issues Selection of Material Issues The life insurance business that the Dai-ichi Life Group performs is the business with high levels of public and social responsibilities for playing a role of complementing the social security system. AT the same time, it is expected to maintain stable growth with its flexible actions against various business-environmental changes. To meet these expectations and demands, we have now identified four material issues through intensive dialogues with stakeholders, keeping the Group's growth strategy and business activities, and management resources for supporting such strategy and resources, and the relationships with local communities in mind. These four material issues are essential for enabling us to take cross-departmental perspectives throughout the Group’s business activities, and to perform our growth strategy by taking full advantage of Group synergy. View the details of the selection process for material issues Material Issues of the Dai-ichi Life Group Specific initiatives related to material issues to the Dai-ichi Life Group are introduced. View details of the roles of the four Special Committees Initiatives for Customers (material issue: quality Initiatives for an Accommodating Work assurance promotion) Environment (material issue: employee satisfaction and diversity & inclusion) Initiatives for Society and Environment Initiatives for Health (material issue: promoting (material issue: social contribution and health) environment) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/index.html 12 Process for Identifying Material Issues｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Process for Identifying Material Issues Selection of Material Issues Step1 We organized the relevant issues into 23 categories of issues based on social issues indicated by Ascertaining and the United Nations Global Compact, ISO26000, GRI Guideline, etc. with the Dai-ichi Life Group's organizing the issues Mission, Vision and Values as the base. Step2 Regarding the 23 categories above, material categories to the Dai-ichi Life Group were identified Analysis of degree of from the perspectives of both the Group and stakeholders. Thereafter, categories deemed material importance and by both the Dai-ichi Life Group and stakeholders were integrated into issues to be focused on in establishment of material DSR management and established as material issues of the Group. issues For the identified material issues, we keep continuous dialogues with our stakeholders. In addition, Step3 we review material issues if needed, taking our Group's business status, influence of our business Dialogues and Review of activities, and changes in stakeholder interest matters into account. Centering on such PDCA (Planthe issues Do-Check-Action), we strive to establish values for customers and society through our core business, and achieve sustainable growth as a company. The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/process.html 13 Process for Identifying Material Issues｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Mapping of Material Issues http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/process.html 14 Initiatives for Customers｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Customers Basic Policy Adopting By your side, for life as our Group Mission, the Dai-ichi Life Group seeks to provide high-quality products and services that pursue customer satisfaction by standing by the side of our customers. To ﬂexibly respond to the diversifying needs of customers, the Group will continue making a united eﬀort in the future while taking advantage of the characteristics of each company. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Eﬀort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2014 2015 2016 Customer Satisfaction Total percentage of 70.7% 70.9% 71.6% Improvement from Survey responses ( Very satisﬁed, previous year Percentage of aﬃrmative Satisﬁed, Somewhat response to overall satisﬁed ) in the web-based satisfaction survey of individual customers Number of complaints 51,253 46,929 43,943 -* * We make eﬀorts in operational process improvements by reﬂecting customer feedback, but do not set quantitative targets. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/customer.html 15 Initiatives for Customers｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Speciﬁc Activities Initiatives for Listening to Customer Feedback At Dai-ichi Life, customer feedback is collected through various contact points. We hold roundtable conferences with customers to listen directly to the opinions and requests of customers in order to improve our products and services and conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey performed by an outside agency. Roundtable Conference with Customers At Dai-ichi Life, we hold roundtable conferences with customers at branch ofﬁces on a regular basis so that we can listen to the opinions and requests of our customers directly for the purpose of improving our products and services. At actual roundtable conferences, we receive many requests and opinions concerning the Total Life Plan Report, product development, and response to elderly residents. In addition, the explanation of management by our executives has been well received by customers. We are intent on continuing enhancing the roundtable conferences and reﬂecting the feedback therefrom in improvements to our business operations. Dai-ichi Life website (Customers Roundtable Session) Customer Satisfaction Survey At Dai-ichi Life, we conduct a customer satisfaction survey to measure the degree to which we are attaining our goal of Maximize Customer Satisfaction, as set forth in our basic management policy. To be speciﬁc, we determine customer satisfaction through a survey performed by an outside agency, covering individual and corporate customers, and use the survey results for initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. We will continue understanding customer satisfaction and use our understanding for initiatives aimed at further improving customer satisfaction. Dai-ichi Life website (Customer Satisfaction Survey) Initiatives for Utilizing Customer Feedback Incorporating Customer Feedback into Management and Operations We have introduced a system to incorporate customer feedback collected extensively into management and operations. For detailed initiatives, please see the website of each company. Click here for initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Click here for initiatives at Dai-ichi Frontier Life (Japanese) Click here for initiatives at Neo First Life (Japanese) Main Examples of Improvements Based on Customer Feedback We make various improvements by listening to customer feedback. Speciﬁc examples of improvements are provided below. Initiatives at Dai-ichi Life Initiatives at Dai-ichi Frontier Life (Japanese) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/customer.html 16 Initiatives for Customers｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Incorporating Feedback from Society In an eﬀort to receive opinions from a consumer-based perspective, Dai-ichi Life employs a Consumer Focus Group and has established the Advisory Committee for Business Quality to reﬂect their opinions in improvements in its business operations. Advisory Committee for Business Quality At Dai-ichi Life, we established the Advisory Committee for Business Quality in 2006 as an advisory board to the Customer First Special Committee for receiving opinions from a consumer-based perspective. More speciﬁcally, we consult with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality on issues discussed at the Quality Assurance Promotion Special Committee, with the opinions obtained reﬂected in improvements to our business operations. The Beneﬁts and Claims Payments Screening Committee was merged with the Advisory Committee for Business Quality in ﬁscal 2012 and now the committee also addresses matters concerning the management of insurance payouts. We will continue receiving opinions from a consumer-based perspective to further promote improvements to our business operations. Consumer Focus Group Program At Dai-ichi Life, we have been operating the Consumer Focus Group Program since 1984 in an eﬀort to listen to the opinions of our consumers and we have experts in consumer issues, advisers at consumer centers and advisory specialists for consumers' af fairs assist us as consumer monitors. We receive opinions and advice from various perspectives on our products and services through roundtable conferences in major cities throughout Japan and reﬂect them in the improvement of our business operations. * Advisory Specialists for Consumers' Aﬀairs: Persons accredited by the Prime Minister of Japan and Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry to develop human resources that can serve as a pipeline between companies and consumers. We have been an active proponent of this accreditation program, with 494 employees currently holding the designation (As of April 2017). Visits to the National Consumer Aﬀairs Center of Japan At Dai-ichi Life, General Managers of our branch oﬃces regularly visit some 180 locations of the National Consumer Aﬀairs Center of Japan for the purpose of providing information on life insurance and Dai-ichi Life as well as obtaining information on inquiries and complaints related to life insurance brought up locally and receiving feedback from consultants, and report the requests collected to the Executive Management Board. We will continue visiting the National Consumer Aﬀairs Center of Japan and push forward eﬀorts to build a relationship of trust in the community. Dai-ichi Life website (Advisory Committee for Business Quality/Consumer Focus Group/Visit to Consumer Aﬀairs Center http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/customer.html 17 Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment -Diversity & InclusionBasic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group aims to realize the group vision of Thinking People First by practicing DSR management, while sharing Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter) among all the employees of the Dai-ichi Life Group, to practice Group Misson of By your side, for life. We also believe that it is important to create values as an organization on the whole by mutually accepting diversity (inclusion) and active roles played by various individuals will become the basis for creating these new values. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of the Dai-ihi Life Holdings and the domestic life insurance group (Dai-ichi Life, Dai-ichi Frontier Life, Neo First Life) are as follows. Eﬀort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of females Percentage of females in 22.5% 23.3% 24.2% April 2018 in managerial posts managerial positions 25% or more (department head or equivalent and section chief or equivalent) as of April 1 of each ﬁscal year Percentage of Percentage of employees as 2.25% 2.23% 2.22 ٫ *2 employees with of June 1 in the following year *1 disabilities *1 Includes Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Dai-ichi Life, Dai-ichi Life Challenged, Dai-ichi Life Business Services and Dai-ichi Life Information Systems. *2 The percentage of employees with disabilities is one in compliance with the statutory rate of disability employment. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/employee.html 18 Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Speciﬁc Activities Promoting the Achievements of Female Employees At the domestic life insurance companies, as one of the initiatives for Diversity and Inclusion, we are working to reform employee awareness and improve the human capital development system to provide more opportunities for female employees, comprising a large part of the Company. On April 1, 2016, the second female Executive Oﬃcer of the Company was appointed. In addition, the number of female General Managers (including Senior General Managers and Special General Managers) increased 1.2 times compared to the previous year, as nearly 40% of all managerial appointments were women. As a result, as of April 1, 2017, there were 870 female managers or higher, accounting for 24.2% of the total. Female leaders are also working at more than 40% of the Company's unit ofﬁces in more than 1,300 locations across Japan. In the Medium-term Management Plan (ﬁscal 2015President's seminar ﬁscal 2017), we have established a target to increase the percentage of female managerial (The photo shows the former president Watanabe.) employees to more than 25% of all managerial staﬀ by April 2018 and to more than 30% by the early 2020s. Under this goal, we will continue to carry out various initiatives for Total Life Plan Designers and oﬃce in-house employees. Please view the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Promoting the Achievements of Female Employees) Promotion of Active Participation of Employees with Disabilities At the domestic life insurance companies, not only do we proactively employ persons with disabilities, but we are also engaged in several activities geared toward normalizing * the employment of persons with disabilities. We strive to create a comfortable working environment for persons with disabilities by conducting follow-up meetings with employees after they join the company and holding training courses on human rights awareness in order to deepen all employees' understanding of people with disabilities. As of June 2016, we employ 987 people with disabilities nationwide, or 2.22% of our entire workforce. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life Hibiya Headquarters Building dl. Café Dai-ichi Life website (Active Participation of Employees with Disabilities) Global Diversity The Dai-ichi Life Group channels its energies into hiring international students and exchanging and developing top management at the divisional level inside and outside Japan, in addition to developing global human resources in Japan, to strengthen the entire Group's international competitiveness. Speciﬁcally, we promote dispatch of employees overseas for study or training, and conduct the Overseas Challenge Club for young people as a program for enhancing language skills and intercultural understanding by inviting teachers who are native speakers. In addition, we conduct short-term training in Japan for overseas group company employees and lectures by overseas group company managers, in an effort to promote mutual understanding among executives and employees and cultivation of a corporate Lecture by John D. Johns, culture that enhances the value of human capital and creates synergy for the entire Group. Chairman Protective Life Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Global Diversity) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/employee.html 19 Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Work-Life Balance In order to create an environment that encourages the realization of diversity and inclusion at the domestic life insurance group, we are committed to promoting work-life balance in two core ways: enriching our Family-Friendly System and working to transform work styles. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (Work-Life Balance) Promotion of Work-Life Balance (Image) Training and Support Systems Dai-Ichi Life Group has employees who play a variety of roles, and boasts the largest number of employees in the country, including approximately 40,000 Total Life Plan Designers. By deﬁning training systems to help each individual employee increase the value they add to the company through reviewing their skills and workstyles, and strengthening our organizational management capabilities by strengthening cooperation between superiors and subordinates, within and between departments, etc., we are enhancing our self-development systems, such as training programs and e-learning to suit each respective job level. Among those systems, in group training, our aim is not only to earn customers' trust by learning useful advanced knowledge and skills, but it is also designed to be a place where participants come together from all over the country to strengthen their practical skills by engaging in potluck discussions of their respective challenges, sharing diverse ideas and values, and honing their skills as the next generation of leaders. Dai-ichi Life website (Human Resource Development) LGBT Friendly In addition to clearly laying out respect for basic human rights in the Dai-ichi Life Human Rights Declaration, we push forward initiatives aimed at becoming an LGBT*-friendly company as part of our eﬀort to promote diversity and inclusion. Please see the Dai-ichi Life website for details. Dai-ichi Life website (LGBT-Friendly) Participation in Tokyo Rainbow Pride Parade * Normalization: The concept that it is normal for society to fully include both people with disabilities and those without, respecting and supporting each other, and living together in harmony with each other and with the community. * LGBT: An acronym representing Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender persons. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/employee.html 20 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and aterial Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment Society Environment Basic Policy -Solving Social Challenges by the Dai-ichi Life GroupThrough its life insurance business with a highly social and public nature, the Dai-ichi Life Group aims to grow continuously together with local and international communities as a good corporate citizen while helping them build a safe and comfortable lifestyle and societ . y The Group strives to solve social challenges by providing its unique value mainly through the utilization of its unique know-how and resources under the three themes associated with the life insurance business. Countries around the world each have their own health challenges. In developed countries where the sustainability of the social security system is in question due to factors such as a rapidly declining birth rate and aging society and an increase in the number of people suﬀering from lifestyle-related diseases even amid modern lifestyles, some people are unable to receive adequate medical care because of poverty Promoting stemming from economic disparity. In addition, emerging and developing countries are facing serious problems such Health as the spread of infectious diseases caused by deteriorating sanitary conditions and the inability of their people to receive appropriate treatment due to economic reasons. People of all countries and ages wish to live a healthy life, which leads to the future development of those countries. The Group will deliver peace of mind in the form of good health to customers through life insurance by putting customers' health ﬁrst. The aﬄuent next-generation society the Group is aiming to realize is a society in which anyone can receive the necessary education and enjoy culture and arts in a living environment abounding with greenery while sharing aﬄuence in various aspects which forms the foundation for growth of society. Life insurance is a rare product that enables the company to have a long-term relationship with customers that may last Creating an several decades. In some cases the company moves forward together with customers for generations. The Group will Aﬄuent Nextstrive to support child-rearing and the development of youth who will be the leaders of the next generation, in an Generation eﬀort to create and also develop a sustainable society. Society http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 21 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Global warming is a global issue that has a serious impact on people's lives in the form of abnormal weather conditions and natural disasters, also signiﬁcantly aﬀecting the Dai-ichi Life Group's business. The Group carries out resource conservation and energy conservation as environmental preservation initiatives, and Environmental provides subsidies and awards to promote aﬀorestation and greening activities. In addition, we continue initiatives Preservation that contribute to environmental preservation from many angles mainly through environmentally friendly real estate investment. Targets and Progress (Society and Environment) The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Eﬀort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of volunteer Percentage of departments 50.0% 65.4% 72.4% activity involvement (head oﬃce) in which 50% or more of employees participated in volunteer activities Speciﬁc Activities Cooperation with Local Governments Japan is said to lead the world as a nation confronted with various issues because it faces a wide range of social issues. The issues and their severity vary by region. The Dai-ichi Life Group leverages its strength of having approximately 1,300 unit ofﬁces and approximately 40,000 Total Life Plan Designers in all 47 prefectures across Japan to solve issues facing each region. In the health ﬁeld, Total Life Plan Designers provide health and medical information to increase the number of people screened for cance. r In addition, amid a sharp rise in households comprising only elderly, we concluded agreements aimed at preventing the isolation of elderly so that elderly can live with peace of mind in communities where they have called home for so long. We have established a system under which a Total Life Plan Designer cooperates with the local government whenever he or she notices something out of the ordinary with an elderly household. Furthermore, employees who have taken the Dementia Supporter Development Class and gained knowledge for deepening their understanding of dementia also carry out activities to deal with patients with dementia. Other than that, we have established a cooperation system with local governments in a wide range of ﬁelds, including promoting work-life balance for companies and employees and activities to alert them about bank transfer scams. We have established a system under have concluded a comprehensive which partnership agreement with 41 prefectures including Tokyo Metropolitan (as of August 2017) and conduct a host of activities in response to various issues of each region. Going forward, we will continue working to solve local issues together with local governments. Chiba SSK Project Card Cancer Information Leaﬂet by Prefecture (Image) (Project for Preventing the Isolation of Elderly) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 22 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives to Support Child-Rearing Since 2011, the Dai-ichi Life Group has been working to attract daycare and nursing facilities to open in the real estate properties it owns for the purpose of expanding acceptance of children waiting for enrollment in daycare and nursing facilities. Furthermore, given the serious shortage of after-school care programs, referred to as the barriers of ﬁrst grade and fourth grade, in recent years, we have also been making eﬀorts to invite after-school day-care centers* since 2016. In addition, since 2013, the Dai-ichi Life Foundation has been providing subsidies to newly established daycare and nursing facilities for purchasing playground equipment and other items with a view to providing children quality daycare. Besides that, the Group is making concerted eﬀorts for full-scale operation by initiatives such as continuous support through employee volunteer activities at the facilities it invited and subsidized, and collaboration and support with local governments to leverage throughout Japan successful examples of our advancement of female employees and activities to promote work-life balance. The measures taken by the Group to deal with the declining birt hrate, which also aﬀects the life insurance business, aim at striking a balance between its core business and solving social challenges, such as contributing to improving business revenue including real estate rental revenue and stemming the falling birthrate. Going forward, the Group will comprehensively utilize its various resources to more eﬀectively tackle issues. * This initiative is the ﬁrst of its kind in the life insurance industry in Japan (according to our research). Uchu Daycare Kamakura in the Kamakura Dai-ichi Life Building Employee volunteer activities in the facility Network with Professional Medical Organizations The Dai-ichi Life Group has established a ﬁrst-class information network in the insurance industry with professional medical organizations for the purpose of providing customers a wide range of medical information including correct knowledge and prevention methods of diseases. Speciﬁcally, we collaborate with professional organizations specializing in the three major illnesses (cancer, acute myocardial infarction, and stroke), dementia, geriatrics and gerontology, Child Health and Development, infectious diseases, diabetes, and pulmonitis to provide high-quality information through sales activities of Total Life Plan Designers, health seminars organized by the company, and consultation services for policyholders. Going forward, we will continue to make eﬀorts so that customers can lead healthy lives through the company's activities. Cancer seminar Initiatives for Responsible Investment Dai-ichi Life is focused on responsible investment as a responsible institutional investo.r As part of these eﬀorts, Dai-ichi Life has been promoting ESG investment that considers environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) factors and stewardship activities that aim to support sustainable growth of the investee companies' value. For details, please refer to the Dai-ichi Life website. Dai-ichi Life website (Our Role as an Institutional Investor: Basic Policy) Dai-ichi Life website (Our Role as an Institutional Investor: ESG Investment) Dai-ichi Life website (Our Role as an Institutional Investor: Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 23 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Examples of ESG Investments (Investment in Social Bonds) Dai-ichi Life proactively invests in social bonds as part of our ESG investment, in order to improve our investment returns and contribute to solving social challenges through ﬁnancially supporting the initiatives of Multinational Development Banks. Dai-ichi Life has purchased the social bonds, including the entire amount (approximately 12 billion yen) of the Inclusive Business Bonds*1 issued by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) in ﬁscal 2014 and the entire amount (approximately 13 billion yen) of the Microﬁnance Bonds*2 issued by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in ﬁscal 2015. In ﬁscal 2016, Dai-ichi Life continued to proactively invest in social bonds. For instance, we purchased the entire amount (approximately 11 billion yen) of Health Bonds issued by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to support ADB's health projects in order to tackle health challenges in Asia and the Paciﬁc. For more information on our ESG investment, please refer to our website. Dai-ichi Life website (Our Role as an Institutional Investor: ESG Investment) Image of project supported by Health Bond (Photo credit: Asian Development Bank) *1 Inclusive business is an economically and socially sustainable business model with potential for scale that integrates low-income groups of the world into the business value chain. Inclusive Business Bonds were issued for the ﬁrst time in the world for institutional investors, and the funds raised are provided as loans to the Inclusive Business Program led by IFC. *2 Funds raised by Microﬁnance Bonds are used for investment in and lending to micro or small-sized enterprises in developing countries which have diﬃculty in receiving adequate funding from private ﬁnancial institutions. Support for the Education of Next-Generation Torchbearers The Company promotes support for education in various forms for next-generation torchbearers at Dai-ichi Life Group companies and foundations it has established to create and further develop a sustainable society. Support for Consumer Education and Finance and Insurance Education Dai-ichi Life produces and provides the Life Cycle Game II̶Recommending a Total Life Plan, a consumer education program that allows users to learn about the importance of money, how to prepare for various risks and knowledge for avoiding becoming a victim of scams by playing a Sugoroku-style game (Sugoroku is the Japanese version of Parcheesi). Dai-ichi Life uses this game to provide education at schools, companies and other institutions, thus helping to promote consumer education and ﬁnancial and insurance education. Donations to Universities and Research Institutions (U.S.A.) Dai-ichi Life and Protective Life will donate $23 million as a contribution to the development of society on a joint basis for five years from 2015. Activities contribute to local communities, such as support for the development of human capital at the University of Alabama. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 24 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Education Support in India Star Union Dai-ichi Life repaired facilities, supplied equipment and installed a water supply system and a computer room at school in Maharashtra. It also presented school supplies to students. In addition, Star Union Dai-ichi Life also gives support to reduce school expenses for students in India and donates picture books to kindergartens and elementary schools. The Foundation for the Advancement of Life & Insurance Around the World (FALIA) The Foundation for the Advancement of Life & Insurance Around the World established by Dai-ichi Life holds training and seminars for foreign participants who are involved in the insurance business. It aims to make the philosophy of insurance more widely known, especially in Asian countries, and to contribute, even in a small way, to economic development and the enhancement of social security systems in the Asia region. In ﬁscal 2014, FALIA launched a new program “Essay Competition for international students in Japan” targeting students from emerging countries, to develop and educate human resources who will engage in insurance administration and business in the future. Provision of Microinsurance The Dai-ichi Life Group is working through its overseas group companies based in countries such as Vietnam, India and Indonesia to provide microinsurance that helps the people in these countries gain access to small loans, with the aim of making insurance more widespread, including among low income groups. Dai-ichi Life Vietnam provides microinsurance products via Vietnam Post which has extensive network in Vietnam in order to provide life insurance services to the wider population. Since 2015, Star Union Dai-ichi Life has been oﬀering a term life product in small sums, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), which is common across the country, for the account holders of both savings banks, Bank of India and Union Bank of India. Most of the branches of these allied banks; Bank of India and Union Bank of India, oﬀer the product to support for promoting the dissemination of a life insurance across India. Panin Dai-ichi Life synergized with Panin Bank to market a microinsurance product named SIGAP. The product launch was part of our commitment to supporting the microﬁnance services program, which consists of ﬁnancial products with a simple process and fast and easy access. Sale of the microinsurance product “SIGAP” (Indonesia: Panin Dai-ichi Life) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 25 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Support for Rural Areas Through its overseas group companies, the Dai-ichi Life Group continuously provides support to rural areas in developing countries, helping them tackle issues such as building infrastructure and raising living standards. Dai-ichi Life Vietnam has improved the living standard of around 20,000 people in 10 provinces through the initiative “Bridge Building Project” by building concrete bridges in rural areas. Dai-ichi Life Vietnam has also provided free cataract surgery to over 4,500 patients mainly in rural areas who can't aﬀord the medical costs due to ﬁnancial reasons. In 2016, Dai-ichi Life Vietnam founded the CSR foundation “For A Better Life Fund” to pursue and commit to contribution to Vietnamese society by carrying out CSR activities mid-long term. Dai-ichi Life made the donation to the foundation. SUD Foundation is our humble attempt to be a part of this evolution. It is our endeavour to work with select villages every year to help them develop sustainable infrastructure in health, sanitation, education and modern agricultural practices with the sole aim of making each village self-reliant over a period of 3 to 5 years. In 2016, Star Union Dai-ichi Life provided Drip Irrigation systems for farmers for ef ﬁcient water usage during production and facilitated training on advanced agricultural techniques and systems in Mohpuri and Bolegaon. Bridge construction site (Vietnam: Dai-ichi Life Vietnam) Support for irrigation projects (India: Star Union Dai-ichi Life) Environmentally Friendly Real Estate Investment Click here for details Planting Mangrove Trees (Indonesia) Click here for details http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 26 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Arts, Music and Sports Arts VOCA Exhibition / Gallery Music NPO Triton Arts Network Salzburg Mozarteum Foundation Sports Dai-ichi Life All Japan Elementary School Student Tennis Tournament Dai-ichi Life Group Women's Long Distance Team Championships http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 27 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment Society Environment Basic Policy Recognizing that, as a corporation, we have a social responsibility to help protect the global environment and build a recycling-oriented society, Dai-ichi Life works collectively to protect and conserve the environment and reduce environmental impacts based on our Group Action Principles for Environmental Initiatives. Given that environmental problems are a factor in people's health, we see this objective as having a close aﬃnity with our core business of life insurance. As a global insurance group, Dai-ichi Life intends to continue with its environmental initiatives to help achieve a sustainable society in which social and economic progress are in harmony with the global environment. Group Action Principles for Environmental Initiatives Basic Concept As a member of society, Dai-ichi Life Group considers protection of the local and global environment and building of a recycling-oriented society, to be part of the Company's social responsibility, and constantly conducts environmental conservation activities according to the Action Guidelines below, and by trying to improve the related activities we contribute the sustainable development of the society. Action Guidelines Implementation of environmentally conscious activities in businesses 1 We will always make eﬀorts to being environmentally conscious in our business activities, following laws and regulations related to environmental conservation. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 28 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Action Guidelines Reduction of environmental impact from business activities 2 We make eﬀorts to promoting resource conservation, energy conservation, and resource recycling to reduce environmental impacts arising from resources and energy consumed, and waste generated in our business activities. Promotion of activities that raise environmental awareness 3 We will help our oﬃcers and employees raise awareness of environmental issues. In addition we will make eﬀorts to raise environmental awareness including donations and support for environmental conservation activities. Targets and Progress The table below lists the targets set by Dai-ichi Life and the progress it has made toward achieving them. Measure Deﬁnition FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Targets CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions from the 141,000 137,500 136,800 154,560 Company's investment t-CO2 t-CO2 t-CO2 t-CO2 *2 in FY2017 property, business-use property, and welfare property*1 Energy Usage Total energy usage from the 267,088 259,414 259,392 302,588 Company's investment MWh MWh MWh MWh*2 in FY2017 property, business-use property, and welfare property Total paper usage Total amount of paper used at 6,509t 6,291t 6,726t 6,388t*2 in FY2017 the Group companies (photocopy paper, pamphlets, policy illustration (policy overview), etc.) *1 Calculated based on the provisions of Article 7, paragraph 3 of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy ( Energy-saving Act ). Total emissions in each ﬁscal year have been recalculated by applying the ﬁscal 2009 coeﬃcient. *2 Targets in the 2015-2017 Medium-term Environmental Eﬀort Plan. The targets for CO2 emissions and Energy Usage were exceeded, and the Company continues to take steps to achieve further reductions. Speciﬁc Activities Reducing CO2 Emissions To help prevent global warming, Dai-ichi Life is taking steps to cut its greenhouse gas emissions that include reducing energy use in its business activities. The company is engaged in Cool Biz and other ongoing group-wide energy eﬃciency initiatives, with a focus on rigorous measures to rationalize use of building facilities such as lighting and air conditioning. It is switching to energy-eﬃcient facilities and equipment that reduces the load on the environment in its new and refurbished buildings, including LED lighting and efﬁcient air conditioners and heat storage systems. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 29 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Eﬀort to Reduce Distribution Energy Dai-ichi Life examines the reduction of both energy usage and cost in the daily shipment of contracts, manuals, applications, invoices and customer notiﬁcations between its nationwide network of oﬃces. We actually reduced the weight of documents and booklets, changed our inhouse distribution operations, and decoupled our parcel depots. Use of Renewable Energy Dai-ichi Life has installed solar power generation system in several ofﬁces and investment properties and uses electricity produced by renewable energy. Dai-ichi Life Shin-Oi Oﬃce External Evaluation of Environmental Data Dai-ichi Life Group has received third-party assurance review from the Japan Quality Assurance organization for Scope 1 emissions, or direct remissions from owned or controlled sources, and Scope 2 emissions, or indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy, produced in ﬁscal 2016 in order to enhance the reliability of its CO2 emissions performance data. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Veriﬁcation Report http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 30 Initiatives for Society and Environment｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Reducing Paper Usage The Dai-ichi Life group uses a large number of printed and other documents in its activities. Accordingly, it is taking steps, both companywide and all the way down to the level of individual employees, to cut its consumption of resources by reducing use of paper, increasing use of recycled paper, promoting green procurement of business consumables and other materials, and encouraging the recycling of waste. In addition to use of projectors at company meetings to reduce the distribution of printed documents, Dai-ichi Life is also boosting efforts throughout the group aimed at reducing use of printer and copier paper, including the use of electronic documents in business processes and such voluntary reduction initiatives by executives and staﬀ as making extensive use of double-sided copying and two-in-one printing. Revise of Documents for Customers Dai-ichi Life is taking steps to reduce paper use that include adopting electronic application forms and reducing the variety of paper-based documents, such as pamphlets and other material intended for customers and also in-house reports. Policy guide ‒ terms and conditions DVD (left) and use of DL Pad to ﬁll out forms (right) Environmentally Conscious Real Estate Investing As the owner of 284 investment properties in Japan (as of March 2017), Dai-ichi Life is taking steps to save energy in terms of both its choice of building facilities and how they are used. In addition to installing eﬃcient equipment to improve environmental performance in new buildings or when renovating or refurbishing, facilities-related initiatives also include striving to create greener buildings. In terms of routine building operation and management, energy savings are being achieved through ongoing improvements made in collaboration with management companies such as Dai-ichi Building. Tokyo Square Garden (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Kyobashi no oka garden Mangrove Planting (Indonesia) Dai-ichi Life and Panin Dai-ichi Life have engaged in an environmental conservation program that involves planting mangrove seedlings. Other activities aimed at protecting the natural environment include sponsoring tree-planting organizations. Mangrove planting in progress http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/society.html 31 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Health Basic Policy The life insurance business that plays a role of complementing the social security system constitutes the core business of the Dai-ichi Life Group. We believe the Group's social responsibility is to enhance the sustainability of Japan's social security system by promoting public health. To this end, the Group takes initiatives that contribute to promoting health of people in local communities as well as engages in health management while deeming it important to promote the mental and physical health of employees. External Initiatives (for Customers and People in Local Communities) Basic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group oﬀers peace of mind through its primary business of life insurance and also takes various initiatives to extensively support customers and the public in promoting health from the position of complementing the social security system. Our Vision We aim to have the healthy life expectancy being extending by providing timely health-and-medical information and cooperating with local governments in promotion activities for preventing the three major illnesses and dementia and so on. In addition, we aim to solve nationalscale problems such as stabilization of the social security system and suppression of medical expenses. The healthy life expectancy means average number of years that a person can expect to live a healthy and independently life in both mind and body. Extending the healthy life expectancy and shortening the diﬀerence between the average life span and the healthy life expectancy means to realize a longer and healthier life. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 32 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues * Reference: The Committee on Regional Public Health Services and Health Promotion, Health Science Council of Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (October 1, 2014) Speciﬁc Initiatives Provision of information in cooperation with professional medical organizations and local governments We have concluded agreements with professional medical organizations and local governments of all 47 prefectures, and the Group's employees provide customers throughout Japan with the latest health and medical information. Each local government faces unique challenges, including the low cancer screening rates and the high mortality rates from the three major illnesses. To overcome these challenges, we hold seminars to educate people in local communities in cooperation with professional medical organizations and provide tools for preventing and educating them on such illnesses. See here for details about initiatives concerning agreements with local governments. Educational activities in cooperation with local governments Provision of health and medical and nursing care services We provide advice and information on health, child care, and nursing care to Dai-ichi Life's customers via telephone 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Through this service, we endeavor to relieve customers' anxiety stemming from their daily lives by utilizing our information and network. Since December 2014, we have also expanded services targeted at seniors who are expected to continue increasing in the future. We provide information to customers under the following structure by taking the initiatives above. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 33 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for InsTech The Group refers to initiatives to create unique innovation to life insurance business as InsTech, representing a combination of the insurance business and technology, and promotes group-wide initiatives of strategic importance. In 2016 the Group started to demonstrate its capabilities: Neo First Life introduced a new product that uses health age as a basis for premiums. Dai-ichi Life extended underwriting criteria based on medical big data analysis and developed the KENKO-DAIICHI app for enhanced value creation. The Group continues to build an eco-system of companies with different backgrounds, to share information among group companies in the United States and Asia Paciﬁc regions, and aims to create innovation for the future of customers in three segments: healthcare, underwriting and marketing. Value Creation through InsTech *1 Kenko Nenrei (health age) is a registered trademark of the Japan Medical Data Center. *2 Based on research by the Company on products of life insurance companies that are members of the Life Insurance Association of Japan. (As of September 20, 2016) *3 Annualized calculation based on ﬁscal 2016 results. *4 As of July 31, 2017 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 34 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Internal Initiatives (for Employees) Basic Policy Promoting health has been positioned as an important management issue for the Dai-ichi Life Group so that the Group can fulﬁll its social responsibilities when responding to customers who are hoping to improve their health. This is based upon the awareness that Group ofﬁcers and employees need to have a high level of personal interest in health and medical matters. Promoting health is carried out consistently in a top-down manner, from management to each workplace, using an organized structure for health productivity management promoting health management and clarifying the Group's management philosophy toward health. Targets and Progress The targets and progress of Dai-ichi Life are as follows. Eﬀort Index Explanation of the Index Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Target*2 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 maintaining a desirable body with a BMI*1 score of less 70.6% 70.7% 71.1% Men:71.1% weight than 25 Women: Women: Women: Women:79.2% 77.9% 77.5% 76.6% Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 doing regular exercise continuing more than 3034.7% 36.6% 37.5% Men:36.8% minute exercise twice or more Women: Women: Women: Women:29.1% per week for one year or 27.1% 27.3% 26.3% more Smoking rate Percentage of smokers Men: Men: Men: Fiscal 2017 31.0% 30.7% 29.0% Men:24.7% Women: Women: Women: Women:22.4% 27.6% 26.5% 25.7% *1 BMI is the degree of obesity calculated from height and weight (BMI of 25 or more is classiﬁed as obesity). *2 Targets in the 2015-2017 Medium-term Eﬀort Plan for Promoting Health The target is set by counting backward and dividing the target for 2022 in the Healthy Japan 21 (second campaign) of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare proportionally into the relevant periods. Speciﬁc Activities Initiatives for Undergoing Medical Checkup By thoroughly recommending the undertaking of further medical examinations ( secondary examinations ) after regular medical checkups, and by also thoroughly recommending the undertaking of special checkups and special health guidance sessions in response to metabolic syndrome, the Dai-ichi Life Group has worked to lower the prevalence of abnormal ﬁndings* discovered during the regular checkups of its employees. The Dai-ichi Life Group is also placing emphasis on encouraging its employees to undergo screening for various forms of cancer. In particular, as a result of mobile screening centers for breast cancer called, MammoBus, that have operated in approximately 320 locations nationwide, the employee screening rate is approximately 50%, twice of the national average. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 35 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Prevalence of Abnormal Findings by Gender of the Dai-ichi Life Group (Statutory Items Only) * Prevalence of abnormal ﬁndings = Number of people identiﬁed as Requiring examination or Requiring detailed testing or Undergoing treatment / Total number of people undergoing medical checkups Lifestyle Improvement Initiatives At the Dai-ichi Life Group, health seminars and health indicator measurement gatherings are held for health issues of each ofﬁce throughout Japan as an opportunity for employees to improve their lifestyles. In addition, as an anti-smoking initiative, we have expanded smoking-free day, which falls on the 22nd of every month as promoted by the Tobacco Control Medical-Dental Research Network* to include all days of the month with a two (2nd, 12th, 22nd). Activities include closing of some of the smoking rooms. Posters that highlight the importance of quitting smoking are also displayed to proactively raise awareness of quitting smoking. Since ﬁscal 2014, we have promoted a company-wide approach to health advancement that includes making one month in the fall of every year Dai-ichi Life health advancement month, during which the health advancement campaign and health events are held. For details, please see the Dai-ichi Life website. Dai-ichi Life website * Tobacco Control Medical-Dental Research Network website (Japanese) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 36 Recognition from Society｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Recognition from Society Assessment of the Dai-ichi Life Group by Society and Major Awards Received Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient CDP the Climate “A List” on the “CDP Global Change Dai-ichi Life Holdings Report 2016” Toyo Keizai, Inc. CSR Corporate Ranking 2th among ﬁnancial Dai-ichi Life Holdings institutions Daiwa Investor Relations Internet IR Award Excellence Award Dai-ichi Life Holdings Nippon Kenko Kaigi, Ministry of Certiﬁcation as an “Excellent Enterprise of Health Dai-ichi Life Holdings Economy, Trade and Industry and Productivity Management 2017 (White 500)” Cabinet Secretariat Headquarters for The Company's “eﬀorts to address regional Dai-ichi Life Building up Towns, People and Jobs problems caused by a low birth rate, including eliminating childcare waiting lists (inviting day-care and after-school childcare centers to operate using the real estate it owns, subsidizing childcare facilities, etc.)” were recognized as a distinctive example of initiatives contributing to regional revitalization. work with Pride Top Gold Rating on PRIDE Index Evaluation of Dai-ichi Life LGBT Initiatives Nikkei BP “Company Empowering Women in Japan” No.1 Dai-ichi Life Tokyo Metropolis Selected as a “Model Tokyo Sports Promotion Dai-ichi Life Company 2016” HDIَHelp Desk Instituteُ-Japan HDI Help Desk Ranking 3-star certiﬁed Dai-ichi Life HDIَHelp Desk Instituteُ-Japan HDI Help Desk Ranking 3-star certiﬁed for ten Neo First Life consecutive years R&I R&I Fund Award 2017 Asset Management One Morningstar Morningstar Award “Fund of the Year 2016” Asset Management One http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/reputation/index.html 37 Recognition from Society｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient Lipper Lipper Fund Awards Japan 2017 Asset Management One Birmingham Business Journal Best Places to Work Protective Life The Cincinnati Enquirer Top Work Places Protective Life St. Louis Post-Dispatch Top Work Places Protective Life Birmingham Corporate Challenge First Place Protective Life Birmingham Business Journal Birmingham's Healthiest Employers Protective Life AFA and Beddoes Institute Policyholder Choice Awards TAL Honouring Commitments with One Path and BT Financial Group Best New Customer Experience Value for Money AFA and Beddoes Institute Consumer Choice Policyholder Awards TAL Most Satisﬁed Policyholders Best Policyholder Focus Best Policyholder Advocacy Strategic Insight Direct Life Insurance Excellence Awards TAL Customer Service TAL Life Omnibus Product TAL Lifetime Protection Income Protection Insuranceline Income Protect Plus Funeral Cover level premiums NRMA Insurance Money Management & DEXX&R Adviser Choice Risk Awards TAL Risk Company of the year Bronze award Term & TPD Products Silver award for TAL Accelerated Protection Life & TPD Term & TPD Products Gold award for TAL Accelerated Protection Income Protection Premier Information Technology Contract and 10 years or more association with ITCRA TAL Recruitment Association Ltd. (ITCRA) AB+F & RFi Group Australian Insurance Awards Marketing campaign TAL of the year iCMG Global Architecture Global Architecture Excellence Award for ʻUsing TAL Excellence Awards industry standards to gain competitive edgeʼ http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/reputation/index.html 38 Recognition from Society｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient iCMG Global Architecture Australia & New Zealand Architecture Excellence TAL Excellence Awards Award for ʻUsing industry standards to gain competitive edgeʼ iCMG Global Architecture Top 30 Global Business CIOs TAL Excellence Awards CANSTAR CANSTAR star ratings of advised life insurance: TAL Income Protection Insurance Award Winner Self Managed Super Magazine Best Insurance Provider 2016 TAL Australian Financial Review 50 Most Innovative Companies 2016 TAL 24th most innovative company in Australia Super Review Magazine Best Group insurer TAL SiteCore SiteCore Experience Awards Best content TAL strategy Plan for Life / AFA Awards Term/TPD Award of the Year TAL Plan for Life / AFA Awards Trauma Award of the Year TAL Workplace Gender Equality Agency Employer of Choice Citation TAL Vietnam Economic Times Golden Dragon Award 2016“Best life insurance Dai-ichi Life Vietnam company” Anphabe &AC Nielsen Top 4 Best working place in the insurance industry Dai-ichi Life Vietnam & Top 36 in 100 best companies in Vietnam Ministry of Trade Top Trade Service Awards Dai-ichi Life Vietnam The Economic Times Best Brands Award (Insurance) Star Union Dai-ichi Life Karim Consulting Indonesia 2016 Best Runner Up The Best Islamic Life Panin Dai-ichi Life Insurance Inforbank 2016 Very Good Rating on Life Insurance Panin Dai-ichi Life Company Investor 2016 The Best Life Insurance Company Panin Dai-ichi Life Warta Ekonomi 2016 Best Financial Performance Panin Dai-ichi Life BusinessNews Top Life Insurance 2016 Panin Dai-ichi Life the Business and Professional 2016's outstanding business-women award of the Ocean Life Women's Association of Thailand East under the Royal Patronage (BPW) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/reputation/index.html 39 Recognition from Society｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Organizer Assessment/Award Recipient the Ministry of Labour The Best of DSD (Employee Skill Development Ocean Life Award) Oﬃce of Insurance Commission Best Insurance Company Awards Ocean Life (OIC) -The Third Prize for Life Insurer with Best Management Awards in 2015 Tokyo Metropolitan Government Won Special Award at the First “Tokyo Metropolitan NPO Triton Arts Network Social Contribution Award for Building a Mutual Aid Society.” * The company names of organizers and recipients are at the time. Inclusion in the SRI Indices The Dai-ichi Life Holdings is included in domestic and overseas socially responsible investment (SRI) indices (stock price indices) (as of October 2017). FTSE4Good Index Series FTSE Blossom Japan Index The Company was selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series for the seventh consecutive year . The FTSE4Good Index Series is a family of indexes compiled by UK-based FTSE Russell, a global index provider . The index is designed to select companies that meet international standards in risk management relating to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). The Company was also selected for inclusion in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index, which is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies that demonstrate strong ESG practices. FTSE4Good Index Series FTSE Blossom Japan Index http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/reputation/index.html 40 Recognition from Society｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues MSCI Japn ESG Select Leaders Index MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) The Company was selected for inclusion in the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index and the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index compiled by American index provider MSCI, Inc. MSCI Japn ESG Select Leaders Index MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) The Company was selected for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) compiled by Morningstar, Inc. “Sustainability Year Book 2017” by RobecoSAM The company has also been selected as a year book member in the “Sustainability Year Book 2017” issued by RobecoSAM in January. Previous Recognition 2015 2014 2013 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/reputation/index.html 41 Initiatives for Health｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Initiatives for Health Advancement Month http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/important/health.html 42 Participation in External Initiatives｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Participation in External Initiatives Dai-ichi Life promotes activities aiming to achieve a sustainable society through participation in domestic and overseas initiatives. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) The United Nations Global Compact comprises 10 principles on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, proposed by the then UN Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan. It encourages participating companies to behave as good members of society, aiming to achieve sustainable growth. Dai-ichi Life endorsed the principles and joined the initiative in May 2014. UN Global Compact's 10 principles UN Global Compact Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) The Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) are a set of principles of corporate behavior created jointly by UN Women, a UN organization working for gender equality and women's empowerment, and the UNGC. The WEPs specify the development of labour and social environments in which women are able to fulﬁll their potential and improve their abilities, with their eﬀorts fairly appraised. Dai-ichi Life endorsed the principles and signed a Statement of Support for the Women's Empowerment Principles in December 2012. Women's Empowerment Principles The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) is an international network of ﬁnancial institutions aiming at sustainable development that comprises ﬁnancial institutions. It seeks to achieve economic development and sustainable development where the environment and sustainability are compatible, and promotes various business operations and services of ﬁnancial institutions that take such aim into account. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, TAL endorsed the initiative and signed the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of this initiative. The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/initiative/index.html 43 Participation in External Initiatives｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) declare that insurance companies will consider ESG issues in their business operations and were established by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in June 2012. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, TAL endorsed and signed the principles. Principles for Sustainable Insurance The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) is an initiative that advocates the incorporation of Environmental, Society and Governance (ESG) issues by institutional investors into their investment decision-making process with a view to realizing a sustainable society. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, three companies inclouding Dai-ichi Life, Asset Management One, Janus Henderson Group plc endorsed and signed the principles. The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Montreal Carbon Pledge Montreal Carbon Pledge is a new initiative for reducing greenhouse gas emissions (CO2e) that was established in September 2014 at the annual meeting held by the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in Montreal, Canada. Institutional investors who endorsed the pledge need to understand and disclose greenhouse gas emissions of part or all of the stock portfolios they manage themselves. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, Asset Management One endorsed the pledge. Montreal Carbon Pledge CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an international initiative under which the world's institutional investors cooperate in calling for companies to disclose their climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, Janus Henderson Group plc endorsed and signed the initiative. CDP Principles for Financial Action Towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century provide action guidelines for the overall CSR of ﬁnancial institutions wishing to play a role and take responsibilities necessary for the formation of a sustainable society. Dai-ichi Life participated in the development of the principles as a member of the draft committee and signed up in November 2011. In addition, Neo First Life endorsed and signed the principles. Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/initiative/index.html 44 Participation in External Initiatives｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance is a structure for transparent, fair, timely and decisive decision-making by companies, taking into account the perspectives of shareholders and customers, employees and local communities, among others. The Corporate Governance Code aims at the development of companies, investors and the economy as a whole through the promotion of self-motivated actions of companies so that they achieve sustainable growth and enhance corporate value over the mediumto long-term. In order to establish sound and highly transparent corporate governance and appropriately govern group companies, Dai-ichi Life Holdings has formulated the Corporate Governance Policy based on the Corporate Governance Code in an eﬀort to achieve sustainable growth of companies. To see the Corporate Governance Code, click here. Japan Exchange Group (Corporate Governance) Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors (Japan's Stewardship Code) Japan's Stewardship Code states that stewardship responsibilities refers to the responsibilities of institutional investors to enhance the mediumto long-term investment return for their clients and beneﬁciaries (including ultimate beneﬁciaries) by improving and fostering the investee companies' corporate value and sustainable growth through constructive engagement, or purposeful dialogue, based on in-depth knowledge of the companies and their business environment. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, two companies including Dai-ichi Life and Asset Management One agree with and publicly accept the Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors. To see Dai-ichi Life's Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship, click here (Dai-ichi Life website link). To see Asset Management One's Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship, click here (Japanese). Financial Services Agency, The Japanese Government (Japan's Stewardship Code) The Industrial Federation for Human Rights,Tokyo The Industrial Federation for Human Rights was established in November 1979, and now consists of 125 companies (as of May 2016), most of which are headquartered in Tokyo. Under its basic philosophy of voluntary management and full participation, the federation actively tries to resolve the issue known as Dowa, a discrimination issue in Japan, and other human rights issues. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in their initiative. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/initiative/index.html 45 Participation in External Initiatives｜Group Sustainability and Material Issues Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation (KCNC) Keidanren One Percent Club Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) The Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation (KCNC) provides ﬁnancial support to NPOs/NGOs working on the conservation of biodiversity and nature through the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund (KNCF), as well as promotes companies' awareness, and exchange and cooperation with NPOs/NGOs. The Keidanren One Percent Club provides information on social contribution activities carried out by companies to promote social contribution activities by companies, and acts as a coordinator for cooperation among companies and NPOs/NGOs. The Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) is an organization established by Keidanren that holds lectures and other events pertaining to CSR, promotes exchanges and collaboration with overseas CSR-related organizations, and conducts studies and research by dispatching delegates abroad. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in these organizations. Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation Keidanren One Percent Club (Japanese) Council for Better Corporate Citizenship Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established in October 2010 upon the 10 th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity by businesses operators who endorsed the Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership Action Policy, as well as economic organizations, NPOs/NGOs, governments and other parties who have the intention of supporting the initiatives of such business operators. In the Dai-ichi Life Group, three companies, namely Dai-ichi Life, Neo First Life and Dai-ichi Life Research Institute, endorse and participate in the partnership. Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership KENKO Enterprise Group The KENKO Enterprise Group was established in June 2015 by companies actively working to promote employee's health advancement through the leadership of their executive management. The goal of this group is to unite the eﬀorts of participating companies to address common health advancement themes and increase the level of eﬀorts through mutual benchmarking. Through the provision of information based on activities not only to member companies but also to non-member companies, this group seeks to contribute to extending the healthy life expectancy of Japan as a whole. Dai-ichi Life endorses and participates in this initiative. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/initiative/index.html 46 Basic Approach to Corporate Governance｜Governance Basic Approach to Corporate Governance The Dai-ichi Life Group shall develop a system of corporate governance as stipulated in this basic policy to ensure transparent, fair, prompt and bold decision-making while balancing the ownership and management, in order to discharge responsibility to its multi-stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, society and employees, and to achieve sustainable growth and enhancement of corporate value over the midto long term. Corporate Governance Policy (196KB) PDF Corporate Governance Report (343KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/basic.html 47 Corporate Governance Structure｜Governance Corporate Governance Structure Enhancement of Management Control System Conduct of Business Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Dai-ichi Life Holdings is responsible for making important business decisions and supervising the conduct of business. To strengthen business management, outside directors have been appointed who are independent of the conduct of business. Outside directors shall be appointed in a manner ensuring, in principle, that they constitute at least one third of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors meets monthly or as needed. To improve management transparency, the Nomination Advisory Committee and the Remuneration Advisory Committee made up of the Chairman of the Board, President, and external appointees have been established under the Board of Directors. The Nomination Advisory Committee is responsible for assessing the qualifications of candidates for directorships and deliberating on the appointment and removal of directors and executive officers, and also for assessing the independence of external officers appointed by the company based on independence criteria. The Remuneration Advisory Committee is responsible for deliberating on the remuneration system for directors and executive officers. An advisory board made up of company management and others rich in experience has also been established as an independent body with aims that include strengthening and expanding governance and increasing corporate value by obtaining direct advice on a variety of subjects and from a variety of perspectives based on a mediumto long-term perspective on all aspects of the business with reference to external conditions. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/structure.html 48 Corporate Governance Structure｜Governance Number of directors 15 Number of directors on Audit & Supervisory Committee 5 (as of June 26, 2017) Number of outside directors 5 Number of outside directors on Audit & Supervisory Committee 3 (as of June 26, 2017) Number of board meetings 17 (FY2016) List of directors Self-evaluation by Board of Directors To underpin the effectiveness of decision-making by the Board of Directors, the board uses self-evaluation and other techniques to undertake an annual review of the efficiency of its meeting practices and effectiveness of its decision-making, and reports a summary of the results. In FY2016, all of the directors on the Board of Directors undertook a self-assessment questionnaire involving third-party evaluation that focused primarily on the activities and deliberations of the Board of Directors. The results of the FY2016 evaluation are available in an attached file. An ongoing program is in place to improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors by working through the PDCA improvement cycle, including by administering additional questionnaires to further improve the activities and deliberations of the Board of Directors. Result of the self-assessment survey in 2016 (143KB) PDF Conduct of business An executive officer system has been adopted to separate decision-making and supervision from the conduct of business and to strengthen functions. Executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and conduct business in accordance with the authority delegated to them by the Board of Directors. The Executive Management Board made up of the president and executive officers appointed by the president meets twice monthly to discuss important management issues and business decisions. Audit & Supervisory Committee Audit & Supervisory Committee audits the legality and appropriateness of directors' execution of their duties (including how they manage subsidiaries and other affiliates as well as other matters), through confirmation and verification of their effectiveness. The Committee collects the necessary information in order to confirm and verify the effectiveness of dicretors' activities thruough reporting from internal audit and internal control related departments, participating in important meetings, interviewing directors and officers, and reviewing important documents. Audit & Supervisory Committee members provide oversight of the Board of Directors by formulating and expressing views on matters such as director appointments and remuneration. For formulating the views on the same, the members confirm the appropriateness of the discussion at the Nomination Advisory Committee and Remuneration Advisory Committee. Further, the staff who provide administrative support for the activities of the Audit & Supervisory Committee are assigned to the Audit & Supervisory Committee's Center, and the independence of these staff from the Board of Directors is maintained by having the Audit & Supervisory Committee deal with their evaluation and other employment matters. Number of Audit & Supervisory Committee 5 (as of June 26, 2017) members Number of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 3 (as of June 26, 2017) Members Number of Audit & Supervisory Committee 10 (FY2016) meetings http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/structure.html 49 Corporate Governance Structure｜Governance Reasons for appointing outside directors and their activities Role Name Reasons for appointment Activities during FY2016 In addition to being an expert in human resource development and corporate governance in global business, he also has extensive experience as a corporate manager at financial institutions, offering knowledgeable insights and extensive experience as an outside director of other companies and Attended 17 Board of serving in a management oversight role as well as Outside director George Olcott Directors meetings out offering forthright opinions on all aspects of of all 17 meetings held management from a global and objective perspective at the Board of Directors and elsewhere. Accordingly, he was appointed as an outside director on the basis that he could put his experience and other skills to use in the oversight of company management. He was appointed as an outside director on the basis that he could serve in a management Attended 7 Board of oversight role as well as offer forthright opinions on Directors meetings out all aspects of management from a global and Outside director Kouichi Maeda of all 7 meetings held objective perspective at the Board of Directors and after his assumption of elsewhere, having knowledgeable insight and office extensive experience as a corporate manager of a company with a strong public service component. With extensive experience as a lawyer and as an outside auditor at other companies with a high level of expert knowledge, she serves in a management Attended 16 Board of oversight role as well as offers forthright opinions, Directors meetings out especially regarding legal matters, from an of all 17 meetings held Outside director objective perspective at the Board of Directors and Attended 10 Audit & Audit & Supervisory Rieko Sato elsewhere. Accordingly, she was appointed as an Supervisory Committee member outside director and Audit & Supervisory Committee meetings Committee member on the basis that she could put out of all 10 meetings her experience and other skills to use in the held oversight and governance of company management. Offering knowledgeable insights and extensive experience as a corporate manager at financial institutions, he serves in a management oversight Attended 17 Board of role as well as offers forthright opinions on all Directors meetings out aspects of management from a global and of all 17 meetings held Outside director objective perspective at the Board of Directors and Attended 10 Audit & Audit & Supervisory Ungyong Shu elsewhere. Accordingly, he was appointed as an Supervisory Committee member outside director and Audit & Supervisory Committee meetings Committee member on the basis that he could put out of all 10 meetings his experience and other skills to use in the held oversight and governance of company management. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/structure.html 50 Corporate Governance Structure｜Governance He was appointed as an outside director and Audit Attended 6 Board of & Supervisory Committee member on the basis Directors meetings out that he could serve in a management oversight and of all 7 meetings held auditing role as well as offer forthright opinions, after his assumption of especially regarding financial matters, from an Outside director office objective perspective at the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Koichi Masuda Attended 10 Audit & elsewhere, having extensive experience as a Committee member Supervisory certified accountant and a high level of expert Committee meetings knowledge, and also extensive experience as an out of all 10 meetings outside director (and member of audit and other held after his committees) and outside auditor at other assumption of office companies. Remuneration of officers Basic policy The basic policy on decisions regarding the remuneration of company officers is as follows. Maintain the transparency, fairness, and objectivity of officer remuneration. Use performance pay to strengthen incentives for improving business performance. Achieve accountability by paying remuneration in accordance with the degree to which company performance indicators chosen on the basis of management strategy are achieved to share returns with shareholders. Use remuneration rates at other comparable companies (based on industry type) as a benchmark when determining specific remuneration amounts to decide whether the amounts are appropriate. In this case, take account of the level of remuneration paid to other company officers and employees and to officers and employees at other companies in industry associations to which Dai-ichi Life belongs. Policy on officer remuneration amounts and how to choose methods for calculating these amounts Officer remuneration for company directors (excluding directors on the Audit & Supervisory Committee and outside directors) is made up of a base amount, an amount tied to company performance, an amount tied to department performance, and remuneration in the form of stock options. In the case of outside directors (excluding directors on the Audit & Supervisory Committee), remuneration is in the form of a base amount only. The amount of remuneration in these cases shall be set using third-party surveys and other information on management remuneration at Japanese companies. This policy shall be decided by the Board of Directors in consultation with the Remuneration Advisory Committee. Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Committee members shall be in the form of a base amount only and the level of remuneration shall be set using third-party surveys and other information on management remuneration at Japanese companies. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/structure.html 51 Corporate Governance Structure｜Governance Total remuneration for each category of company officer, totals for each type of remuneration, and the number of officers to which they were paid. * FY2015 (current) remuneration amounts at Dai-ichi Life and number of officers to which they were paid. Each category Total Total remuneration for each category number remuneration (Unit: Millions of yen) of Board (Unit: Members Millions of Basic Stock Bonuses Retirement Other yen) remuneration options benefits Directors (excluding Directors of Audit & 564 471 89 4 12 Supervisory Committee and Outside Directors) Directors of Audit & Supervisory Committee 44 44 0 2 (excluding Outside Directors) Audit and Supervisory Board Members (excluding outside 34 34 0 2 Audit and Supervisory Board Members) Outside Directors and outside Audit and 102 102 0 10 Supervisory Board Members Notes: 1. Includes two Directors and four Audit and Supervisory Board Members who resigned from the former Dai-ichi Life Insurance before transition to the holding company structure on September 30, 2016. 2. The Company made the transition from a company with an Audit and Supervisory Board to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee at the same time as its transition to a holding company structure on October 1, 2016. The compensation to Audit and Supervisory Board Members is compensation from the former Dai-ichi Life Insurance before transition to the holding company structure, and the compensation to Directors of Audit & Supervisory Committee is compensation from Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. after transition to the holding company structure. 3. Directors do not receive remuneration as employees or any other consideration for execution of their duties. 4. At the former Dai-ichi Life Insurance before the transition to the holding company structure, there was an annual remuneration limit of 840 million yen for Directors and 168 million yen for Audit and Supervisory Board Members. 5. At Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. after transition to the holding company structure, there is an annual remuneration limit of 840 million yen for Directors (excluding Directors of Audit & Supervisory Committee) and 200 million yen for Directors of Audit & Supervisory Committee. Total consolidated remuneration for each officer Not listed as no officers received total consolidated remuneration exceeding 100 million yen. Important employee payments to employees and executives No items in this category. Independence Standards for Outside Directors As part of its approach to strengthening corporate governance, Dai-ichi Life has established its own standards to determine the independence of its outside directors. Independence Standards for Outside Directors (85KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/structure.html 52 Information Disclosure｜Governance Information Disclosure Basic Information Disclosure Policy Dai-ichi Life believes in measures to strengthen corporate governance (a key item which is recognized and by which we are judged), by disclosing information in a timely and appropriate manner, as well as increasing the transparency of management to society, customers, shareholders and investors. We have established a basic policy of information disclosure, in addition to the internal company regulations on publication disclosure when inappropriate events occur. Basic Information Disclosure Policy 1. We disclose information in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange as well as the Financial Products and Exchange Laws, and other laws and regulations. 2. In addition to the above, we disclose information that is determined to be important for society, customers, shareholders and investors, in a timely and appropriate manner. 3. We are committed to fair information disclosure for society, customers, shareholders and investors. Enhancing Information Disclosure The Company will work to further enhance information disclosure in accordance with the Basic Information Disclosure Policy. News Release http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/disclosure.html 53 Equity holdings other than those held solely for the purpose of investment｜Governance Equity holdings other than those held solely for the purpose of investment Possession of The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited (As of March 31, 2017) Equity holding excluding those held solely for the purpose of investment (Possession of The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited) Number of companies 8 Sum of carrying amount 248.7 billion yen Equity holding for specified purpose Company Name Number of share holding Carrying Amount (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Resona Holdings, Inc. 125,241 79.2 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 255,691 53.6 Sompo Holdings, Inc. 3,688 15.7 Equity holding contributed to the retirement benefit trust Company Name Number of share holding Carrying Amount (thousands of shares) (billions of yen) Sompo Holdings, Inc. 4,492 18.3 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 69,208 14.1 (Note) The information is an extract from the Company's securities report (unofficial translation). For detail, please refer to the Company's securities report (Japanese only). http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/governance/reference.html 54 Internal Control｜Governance Internal Control Dai-ichi Life has a Internal Control Policy that stipulates the core philosophies and implementation policies for internal control. The group internal control policy stipulates the core requirements for the establishment and operation of internal control to ensure the integrity and appropriate conduct of business activities at the Dai-ichi Life Group and to maintain and build corporate value. Internal Control Policy for the Dai-ichi Life Group 1. System for Ensuring Proper Operations within the Group 2. System for Ensuring Execution of Professional Duties in Accordance with Applicable Laws, Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation 3. System for Risk Management 4. System for Ensuring Efficient Execution of Professional Duties 5. System for Ensuring Appropriateness and Reliability of Financial Reporting 6. System for Preserving and Managing Information Concerning Execution of Directors' and Executive Officers’ Duties 7. Systems for the Execution of Duties of the Audit and Supervisory Committee 8. Systems for Ensuring Effective Internal Audits Click here for more information about the group Internal Control Policy (114KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/index.html 55 Compliance｜Governance Compliance The Dai-ichi Life Group understands that complying with laws and regulations, its Articles of Incorporation, social standards, and rules in the market is the basis for conducting business activities. To fulﬁll its social responsibilities and public mission, the Company is developing systems to promote compliance in the group's operations. Policies and Regulations Our Internal Control Policy for the Dai-ichi Life Group includes basic matters concerning the development and management of a group compliance system. Under this basic policy, matters such as the basic approach to the promotion of group compliance are outlined in Basic Compliance Policy for the Dai-ichi Life Group, and compliance framework is outlined in Compliance Regulations for the Dai-ichi Life Group. Organizational Systems The Company is endeavoring to develop and strengthen its compliance system as a Group by establishing the Compliance Unit, taking into account the attributes of each group company. The Compliance Unit monitors the status of compliance promotion based on reports, etc. from each group company, and reports to the Board of Directors, the President, Executive Management Board, Audit & Supervisory Committee, etc. of incidents occurring in each Group company as required, according to their importance. The Internal Audit Unit conducts regular internal audits on the effectiveness and appropriateness of these measures. The Group Compliance Committee is established to discuss important matters concerning group compliance and compliance framework of each group company, and reports to the Executive Management Board, the President, and the Board of Directors, apart from regularly convening to monitor compliance status of group companies. The Company has also established a hotline in the Compliance Unit and a consultation service (with external lawyers) in accordance with the Whistleblower Protection Act, to act as a channel through which employees from the Group can report and consult on compliance matters. The Company operates these systems with full respect for privacy so that the whistleblowers will not be subject to unfavorable treatment resulting from their whistleblowing or consultation. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in̲control/compliance.html 56 Compliance｜Governance Compliance Promotion At the Dai-ichi Life Group, Group companies set out annual plans such as compliance programs in accordance with the challenges identiﬁed for each ﬁscal year and take initiatives for each issue based on such plans, as well as checking the progress of such plans and revising their challenges as required to promote compliance in a plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle. In addition, each company enhances education and training to deepen knowledge of laws, regulations and internal rules, and to raise awareness of compliance. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in̲control/compliance.html 57 Risk Management｜ Governance Risk Management To ensure sound and proper business operations and to ensure that we fulfill the obligations arising from our insurance policies, we identify and evaluate potential risks, take appropriate action based on the specific characteristics of each risk and comprehensively manage those risks. We are committed, on a company-wide basis, to improving soundness through the management and control of the financial base, including risk volume and capital. We have also established a crisis management system and a risk management system to respond to catastrophes and large-scale disasters in addition to our everyday risk management system. Policies and Regulations Our Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Basic Internal Control Policy include our basic philosophy and policies regarding risk management. The approach used to manage each type of risk is developed in line with our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. In addition, each of the risk management regulations and standards is translated into practical rules, following our series of Basic Risk Management Policies. Organization To ensure the integrity and appropriate conduct of the group, the risk management unit coordinates and implements group-wide policies for risk management in accordance with the group risk management guidelines. The risk management unit also plays a central role in monitoring and controlling the status and integrity of risk management across the group, while also seeking to improve how risk management is exercised. There is also a group ERM committee that sits regularly to formulate risk management policy, monitor compliance, and conduct studies aimed at improving how risk management is exercised. The audit unit assesses the effectiveness and appropriateness of this risk management infrastructure. An audit committee conducts audits of all aspects of risk management at the group, including management personnel. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/administer.html 58 Risk Management｜Governance ‫پ‬1 Risk Management Unit coordinates with other units as appropriate. ‫پ‬2 Dotted frame shows the entities which Audit & Supervisory Committee makes instruction to, and receives reporting from. ‫پ‬3 Audit & Supervisory Committee and Internal Audit Unit coordinate with each other. ERM The Dai-ichi Life Group conducts enterprise risk management (ERM) whereby it undertakes its business activities based on business plans, capital strategy, and similar that reflect the current situation regarding capital, risk, and profits. The risk management unit assesses the suitability of business plans, capital strategy, and similar formulated as part of ERM, and also seeks to improve group risk management while also controlling capital, risk, and profits in an appropriate manner based on the presence, nature, and characteristics of risk through activities such as setting and managing margins for risk. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/administer.html 59 Risk Management｜Governance The Dai-ichi Life Group controls the integrity of the group through activities such as consolidating different types of risk and making capital provision on an economic value, book value, and regulatory basis. The management of risk on the basis of economic value is conducted using embedded value (an indicator used by life insurance companies to represent corporate value) and coherent risk assessment techniques. To identify and evaluate aspects that are not captured by the model-based quantification of risk, stress testing is conducted using worst-case scenarios based on possible future events or actual past events, such as financial market panics or large natural disasters. This is then used as a basis for analyzing the factors that influence the integrity of the organization and reporting the results to the board of directors, executive PDQDJHPHQWERDUGDQGRWKHUVDQGIRUFRQVLGHULQJDQGLPSOHPHQWLQJPDQDJHPHQWDQGILQDQFLDOPHDVXUHVDQGZD\VWRLPSURYHPRQLWRULQJ RIPDUNHWDQGRWKHUFRQGLWLRQVDVUHTXLUHG Crisis Management The Company has a Group Crisis Management Policy and is pursuing a variety of crisis management responses by comprehensively identifying and managing the Group’s crisis management status as well as developing a crisis management promotion system in normal times to prepare in advance for preventing crises and for reducing risks in preparation for expected crises. Specifically, we work to avert crises by proactively detecting concerns about a crisis and instructing and alerting group companies and units, in addition to requiring group companies to report events that may cause a crisis. In addition, in times of a crisis, we rapidly establish an initial response system, including a communication system, in order to promptly respond and accurately collect information during a crisis and to implement responses to resolve the crisis in cooperation with group companies. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/administer.html 60 Ensuring Appropriate Operations at Group Companies｜Governance Ensuring Appropriate Operations at Group Companies Dai-ichi Life Holdings focuses on monitoring the supervision of decision making by the Boards of Directors and operational execution at group companies and confirms the status of operational execution. Furthermore, we develop the required internal regulations and rules in order to ensure appropriate business among group companies, and the departments responsible for internal control at group companies report on the status of business operations to bodies including the Board of Directors and Executive Management Board as necessary. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/subsidiary.html 61 Internal Control over Financial Reporting｜Governance Internal Control over Financial Reporting In accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we have developed and implemented an internal control system over ﬁnancial reporting. We prepare an internal control report which veriﬁes that our internal control over ﬁnancial reporting was eﬀective, based on the results of assessments of the eﬀectiveness of internal control regarding key processes related to ﬁnancial reporting and ﬁnancial report preparation system, and submit this report together with the annual securities report. In addition, to conﬁrm the eﬀectiveness of the internal control report, an internal control audit is conducted by an independent auditor. The Dai-ichi Life Group accurately and appropriately prepares ﬁnancial reports in compliance with the business accounting standards that are generally considered to be fair, such as the governing laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting principles and internal regulations. And we are concerned to make a tax paymant in compliance with the relevant tax laws . We will continue eﬀorts to ensure the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting going forward by evaluating the eﬀectiveness of the internal control over ﬁnancial reporting. Overview of the Dai-ichi Life Group's Results; Tax payment, Ordinary profit and Ordinary revenues (On a combined basis of our primary group companies) Dai-ichi Life Group accurately and appropriately prepares ﬁnancial reports in compliance with the business accounting standards that are generally considered to be fair, such as the governing laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting principles and internal regulations. And we are concerned to make a tax paymant in compliance with the relevant tax laws. Corporate income taxes-current Ordinary profit Ordinary revenues Note1:Sum of ﬁgures recorded in the Financial Results for the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2017 of the group companies. Note2:“Group companies” represents The Dai-ichi Life Holdings, The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited, The Dai-ichi Frontier Life Insurance Co. Ltd., The Neo First Life Insurance Company, Limited, Protective Life Corporation, TAL Dai-ichi Life Australia Pty Ltd, Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company of Vietnam, Limited and The Dai-ichi Life Information Systems Co.,Ltd. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in̲control/ﬁnancial.html 62 Information Property Protection｜Governance Information Property Protection Statement of intent The Dai-ichi Life Group recognizes that compliance with laws and internal regulations, undertaking appropriate measures for information asset protection, and defending information assets from cyber attacks or internal misconduct is the fundamental prerequisite for gaining the trust of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Policies and other rules on keeping information safe The group's internal governance policy stipulates the core requirements for implementing practices that ensure the safekeeping of group information. This policy serves as the basis for the policy on group information safekeeping, the stipulations of which include the philosophies underlying the safekeeping of group information, and the rules on group information safekeeping that stipulate more speciﬁc approval and reporting systems and other management practices. In order to deal with the increasing ingenuity of cyber-attacks, we have set out Group Rules for Handling Cyber Incidents. Organizational infrastructure for information safekeeping Dai-ichi Life has established practices under which important matters relating to keeping information safe are dealt with by the Group Compliance Committee. An information safekeeping group has also been established within the compliance unit to provide a permanent organization for handling the safekeeping of information at group companies. In addition to providing advice and support as needed based on considerations such as the business activities of each group company and the quantity and nature of the information they hold, this information safekeeping group is also involved in implementing appropriate management practices for information safekeeping at these companies. The internal audit unit conducts regular internal audits of how well these measures are operating and reports their ﬁndings to the board of directors and executive management board. Implementation of information safekeeping practices In accordance with the laws of the relevant countries, the Dai-ichi Life Group has established the policies for the safekeeping of information by introducing security measures where needed and appropriate in order to prevent leaks, loss, or tampering with personal information. Handling for requests for access to personal information, etc. If we receive a request such as for the disclosure of personal information belonging to a particular shareholder or other stakeholder , we shall immediately respond as appropriate after conﬁrming that it is the individual in person or a legitimate proxy . Instructions on how to go about disclosure or other requests under the law on the protection of personal information are available on the websites of Dai-ichi Life and its group companies. Response to requests and similar Dai-ichi Life will respond promptly and appropriately to requests that relate to the handling of personal information. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in̲control/protect.html 63 Handling of Antisocial Forces｜Governance Handling of Antisocial Forces Basic Recognition All Dai-ichi Life Group's organizations are united in their resolve to reject any coercion from antisocial forces that threatens the order and security of civil society or that disrupts sound economic and social development or corporate activities. The Dai-ichi Life Group is fully committed to halting the development of any relationships with these forces in all of its transactions to prevent any damage from occurring. Policies, Regulations, etc. Associated with the Handling of Antisocial Forces In accordance with the Group Basic Policy on Handling of Antisocial Forces based on the Group Basic Internal Control Policy, which establishes basic approaches and policies to halt the development of any relationships with antisocial forces in order to prevent any damage, the Company has established Group Antisocial Forces Handling Regulations, strengthening its unified Group-wide stance towards eliminating antisocial forces. Systems for Handling Antisocial Forces The Company has designated the General Affairs Unit to be in charge of streamlining and strengthening systems to block the development of any relationships with antisocial forces or to prevent damage that may occur, taking into account the attributes of each company, in daily operations and has given guidance and support as required in taking an appropriate response as a group. We regularly monitor the status of group companies and receive reports on initiatives to eliminate antisocial forces from group companies as Group-wide responses. The Company has made preparations whereby in the event business with an antisocial force is identified, the matter is reported to a director or other officer in a timely and appropriate fashion and efforts are made to promptly cut off the ties in question. Top management is also appropriately involved through procedures including regular reporting to the Board of Directors concerning the handling status of efforts to sever ties with antisocial forces. In addition, to ensure that we have no relations with and to prevent damage related to antisocial forces, the Company is permanently committed to developing close cooperative systems with external specialist organizations, such as local police offices, the National Center for the Elimination of Boryokudan (Organized Crime Groups), and lawyers. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/antisocial.html 64 Handling of Antisocial Forces｜Governance Organizational Structure for Severing Relations with Antisocial Forces and Preventing Damage ‫پ‬1 General Affairs Unit coordinates with other units as appropriate. ‫پ‬2 Dotted frame shows the entities which Audit & Supervisory Committee makes instruction to, and receives reporting from. ‫پ‬3 Audit & Supervisory Committee and Internal Audit Unit coordinate with each other. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/antisocial.html 65 Internal Audit｜Governance Internal Audit To ensure the financial soundness and appropriate business operations of the Group as a whole, the Internal Audit Unit of Dai-ichi Life Holdings conducts internal audits to assure that internal control framework and activities of the Group are appropriate and effective. The measures and practices necessary for ensuring effective internal audit have been put in place, including those for maintaining the independence of the Internal Audit Unit. Policies and rules Dai-ichi Life Holdings has stipulated the core philosophies and policies for internal audit in Internal Control Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group and Internal Audit Policy for Dai-ichi Life Group (the Internal Audit Policy ). Dai-ichi Life Holdings has also established Internal Audit Regulations for Dai-ichi Life Group in accordance with the Internal Audit Policy to define the principles of internal audit and to effectively and efficiently implement all the activities relating to Group’s internal audit. Organizational structure Dai-ichi Life Holdings has set up the Internal Audit Unit as an independent organization to ensure its effective checking function to other organizations. The Internal Audit Unit verifies and assesses the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control framework and activities of the Group, identifies flaws, provides advice for improvement and reports to the Board of Directors, Executive Management Board, etc. on the results of internal audits. Reporting to the Audit Committee Dai-ichi Life Holdings has the Audit Committee in which external directors have a majority. The Internal Audit Unit conducts internal audits under audit policy, plans and perspectives of the Audit Committee, and reports to the Audit Committee on its internal audit plans and results. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/about/control/in_control/internalaudit.html 66 Human Rights Awareness ｜Governance Human Rights Awareness Basic Policy The Dai-ichi Life Group has adopted Dai-ichi's Social Responsibility Charter (DSR Charter) as values cherished by all employees and has declared that it would make eﬀorts to respect human rights as an item in the DSR Charter. With this background, in May 2014 Dai-ichi Life announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a UN framework for the UN and corporations to achieve sustainable growth. We will continually endeavor to develop employees who always think of others and take action in any situation based on a correct understanding and awareness of human rights. In addition, respect for human rights constitutes the management foundation of companies, and we will aim to become a company rooted in the value of respect for human rights in the pursuit of human happiness. Dai-ichi Life established the Dai-ichi Life Human Rights Declaration (Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration) in 1986. We also included matters concerning human rights in the Code of Conduct for employees in order to improve the awareness of employees towards human rights. Dai-ichi Life Three Pillars of the Human Rights Declaration 1. Dai-ichi Life respects basic human rights and makes eﬀorts to foster freedom under the rule of law, equality, and a spirit of mutual aid. 2. Dai-ichi Life works to create employees that are not only corporate citizens, but ﬁrst and foremost outstanding members of society. 3. Dai-ichi Life works to educate human resources so that they can correctly understand the corporate social responsibility and act accordingly. Dai-ichi Life's Code of Conduct (Excerpt) Employees shall make eﬀorts to have a correct and deep understanding of human rights in general and to respect basic human rights as they fulﬁll their day-to-day duties. Employees shall not discriminate against others based on gender, age, nationality, race,ethnicity, religion, social status, disabilities, sexual orientation, or gender identity and any other reasons. Employees shall not conduct sexual harassment or power harassment. In addition, employees shall not allow others to conduct these types of acts. Click here (60KB) PDF for details about Dai-ichi Life's Code of Conduct. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/governance/rights.html 67 Human Rights Awareness ｜Governance Speciﬁc Initiatives Internal Initiatives Dai-ichi Life makes efforts to promote human rights awareness based on the view that respect for human rights constitutes the management foundation of companies. Human resources support companies, and it is vital to persistently and repeatedly take initiatives aimed at promoting human rights awareness of employees in order to deepen each employee's proper understanding and awareness of human rights issues and tie these into daily activities. Although human rights issues are wide-ranging, we strive to promote human rights awareness on as many occasions as possible, including training by affiliation targeting all employees as well as training for Human Rights Awareness Committee members, and training for newly hired employees particularly focusing on anti-discrimination against Burakumin, promotion of normalization, harassment prevention, and promotion of understanding of LGBT. In fiscal 2015, we conducted training to promote understanding of LGBT for all employees for the first time. Also in fiscal 2016, we set up the LGBT contact point for employees in establishing a system that allows employees to consult about anxieties and concerns related to work. We believe such support that enables each employee to engage in lively participation leads to respect for the diverse values of employees. We will seek to become a company that boosts productivity and achieves sustainable growth by firmly incorporating the value of respect to human rights into corporate actions through promotion of human rights awareness to employees. Human Rights Awareness External Initiatives Initiatives for Customers Dai-ichi Life takes various initiatives for diverse customers while cherishing the value of respect for human rights. Please see Dai-ichi Life's website for details. LGBT-Friendly External Activities Dai-ichi Life is a member of the Tokyo Industrial Federation for Human Rights, and also actively participates in workshops held by government agencies and organizations in an eﬀort to contribute to human rights awareness within the company. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/governance/rights.html 68 Stakeholder Communication｜Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communication We understand our customers, Local community/society, Shareholder/investor, business partners, and employees as stakeholders who are deeply involved in our business activities. Based on opinions and evaluations obtained through active communication with various stakeholders, we aim to promote higher quality activities and enhance corporate value by reﬂecting our understanding of issues in our business activities. Stakeholder Dialogue The Dai-ichi Life Group's Basic Approach The Dai-ichi Life Group holds a stakeholder dialogue every year to provide opportunities for two-way dialogue between outside experts and internal oﬃcers and employees as a means of reﬂecting various stakeholders' opinions in the Group's business activities. We invite experts in a wide range of ﬁelds and reﬂect their opinions and assessments in the Group's business activities taking into account the latest social conditions, with a view to taking high-quality initiatives. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/index.html 69 Stakeholder Dialogue 2017｜Stakeholder Communication Aiming to Build a Global Governance System that Achieves Sustainable Value Creation The Dai-ichi Life Group has promoted business diversiﬁcation and geographical diversiﬁcation proactively, seeking to enhance its sustainable creation of value. We invited Nicholas E. Benes, Representative Director of The Board Director Training Institute of Japan̶who has extensive knowledge in the area̶to discuss the Dai-ichi Life Group's ideals for its future governance. Outline of the Stakeholder Dialogue Theme Aiming to Build a Global Governance System that Achieves Sustainable Value Creation http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/dialog/2017.html 70 Stakeholder Dialogue 2017｜Stakeholder Communication External Stakeholder Nicholas E. Benes, Representative Director, The Board Director Training Institute of Japan Participants from the Company Seiji Inagaki, President and Representative Director Morinobu Nagahama, Director (Senior Audit & Supervisory Committee Member (FullTime)) Rieko Sato, Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Toshiaki Sumino, Executive Oﬃcer, Chief of Corporate Planning Unit * The aﬃliation and position are at the time when the dialogue was held for producing Annual Report (published in August, 2017). Building a governance system that supports the expansion and diversiﬁcation of business The Group transformed itself through demutualization and shifted to a holding company structure to respond swiftly and optimally to changes in the business environmen Benes Management at Dai-ichi Life has changed signiﬁcantly over the past 10 years, with overseas expansion in 2007, demutualizing and listing in 2010, and shifting to a holding company structure in 2016. Could you explain the background to these changes? Inagaki The domestic life insurance business environment has become increasingly challenging. Take the declining population and the introduction of the negative-interest-rate policy, for example. In this environment, the Group has promoted both business and geographical diversiﬁcation in order to maintain its ability to sustainably create value. Speciﬁcally, we have created three domestic life insurance companies, expanded into the overseas life insurance business, including the Asia-Paciﬁc region and the U.S., and strengthened our domestic and overseas asset management businesses. We have now become a diversiﬁed group with three domestic life insurance companies, six overseas life insurance companies, and two domestic and overseas asset management companies. We have continuously sought to develop the optimal governance system for tackling changes in the business environment and achieving healthy growth. The results of these efforts translated into the process of shifting from a mutual company to a stock company, and then to a holding company structure. Benes What were the main objectives for shifting to a holding company structure? Inagaki The Group aims to speed up growth through the reallocation of capital within the Group. Within the Group, an extremely large but mature domestic life insurance business co-exists with new businesses that have yet to grow to signiﬁcant size. We opted for a holding company that can focus on governance of the entire Group, rather than giving a single operating company the role of appropriately and swiftly determining how much capital to allocate to each business. Another objective was to build the business foundation for executing bold strategies in the future. For example, whereas the business scope of subsidiaries of life insurance companies is strictly regulated under the Insurance Business Act, an insurance holding company can expand into a wide range of business. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/dialog/2017.html 71 Stakeholder Dialogue 2017｜Stakeholder Communication Pursuing best practice as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee Leveraging a sophisticated internal control system in pursuit of highly effective governance Benes Could you explain the reasons why Dai-ichi Life Holdings chose to be a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee? Inagaki Before our ﬁnal decision, there were diﬀering opinions, and we had serious discussions with all members of our board and senior executives. The reason why we ﬁnally decided to be a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee was the belief that since the holding companyʼs main duty is the management and administration of Group companies, it is best for its Board of Directors to act as a monitoring board focusing on supervisory functions. Benes Do you think governance is working well, as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee? Nagahama Yes. The Audit & Supervisory Committee at Dai-ichi Life Holdings strives to ensure highly eﬀective governance. Once we launched the system, we wanted to run it as one having the best practices. We set high standards, taking into account the Companies Act and the expectations of societ,y and based on the know-how we have built up to date. I myself have been involved in the Company's internal control system for a long time, having also served as the oﬃcer in charge of internal auditing. At present, as the Chairman of the Audit & Supervisory Committee, I am constantly working to increase the eﬃciency of supervision while utilizing the internal control system, including liaising between the internal audit units and our external audit ﬁrm. Benes The life insurance business is based on long-term policies that run for several decades. Actuarial accounting is also complex, so a high level of expertise and a long-term management perspective is required. Is it difﬁcult to deeply understand the business and make the supervisory functions work? Nagahama At the Audit & Supervisory Committee, we take plenty of time to interview each executive oﬃcer. After identifying the business issues raised by each executive, we check whether and how these issues are actually addressed in the execution of duties by that person. Sato In the beginning, I did not necessarily support adoption of the Audit & Supervisory Committee system. The corporate auditor (kansayaku) system is unique to Japan and is sometimes described as dif ﬁcult for people from overseas to understand, but its corporate auditors are endowed with extremely strong authorities and an independent decision-making system in which each individual corporate auditor can request reports and carry out investigations. So, some argue that governance functions meaningfully because of this aspect. Compared to this, in the case of the Audit & Supervisory Committee, it is not the individual members who have the authority to investigate but the committee that makes such decisions, as a group. Nevertheless, in the course of discussions, I came to recognize that an extremely sophisticated internal control system was already established at the Company. I realized that if it was linked well to the internal control system, the functions of the Audit & Supervisory Committee would be fulﬁlled when an issue was raised by an outside director, even if that person did not have an individual authority to investigate. Believing that Dai-ichi Life Holdings could achieve highly effective governance that would be a model to other companies with an Audit & Supervisory Committee if we aim for best practice, I supported adoption of the new system on that assumption. Now that we have made the transition, my concerns have been eliminated, and I actually think that we can check the appropriateness of the execution of directorial duties more widely than regular corporate auditors. Benes How do you make sure that the outside directors are informed well enough to maintain eﬀective oversight? Nagahama Since the establishment of the holding company in October 2016, the Board of Directors has met 12 times, and the Audit & Supervisory Committee has met more frequently. In addition to that, preliminary brieﬁngs are held for the outside directors, depending on the importance of the agenda items. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/dialog/2017.html 72 Stakeholder Dialogue 2017｜Stakeholder Communication Sato Including some internal events we participate in so that we can understand the business better, I think we actually visit the Company about three times a month. Also, I do think that the outside directors are well informed, including the advance distribution of materials for the Board of Directors. Moreover, aside from meetings that are conducted internally, we have independently held executive session meetings that allow for free discussion between the outside board members, in order to deepen our understanding of agenda items and enhance discussions. Benes That's an extremely positive initiative. Exchanging opinions in such forums will stimulate discussion at the Board of Directors. Inagaki I myself have served on the Board of Directors at U.S.-based Janus Capital Group (now Janus Henderson Group) as an outside director. We had onsite meetings once a quarter in principle, with video conferences held when necessary. Benes There is also the approach of reducing the frequency of meetings while deepening debate at each individual meeting. Were there any other initiatives like that at the Janus Board of Directors that could be instructive? Inagaki At the Audit Committee, which was a sub-committee to the Board of Directors, there were various innovations to enhance the eﬀectiveness of governance. For example, the executive directors would leave the meeting to give the Audit Committee members, composed of the auditor and the outside directors, the opportunity to exchange opinions among themselves. I felt that it was a very sound organization. We hope to pursue the best governance for the Group while also learning from such cases at overseas companies. Building a global management system in anticipation of the next generation Focusing on securing and training diverse personnel as a true global company Benes The overseas business has come to account for about 30% of consolidated net income in ﬁscal 2016, so having a global management structure will be even more important going forward. Could you explain under what kind of structure you currently use? Sumino We supervise and support each overseas Group company through regional headquarters established in New York and Singapore. We hold an Executive Summit with the aim of sharing our corporate philosophy and values with overseas Group management. We also try to share information, strategies and policies at each level within the Group at events such as the Global Management Conference, where managers from each company get together. Benes Are there any cases in which the management of overseas Group companies take part in the management of the holding company? Inagaki At the moment, there are ﬁve executives who are treated as executive oﬃcers of the Company, and they take part onsite or by conference call when we deliberate on overseas strategy matters. Benes Training the next generation of personnel to run the global business in the future is also important. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/dialog/2017.html 73 Stakeholder Dialogue 2017｜Stakeholder Communication Sumino Exactly. In order to build up a diverse employee base, we are actively promoting mid-career employment and the employment of non-Japanese personnel, in addition to hiring new college graduates. While expanding the pool of human capital in this way, I hope that we will also be able to train people who can drive the overseas business, and develop candidates for next-generation executive positions in the process. We are also enhancing global employee interaction and training programs. In ﬁscal 2016, about 30 overseas Group employees participated in interaction programs in Japan, and we plan to increase this number to around 50 in ﬁscal 2017. In conjunction with these eﬀorts, I think we have to develop a multi-lingual internal information infrastructure, to support the globalization of our business. Benes Speaking from my own experience, increasing diversity and cementing human networks within the Group will be a major advantage in remaining globally competitive. The individual strengths of talented personnel combined with human networks will surely help you to overcome the challenges you face to come up with new ideas. Respecting each other, learning from each other, growing together Benes I think that when you try to strengthen the supervisory and oversight functions for overseas Group companies, there is always a possibility of friction due to cultural diﬀerences and other factors. As a holding company, what approach do you take to this? Inagaki The life insurance business is basically a local business, and it is a business that will not run well based on top-down instructions and orders alone. Koichiro Watanabe, Chairman of the Board, expressed the approach that forms the basis of the Company's global management, in the concepts of respecting each other, learning from each other, and growing together. At a very fundamental level, I think that these concepts express the essence of good governance. The Dai-ichi Life Group has treasured this mindset since the days when it was a mutual company devoted to the domestic life insurance business. These concepts have remained alive after the Group has transformed itself through business and geographical diversiﬁcation, and I would like to make sure that they will be resolutely passed on in the future. Stakeholder Dialogue http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/dialog/2017.html 74 Customers｜Stakeholder Communication Customers Group Policy We take the following initiatives in order to improve our products and services with a view to achieving the group mission of By your side, for life. Speciﬁc Initiatives Collection of opinions and requests through various contacts with customers The Dai-ichi Life Group works to improve our products and services by proactively collecting opinions and requests through various contacts with customers such as Total Life Plan Designers (sales representatives), contact centers (call centers), insurance shops (consulting counters), our website, and agents. Dai-ichi Life Insurance Shops Seminars and Exchange Events for Managers At Dai-ichi Life, we hold events for managers throughout Japan with a view to providing information to corporate customers (managers) and helping them resolve management issues. Speciﬁcally, we hold seminars where specialists from inside and outside the company give lectures, as well as exchange events aimed at exchange of information and business matching among managers. We will continue planning and holding events tailored to the needs of society and communities in an effort to not only improve corporate customer satisfaction but also contribute to the revitalization of local economies and industries. Roundtable Conference with Customers Customer Satisfaction Survey Advisory Committee for Business Quality Consumer Focus Group Program Visits to the National Consumer Aﬀairs Center of Japan Please see Initiatives for Customers for details. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/customer.html 75 Shareholders and Investors ｜Stakeholder Communication Shareholders and Investors Group Philosophy At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we take the following initiatives for the purpose of disclosing company information in a timely and appropriate manner and using useful requests and opinions from dialogue with shareholders and investors as reference for company management. Speciﬁc Initiatives General Meeting of Shareholders At Dai-ichi Life, we hold the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in late June of each year to report important matters concerning the company to shareholders for them to resolve such matters. In addition to the explanation of business operations and the management plan given by the president, we are working to enhance two-way communication through questions and answers. Furthermore, we are taking initiatives such as online exercise of voting rights and participation in the electronic voting rights execution platform for institutional investors with an eye to improving the environment for exercising voting rights. * We will hold the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders as Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited until Fiscal 2016, and as Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. from Fiscal 2017. Financial Results Conference Call We hold a Financial Results Conference Call four times a year where senior management explains the Dai-ichi Life Group's ﬁnancial results to institutional investors and analysts. The Dai-ichi Life Group's top management directly explains such matters followed by a question and answer session. The Financial Results Conference Call is made widely available via online streaming. Financial Analyst Meeting We hold a Financial Analyst Meeting twice a year where the president explains the Dai-ichi Life Group's strategy to institutional investors and analysts. The president directly explains such matters followed by a question and answer session. The Financial Analyst Meeting is made widely available via online streaming. In addition, we hold Analyst Day in which oﬃcers in charge of major departments directly explain their management strategies, and make the explanatory materials widely available via online streaming. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/investment.html 76 Shareholders and Investors｜Stakeholder Communication Visit to Domestic and Foreign Institutional Investors and Separate Response We have separate dialogues with more than 300 domestic and foreign institutional investors a year. Of those institutional investors, more than 100 are foreign institutional investors with whom we actively communicate including separate response by senior management. Response to Inquiries from Sell-side Analysts, etc. We respond to inquiries as necessary from sell-side analysts working for securities companies who analyze ﬁnancial results and compile a report of stock price forecasts. Interaction with individual investors We participate in IR events which bring together more than 100 companies every year and hold company information sessions nearly 20 times a year. We engage in active exchange mainly through the explanation of the Dai-ichi Life Group, including strategy and ﬁnancial results, to individual investors who actively conduct equity investment. IR Event Presentation by the president Seminar for Individual Investors We hold seminars for individual investors about 20 times a year to explain the company proﬁle, ﬁnancial results, and the Dai-ichi Life Group's initiatives aimed at future growth. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/investment.html 77 Community and Society｜Stakeholder Communication Community and Society Group Philosophy At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we take the following initiatives for the purpose of growing together with the community and society as a good corporate citizen. Speciﬁc Initiatives Collaboration with External Organizations The Dai-ichi Life Group carries out various activities by working with external organizations in order to contribute to the community and society. Speciﬁcally, we conduct blood donation activities for employees with the Japan Red Cross, charity sales promotion events to employees with local welfare facilities and organization as the exhibitors, and volunteer awards in conjunction with the Japan Philanthropic Association in order to further enhance social contribution activities of employees. Going forward, we will pursue contribution activities that are needed by the community and society by incorporating external perspectives through close collaboration with external organizations. Blood donation activities for employees Dialogue with Outside Experts At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we regularly conduct dialogues by outside experts and the company's executives in order to utilize various opinions from stakeholders in management We will continue making eﬀorts so that we can steadily fulﬁll our social responsibilities and grow by asking about opinions and requests concerning business activities overall and using such information to improve day-to-day activities as much as possible. Stakeholder Dialogue for Fiscal 2017 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/society.html 78 Community and Society｜Stakeholder Communication Partnership with Local Governments At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we assist local communities in resolving the challenges they face by concluding partnership agreements tailored to local governments using our strength of having branch oﬃces throughout Japan. We have established cooperative relations with local governments in a wide array of ﬁelds, including cancer awareness agreements under which we mainly provide health and medical information for raising the cancer examination rate and agreements on activities to check up on elderly residents that support the safe living of the elderly. Going forward, we will continue pushing ahead with partnerships with more local governments to support community revitalization. Agreement signing ceremony Governor Hirai of Tottori Prefecture (Second from the left) President Inagaki of Dai-ichi Life (Fourth from the left) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/society.html 79 Business Partners｜Stakeholder Communication Business Partners Group Philosophy At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we take the following initiatives for the purpose of promoting fair and equitable business dealings with suppliers and contractors of goods and services, and agents to build sound relationships. Specific Initiatives Initiatives for Contractors At Dai-ichi Life, when selecting contractors, we evaluate them according to multiple perspectives, including information safety management and elimination of anti-social forces, and conduct site visits as required. And, once a year, we conduct a regular inspection of the contract details, as we strive to manage our outsource business properly and professionally. For our work related to underwriting and maintaining insurance contracts, and our business duties, including printing and sending documents and forms to customers, the company outsources part of that to outside contractors. Consideration for the Environment during Selection of Business Partners Dai-Ichi Life regularly conducts surveys of the environmental initiatives of our major business partner. And, in addition to installing environmentally-friendly OA equipment, we promote Green Purchasing, which is the preferential purchasing of products that put little load on the environment. In addition to formulating our company’s Green Purchasing Guidelines, when purchasing office consumables, etc., as a rule, we purchase Green Purchasing-compatible products through our in-house bulk purchasing system. Training, Education, and Support for Agents At Dai-ichi Life, we outsource the sales of our products to professional agents of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance with whom we have forged a comprehensive business alliance and support activities, including presentation of proposal methods and preparation of insurance design, for the purpose of providing total consulting services which cover life insurance and non-life insurance to customers. In addition, we hold an awards ceremony every year to honor agents that achieved remarkable sales results for our products. Also, Dai-ichi Frontier Life has established a call center for agents separate from its customer call center. Each call center continually works to strengthen its system for responding promptly and accurately to inquiries about products and procedures. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/client.html 80 Employees｜Stakeholder Communication Employees Group Philosophy At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we take the following initiatives for the purpose of ensuring a positive work environment where diverse human resources can play active roles. Speciﬁc Initiatives Message from the President At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we have established an initiative that connects directly the president and employees by utilizing the company's intranet. The network is operated so that the management vision can be shared throughout the entire company. It can also pass along messages and oﬃcial speeches given by the president on special occasions such as on anniversaries of the company's founding, etc. This initiative provides interactive communication so that employees are also able to convey to the president any questions and concerns regarding day-to-day operations. The feedback that the president's responses generate can also be shared with the entire company, etc. Message from the President over the intranet (Image) Dialogue with Top Management At the Dai-ichi Life Group, we conduct dialogue with top management as an opportunity for top management to seriously listen to employee views. Within this framework, executives visit the workplace and share with employees the background and views associated with various business challenges, in addition to management directly ﬁelding questions and opinions from employees. Internal communications are invigorated through such direct discussions, and this framework also works to create an organization brimming with energy and a sense of unity. Dialogue with Top Management Determining Employee Satisfaction At the Dai-ichi Life, we have conducted an employee satisfaction (ES) survey since ﬁscal 2003. This survey is used both to gauge current ES and to consider any measures to be undertaken in response to challenges. An accommodating work environment is being developed by the identiﬁcation of challenges and by the implementation of responses to them. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/employee.html 81 Employees｜Stakeholder Communication Whistleblowing System (Internal and External Consultation Service) To enhance corporate governance, the Dai-ichi Life Group has established a consultation service within each company and with external lawyers in accordance with the Whistleblower Protection Act to act as a channel through which employees can directly report and consult on important compliance matters. Speciﬁcally, the consultation service within each company receives reports concerning violations of laws and regulations and internal rules and outside lawyers of the external consultation service handle and resolve matters reported by employees of each company under a system independent from management. Going forward, we will work to enhance governance and the trust of customers by listening sincerely to various feedback. Consultation Service Related to Human Resources At the Dai-ichi Life Group, for the purpose of handling various consultations concerning career path with a view to enhancing employees' human resource value, career advisors with special skills oﬀer appropriate advice in order to encourage those seeking consultation to resolve matters on their own, and support the career development of employees. Labour Unions The Dai-ichi Life Labour Union employs a union shop system whereby both in-house staff and sales representatives are union members. There are some 52,000 people (as of April 1, 2017) to whom the conditions of union membership apply. The company and the union engage in an active exchange of opinions via discussions held in various committees to both realize a wealthier and more cheerful lifestyle for union members, and so as to create a satisfying and positive workplace for them. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/group/stakeholder/employee.html 82 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Content Index Sustainability Reports is based on the Core option of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Therefore, only material aspects (that were selected as material issues for the Dai-ichi Life Group) are disclosed in Speciﬁc Standard Disclosure. GRI Standards G4 Guidelines GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational proﬁle GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-1 Name of the Corporate Proﬁle DISCLOSURES 2016 organization 102-2 Activities, brands, List of Group Companies products, and services 102-3 Location of Corporate Proﬁle headquarters 102-4 Location of operations List of Group Companies [Number of countries where the organization operates] is not reported. 102-5 Ownership and legal Corporate Proﬁle form Basic Stock Information 102-6 Markets served List of Group Companies 102-7 Scale of the Corporate Proﬁle organization List of Group Companies Sustainability Data (Employees) Financial Highlights: Daiichi Life Holdings (Consolidated) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 83 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) 102-8 Information on Sustainability Data employees and other (Employees) workers 102-9 Supply chain Stakeholder Communication 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to There have been no material the organization and restatements during the its supply chain period 102-11 Precautionary Risk Management Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives Participation in External Initiatives 102-13 Membership of Participation in External associations Initiatives Strategy GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-14 Statement from senior Message from the DISCLOSURES 2016 decision-maker President Ethics and integrity GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-16 Values, principles, Group Sustainability DISCLOSURES 2016 standards, and norms Approach of behavior Governance GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance DISCLOSURES 2016 Structure Structure http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 84 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Stakeholder engagement GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-40 List of stakeholder Stakeholder DISCLOSURES 2016 groups Communication 102-41 Collective bargaining Employees (Labor Union) agreements Financial Highlights: Daiichi Life Holdings (Consolidated) 102-42 Identifying and Stakeholder selecting stakeholders Communication Handling of Antisocial Forces 102-43 Approach to Stakeholder stakeholder Communication engagement Sustainability Data (Interactions with Customers) 102-44 Key topics and Stakeholder concerns raised Communication Initiatives for Customers Sustainability Data (Interactions with Customers) Reporting practice GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 102: GENERAL 102-45 Entities included in the Corporate Proﬁle DISCLOSURES 2016 consolidated ﬁnancial statements 102-46 Deﬁning report content Process for Identifying and topic Boundaries Material Issues The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 85 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) 102-47 List of material topics Process for Identifying Material Issues The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 102-48 Restatements of There have been no material information restatements during the period 102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no material restatements during the period 102-50 Reporting period Sustainability Reports 102-51 Date of most recent Sustainability Reports report 102-52 Reporting cycle Sustainability Reports 102-53 Contact point for Sustainability Reports questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in GRI Standard accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Standard 102-56 External assurance Initiatives for Society and Environment: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Veriﬁcation Report http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 86 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Message from the approach and its President components Strategy GRI 201: ECONOMIC 201-1 Direct economic value Financial Information PERFORMANCE generated and 2016 distributed ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Compliance approach and its components GRI 205: ANTI205-1 Operations assessed Compliance [Total number and CORRUPTION 2016 for risks related to percentage of corruption operations assessed for risks related to corruption] is not reported. 205-3 Conﬁrmed incidents of There have been no material corruption and actions restatements during the taken period http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 87 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Compliance approach and its components GRI 206: ANTI206-1 Legal actions for antiThere have been no material COMPETITIVE competitive behavior, restatements during the BEHAVIOR 2016 anti-trust, and period monopoly practices MATERIALS GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment GRI 301: MATERIALS 301-1 Materials used by Sustainability Data 2016 weight or volume (Environmental Initiatives) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 88 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials ENERGY GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption Sustainability Data 2016 within the organization (Environmental Initiatives) 302-2 Energy consumption Sustainability Data outside of the (Environmental Initiatives) organization WATER GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company,For Environment > Environmental Action GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by Sustainability Data 2016 source (Environmental Initiatives) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 89 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials EMISSIONS GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment GRI 305: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Sustainability Data 2016 emissions (Environmental Initiatives) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope Sustainability Data 2) GHG emissions (Environmental Initiatives) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope Sustainability Data 3) GHG emissions (Environmental Initiatives) EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company,For Environment > Environmental Action GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-2 Waste by type and Sustainability Data Waste disposal AND WASTE 2016 disposal method (Environmental Initiatives) method is in accordance with the local government's instructions. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 90 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with There have been no material ENVIRONMENTAL environmental laws restatements during the COMPLIANCE 2016 and regulations period EMPLOYMENT GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company,Diversity and Inclusion > Work-Life Balance GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires Sustainability Data [new employee hires EMPLOYMENT 2016 and employee (Employees) and employee turnover turnover by age group] is not reported. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 91 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) 401-3 Parental leave Sustainability Data [the total number of (Employees) employees that were entitled to parental leave] is not reported. TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Employees GRI 404: TRAINING 404-2 Programs for Sustainability Data AND EDUCATION upgrading employee (Employees) 2016 skills and transition The Dai-ichi Life Insurance assistance programs Company website: Human Resource Development DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 92 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: WorkLife Balance GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 Diversity of Sustainability Data Data [by age group] is AND EQUAL governance bodies (Corporate Governance) not reported. OPPORTUNITY 2016 and employees Sustainability Data (Employees) Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Human Rights Awareness GRI 412: HUMAN 412-2 Employee training on Human Rights Awareness [Total number of hours RIGHTS human rights policies in the reporting period Sustainability Data (Human ASSESSMENT 2016 or procedures devoted to training on rights awareness education human rights policies] (Dai-ichi Life)) is not reported. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 93 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Group Sustainability approach and its Approach components Structure Initiatives for Society and Environment GRI 413: LOCAL 413-1 Operations with local Initiatives for Society and This indicator isn't COMMUNITIES 2016 community Environment related to this report engagement, impact because the Group Sustainability Data assessments, and has only one business (Engagement with Local development segment. Communities) programs CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Information Property approach and its Protection components GRI 418: CUSTOMER 418-1 Substantiated Information Property PRIVACY 2016 complaints concerning Protection (There have breaches of customer been no substantiated privacy and losses of complaints regarding customer data breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 94 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI Standard / Disclosure Page number(s) and / or Omission URL(s) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Process for Identifying MANAGEMENT material topic and its Material Issues APPROACH 2016 Boundary The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF 103-2 The management Compliance approach and its components GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with There have been no material SOCIOECONOMIC laws and regulations restatements during the COMPLIANCE 2016 in the social and period economic area http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 95 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials GRI Content Index Sustainability Reports is based on the Core option of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Therefore, only material aspects (that were selected as material issues for the Dai-ichi Life Group) are disclosed in Speciﬁc Standard Disclosure. GRI Standards G4 Guidelines General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Message from the President organization Organizational poﬁle Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-3 The name of the organization Corporate Proﬁle G4-4 The primary brands, products and services List of Group Companies G4-5 Report the location of the organization's headquarter. Corporate Proﬁle G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates List of Group Companies G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Proﬁle Basic Stock Information G4-8 The markets served List of Group Companies http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 96 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-9 The scale of the organization Corporate Proﬁle List of Group Companies Sustainability Data (Employees) Financial Highlights: Dai-ichi Life Holdings (Consolidated) G4-10 The total number of employees Sustainability Data (Employees) G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective Employees (Labor Union) bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the organization's supply chain Stakeholder Communication G4-13 Any signiﬁcant change during the reporting period Sustainability Reports Commitments to external initiatives Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Risk Management approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Participation in External Initiatives charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry Participation in External Initiatives associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization Identiﬁed material aspect and boundaries Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-17 All entities included in the organization's consolidated List of Group Companies ﬁnancial statements G4-18 The process of deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Process for Identifying Material Issues boundaries The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 97 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-19 All material Aspects Process for Identifying Material Issues The Comparison Chart of the Dai-ichi Life Group's material issues (GRI, ISO26000) (193KB) PDF G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect within the Process for Identifying Material Issues organization G4-21 Aspect Boundary for each material Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-22 The eﬀect of any restatement There have been no material restatements during the period G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the There have been no material restatements scope and Aspect Boundaries during the period Stakeholder engagement Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Communication G4-25 The basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder Communication with whom to engage. Handling of Antisocial Forces G4-26 The organization's approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Communication G4-27 The key topics and concerns that have been raised Stakeholder Communication through stakeholder engagement Initiatives for Customers Report proﬁle Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Sustainability Reports G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Sustainability Reports G4-30 Reporting cycle Sustainability Reports G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report Sustainability Reports G4-32 The ʻin accordanceʼ option the organization has chosen GRI Guidelines Version 4 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 98 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-33 The external assurance The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Performance Governance Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-34 The governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance Structure Structure Ethics and Integrity Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-56 The organization's values, principles, standards and Group Sustainability Approach norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Message from the President Strategy Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-EC-1 The direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Information http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 99 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Category: Environmental Aspect: Materials Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) Aspect: Energy Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN3 Energy consumption by primary energy source. Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) Aspect: Water Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 100 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Aspect: Emissions Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Management System G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Sustainability Data (Environmental 2). Initiatives) The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Environment : Management System Aspect: Eﬄuents and Waste Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Sustainability Data (Environmental Initiatives) Waste disposal method is in accordance with the local government's instructions. Aspect: Compliance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of Not Applicable non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 101 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Aspect: Transport Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products Sustainability Data (Environmental and other goods and materials for the organization's Initiatives) operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect : Overall Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-EN31 Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and Sustainability Data (Environmental Investments by Type Initiatives) Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company,Diversity and Inclusion > WorkLife Balance G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Sustainability Data (Employees) employee turnover by age group, gender and region. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 102 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Sustainability Data (Employees) gender. [the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave] is not reported. Aspect: Training and Education Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Employees G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Sustainability Data (Employees) support the continued employability of employees and The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company assist them in managing career endings. website: Human Resource Development Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Sustainability Data (Corporate employees per employee category according to gender, Governance) age group, minority group membership, and other Sustainability Data (Employees) indicators of diversity. Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 103 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Category: Social Sub-Category: Human rights Aspect: Investment Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Human Rights Awareness Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and Human Rights Awareness procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Sustainability Data (Human rights relevant to operations, including the percentage of awareness education) employees trained. Category: Social Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Society and Environment G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Initiatives for Society and Environment community engagement, impact assessments, and Sustainability Data (Engagement with development programs Local Communities) This indicator isn't related to this report because the Group has only one business segment. Aspect: Anti-corruption Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Compliance risks related to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed G4-SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There have been no material restatements during the period http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 104 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, There have been no material restatements anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. during the period Aspect: Compliance Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compliance Process for Identifying Material Issues G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of There have been no material restatements non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and during the period regulations. Category: Social Sub-Category:Product responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Group Sustainability Approach Structure Process for Identifying Material Issues Initiatives for Customers G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Sustainability Data (Interactions with Customers) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 105 GRI Content Index ｜Relevant Materials Aspect: Customer Privacy Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Information Property Protection G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Information Property Protection (There breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data have been no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data) Aspect: Active Ownership Category, Material Aspect, DMA and Indicators Published Categories and Additional Information DMA Disclosure on Management Approach The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company website: Our Initiatives under Japan's Stewardship Code G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization website: Our Initiatives under Japan's has interacted on environmental or social issues. Stewardship Code G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company environmental or social screening. website: ESG Investment and Lending http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/gri.html 106 ISO26000｜Relevant Materials ISO26000 The Sustainability Report features an index of information for readers based on ISO26000. 6.2 Organizational governance Core Subjects and Issues Location Message from the President Group Sustainability Governance Stakeholder Communication Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/iso.html 107 ISO26000｜Relevant Materials 6.3 Human rights Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Due diligence Human Rights Awareness Issue 2 Human rights risk situations ʊ Issue 3 Avoidance of complicity Human Rights Awareness Handling of Antisocial Forces The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 4 Resolving grievances Stakeholder Communication Issue 5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment Issue 6 Civil and political rights Human Rights Awareness Issue 7 Economic, social and cultural rights Initiatives for Health Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 8 Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment Stakeholder Communication Employees The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/iso.html 108 ISO26000｜Relevant Materials 6.4 Labour practices Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Employment and employment relationships Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 2 Conditions of work and social protection Human Rights Awareness Initiatives for an Accommodating Work Environment Stakeholder Communication Employees Issue 3 Social dialogue Stakeholder Communication Employees Issue 4 Health and safety at work Initiatives for Health Issue 5 Human development and training in the workplace The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Human Resource Development 6.5 The environment Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Prevention of pollution Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 2 Sustainable resource use Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 3 Climate change mitigation and adaptation Initiatives for Society and Environment The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Our Role as an Institutional Investor Issue 4 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration Initiatives for Society and Environment of natural habitats http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/iso.html 109 ISO26000｜Relevant Materials 6.6 Fair operating practices Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Anti-corruption Group Sustainability Approach Compliance Issue 2 Responsible political involvement Issue 3 Fair competition Compliance Issue 4 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ʊ Issue 5 Respect for property rights ʊ 6.7 Consumer issues Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Stakeholder Communication: Customers contractual practices Issue 2 Protecting consumers' health and safety Issue 3 Sustainable consumption Issue 4 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute Stakeholder Communication: Customers resolution The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited website: Insurances Benefit/Claim Payments Issue 5 Consumer data protection and privacy Information Property Protection Handling of Personal Information Issue 6 Access to essential services Issue 7 Education and awareness Stakeholder Communication: Customers http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/iso.html 110 ISO26000｜Relevant Materials 6.8 Community involvement and development Core Subjects and Issues Location Issue 1 Community involvement Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 2 Education and culture Initiatives for Society and Environment Issue 3 Employment creation and skills development Issue 4 Technology development and access Issue 5 Wealth and income creation Issue 6 Health Initiatives for Health Issue 7 Social investment Initiatives for Society and Environment http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/iso.html 111 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ｜Relevant Materials Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In September 2015, the United Nations adopted Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development . This agenda includes 17 goals and 169 associated targets, described as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Below we summarize the Dai-ichi Life Group's initiatives associated with these goals where we have an impact. We will contribute to the achievement of SDGs by promoting our activities aiming to achieve a sustainable society. Goals Initiatives Location 1. No poverty Inclusive Business Bonds *1and Initiatives for Society and End poverty in all its forms Microﬁnance bonds*2 as part of ESG Environment (Society) everywhere investment and lending *1 Investment in and lending to business that integrates low-income groups of 2. Zero hunger the world into the business value chain End hunger, achieve food security and improved *2 Investment in and lending to micro or small-sized enterprises in developing nutrition and promote countries sustainable agriculture 3. Good health and wellHealth promotional activities of each Initiatives for Health External being region by entering into cancer Initiatives (for Customers and Ensure healthy lives and awareness agreements with local People in Local Communities) promote well-being for all at governments all ages Providing information regarding Initiatives for Health External health and medical and nursing care Initiatives (for Customers and services through sales activities People in Local Communities) Promoting employee lifestyle Initiatives for Health Internal improvement and thoroughly Initiatives (for Employees) undertaking of medical checkup by the health seminars and the health advancement campaigns 4. Quality education The continuing education support in Initiatives for Society and Ensure inclusive and equitable India by the Group Company, Environment (Society) quality education and including to school facilities repair, promote lifelong learning supply of ﬁxtures and equipment, opportunities for all and provision of annual tuition support http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/sdgs.html 112 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ｜Relevant Materials Goals Initiatives Location 5. Gender equality Reform of employee awareness and Initiatives for an Accommodating Achieve gender equality and improvement of the human capital Work Environment empower all women and girls development system to provide more opportunities for female employees Establishment of the target to increase the percentage of female managerial employees in the Medium-term Management Plan Invitation of daycare and nursing Initiatives for Society and facilities and after-school day-care Environment (Society) centers to the real estate properties we own Subsidies to newly established daycare and nursing facilities for purchasing equipment through the Dai-ichi Life Foundation 6. Clean water and Not Applicable sanitation Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 7. Aﬀordable and clean energy The investment in the oﬀshore wind Initiatives for Society and Ensure access to aﬀordable, farm construction project by adoption Environment (Environment) reliable, sustainable and of trust structure to invest in The Dai-ichi Life Insurance modern energy for all overseas project ﬁnance Company, Limited News Release The Dai-ichi Life to invest in Oﬀshore Wind Farm PDF 8. Decent work and Improving access to insurance Initiatives for Customers economic growth through providing high-quality Promote sustained, inclusive products and services to respond to and sustainable economic the diversifying needs of customers growth, full and productive employment and decent work Creating a positive workplace for Initiatives for an Accommodating for all employees by promoting work-life Work Environment balance and enhancing our training programs 9. Industry, innovation A continuing activity that the Group Initiatives for Society and and infrastructure Company has built concrete bridges Environment (Society) Build resilient infrastructure, in remote rural areas in Vietnam promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization The InsTech which creates Initiatives for Health External and foster innovation innovation unique to the life Initiatives (for Customers and insurance business from both People in Local Communities) insurance business and technology perspectives http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/sdgs.html 113 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ｜Relevant Materials Goals Initiatives Location 10. Reduced inequalities Promoting eﬀorts for Diversity and Initiatives for an Accommodating Reduce inequality within and Inclusion , including to working to Work Environment among countries actively recruit people with Human Rights Awareness disabilities and create a comfortable working environment, Human rights awareness, and becoming LGBTfriendly Providing information regarding Initiatives for Health External dementia, geriatrics and gerontology Initiatives (for Customers and through sales activities in People in Local Communities) collaboration with professional organizations 11. Sustainable cities Promoting reduction of energy Initiatives for Society and and communities usage, CO2 emissions, paper usage Environment (Environment) Make cities and human and waste material, and reduction of settlements inclusive, safe, the load on the urban environment resilient and sustainable 12. Responsible Cutting consumption of resources by Initiatives for Society and consumption and reducing use of paper, promoting Environment (Environment) production green procurement, and Ensure sustainable encouraging the recycling of waste consumption and production patterns 13. Climate action Engaging in mangrove planting in Initiatives for Society and Take urgent action to combat Indonesia, which has eﬀects on Environment (Environment) climate change and its strengthening resilience to natural impacts disasters, reducing marine pollution, and conserving inland freshwater ecosystems 14. Life below water Conserve and sustainably Engaging in activities aimed at use the oceans, seas and protecting the natural environment marine resources for including to sponsoring tree-planting sustainable development organizations 15. Life on land Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertiﬁcation, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/sdgs.html 114 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ｜Relevant Materials Goals Initiatives Location 16. Peace, justice and Developing systems to promote Compliance strong institutions compliance in the group's operations Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Halting the development of any Handling of Antisocial Forces sustainable development, relationships with antisocial forces in provide access to justice for all of our transactions to prevent any all and build eﬀective, damage from occurring accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 17. Partnerships for the Supporting the initiatives of Initiatives for Society and Goals international development ﬁnancial Environment (Society) Strengthen the means of institutions through investment in implementation and revitalize social contribution-type bonds the global partnership for sustainable development Promoting activities aiming to Participation in External Initiatives achieve a sustainable society through the multi-stakeholder partnerships and participation in various initiatives http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/sdgs.html 115 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Sustainability Data Scope of information: Unless otherwise stated, ﬁgures are for Dai-ichi Life Holdings Corporate Governance Corporate structure Committee governance structure, including auditors, etc. Directors 2016/10 2017/6 No. of directors 18 15 (No. of external directors) 6 5 (No. of non-Japanese directors) 1 1 (No. of female directors) 1 1 No. of external directors who are independent 6 5 Auditors and other committee members 2016/10 2017/6 No. of auditors and other committee members 5 5 (No. who are also external directors) 3 3 No. of external directors who are independent 3 3 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 116 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Nominations advisory committee FY2016 FY2017 Chairperson External director External director No. of committee members 5 5 (No. who are internal directors) 2 2 (No. who are external directors) 3 3 Remuneration advisory committee FY2016 FY2017 Chairperson External director External director No. of committee members 6 5 (No. who are internal directors) 2 2 (No. who are external directors) 4 3 Composition of executive oﬃcers (including directors with other roles) FY2016 FY2017 * No. of executive oﬃcers 35 32 (No. of women) 2 2 (No. of non-Japanese) 1 1 Ratio of women 6% 6% * As of June 26, 2017 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 117 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials IR activities March year March year March year March year March year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Financial results brieﬁngs 4 4 4 4 4 Management brieﬁngs 2 2 2 1 2 Analyst days and brieﬁngs 0 0 1 1 1 Engagements with Approximately Approximately Approximately Approximately Approximately institutional investors 200 companies 200 companies 100 companies 140 companies 100 companies in Japan in Japan in Japan in Japan in Japan More than 100 More than 100 More than 200 360 companies 300 companies companies companies companies overseas overseas overseas overseas overseas Interactions with Customers Engagement with customers (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of shops 82 81 82 77 75 No. of agencies * 2,597 2,590 2,950 3,056 3,352 * Data up to FY2015 are for agencies of Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance (the former Sompo Japan Insurance before FY 2014). FY2015 data is the total of all agencies. Consultation service for payment diﬃculties (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of inquiries to disputes service 202 172 149 152 153 No. of consultations with external 6 11 6 15 16 lawyer No. of times payment arbitration 6 8 1 5 2 used http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 118 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Customer feedback (Dai-ichi Life) No. of interactions FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Disputes 68,174 44,691 51,253 46,929 43,943 ⊒ Breakdown by dispute reason ⊒ Taking out insurance policy 6.5% 8.3% 8.9% 9.7% 9.3% ⊒ Premium payment 7.1% 7.0% 6.5% 6.9% 6.0% ⊒ Procedures 30.3% 29.0% 27.9% 27.1% 25.4% ⊒ Payment of claims and 15.3% 14.9% 13.9% 14.3% 15.9% beneﬁts ⊒ Other 40.8% 40.6% 42.5% 41.8% 43.4% Expressions of thanks 60,060 107,817 233,633 385,695 560,562 Comments or requests -*1 1459*2 2,916 3,146 2,928 Customer satisfaction (individuals) -*3 -*3 70.7% 70.9% 71.6% Customer satisfaction 87.5% 87.9% 91.0% 90.6% 91.6% (organizations) *1 No data as only commenced in February 2014 *2 Data for February to March 2014 *3 No data as web survey only commenced in FY2014 Payout of claims and beneﬁts (Dai-ichi Life) x100 million yen FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Payout for death, serious disability, 4,396 4,354 4,382 4,347 4,375 or designated illness, etc. Beneﬁt payout for hospitalization or 1,233 1,266 1,280 1,260 1,268 surgery, etc. Policy maturity payment, annuity, or 12,598 11,815 12,252 11,222 11,057 pension, etc. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 119 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials No. of payments for claims and beneﬁts (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Payout for death, No. of payments 80,482 82,066 85,979 87,640 91,727 serious disability, or designated illness, etc. No. of payments 3,495 3,701 3,539 3,689 3,774 declined Beneﬁt payout for No. of payments 936,899 980,602 1,032,693 1,070,988 1,127,594 hospitalization or surgery, etc. No. of payments 32,840 30,086 29,376 35,421 35,028 declined * Excluding policy maturity and annuity payments, etc. * Figures calculated in accordance with The Life Insurance Association of Japanʼs accounting reference model. Activities as an Institutional Investor (Dai-ichi Life) Stewardship Approval of May 2014 Japan stewardship code rules for responsible institutional investors Stewardship (Dai-ichi Life) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of voting companies 2,206 2,247 2,271 No. of companies consenting to all company proposals 1,903 1,961 2,031 No. of companies consulted during voting 302 286 240 No. of companies abstaining from one or more company 1 0 0 proposals Consultations with constructive objectives 110 233 277 Employees No. of employees by region (consolidated basis) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 120 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Japan 57,462 55,982 56,503 57,262 Asia/Paciﬁc (excluding Japan) 2,050 2,189 2,401 2,580 North America 2,476 2,542 2,764 Total 59,512 60,647 61,446 62,606 * The ﬁgures are for the number of staﬀ employed by Dai-ichi Life Group (Dai-ichi Life Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries, excluding staﬀ that have other concurrent roles with Dai-ichi Life Holdings and staﬀ that have been seconded outside the Group, but including staﬀ that have been seconded to the Group), an do not include executive oﬃcers. As part-time and other temporary staﬀ number less than 10%, they are not recorded. Gender composition (Dai-ichi Life Holdings and three domestic life insurance companies) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Japan No. of employees 55,906 54,454 55,033 57,272 Male 10% 10% 9% 9% Female 90% 90% 91% 91% * Includes both full-time contract and company staﬀ. No. of employees (Dai-ichi Life) Breakdown of no. of employees*1 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Total*2 Male 1,221 1,201 1,167 1,196 Female 42,145 41,061 41,816 43,884 Total*3 Male 3,951 3,855 3,772 3,418 Female 8,286 7,973 7,862 7,740 Total Male 5,172 5,056 4,939 4,614 Female 50,431 49,034 49,678 51,624 Total 55,603 54,090 54,617 56,238 *1 Equals the number of employees in Japan. As part-time and other temporary staﬀ number less than 10%, they are not recorded. *2 The number of Total Life Plan Designers employed includes those who have signed an outsourcing contract with the Company and also are registered as life insurance agents, totaling 1,301 as of the end of ﬁscal 2013, 1,412 for ﬁscal 2014, 1,485 for ﬁscal 2015, and 1,585 for ﬁscal 2016. Those with assistant duties were 603 at the end of ﬁscal 2013, 567 for ﬁscal 2014, 512 for ﬁscal 2015, and 469 for ﬁscal 2016. *3 Includes both full-time contract and company staﬀ. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 121 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Composition of management staﬀ (Dai-ichi Life Holdings and three domestic life insurance companies) FY2013 * FY2014 * FY2015 * FY2016 Japan Male 2,957 2,783 2,744 2,724 Female 667 808 836 873 Percentage female 18.4% 22.5% 23.3% 24.2% (%) * FY2013 ﬁgures are for Dai-ichi Life only. FY2014 and FY2015 ﬁgures are for domestic life insurance companies. Employee details (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 New recruits (life planners) 8,666 8,465 8,645 8,550 New recruits (back oﬃce) 719 703 756 996 Mean age (life planners) 47 years 1 47 years 5 47 years 5 47 years 1 month months months month Mean age (back oﬃce) 43 years 9 44 years 2 44 years 7 44 years 10 months months months months Mean years of service (life planners) 10 years 6 10 years 11 10 years 11 10 years 8 months months months months Mean years of service (back oﬃce) 13 years 11 14 years 5 14 years 10 14 years 11 months months months months Mean monthly remuneration (life planners) 255,000 yen 252,000 yen 252,000 yen 265,000 yen Mean monthly remuneration (back oﬃce) 297,000 yen 301,000 yen 304,000 yen 297,000 yen Employee satisfaction* 3.48 3.51 3.58 3.63 * Employee satisfaction surveys are used as a tool for quantitatively assessing the current situation and eﬀectiveness of initiatives, and to facilitate the resolution o issues. Calculation method: Mean score (out of ﬁve) of main questions in questionnaire. Percentage of employees with disabilities (Dai-ichi Life Group) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Percentage of employees with disabilities 2.16% 2.25% 2.23% 2.22% * Percentage of employees as of June 1 in the following year http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 122 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Work/life balance (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Instances of childcare leave 1,056 1,077 1,143 1,261 No. of staﬀ on short working hours (for childcare) 303 379 390 446 No. of staﬀ receiving beneﬁts to pay for childcare 3,912 3,713 3,571 3,726 services No. of staﬀ taking nursing leave 250 274 234 212 No. of staﬀ using Family relocation program 35 46 24 18 No. of male staﬀ taking childcare leave 43.8% 56.0% 85.5% 77.8% Average monthly overtime (back oﬃce staﬀ) 6.9 hours 7.6 hours 7.7 hours 7.9 hours Average annual days of paid leave 12.3 days 12.3 days 12.7 days 13.0 days Mean percentage of annual paid leave taken 65.9% 66.0% 68.1% 69.4% Headquarters training of life planners (Dai-ichi Life) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of trainees at headquarters 974 992 1,335 1,280 1,814 Total training time 110,000 130,000 170,000 170,000 250,000 hours hours hours hours hours Classroom time per trainee 14 hours 39 14 hours 39 13 hours 56 14 hours 10 13 hours 21 minutes minutes minutes minutes minutes * A centralized training program was conducted at headquarters to provide life planners selected from throughout the country with a high level of education so that they would be equipped to satisfy customer's various needs. Human rights awareness education (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of sessions 15 20 19 26 No. of attendees* 169,068 166,231 167,002 264,497 * Cumulative total of attendees http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 123 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Engagement with Local Communities Public good donations (Dai-ichi Life) Category: Health improvement x 1 million yen Organizations Working with communities, NPOs, and other organizations, running voluntary programs Implementation plan Nationwide rollout of health programs, assisting with and celebrating health initiatives, educating people about insurance Sum for FY2014 363 Sum for FY2015 559 Sum for FY2016 650 Outcomes of FY2016 initiatives Support for action on health issues Winners of the FY2016 Public Health Award (10 organizations and 5 individuals, total prize money of 25 million yen) Awareness raising for cancer screening with local governments Holding health seminars with experts, provision of health information with medical institutions, etc. Raising public awareness of health through promotional activities by nationwide sales staff Care for the elderly by staﬀ who have completed a training course on caring for people with dementia Working through NPOs to support school meals for children in developing nations suﬀering from hunger or malnutrition (approximately 26,540 meals in FY2016) Support for medical research institutions Support for healthy living by assisting with fun runs (Run with You) Category: Building a better world for the next generation x 1 million yen Organizations Collaboration with NPOs and other organizations, participation in social welfare programs, cooperative activities Implementation plan Nursery school projects, consumer and ﬁnancial/insurance literacy education, providing opportunities for children Sum for FY2014 193 Sum for FY2015 298 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 124 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Sum for FY2016 193 Outcomes of FY2016 initiatives Total of 30 million yen distributed to 44 nursery schools Support for working mothers by increasing number of nursery schools Promotion and spread of consumer education (96 presentations given, attended by 1,853 people, 3,555 free educational materials distributed) Yellow Badge with traﬃc accident insurance for elementary school new entrants. Approximately 1,110,000 badges handed out (for April 2017 new entrants). Human resource development through actuarial science course at The University of Alabama in USA Human resource development and training for people involved in insurance policy and practice in Asia Support for junior tennis players (96 participants in elementary school tennis tournament (48 boys/48 girls)) Category: Environmental protection x 1 million yen Organizations Work with philanthropic organizations, running voluntary programs, etc. Implementation plan Participation in biodiversity program, urban greening, awards programs, etc. Sum for FY2014 71 Sum for FY2015 77 Sum for FY2016 75 Outcomes of FY2016 initiatives Help prevent global warming and protect biodiversity through projects to assist greening, community building and promoting engagement with nature. Thirteen grants to Green Environmental Plans Awards, one to the Omotenashi no Niwa (hospitality garden) program, and eleven awards to the Green City Awards. Category: Contributing to local communities x 1 million yen Organizations Work with NPOs, participation in programs, local community activities with NPOs, etc. Implementation plan Participation in local community activities Sum for FY2014 5.6 Sum for FY2015 5.2 Sum for FY2016 29.5 Outcomes of FY2016 initiatives Percentage of volunteer activity involvement 76.8% http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 125 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials 356 volunteer activity programs (cumulative total) Support for Kumamoto earthquake and Tohoku earthquake recovery Category: Support for art and culture x 1 million yen Organizations Work with NPOs, participation in programs, etc. Implementation plan Assistance with overseas art exhibition, providing venues and economic support for young artists, aesthetic education by providing music Sum for FY2014 249 Sum for FY2015 136 Sum for FY2016 128 Outcomes of FY2016 initiatives Renoir exhibition: approximately 667,000 visitors Support for VOCA modern art exhibition (three prize winners, total prize money of 5 million yen, three exhibits by individual prize winners in Dai-ichi Life gallery) Support for concerts at nursery schools, schools, medical and welfare facilities (45 support activities given, attended by 5,478) Donations (Dai-ichi Life Holdings and Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Donations 528 623 635 751 Volunteer activities by staﬀ (Dai-ichi Life) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of projects undertaken 309 362 439 356 * Cumulative totals for corresponding ﬁscal year Awareness-raising and educational work (Dai-ichi Life) Description FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Health seminars, No. of seminars 252 324 260 medical seminars http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 126 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Description FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Health seminars, No. of attendees 19,880 23,908 24,159 medical seminars Consumer education, No. of copies 3,480 2,635 2782 3,555 ﬁnancial/insurance distributed (free of literacy (Life Cycle charge) Game II) No. of sessions held 47 21 48 96 No. of attendees 1,658 586 2,022 1,853 Insurance education No. of seminars 4 6 7 6 seminars (FALIA) * No. of attendees 123 256 198 148 * Undertaken by the Foundation for the Advancement of Life & Insurance Around the World (FALIA), an philanthropic organization established by Dai-ichi Life Environmental Initiatives Environmental performance data CO2 emissions FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Coverage (%) Scope 1 + Scope 2 (t-CO2) 146,500 144,000 141,000 156,100 154,300 100 Scope 1 (t-CO2) 14,700 15,600 14,900 14,600 14,000 100 Scope 2 (t-CO2) 131,800 128,400 126,100 141,500 140,300 100 Scope 3 (t-CO2) 4,430 4,690 4,933 158,124 77 Energy consumption, Transportation, Speciﬁc energy consumption FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Coverage (%) Total energy consumption (GJ) 1,434,203 1,450,644 1,433,190 1,526,624 1,509,703 100 Electric power consumption (GJ) 1,024,020 995,338 961,516 1,061,668 1,055,167 100 Fuel consumption (GJ) 270,877 278,743 286,834 279,241 269,453 100 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 127 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Coverage (%) Steam and chilled/hot water consumption 139,306 176,563 184,840 185,715 185,083 100 (GJ) Transportation Transportation (t-km) 2,209,000 1,968,857 1,518,006 1,383,759 1,369,085 77 Speciﬁc energy consumption Electric power consumption (MWh) 284,450 276,483 267,088 294,908 293,102 100 Floor space (km2) 2,790 2,774 2,737 2,735 2,724 77 Speciﬁc energy consumption (MWh/km2 ) 101 99 97 95 95 77 Water, Waste material, Paper FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Coverage (%) Water use (million m3) 1,815 1,655 1,675 1,725 1,567 90 Waste material (t) 484 441 412 496 551 86 Paper consumption (t) 9,849 8,116 6,509 6,559 6,998 95 Paper waste recycled (t) 2,925 2,789 2,350 1,850 1,800 77 Percentage of green procurement (%) 93 91 90 91 90 77 CO2 emissions Scope 1 (t-CO2) Domestic: Calculated by applying the coeﬃcient of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures in FY 2009 International: Calculated using each country's emissions coeﬃcient according to Scope 2 (t-CO2) the GHG Protocol, and using each country's coeﬃcient for the emissions coeﬃcient Scope 3 (t-CO2) Calculated based on the database of emission unit values (Ver.2.3) of the Report on Emissions Unit Values for Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, etc., by Organizations Throughout the Supply Chain and Basic database (Ver.1.01) of Carbon footprint communication program ⊒ [Category 1] Purchased goods Oﬃce paper usage and printing ⊒ [Category 2] Capital goods Capital assets http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 128 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials CO2 emissions ⊒ [Category 3] Fuel and energy related Electricity activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 ⊒ [Category 4] Transportation and delivery In-house distribution operations (upstream) ⊒ [Category 5] Waste generated in operations Waste of 3 business oﬃces of headquarters (Hibiya, Toyosu and Shin-Oi) ⊒ [Category 6] Business travel Domestic and overseas ⊒ [Category 7] Employee commuting In-house employees ⊒ [Category 12] End-of-life treatment of sold Brochures and printed materials for customers products Energy consumption and Speciﬁc energy consumption Electric power consumption (GJ) Domestic: Calculated based on the provisions of Article 7, Paragraph 3 of the law concerning the rationalization of energy usage (Act on the Rational Use of Energy) Fuel consumption (GJ) International: Calculated using each country's emissions coeﬃcient according to the GHG Protocol Units of MWh of electric power converted as 3.6 GJ/MWh Steam and chilled/hot water consumption (GJ) Fuel consumption totalizes kerosene, heavy fuel oil and gas consumption Transportation Transportation (t-km) Calculated based on the law concerning the rationalization of energy usage (Act on the Rational Use of Energy) The total transportation related to pamphlets, etc. of the Group Water, Waste material, and Paper Water use (million m3) The scope of reporting is based on Environmental Reporting Guidelines, and calculated based on bills from the waterworks department Waste material (t) Amount of waste excluding paper waste, as deﬁned in the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act (waste generated from business sites) Paper waste recycled (t) The scope of reporting is based on Environmental Reporting Guidelines, and calculated based on purchase system data Paper consumption (t) Percentage of green procurement (%) Percentage of purchased items acquired through centralized company purchasing Common Item Coverage (%) No. of staﬀ at companies reporting on that item ÷ Total number of staﬀ at Daiichi Life Holdings and 26 group companies covered by reporting x 100 http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 129 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Environmental accounting (Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen Category*1 Cost *2 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Energy eﬃciency Capital 686 795 1,066 978 Expenditure 12 11 11 11 Reduction in resource Capital 0 0 0 0 use Expenditure 101 78 75 79 Environmental Capital 0 0 0 0 protection Expenditure 55 71 78 77 Environmental Capital 0 0 0 0 information Expenditure 5 34 5 10 *1 Categories are taken from the Dai-ichi Life Mid-Term Environmental Action Plan. *2 Capital investment and some expenditure on reducing resource use apply to Hibiya headquarters, Toyosu headquarters, and Shinooi oﬃce only. Economic beneﬁts of environmental protection measures (Dai-ichi Life) x 1 million yen FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Savings from reduction in electric power 1,105 1,134 1,501 811 consumption*1 Savings from reduction in paper consumption 473 297 218 378 *1 Calculated based on average unit price per 1kWh of electricity used Reduction in energy use by investment properties FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 No. of buildings 125 118 113 107 107 Electric power 51,351,722 51,717,715 50,355,256 48,494,006 48,982,454 consumption (kWh) Gas consumption (m3) 1,925,106 1,903,953 1,834,088 1,760,586 1,774,988 Hot and cold water 25,129,778 27,427,450 25,094,330 28,871,550 28,407,807 consumption (MJ) http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 130 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions 25,307 25,518 24,717 24,035 24,230 (t-CO2) Actual data on reduction in communal consumption in buildings managed by Dai-ichi Building Lineup of Main Products and Services of the Dai-ichi Life Group in our Pursuit of a Sustainable Society Products and Riders Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Crest Way ○ Wholelife nursing care insurance Dai-ichi Life Waiver of Premium Rider ○ A rider that allows for the exemption of (2013) insurance premium payments after diagnosis with one of the three deadly diseases, physical disabilities, or when longterm care is required Children's Support / Mickey ○ An insurance to prepare educational funds for children to go on to university Lady Yell More (Support for ○ A rider that pays out beneﬁts in the event of Women) a prescribed surgical procedure related to a disease most prevalent in women KARADA KAKUMEI (body ○ An insurance whose premiums are calculate Neo First Life revolution) after renewal based on health age instead of actual age the younger Living Needs Rider ○ A rider that pays out insurance proceeds Dai-ichi Life early if diagnosed with an illness and less Neo First Life than six months to live Designated Substitute ○ A rider that allows a prescribed proxy to Dai-ichi Life Claimant Rider request payment of insurance proceeds, under special circumstances where the policyholder cannot claim their insurance beneﬁt http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 131 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Advanced Medical Treatment ○ A rider for beneﬁt payments when advanced Dai-ichi Life Rider medical treatment is received Note: Because advanced medical treatment that is eligible for insurance payment is limited to treatment that fulﬁlls the prescribed requirements when treatment is received in some cases it may not be possible to pay beneﬁts depending on factors such as the medical practice, medical symptoms, and medical institutions. Pension rider ○ A rider that pays out death beneﬁts using Dai-ichi Life pension instead of a lumpsum payment Dai-ichi Frontier Life Bone Marrow Donor Beneﬁts ○ Beneﬁts are paid when bone marrow stem Dai-ichi Life cells or peripheral blood stem cells are Neo First Life harvested from the donor (provider) Group Credit Life Insurance ○ A rider that allocates the insurance payout Dai-ichi Life Speciﬁc Condition to the repayment of a home loan in the Compensation Rider event that the policyholder dies, suﬀers from one of the prescribed advanced disabilities, is diagnosed with one of the three deadly diseases or 16 states, or is in a state that requires nursing care Medical Switch ○ A system that allows a medical riders that has been subscribed to be changed to whole life medical insurance without a medical examination or notice Switch Plan ○ A system allows a policy holder to review their current coverage based on their life stage and make changes to the required coverage Baton Pass Plan ○ A system that allows for a policy that has been subscribed to be carried over to a new policy for the family Policy renewals ○ A system where the same policy coverage Dai-ichi Life and amount can be carried over upon Neo First Life maturity regardless of health condition Rider additionafter ○ A system where a new rider can be added subscription to a policy that has been subscribed without changing the coverage or maturity http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 132 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Rider modiﬁcation ○ A system where a medical rider that has Dai-ichi Life been subscribed can be changed to the latest medical rider without health examination or declaration * ESG stands for Environment, Society and Governance. The above represents a quick summary of our products and services as of June 2017. Services Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Contact Centers (Call ○ In response to changing lifestyles, our tollDai-ichi Life Centers) free contact centers are open both Neo First Life weekdays and weekends to answer questions and help customers complete procedures for enrollment * Neo First Life: Call centers are open weekdays and Saturdays Toll-free hotline exclusively ○ An exclusive tollfree customer service Dai-ichi Life for seniors hotline for customers over the age of 70 KENKO DAIICHI App ○ A new type of smartphone app for health promotion that provides various services with the aim at encouraging voluntary changes in the awareness and behavior by the customers Health Age Check ○ A web content that the user can calculate Dai-ichi Life the health age only by inputting oneʼs health Neo First Life examination results, such as age, sex, blood pressure Health Hotline ○ A free telephone consultation service for Neo First Life health, medical, lifestyle and psychological health questions or issues Dai-ichi Life Health Support ○ Provides broadranging options for Dai-ichi Life Desk consultation from daily health to psychological health as an ancillary service to products for corporate customers http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 133 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Medical Support Service ○ A service available 24 hours a day 365 days Dai-ichi Life a year by telephone that provides consultations and information about health, medical treatment, childcare, and nursing care Advanced Medical ○ A website that provides basic knowledge, Information Station technologies and medical institutions related to advanced medicine Internet Service for ○ ○ Website for policy coverage inquiries and Dai-ichi Frontier Life Policyholders carrying out various procedures Website for Policyholders ○ ○ A website that provides various information Dai-ichi Life and services to verify policy details and carry out procedures Paperless enrollment ○ Provides customers with seamless services, procedures from policy applications, and health declaration to premium payments, using the DL Pad, a tablet computer for sales and business use Regularly providing ○ Every year policyholders receive a booklet information on beneﬁt called the Total Life Plan Report which payouts contains payout records for the previous 10year period and instances where special attention is required Results of the ﬁeld survey of ○ A questionnaire is conducted on the status welfare programs of welfare programs by corporate customers and the results are provided to customers in the form a report (booklet) Automatic policyholder loans ○ A system where the policy cancellation fee, if any, is automatically added to premiums to keep the policy in eﬀect, even if premiums have not been paid and the grace period is over Policy reinstatement ○ A system where policy that has been voided Dai-ichi Life can be reinstated Neo First Life Proceeds Quick Reception ○ A service where claims for a death beneﬁt Dai-ichi Life Service that fulﬁll certain conditions can be paid out on the same day when needed for funeral costs or other ﬁnal expenses http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 134 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Dai-ichi Life Simpliﬁed Death Beneﬁt ○ A service where up to ﬁve million yen of a Receiving Service death beneﬁt is paid out simply by submitting the prescribed claim form, death certiﬁcate and a copy of the applicant's personal identiﬁcation document, even when time is still needed to prepare other oﬃcial documents Adult Guardianship Support ○ A service that refers a judicial scrivener who can support legal procedures for a customer who needs the appointment of an adult guardian Trust contract agent for Omoi ○ An intermediary service as a trust contract no Teikibin agent for Omoi no Teikibin (regular death beneﬁt payment service), a trust product of Mizuho Trust & Banking * Omoi no Teikibin involves the policyholder customizing the use of his/her death beneﬁt before his/her death and the policyholder concludes a trust agreement with a trust bank so that when they pass away the death beneﬁt is paid out to a person predetermined by the policyholder with the decidedupon speciﬁcs Consulting and information ○ When a death beneﬁt is paid out, we provision for inheritance and provide information on the survivor pension the survivor pension system system and inheritance tax system and give consulting on the inherited property including the death beneﬁt, in order to facilitate the inheritance process DVD-ROM version of the ○ Policyholders receive a copy of their guide guide on policy terms and on policy terms and conditions on a DVDconditions ROM Terms and conditions online ○ The guide on policy terms and conditions is Dai-ichi Life published online Dai-ichi Frontier Life Neo First Life Outside Lawyer Consultation ○ ○ A system where customers who are not Dai-ichi Life System satisﬁed with our explanation of payment of premiums or beneﬁts can request to consult with a lawyer with no contractual ties to Daiichi Life free of charge http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 135 Sustainability Data｜Relevant Materials Name Consideration Outline Companies oﬀered at of ESG * E S G Payment Examination ○ ○ A system the Payment Examination Dai-ichi Life Committee System Committee deliberates on the results of payment assessments from an objective and neutral perspective in case a customer is not satisﬁed with our explanation of payment of premiums or beneﬁts * The Payment Examination Committee comprises only outside professionals, such as lawyers, physicians, and experts in consumer issues, to ensure objectiveness * ESG stands for Environment, Society and Governance. The above represents a quick summary of our products and services as of June 2017. http://www.dai-ichi-life-hd.com/en/sustainability/library/data.html 136
