Communication on Progress (COP) report 2017 Covers the period from 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017 for Green Network A/S Peopleway Solutions® STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM CEO To our stakeholders: We strongly believe that working with CSR and sustainability must be business-driven. The I am pleased to confirm that Green Network A/S operationalization of our commitment to the UN reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact reflect this belief in an extensive United Nations Global Compact in the areas of implementation, which have peaked by enabling Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Antiour web based meassure platform to measure and Corruption. document their implementation of the ten Global In this annual Communication on Progress, we Compact principles. describe our actions to continually improve the This COP report exemplifies the documentation integration of the Global Compact and its provided by meassure and thereby we so speak principles into our business strategy, culture and take our own medicine. We disclose a full daily operations. We also commit to sharing this performance scoreboard with numeric scores information with our stakeholders using our across UNGC sub-topics material to Green primary channels of communication Network. This is followed by in-depth elaboration Green Network is a leading network and company on all the scores by listing the actions taken on in the market for CSR and sustainability oriented each sub-topic. Enjoy the reading! managements services in Denmark. Sincerely yours, We have been through a transition from being a publicly owned local environmental network, to now being a privately owned national CSR network Susanne Lydholm, with international commitments, e.g. as the DK Managing Director/Owner anchor point to CSR Europe and becoming a UN Mail: sly@greennetwork.dk Global Compact signatory in 2016 Peopleway Solutions® GREEN NETWORKS APPROACH AND CORE CONCEPTS BUSINESS DRIVEN CSR CSR CAPACITY DUE DILIGENCE • Is the ability to comply with • A due diligence process with four customer demands, legislation stages of an implementation etc. process is fundamental in the • Is the ability to increase the measurement of CSR Capacity in business benefit of the companies. corporations CSR engagement • The four stages encompass both a • Reflects the ability to integrate compliance and an opportunity CSR broadly in the corporations perspective, a uniform business business driven CSR due diligence process Peopleway Solutions® CSR CAPACITY MEASUREMENT STAGES The four stages of the implementation process is fundamental in the measurement of CSR Capacity in companies. Each stage marks a stronger corporate behavior and is aligned with due diligence process steps . Though, these four stages encompass both a compliance and an opportunity perspective, which thereby comprise a management process that corresponds well with e.g. the UN Global Compact management model. 1. IDENTIFY (ID) 2. INTEGRATE (IN) CSR CAPACITY 4. UTILIZE (UT) 3. EXECUTE (EX) Further elaboration: See appendix on CSR Source: Adapted from the Sustainable Sourcing implementation stages in the end of this report Excellence (SSE) project, 2015 Peopleway Solutions® MEASSURE SCORECARD FOR GREEN NETWORK Forced labour Corruption and bribery Child labour Environmentally friendly technologies Non-discrimination Energy consumption Health and safety systems Air emissions 31% DUE DILIGENCE UT EX IN ID Natural resources STAGES Protective Equipment Waste management Working hours Employment status Wages and benefits Non-harassment Leave Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – SUB-TOPICS AND HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL SUB-TOPICS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS • HEALTH AND SAFETY SYSTEMS • EHS steering group for GN • PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AND business partners established – TRAINING mandata to chose topics for EHS focused network meetings • WORKING HOURS • Performing multiple networking • WAGES AND BENEFITS events on Human Rights issues • LEAVE • Introducing CSR capacity • EMPLOYMENT STATUS measurements (incl. Human Rights) to business partners • PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP • Introduction of GN Handbook for • NON-HARASSMENT employess with policies and on multiple Human Rights issues Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – HEALTH AND SAFETY SYSTEMS CAPACITY SCORES GN ACTIONS • Completed work place environment assessment ID 67% (APV) for GN (mandatory) UT EX IN • 3 network events for partner companies on Global Compact on: Health and safety system issues related to health and “The company should provide safe and healthy working facilities and take appropriate precautionary measures to safety systems protect workers from work-related hazards and anticipated dangers in the workplace. Furthermore the company should ensure that any residential facilities provided to workers are • 5 work place environment safe and sanitary and meet their basic needs. Safety precautions will depend upon the industry and country of statements reviewed for operation, company concerns and the needs of vulnerable workers, such as pregnant women.” partner companies Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING • Network meeting with training on new regulation ID 25% on chemcial substances, UT EX IN including requirements on protection Global Compact on: Protective equipment and training • External EHS stering group “All workers must be trained for all tasks for which they are responsible prior to new assignments. Workers should not consulted on topic be exposed to harmful processes, chemicals, substances or techniques. When exposure is unavoidable, all workers exposed must be provided with the necessary protective equipment at no cost. Workers should be protected against processes, substances and techniques, which are obnoxious, unhealthy, toxic or harmful.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS WORKING HOURS • Policy on working hours stated in GN handbook UT EX IN ID 50% • Introduced Timelog system to register all hours worked and allow for flex time and Global Compact on: Working hours counterbalance overtime “The International Labour Organisation (ILO) sets a 48 hour workweek for commercial and industrial occupations – with a daily maximum of 10 and 8 hours respectively – to ensure • Plenum and individual time for rest and leisure. For work processes that must be conducted continuously on a shift basis a maximum consultations with emworkweek of 56 hours is permitted. Overtime should be voluntary, infrequent and should not exceed 12 hours per ployees on working hours week or 36 hours per month.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – WAGES AND BENEFITS • Individual bonus scheme replaced with disclosed ID 41% collective bonus cheme, w. UT EX IN collaboration incentives • Policy for working from Global Compact on: Wages and benefits home is now specified in “Wages must be paid on time and enable workers to meet their basic needs and provide some disposable income. employee handbook Minimum wages may be fixed by law or collective agreement but are in many countries not sufficient to meet employees' basic needs. If the company has piece-rate • GN provides lunch, partial payment structures, these must also meet living wage requirements. Where the national minimum wage level employee payment over does not meet workers' basic needs, companies should calculate a ‘living wage…” salary Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS LEAVE • Maternity leave mentioned in employee handbook w. ID 25% reference to regulation UT EX IN • GN employees are granted a day off for childrens first Global Compact on: Leave sickday and policy is stated “The company must ensure that all workers are granted paid annual holiday and sick leave for the period in employee handbook determined by the competent authority in the country of operation. International Labour Organisation standards require all workers to be granted a minimum of no less than • Adding to the 5 mandated three weeks of holiday per year. Moreover, a minimum of 14 weeks, or more if provided by law, should be granted for by law, GN offers a 6th week paid maternity leave.” of paid holiday leave Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – EMPLOYMENT STATUS • All GN employees are covered by standard EX IN ID 33% employment contracts, UT compliant with regulation • The contracts cover Global Compact on: Employment status employee rights and GN’s “All workers are entitled to know their employment status with the company and the working conditions. The risk of responsibilities as an exploitative labour practices increases when a company exploits an individual without recognizing or acknowledging employer his or her employment status within the company (either as an employee, a hired labourer or otherwise) and without providing him/her with the same employment benefits and • Contracts on external adviprotections as the other workers” sors, students and other Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool temporary employment Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP • Product stewardship is an implicit topic in multiple GN ID 25% network events UT EX IN • GN product responsibility insurance on 10 million DKK Global Compact on: Product stewardship “Product stewardship with regard to human rights entails • Specific descriptions of what that the company protects consumers, users and others against hazards to human rights, including health, life, GN services/products entail privacy and other impacts, which may result from the manufacturing, marketing, usage and disposal of a given in contracts and agreement product. Product-related hazards to human rights may arise due to product defects or side-effects or due to improper documents with customers use of the product or use of the product for unintended purposes.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool • CSR capacity measurement Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – NON-HARASSMENT • Completed work place environment assessment ID 25% (APV) for GN (mandatory), UT EX IN which address nonharassment Global Compact on: Non-harassment • Event for network business “Workplace harassment encompasses many types of behaviour, including assault, physical and sexual partners on the psychic harassment or threats, and workplace bullying and intimidation. To protect workers against such acts, the work place environment company should implement prevention policies, facilitate open communication, provide training, and allow workers and stress the 28.09.2017 to report incidents of harassment to a complaint mechanism that fully investigates the reports and responds accordingly..” • CSR capacity measurement Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® HUMAN RIGHTS – 2018 AMBITIONS • HUMAN RIGHTS OVERALL: Continue efforts to identify basis for collaboration with The Human Rights Institute • WORKING HOURS: GN will introduce ressource allocation with Timelog in 2018 to balance work load Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR RIGHTS – SUB-TOPICS AND HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL SUB-TOPICS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS • ASSOCIATION AND BARGAINING • EHS steering group for GN • FORCED LABOUR business partners established – mandata to chose topics for EHS • CHILD LABOUR AND YOUNG focused network meetings WORKERS • Performing multiple networking • DISCRIMINATION events on Labour Rights issues • Introducing CSR capacity measurements (incl. Labour Rights) to business partners • Introduction of GN Handbook for employess with policies and on multiple Labour Rights issues Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR – ASSOCIATION AND BARGAINING • CSR capacity measurement EX IN ID 8% UT Global Compact on: Association and bargaining “Workers must be allowed to form and/or join worker organisations of their choice. The company must allow such organisations and their representatives to function independently without interference and with reasonable access to the information, resources, and facilities necessary to carry out their functions. The company must also respect the right of workers to bargain collectively. Under no circumstances may the company terminate employees or discriminate against them in retaliation for exercising trade union rights. Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR – FORCED LABOUR • CSR capacity measurement EX IN ID 8% UT Global Compact on: Forced labour “Forced or bonded labour is work performed involuntarily under threat of penalty. Certain employment practices may lead to a situation of bonded labour. This includes for example compelled overtime, human trafficking, lack of free movement, debt bondage or retention of personal documents. The company should make sure that such practices are prevented and that fair and transparent employment contracts are issued for all employees.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR – CHILD LABOUR AND YOUNG WORKERS • CSR capacity measurement EX IN ID 8% UT Global Compact on: Child labour and young workers “Children are entitled to the basic right of an education, and must not be hired for full-time work before completing their compulsory education. The age for completion of education and the minimum age for entry into employment are both determined by the national government in the country of operation. Under International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards, the minimum age for entry into full-time employment should be no younger than 15, or 14 if the country is subject to an exception. Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR – DISCRIMINATION • GN employee handbook has a section on the GN work ID 17% culture which addresses UT EX IN non-discrimination • CSR capacity measurement Global Compact on: Discrimination “Discrimination can include any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the basis of illegitimate distinguishing personal characteristic. The grounds for discrimination that are recognised and prohibited under international human rights law include gender, age, nationality, ethnicity, race, colour, creed, caste, language, mental or physical disability, organisational membership, opinion, health status (including HIV or AIDS status), sexual orientation, marital status, birth, or civic, social, or political characteristics of the employee.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® LABOUR RIGHTS – 2018 AMBITIONS • LABOUR RIGHTS OVERALL: • Extend the collaboration with Danish Initiative for Ethical Trade on joint events • Integrate labour rights in in the employee handbook Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – SUB-TOPICS AND HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL SUB-TOPICS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS • PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH • EHS steering group for GN • WASTE MANAGEMENT business partners established – mandata to chose topics for EHS • AIR EMISSIONS focused network meetings • ENVIROMENTALLY FRIENDLY • Performing multiple networking TECHNOLOGIES events on Environment issues • WATER AND WASTE WATER • Introducing CSR capacity • NATURAL RESOURCES measurements (incl. Environment) to business partners • Introduction of GN Handbook for employess with policies related to environment issues Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH • 11 environment statements reviewed for partner ID 41% companies UT EX IN • Event for network business partners on chemical Global Compact on: Precautionary approach substances, adressing a “The 1992 Rio Declaration describes the precautionary approach as follows: Where there are threats of serious or precautionary approach irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation . The company has a • CSR capacity measurement responsibility to protect the environment (and the public) where scientific investigation discovers a plausible risk of exposure and harm” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – WASTE MANAGEMENT • Seminar on Circular Economy and waste ID 25% treatment 2nd of Nov. 2017. UT EX IN Participants app. 30 companies. Global Compact on: Waste management • Participation in seminar on “According to the waste hierarchy , waste should be reduced, reused and recycled as much as possible. The New Waste Management company should take measures to ensure that waste is sorted into fractions, e.g. paper, packaging, biodegradable Plan 2020 by the Danish waste. Waste that cannot be reused or recycled should be treated e.g. at incineration plants or disposed of at Environmental Agency 14th controlled landfill sites.” of dec 2017 Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool • CSR Capacity Measurements Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – AIR EMISSIONS • Event for network business partners on chemical ID 33% substances, adressing UT EX IN specific air emissions • GN employee handbook Global Compact on: Air emissions encouages co-driving on “Emissions of pollutants to the air can occur from a wide variety of the company’s operations and activities including customer assignments industrial processes, energy production and transport. Typical air pollutants are nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, (reduce nox-emissions) carbon monoxide, small particles, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) such as benzene and metals such as lead. Emissions of dioxins, and pollutants causing ozone • CSR capacity measurement depletion such as HCFCs should also receive attention.” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – ENVIROMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES • Multiple events for network business partners on ID 42% sustainable business, UT EX IN adressing environmentally friendly technologies Global Compact on: Environmentally friendly technologies • Pop-up network group on “Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration defines environmentally conflict minerals friendly technologies as technologies that “protect the environment, are less polluting, use all resources in a more sustainable manner, recycle more of their wastes and • Collaboration projects with products, and handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies for which they were construction customers substitutes.” • CSR capacity measurement Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – WATER AND WASTE WATER • Due Diligence training (on behalf of the Danish ID 42% Business Authority) for the UT EX IN construction sector, water being a key issue Global Compact on: Water and waste water • Collaboration projects with “Water scarcity is expected to worsen in many parts of the world as a result of factors including urbanization and customers in the conpopulation growth, increasing food production, industrialization, and climate change. Water pollution also struction sector on business reduces the amount of water available and a variety of company operations and activities involving water can modelling, Code of Conduct generate waste water..” with focus on water Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool • CSR capacity measurement Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – NATURAL RESOURCES • Due Diligence training (for the Danish Business AuthorID 42% ity) for the construction UT EX IN sector, wood as a natural ressource being a key issue Global Compact on: Natural resources • Collaboration projects with “Some of the world’s natural resources are becoming scarce and degraded as a result of human use and should be construction customer in on managed with due consideration to ensure a sustainable future supply e.g. certain types of wood and fish species, business modelling with metals (e.g. chromium, nickel), oil, coal etc. The company should also take measures to ensure that it prevents, focus on natural resources minimises and remedies significant impacts related to the cultivation, harvest, extraction and/or use of natural resources” • CSR capacity measurement Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CLIMATE CHANGE • Due Diligence training (for the Danish Business AuthorID 42% ity) for the construction UT EX IN sector, energy consumption being a key issue Global Compact on: Energy consumption • Collaboration projects with “Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere absorb the sun’s energy and retain heat radiation that would otherwise be construction customer on lost into space. Most greenhouse gases occur naturally but their levels have been raised artificially by emissions from CSR policy with focus on vehicles, energy production and industrial activities. The company should take measures to monitor and energy consumption continuously reduce its energy consumption and emission of greenhouse gases e.g. by changing procedures followed or introducing new technologies • CSR capacity measurement Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool ” Peopleway Solutions® ENVIRONMENT – 2018 AMBITIONS • ENVIRONMENT OVERALL: • Extend the collaboration with companies in the energy efficency sector to offer network business partners new events and tools • ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES: Replace mobile phones and selected laptops Peopleway Solutions® ANTI-CORRUPTION – CORRUPTION, BRIBERY, FRAUD AND FACILITATION PAYMENT • CSR capacity measurement EX IN ID 8% UT Global Compact on: Anti-corruption “Corruption can take many forms that vary in degree from the minor use of influence to institutionalized bribery. Transparency International's definition of corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private gain . This can mean not only financial gain but also non-financial advantages” Source: Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool Peopleway Solutions® APPENDIX: CSR CAPACITY MEASUREMENT STAGES The four-stage model has been derived from management science research , which also identified three best practices associated with each stage. The more adopted for each CSR issue, the better the score. The core of the model relies on the concept of Absorptive Capacity, which concern companies’ capacity to absorb knowledge on organizational and individual level respectively. Measured and applied differently. IDENTIFY INTEGRATE 1 Consultation of stakeholders 1 Risk and opportunity analysis 2 Research and other investigative activities 2 Internal coordination and communication 3 Assessment or measurement of impact 3 Development of strategies, policies guidelines etc. EXECUTE UTILIZE 1 Communication and capacity building 1 Development or innovation of sustainable products, services or processes 2 Selection and evaluation of business partners 2 Compliance with stakeholder pressure, sustainability standards and legislation 3 Sustainability-oriented collaboration with 3 Marketing and communication efforts towards business partners and other parties stakeholders Source: Adapted from the Sustainable Sourcing Excellence (SSE) project, 2015 Peopleway Solutions®
