ORIENTAL PRESS (ORIENTAL PRINTING GROUP W.L.L) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 (JAN – DEC) GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRAM OF UNITED NATIONS INDEX: SR. DESCRIPTION PAGE 1 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT 1 2 SCOPE OF COP 2 3 THE ORIENTAL PRESS 2 4 STATEMENT OF DIRECTOR 3 5 COP: HUMAN RIGHTS 4 6 COP: LABOUR 9 7 COP: ENVIRONMENT 14 8 COP: ANTICORRUPTION 24 9 ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY 25 10 SEDEX STANDARDS (ETI Base Code) 27 UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: 1. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2. The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 3. The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 4. The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 1 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) SCOPE OP COP: This COP is limited to the period ended Dec 31, 2017 (last report submitted in April 2017 which was limited till Dec-2016) THE ORIENTAL PRESS (Operating name of ORIENTAL PRINTING GROUP): Oriental Printing Group was established in 1952 and then re registered in 1982. Our head office is in Bahrain where we have 2 plant specializing in commercial and security printing. On site there are facilities for litho and commercial printing along with controlled overt and covert security features, with full finishing and binding capabilities. We also have a factory located in the Jebel Ali Free Zone, Dubai. This site is primarily focused on book production. In Dubai we are facilitated to produce hard back, with printed case or imitation cloth, jacket, paperback, flexi-bound and wire-o-bound with a variety of finishes and bindings. Our factory site in Bahrain is 230,000 sq ft and in Dubai 151,000 sq ft. For the past three years we have produced about 20 million books annually at our Dubai factory. Across both sites we employ about 450 personnel. There are dedicated sales and marketing teams based in Bahrain and UK speaking: Arabic, English, French, Spanish and Hindi. OPG are fully FSC, PEFC certified as well as IS0 14001:2004 EMS. We are also able to readily source and supply environmentally recognized PREPS graded papers that are presently widely used within the publishing and printing industry. The factory is annually audited by independent auditors of Sedex, ISO 14001:2004 and FSC & PEFC. Our products are regularly safety tested by our clients to meet EU and North American import safety standards. If required we can produce and supply a chemical and component breakdown. http://www.oriental-press.com/page.php?content=company_profile Page 2 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS: Statement of Managing Director of Oriental Press pledging continued support to Global Compact Programme of United Nations The Oriental Press is committed to continue rendering support to the United Nations Global Compact Programme and will Endeavour to abide by the ten Principles of the programme, most of which are a part of our Vision and Mission Statements. Therefore, the company continues to pledge support to the programme through its policies, processes, products and services. In line with our commitment towards Global Compact Program, we are committed to introduce printing processes that supports environment and we are proud to explain that we are using FSC, PEFC paper for printing; also we have introduced online proofing that has reduced consumption of paper, ink/cartridge, fuel resources as well as emission of gases etc. In the end of Year-2015 Oriental Press removed classical halogen type tube rods and installed LED tube rods in factory area for lighting requirement that is resulting in saved energy consumption (saving around 260000 electrical units) as well as helpful in saving footprints, natural resources. Further to this, in the mid of Year-2016 we have installed water recycling system with CTP machine that resulted in reduction of water consumption by more than 50%. Additionally, Oriental Press is affiliated with SEDEX (International Organization working towards Health & Safety, human rights of labor). Oriental Press has its written policy for Anti-Bribery and management is committed for zero tolerance regarding violation of Anti-Bribery Policy. Management of Oriental Press is committed to be transparent towards presentation of our activities & operations. Mr. Mohammad Al Zeera Managing Director Oriental Press Page 3 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) COP: HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy/Commitment Oriental Press has always had a concern for Human Rights in their business. Oriental Press recognizes that Human Rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and we respect and support the UNGC’s principles on Human Rights and Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our commitment entails that we work continuously to improve our social performance by setting high objectives and integrating human rights considerations into our daily business. System of implementation: 1. Oriental Press is adhered to UAE and Bahrain’s Labor law as well as all rules related to labor/Human rights introduced by law of the land. 2. Being affiliation with SEDEX, Oriental Press is fully supporting standards of SEDEX (SEDEX is based on ethical and responsible practices covered by ILO Conventions, ETI Base Code, SA8000, ISO14001 and industry specific codes of conduct). Sedex has deferent rules and annual audit by independent auditor is required by SEDEX. These rules called “ETI Base Code”. 3. Internal Auditing by a full time Internal Auditor/Management Representative Activities: 1. Continued preparation for compliance with requirements for Trading License requirement (which includes: maintenance of hygienic environment, staff training for first aid & fire fighting, fire drill, medical facility of staff, timely Page 4 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) payment of salary, providing proper health & safety equipments) 2. Continuous monitoring by top management (quarterly review meeting with mangers and open door policy). 3. Annual SEDEX Audit by independent third party. 4. Continuous observations by internal Auditor. 5. Providing First aid & Fire Fighters training to the group of staffs from different departments. 6. Conduct emergency drill event on regular basis 7. We have provided appropriate internationally acceptable housing facilities to the employees who chose to stay in the company accommodation. 8. Provided timely First Aid Training to the 2 groups of staff to respond health emergency (one group in UAE and another group in Kingdom of Bahrain). 9. Provided timely Fire Fighters training to the 2 groups staff to respond emergency at industrial site (one group in UAE and another group in Kingdom of Bahrain). Also conducted annual emergency drill during 2014 10. All accommodation and factory areas are equipped with a first aid kits, fire extinguisher, smoke detector, emergency torch light and whistle etc. 11. Our staff is covered for group medical as well as workmen compensation insurance to overcome any health and safety risks. 12. Our staff has direct access to communicate with the higher management regarding any issue. Result: 1. Oriental Press has fully adhered to all applicable laws of Kingdom of Bahrain & UAE (there is no legal notice/fine neither from the government of UAE nor Kingdom of Bahrain). 2. Annual Audit of SEDEX conducted by independent auditor during Nov2016 (covering Jan-Oct 2015) and identified 1 minor observation (last year 1 minor observation, before 5 minor observations). We are fully committed to ensure improvement to have no more observations for the Page 5 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) forthcoming period. 3. Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2016) Note: fresh independent audit for SEDEX is planned and expecting to be held in May-2018. Page 6 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2015) Page 7 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2014) Page 8 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) COP: LABOUR Principles: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy/Commitment Oriental Press is committed to adhere the labour rights as applicable in UAE and kingdom of Bahrain. Additionally we support labor rights addressed in SEDEX guideline. Oriental Press stands committed not to resort to any form of forced and compulsory labour. Oriental Press is against the illegal use of child labour, exploitation of the work of children and all other unacceptable forms in the treatment of workers such as the use of child labour, physical punishment, female abuse, and forced labour and other forms of abuse Oriental Press has the permanent concern to respect and promote the principle of nondiscrimination on all the levels of our Human Resources, with special emphasis on: recruitment, career development and training. With this intention, we commit not to practice any form of discrimination, that it is founded on the age, the sex, the religion, origins (social and ethnic), political affiliation or tradeunion membership, race or color etc. System of implementation: 1. Rules of JAFZA, labor law of UAE and labour law of Kingdom of Bahrain. 2. Labour rights addressed in the guideline of SEDEX 3. Internal Audit Department 4. Management’s factory monitoring is part of our strategy to improve working conditions. Management is closely monitoring the system that provides with firsthand insight into factory conditions and serves as an important tool to measure factory progress against our standards. Monitoring provides us with regular data about factory conditions and a mechanism to assess the impact of our efforts over time. Activities: Page 9 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) 1. Each employee has a contract of employment stating the terms and conditions of service 2. Suggestion/Complaint boxes made available where staff is welcomed to raise complaints, contribute suggestions for improvements etc. 3. Each staff has easy and direct access to top management regarding any issue. 4. Conducting annual audit of SEDEX by independent third party. 5. Continuous observations by internal Auditor Result: 1. Oriental Press have never been charged with, indicted for or in any other way whatsoever involved with the use of slave labour 2. There is no (zero) forced or compulsory labour. 3. There is no child labour in Oriental Press Group. The minimum age of our staff is 20 Years 4. There is no discrimination in case of employment and occupation. Our staff belongs to various different countries of the world including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Srilanka, Philippine, Syria, Egypt, UK, Bahrain, Nepal, Mauritania and Iran, our staff belongs to various religious beliefs/sects including Muslims, Hindu, Christian and Buddhist, our staff ranges between different age groups. Graph/Chart: 5. Our staff is satisfied with the environment and policy provided by Oriental Press. The evidence is based on the structure below:  30% staff serving since last 11-32 years  34% staff serving since last 6-10 years 6. Each staff is ensured to have 1 day weekly rest. 7. Annual Audit of SEDEX conducted by independent auditor during Dec 2016 (covering Jan-Nov 2016) and identified 1 minor observation that is broken electrical box in production area. We are fully committed to ensure improvement to have no more observations for the forthcoming period. Page 10 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2016) Note: fresh independent audit for SEDEX is planned and expecting to be held in May-2018. Page 11 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2015) Page 12 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Sedex Audit summary for Observations/Non Conformity (Year 2014) Page 13 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) COP: ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy/Commitment Oriental Press supports the concepts of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, promotion of greater environmental responsibility and development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Oriental Press is dedicated to contribute to the enhancement and sharing of knowledge within the globe by printing superior quality books. In line with this purpose, the company is also committed to protect the environment and prevent pollution while doing its daily work. System of implementation: 1. ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System which rewards responsible and effective ecological behavior. 2. The Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody. 3. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Activities: 1. Procuring materials like paper, ink and chemicals from environmentally responsible suppliers. 2. Continually looking for means of reducing waste in all areas. 3. Minimize waste by introducing a latest technology, new ways of printing, wherever possible. 4. Selling all waste/scrape to the recycling companies 5. Segregation and Handling of waste as per EMS system Page 14 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) 6. Disposing unsold (and garbage) waste as per authorized procedure of the law of land. 7. Utilize cost effective solutions for lighting requirements. Results: 1. Annual FSC audit-2017 conducted by certifying company during March2017 and its draft report mentions nil NC. Currently waiting for final report and renewed FSC Certificate. We are fully committed to improve the control/monitoring system to ensure keep status of nil NC. 2. Successfully passed annual audit of PEFC (Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) for the Year-2017 with NIL NC. Please refer to next page for copy of PEFC audit letter 2017 Page 15 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) PEFC Audit conducted July-2017 Page 16 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) PEFC Audit letter (May 2016) Page 17 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) PEFC Audit letter (April 2015) Page 18 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) 3. Successfully completed annual surveillance audit of ISO 14001:2004 EMS Certification. The audit is conducted by independent auditor of the certifying company (The report suggested for more advance improvements thru 7 ways) and got renewal of ISO-14001 :2004 EMS certification. 4. AUDIT SUMMARY ISO 14001:2004 EMS (AUG 2017) Page 19 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) AUDIT SUMMARY ISO 14001:2004 EMS (June 2016) Page 20 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) AUDIT SUMMARY ISO 14001:2004 EMS (2015) Page 21 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) AUDIT SUMMARY ISO 14001:2004 EMS (2014) 5. Paper waste increased during Y-2017 as compare to production rate of Y-2016. We are fully committed to control paper waste. 6. Aluminum printing sheets wastage controlled effectively as a result no increase of waste during 2017. Used sheets sold 100% to Recycling Page 22 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Company. 7. Developed online system of plotter which reduced paper consumption for proof, cartridge consumption, and electricity saving by 99% in its related section (till 2015 this was 95%, 2014 this was 80%). This online system has helped us to reduce courier cost and natural resources (fuel), ultimately it reduces emission of gases, less paper consumption. 8. Disposed all used chemical inline with guidance provided by Government of Dubai Municipality. 9. From Year – 2015 we have started to provide all used/waste chemical to recycling Company M/S Gulf Environment & Waste FZE, Dubai 10. Electricity consumption decreased by 1% during 2017 as compare to 2016 (based on production impressions). However we are fully committed and striving best to reduce electricity consumption with reference to produced number of impression 11. Installed LED tube rods in the office block and inside factory’s manufacturing area which provides annual saving of 263000 electricity units. The Project is ready and working from July – 2015. This Project is complying top management’s view towards green environment. 12. Installed Water recycling unit at CTP machine that has reduced water consumption by more than 50%. Earlier each printing plate requires 15+Ltr per plate now only 5+Ltrs. Page 23 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) COP: ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy/Commitment Oriental Press will not condone any violation of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other participation in, any illegal act such as bribery, fraud, theft, money-laundering or illicit dealing of any kind. System of implementation: Oriental Press has a principle of ethical commercial practices since its inception in 1952. It has been part of our company values to fight corruption within our business practices. 1. Annual Financial Audit 2. The handbook of Oriental Press 3. Anti-Bribery Policy (refer to page#16) 4. Internal Audit Department Activities: 1. Conducting annual financial audit 2. Conducting Internal audit Results: 1. Financial Auditor and Internal Auditor did not observe any incident of bribery/corruption. 2. There is no any legal notice by law enforcement agency relating to anticorruption. 3. Oriental Press is committed to increase business with customers who are also fighting for developing culture of anti-bribery. Our two major customers Oxford University Press (OUP) and Cambridge University Press (CUP) have their own written policy for Anti-Corruption. We are in process to encourage our other suppliers to have their written policy for Anti-Corruption. Page 24 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) Anti-Bribery Policy of Oriental Press “Oriental Printing Group” (a) Introduction OPG values its reputation and is committed to maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in the conduct of its business affairs. The actions and conduct of the firm’s staff as well as others acting on the firm’s behalf are both key to maintaining these standards. The purpose of this document is to set out the firm’s policy in relation to bribery and corruption. The policy applies strictly to all employees, directors, agents, consultants, contractors and to any other people or bodies associated with OPG or it’s subsidiary companies, within all regions, areas and functions. (b) Policy statement Bribery is the offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of an advantage as an inducement for action which is illegal or a breach of trust. A bribe is an inducement or reward offered, promised or provided in order to gain any commercial, contractual, regulatory or personal advantage. It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. (c) Scope Who is covered by the policy? In this policy, third party means any individual or organization and includes actual and potential clients, customers, suppliers, distributors, business contacts, agents, advisers and government and public bodies, including their advisors, representatives and officials, politicians and political parties. This policy covers:  Bribes  Gifts and hospitality  Charitable contributions (d) Bribes Employees must not engage in any form of bribery, either directly or indirectly. Page 25 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) (e) Gifts and hospitality We appreciate that the practice of giving business gifts varies between countries and regions and what may be normal and acceptable in one region may not be in another. The test to be applied is whether in all the circumstances the gift or hospitality is reasonable and justifiable. The intention behind the gift should always be considered. Within these parameters, local management may define specific guidelines and policies to reflect local professional and industry standards. (f) Charitable contributions Charitable support and donations are acceptable (and indeed are encouraged), whether for in-kind services, knowledge, time or direct financial contributions. However, employees must be careful to ensure that charitable donations are legal and ethical under local laws and practices. No donation must be offered or made without the prior approval of the Managing Director. All charitable contributions should be publicly disclosed. Page 26 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) ETHICAL TRADE INITIATIVES (SEDEX Standards) THE ETI BASE CODE 1. Employment is freely chosen 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge deposits or their identity papers with their employer and are free to leave their employer after reasonable notice. 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the right to join or form trade unions of their own choosing and to bargain collectively. 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude towards the activities of trade unions and their organizational activities. 2.3 Workers representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out their representative functions in the workplace. 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the employer facilitates, and does not hinder, the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, associated with, or occurring in the course of work, by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded health and safety training, and such training shall be repeated for new or reassigned workers. 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable water, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food storage shall be provided. 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. 3.5 The company observing the code shall assign responsibility for health and safety to a senior management representative. 4. Child labour shall not be used 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child labour. 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in and contribute to policies and programs which provide for the transition of any child found to be performing Page 27 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) child labour to enable her or him to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child; “child” and “child labour” being defined in the appendices. 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to the provisions of the relevant ILO standards. 5. Living wages are paid 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards or industry benchmark standards, whichever is higher. In any event wages should always be enough to meet basic needs and to provide some discretionary income. 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written and understandable Information about their employment conditions in respect to wages before they enter employment and about the particulars of their wages for the pay period concerned each time that they are paid. 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for by national law be permitted without the expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. 6. Working hours are not excessive 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws and benchmark industry standards, whichever affords greater protection. 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at least one day off for every 7 day period on average. Overtime shall be voluntary, shall not exceed 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium rate. 7. No discrimination is practiced 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. 8. Regular employment is provided 8.1 To every extent possible work performed must be on the basis of recognized employment relationship established through national law and practice. 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour or social security laws and regulations arising from the regular employment relationship shall not be avoided through the use of labour-only contracting, sub-contracting, or homeworking arrangements, or through apprenticeship schemes where there is no Page 28 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec) UNGC’s COP 2017 (JAN-DEC) real intent to impart skills or provide regular employment, nor shall any such obligations be avoided through the excessive use of fixed-term contracts of employment. 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be prohibited. Page 29 of 29 UNGC’s COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2017 (Jan-Dec)
