ROHM Group Repor t 2017 ROHM Group The ROHM Group has communicated the Company Mission to its employees since its establishment in order to become a company that can Repor t 2017 be trusted and relied upon by society COMPANY MISSION Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. 01 Policies to achieve the Company Mission are laid out BASIC GOALS FOR EDUCATION and serve as guidelines for all business activities AND TRAINING 1. Develop personnel at all levels that constantly work to BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY obtain new knowledge and acquire empirical reasoning ability based on a broad perspective. Secure reasonable profits through a concerted 2. Train staff to be dedicated leaders in their field by utilizing company-wide effort to promote their knowledge and experience. a comprehensive quality assurance program. 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and Develop globally leading products by improving on strive towards achieving targets. technologies held by each department 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, for the continued advancement of the company. combining the efforts of all individuals. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism in order to make meaningful contributions to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. AND TRAINING 1. All employees will use every opportunity to enhance self-development. BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior at all times. 1. Promote internal standardization for the entire company and establish structures for QC management based on data. 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary training 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the off the job is also provided. development of new technologies and products. 4. The head of each management level will appraise staff fairly 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control in all areas and conduct effective training programs periodically and of company activities. consistently. 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing 5. Appraisals for the head of each management level are based, processes. as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. 5. Continuously strive to modernize manufacturing systems in an effort to reduce product costs. 6. Secure quality assurance of raw materials and components Although the environment surrounding the company with our suppliers through contracts. has changed with the emergence of an information-based society and increased diversification of values, these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force and foundation of all business activities. Index 01 03 Company Mission and Policies/Index Message from The Top 05 Quality Initiatives 07 Products and Technologies 09 Four Growth Solutions 13 CSR Topics 19 Mecenat 21 Financial Highlights 23 Corporate Profile 02 Message from The Top Message from The idea of CSV (Creating Shared the President Value) to solve various social issues and put corporate activities into practice is gaining ground on a global scale. Achieving Sustainability For ROHM these initiatives are not new by any means, as we have contributed to the advancement of culture since our founding by providing innovative, high quality products based on our Company Mission. And although the scale of our company and business environment have changed significantly over the 60 years since ROHM was established, our philosophies remain unchanged, becoming a part of our DNA. Going forward, the ROHM Group will co n tin u e to p u rs u e o u r Co mp a ny Mission and Basic Management Policy while contributing to society by improving quality in all areas and taking on new challenges. 03 'Quality First' Unwavering since our founding ROHM offers a number of products that have become key devices in a wide range of fields, including the automobile industry which is experiencing increased innovation, the industrial equipment and home appliance markets where energy conservation and IoT conversion are required, and the rapidly evolving IT sector. Supporting our product development is a vertically-integrated production system in which all steps, from development to production, are implemented within the Group. “Quality is our top priority at all times” has become our mindset from the very beginning and one which we continue to maintain and protect. Injecting a high level of quality into every process ensures reliable traceability and an optimized supply chain, allowing us to contribute not only through our products but through our manufacturing system as well that guarantees stable delivery. In addition, ROHM offers an one-stop shop by providing a wide lineup that ranges from resistors and discrete products to ICs and modules. We are focusing our efforts into providing solutions that leverage the full capabilities of the ROHM Group, which includes LAPIS Semiconductor and Kionix, in order to solve the major challenges faced by society and our customers. Four growth solutions for solving social issues Analog solutions are at the core of what we offer. We combine digital and software technologies with industry-leading analog expertise to deliver high efficiency, high accuracy power supplies and motor drivers. By taking advantage of power device technology centered on cutting-edge SiC along with power solutions that combine control IC and module technologies to maximize the performance of these devices, ROHM contributes to increased energy conservation and miniaturization in the automotive and industrial equipment fields. Meanwhile, in the field of IoT, which is undergoing considerable expansion, in addition to a broad variety of sensors we are developing sensor solutions that fuse control and wireless communication technologies. ROHM promotes technological innovation in a diverse number of fields, together with thin, ultra-compact electronic components for mobile solutions featuring increasingly advanced functionality. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism in order to make meaningful contributions to society More than anything, it is 'people' that make the greatest contribution in all corporate activities, and this word can be found in our basic management policy. We also believe that it's also important to create an environment in which human resources possessing diverse values and ideas can fully demonstrate their individuality and abilities in an increasingly globalized society. The ROHM Group will continue to develop balanced human resources that combine rich humanity and intellect, create innovation through various exchanges, and provide high quality products that will meet the expectations of our stakeholders. June 2017 Satoshi Sawamura, President 04 Quality Initiatives Quality Vertically Integrated Production System High Quality Stable Supply Quality is incorporated into every process of our vertically integrated production system, from ingot pulling to finished products, In pursuit of 'Quality We ensure long-term, First', we are engaged in stable supply to ensure embodying our pursuit of 'Quality First'. activities to enhance worry-free use of our We are further strengthening our activities to achieve the best quality in all processes, products, utilizing our production facilities in the world, for example through our proprietary from development and integrated production ROHM Production System (RPS) that provides unparalleled quality production to marketing system that is less and services, throughout susceptible to external by thoroughly removing all waste generated during operation, the entire Group. factors. transportation, and delays. Raw Materials In-House Photo Mask Wafer production from silicon Pursuing high quality through integrated ingot pulling quality control, from IC chip design layout to Raw silicon photo mask production Production Site: ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. (Japan) Si Silicon Silicon Ingot CAD Photo Mask Wafer Wafer Process SiC Silicon Carbide SiCrystal Wafer Process Production Sites: Developing innovative devices from the (Japan) ROHM Co., Ltd. wafer process, centered on our ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. production facilities in Japan ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. SiC Single-Crystal Wafer Manufacturer LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. SiCrystal, a German SiC single-crystal wafer ROHM Shiga Co., Ltd. manufacturer, became a member of the (U.S.) Kionix, Inc. ROHM Group in 2009 Production Site: SiCrystal AG (Germany) ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. 05 In-house Dies and Lead Frames To ensure the highest levels of quality, all dies for lead frames, lead frame punching, and molding are developed and produced in-house Production Sites: (Japan) ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. (Philippines) ROHM Mechatech Philippines, Inc. (Thailand) ROHM Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Frame Modules Assembly Line Packaging Dies In-House Production System State-of-the-Art Packages Production Sites: We developed our own production Our overseas facilities offer the (Korea) system to precisely meet the needs of latest assembly technologies, ROHM Korea Corporation our customers. including CSP, BGA, COC, COF (Philippines) and stacked packages ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. ▼All production equipment developed (Thailand) in-house ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (China) ROHM Semiconductor (China) Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. (Malaysia) ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 06 Products and Technologies Technology The ROHM Group offers a broad variety of products that contribute to solving social issues such as energy conservation, safety, and security, ranging from passive and discrete devices to ICs and modules. Power Management/Power Supply ICs ROHM contributes to the evolution of battery life and equipment systems by efficiently providing optimized power to the MCU and CPU, considered the brains of the device. We combine not only power supply ICs, but control ICs as PMICs 80V High-Voltage well that improve application reliability and efficiency. (System Power DC/DC Converters Management ICs) Motor Drivers (Motor Controllers) Nearly half of the electric power consumed worldwide is said to be due to motors, and this power demand is only expected to rise as the number of motor-equipped products such as air conditioners and robots continues to increase. High-Voltage Isolated ROHM contributes to a reduction in worldwide power Fan Motor Drivers Gate Drivers consumption through high efficiency motor drive by pursuing high accuracy motor drivers. General-Purpose ICs ROHM’s broad lineup includes memory, op-amps/comparators, reset ICs, power supply ICs, data converters, and other products Broad Package Lineup featuring systemized characteristics and packages that contribute to improved functionality in a range of devices. Microcontrollers (Low-Power MCUs) We have achieved class-leading energy saving characteristics using proprietary low-power technology. Our lineup includes 'tough' MCUs featuring improved 16bit Low-Power resistance to noise and high temperatures that offer Microcontrollers greater reliability and reduced power consumption in home appliances and industrial equipment. Wireless Communication Devices We respond to the expanding needs of the IoT market with wireless devices that support a range of protocols including Bluetooth®, Wi-SUN that enables communication over long distances with minimal energy, and EnOcean's Communication ICs Wi-SUN batteryless standard. for Bluetooth® Modules 07 Transistors We are moving forward with expanding and enhancing our portfolio of high-power devices such as PrestoMOS and IGBTs (Isolated Gate Bipolar Transistors) based on our industry-leading SiC-MOSFETs while pursuing technologies in the compact, low-power sector. At the same time this will allow us to contribute to greater Small-Signal SiC-MOSFETs power savings and miniaturization in industries ranging Transistors from automotive and industrial equipment to smartphones. Diodes ROHM offers a wide lineup to support low loss and high reliability in a variety of applications, including Schottky barrier diodes for rectifying the secondary side of power supply circuits, TVS (Transient Voltage Suppression) diodes widely used for circuit protection, and Zener TVS Diodes Schottky Barrier Diodes diodes. LEDs/Laser Diodes Compact, high-power devices are achieved by combining proprietary device and precision processing technologies. Recently, we have expanded our development into new Compact High-Intensity Multi-Beam 3-Color Chip LEDs Lasers fields such as motion and position sensors. Resistors As a resistor pioneer, ROHM developed the world's first rectangular chip resistors in 1976 and continues to lead the industry. PSR Series GMR Series We have further strengthened our product lineup with high High-Power Shunt Resistors reliability, high power products that support the automotive and industrial equipment fields. Thermal Printheads Thermal printheads are taking the top share in markets such as receipt and logistics barcode printers by utilizing high reliability thin-film and deposition technologies. High Reliability Thermal Printheads Sensing Devices ROHM creates a wide range of sensing devices by combining a variety of sensor elements that leverage MEMS (Micro-Electro Mechanical System) and photonics technologies with ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Circuits) optimized for using these elements. Accelerometers ROHM Sensor Medal 08 Four Growth Solutions Analog Solutions Delivering high-performance power control through a fusion of analog and control technologies Driver Chipsets for ROHM was the first in the world to successfully support Automotive functional safety in devices equipped with LCD panels LCD Panel LCD Panels by sharing information as necessary between each Driver constituent IC, such as driver ICs and timing controllers Driver Driver Driver Driver for driving high definition LCD panels and power supply ICs that optimally power these components. Timing Controller EEP ROM PMIC for LCD Panel We achieve the high level of quality demanded by the automotive sector and contribute to the use of SoC Power Supply LCD panels for side mirrors and the instrument panels which are essential for avoiding accidents. AAAAAA MUSIC AAAAAA BBBbbbbb BBBbbbbb CCCCCcccccc CCCCCcccccc User I/F DDD DDD E_EEE E_EE High-Resolution In each process of our vertically integrated Audio Reference production system we established design CD Driver Design technology for creating the target sound by first Serial Flash Audio identifying the parameters that affect sound HCI Module SoC NFC quality and then adjusting each individually. Xʼtal Power Supply Our commitment to analog technology allows us HiRes D-Amp. Tuner to respond to the demand for higher fidelity and AUX Module ADC Headphone higher resolution sound sources. Amp. 09 Formula E As a stage for showcasing electric vehicle (F1 for Electric Cars) innovation, Formula E continues to attract motor sports fans around the world. An official technology partner of Formula E team Venturi, ROHM contributes to the evolution of advanced power electronics systems by supplying SiC devices that deliver dramatically reduced power savings and miniaturization. Power Solutions Realizing power savings in motors that handle for Inverters large amounts of power requires higher performance inverters for industrial equipment, Micro automotive applications, and large home appliances. Controller Isolator Gate Power Controller IC Driver Device ROHM achieves greater power savings and performance in a variety of inverters by combining module technologies and supplying control ICs Monitoring IC Shunt Resistor and gate drivers that maximize the characteristics of SiC and other power devices. Power Solutions Maximizing the characteristics of power devices through control and module technologies 10 Four Growth Solutions Sensor Solutions Supporting IoT through sensors, wireless communication devices, and ASICs Machine Health Incorporating IoT into production facilities to monitor environmental conditions and equipment status makes it Monitoring possible to improve operation through visualization and prevent machine failures in advance by analyzing the Solutions collected data. ROHM brings together a wide range of sensors and wireless communication devices to provide monitoring solutions optimized for devices and the environment that can be easily retrofitted. 11 Ultra-Compact ROHM supplies thin, ultra-compact Devices components that support the continuing evolution of smartphones, wearable devices and other increasingly multifunctional devices. We also offer the smallest components in the world, such as the RASMID series, that contribute to greater miniaturization and functionality. Mobile Solutions Contributing to greater miniaturization and improved functionality in mobile devices with the world’s smallest components 12 CSR Topics ROHM Group CSR and CSV Activities The ROHM Group contributes to the sustainable growth of the Group and healthy development of society by conducting business activities with integrity in accordance with the goals and policies outlined in our Company Mission and Basic Management Policy. CSR and CSV Compromise the Core of CSV Our Business Activities Creating Shared Value The ROHM Group's Company Mission and Basic Management Policy embody our firm desire to enrich society through our products and CSR Corporate Social provide a basis for each employee to integrate into their own work. Responsibility Based on these goals and policies, we will work to be a company that Putting our corporate can meet the expectations of our shareholders by further expanding objectives and basic CSV to solve social issues through CSR initiatives in line with social management policy into practice requirements and international norms. Framework for Promoting CSR/CSV ■ Management System Acquisition and Operational Status Within the ROHM Group, the CSR committee, comprised of all directors and department heads with equivalent authority, bears responsibility for Management System Certification/ Themes Customer Demands CSR themes across the entire company including the environment, society, and governance with the president acting as chairman. ISO9001 In addition, 7 sub-committees identify issues after performing risk assessments in each field and obtain certification of the management Product Quality system by implementing the PDCA cycle of CSR management (see ISO/TS16949 table at right). IATF16949 Environment ISO14001 Promotional CSR Committee Organization at Committee Chairman/President Management Occupational ROHM Headquarters OHSAS18001 Quality Health and Safety CSR Oﬃce (Secretariat) (Quality of Business Activities) Information security ISO/IEC27001 Quality Committee Central Safety and Risk Management and Compliance Committee Information Environmental CSR Promotion Committee Conﬂict Minerals Working Group Labor, Safety and Hygiene, Environment, Ethics EICC*1, VAP audit*2 Health Committee Management System BCM Committee Disclosure Committee Conservation Committee *1: EICC stands for Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition This organization is mainly composed of electronic equipment manufacturers, major suppliers, and their standards. *2: VAP stands for Validated Audit Process This is a third-party audit of the EICC code of conduct 13 Illumination show and a capella concert for families using 'green' energy CSR/CSV Initiatives The ROHM Group believes it is necessary to be proactive in solving social issues to ensure the sustainable growth of the company. In September 2015 the United Nations General Assembly formulated Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) consisting of 17 objectives and 169 targets as action plans to resolve social issues by 2030. SDGs indicate actions universally required around the world that demand the proactive involvement of companies. The ROHM Group believes that linking these SDGs to our business activities will help make CSV, which are the shared values of society and the company, a reality. In order to incorporate CSV and advance the company and society, we set up opportunities for dialogue globally with different stakeholders, establish CSR Priority Issues for the ROHM Group, and actively contribute towards the realization of a sustainable society through our business activities. Achieving cyclical growth (CSV) of our employees, the company, and society At ROHM, we realize that each employee contributes to society through business activities, and from a desire to become a company that is motivated to meet challenges, we will launch new projects and continue to promote work-life management to help employees make more effective use of their time. In addition, as a global company, we are committed to promoting diversity and actively support female advancement based on the belief that respecting diversity will lead to new innovations. ROHM Co., Ltd. General Manager, CSR Office, CSR Headquarters Yuka Nakata Visit our website for more information: http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1 *ROHM Group CSR information can be accessed on our website. Timely information featuring wider coverage is posted from the digest version of this report. 14 CSR Topics Govern an ce For details on governance: http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1/csr-organization CSR Promotion Committees Hosted at Group Companies The ROHM Group holds monthly meetings of its CSR Promotion Committee, chaired primarily by the president of each production base. We carry out dialogues with our stakeholders, discuss CSR rooted in the local community, and engage in activities that involve the entire company in accordance with our yearly activity plan. ROHM Group CSR Promotional Organization CSR Committee CSR Promotion Committee at our CSR Promotion Committee ( ) indicates abbreviated production facility names German company Kyoto Shizuoka Okayama Fukuoka (ROHM) (ROHM Hamamatsu) (ROHM Wako) (ROHM Apollo) CSR promotion committee attended Kyoto Kanagawa Miyagi Miyazaki by company officers (ROHM Mechatech) (LAPIS Semiconductor) (LAPIS Miyagi) (LAPIS Miyazaki) Our company in Germany holds monthly Okayama Shiga Korea Philippines meetings of its CSR Promotion Committee, (ROHM Logistec) (ROHM Shiga) (R/KOREA) (REPI) with officers serving as members. The committee is working on improving Thailand Tianjin, China Dalian, China Malaysia and refining initiatives at the plant in line (RIST) (RSC) (REDA) (RWEM) with the ROHM Group's CSR standards. Philippines Thailand US Germany SiCrystal AG (RMPI) (RMT) (Kionix) (SiCrystal) Administrative Headquarters Board of Director / Group General Manager Roland Reichstein Promoting Social Responsibility within the Value Chain At the ROHM Group, we aim to build a strong supply chain by establishing trust and mutual prosperity with our business partners and develop a wide range of activities to help our customers with CSR and CSR procurement. Every year, we request CSR Self Assessments, a self diagnosis tool for our business partners, and conduct CSR Procurement Audits by visiting major suppliers. CSR briefing for business partners 2016 ROHM Group CSR Self-Assessment Holding CSR briefing sessions for Ratio of partners ranked “B” or higher 97 business partners In October 2016, we held a briefing at our Malaysian production facility for all of our business partners regarding EICC (CSR standards for the electronics industry) and the % ROHM Group's CSR/CSV initiatives. We will continue with these efforts and strive to further deepen relationships with our business partners. ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Administrative Division Deputy General Manager 15 Wong Pui Li Env ironm e nt For details on environmental initiatives: http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1/csr-environment Reducing CO₂ and Other Greenhouse Gas Emissions Throughout the Entire Value Chain In the ROHM Group we are promoting the visualization of equipment power usage and office energy consumption to reduce wasted energy while working to actively reduce CO₂ and PFC gas emissions that contribute to the greenhouse effect. Further, we calculate CO₂ emissions throughout our entire value chain and are engaged in decreasing CO₂ emissions in all of our business activities. Amount of CO₂ reduced by the ROHM Group from the Office Energy Reduction Campaign 2016 BM* 303,000 Energy conservation activities at the Thailand office Our Thailand production facility is working on tons environmental activities, including minimizing environmental impact and energy consumption. (reduced approx. 35%) In addition to production activities at the plant, we are actively engaged in energy-saving activities in the office by *BM (Benchmark): implementing company-wide campaigns, such as 2005 (The 19th Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) reminding employees to turn off equipment when not in use. ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Facility Management Div. Utility Control Dept. , Assistant Section Manager / Energy Saving Sub-committee Leader Theerasit Juntron Dealing with Water-Related Risks As a leading semiconductor manufacturer, the ROHM Group is involved in reducing the burden on our water environment through water conservation and recycling. And we have created a BCM (Business Continuity Management) system that not only covers water-related risks, but a wide range of other risks as well, including natural disasters such as floods and infrastructure-related issues. We also implement social contribution activities rooted in various Save the horseshoe crabs! regions from the viewpoint of biodiversity. Refresh Seto Inland Sea Clean Campaign Contributing to the growth of horseshoe 2016 Water Risk Evaluation A Leadership crabs a protected species Under CDP's Water Program AAB At the Okayama location our employees Management Bparticipate in the 'Refresh Seto Inland Sea C Awareness Cleanup Campaign to Save Horseshoe CCrabs', held each year in Kasaoka city. Information D We hope that our participation can contribute Disclosure Deven in some small way to maintain the Note: Evaluations are tidelands where horseshoe crabs grow. ranked in eight areas ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. Administration Department, Administration Division 1, Environmental Management Group, Chief Shinji Yasuhara 16 CSR Topics S o ci al For details on social initiatives: http://www.rohm.com/web/global/csr1/csr-laborsystem Developing Human Resources Through Diversity The ROHM Group states in its corporate objectives and policies that it will 'search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity' and seeks to utilize and nurture a diverse workforce without being bound by gender, nationality, religion, and other factors. We will actively promote diversity and develop our human resources in order to contribute to continued advancement and Award from PMAP become a global leader. Award from the Philippine Labor Bureau Europe 1% At our company in the Philippines, we are America Japan making efforts to improve our labor and 2% 26% management-related initiatives by offering a revolutionary cutting-edge program centered on the concepts of diversity included in our Ratio of corporate goals and policies. Asia ROHM Group In 2016, these activities were recognized (including China) and awarded by the People Management 71% Employees Association of the Philippines (PMAP). by Region ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. Human Resources & Organizational Development Division Deputy Division Manager / Compliance Council Chairman Jose N. Gregorio Developing Projects Based on a Firm Understanding of Customer Needs At each of our business locations throughout the world, the ROHM Group has established a design center that thoroughly understands the needs of our customers in the areas of product development and design, and works quickly to provide products that meet these needs. We are also pursuing true globalization in order to create new products that can solve environmental and other issues, in line with the needs of our customers. Number of countries with ROHM sales and development locations 18 65 Engineers involved in product development Handling customer needs by closely working with the local community countries, companies At the India Design Center, we have established a Note: The above includes QA centers in in 10 cities in 8 countries local development framework and work alongside customers to offer support in a timely manner, and strive to respond to the requests of our customers in regards to quality and the environment. ROHM Semiconductor India Pvt. Ltd. India Design Center-Head 17 Britto Edward Victor Classes that Convey the Fun of Manufacturing to the Next Generation In recent years, there have been fewer opportunities for students to experience manufacturing for themselves, and at the same time interest in science is waning, so in response the ROHM Group developed manufacturing classes for students of all ages, from JSSF Science Exchange Association elementary school to the university level. Through these classes we hope to inspire as many students as possible to become engineers who can make a positive A message from a JSSF participant contribution to society. My company visit visit to ROHM was very stimulating. The workshop on electrical circuits was the best part. I was able to learn about the Number of students who attended a latest technologies, such as the wireless switches manufacturing class hosted by ROHM in 2016 used in electronic appliances. 1,900 I’m looking forward to seeing what kinds of revolutionary technologies that ROHM will invent in the future. *JSSF: Japan Super Science Fair. Over A yearly science exchange meeting that attracts over 200 high school science students from over 21 countries, sponsored by Ritsumeikan High School Camborne Science and International Academy Bethany Fenn Boosting Employee Morale to Increase Motivation and Provide a Positive Work Environment The ROHM Group stresses the need for work/life balance for all our employees, and implements initiatives to reduce work hours and provide a system that allows for nursing and childcare, with a goal of achieving a comfortable, stress-free work environment. We also actively sponsor various events for our employees and their families to enjoy and foster interpersonal interaction and boost morale. Number of attendees at ROHM Festa 2016 (sponsored by ROHM HQ) 3,000 ROHM Festa 2016 ROHM Festa, co-sponsored by our Employee Association For the purpose of deepening interactions among employees, ROHM continued with its summer Over festival from 2015 and held ROHM Festa 2016. Previous and current employees and their families enjoyed the event, which included quiz contests, food stalls and more. Human Resources Headquarters Personnel Affairs Dept., Personnel Division, Salary and Welfare Group, Group Leader, Naomi Harada 18 Mecenat Support Cultural Activities Implementing activities that contribute to the dissemination and development of music culture Seiji Ozawa Music Academy Photo: Michiharu Okubo Rohm Music Foundation The Rohm Music Foundation was established in 1991, (a Public Interest Foundation) with the goal of contributing to the popularization and development of Japanese music culture. Rohm Music Foundation website http://micro.rohm.com/en/rmf/index.html As of 2016, the foundation has granted 429 scholarships, and continues to sponsor Scholarship Concerts performed Number of visitors that attended concerts by both previous and current scholars. supported and hosted by ROHM and the The Foundation organizes ‘Kyoto International Music Rohm Music Foundation in 2016 Students Festival’ to promote international exchange for 100,000 nurture young musicians, and ‘Music seminars’ to foster professional musicians. The Foundation also supports music-related performances and research, and more. Over total ROHM Theatre Kyoto: An active supporter of the music arts for many years, A Cultural Institution ROHM acquired the naming rights of ROHM Theatre Kyoto, which reopened on January 10, 2016, for the ROHM Theatre Kyoto home page (part of ROHM's website): next 50 years. http://www.rohm.com/web/global/theatre The theatre is located at the heart of one of the city’s most prominent cultural areas, home to numerous historic shrines and art museums. We hope that this theatre will be cherished as an ROHM Music Festival institution representing culture of art in Japan. Photo: Tatsuo Sasaki 19 ‘Opera for Children’ Performance by the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy Photo: Michiharu Okubo Communicating the Wonders of Music Through ROHM Theatre Kyoto The Seiji Ozawa Music Academy An ROHM, together with the Rohm Music Foundation, Educational Project Produced provides ongoing support for the ‘Seiji Ozawa Music at ROHM Theatre Kyoto Academy,’ a training project for young musicians conducted by world-renowned conductor Seiji Ozawa. Number of elementary school students This is an unprecedented program in which young invited to perform in the ʻOpera for Childrenʼ musicians in Asia are selected by audition to perform at ROHM Theatre Kyoto alongside top-class vocalists, led by professional 5,800 musicians active on the global music scene as well as by Mr. Ozawa himself. The operas are produced in a newly open ROHM Theatre Over Kyoto from 2016. The Academy also organizes ‘Opera for Children’, inviting elementary school students of Kyoto. The ROHM Music Festival Filling In conjunction with the Rohm Music Foundation, the Local Community with Music ROHM is working to provide a better learning environment for young musicians; to date a total of 4,755 are involved as 'Rohm Music Friends', many Number of 'Rohm Music Friends' Musicians supported by ROHM and the of whom are actively involved around the world as Rohm Music Foundation: professional musicians. 4,755 Since 2016, the entire ROHM Theatre Kyoto is rented out to host the ROHM Music Festival, an event that gives the community an opportunity to Over total enjoy live performances by Rohm Music Friends and local students. During this time the area comes alive with music, with good times enjoyed by all. 20 Financial Highlights Key Financial Data Results as of Net Sales 352,01 million yen March 31, 2017 Operating Income 31,827 million yen （9.0％） Ordinary Income 35,579 million yen （10.1％） Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 26,432 million yen （7.5％） Figures in parentheses indicate percentage of sales Sales Operating Income/Operating Income Ratio (in millions of yen) (in millions of yen) （%） 38,800 500,000 50,000 33,635 31,827 12.5 10.7 40,000 23,635 9.5 10.0 400,000 362,772 352,397 352,010 9.0 331,087 7.1 292,410 30,000 7.5 300,000 20,000 5.0 200,000 10,000 2.5 -0.3 100,000 0 0.0 0 –10,000 -921 –2.5 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ■ Operating Income Operating Income Ratio Sales by Segment Sales by Application Others Computers and OA 21,169 12.6％ 6.0％ Modules TeleAutomotive 39,608 352,010 communication 352,010 31.3％ (million yen) LSI (million yen) 11.3％ 11.3％ total as of 161,195 total as of 45.8％ Discrete March 2017 Consumer March 2017 Semiconductor 33.0％ Industrial Devices 11.8％ 130,036 36.9％ Note: Some figures are estimates. 21 Research and Development Costs Capital Expenditures (in millions of yen) （%） (in millions of yen) 70,000 14.0 60,000 56,686 60,000 11.0 11.0 11.6 12.0 48,739 12.9 10.6 50,000 42,817 42,182 50,000 10.0 39,996 40,868 40,000 40,000 37,750 36,536 37,277 8.0 31,754 30,000 30,000 6.0 20,000 20,000 4.0 10,000 2.0 10,000 0 0.0 0 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ■ Research and Development Costs AS % of Net Sales Net Income per Share/Net Assets per Share Dividends/Payout Ratio (in yen) (in yen) （%） 8,000 6,975.07 6,672.33 6,854.01 150.0 130.0 130.0 130.0 150.0 7,000 6,149.79 5,688.21 6,000 100.0 65.0 100.0 5,000 85.0 80.0 4,000 50.0 50.0 30.0 50.0 3,000 30.0 65.0 15.0 50.0 2,000 15.0 45.0 20.0 297.65 420.16 249.88 0.0 0.0 1,000 241.91 16.8 30.9 53.7 52.0 -6.2 0 –1,000 -486.63 –50.0 –50.0 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ■ Net Income per Share ■ First Six months Payout Ratio ■ Net Assets per Share ■ Year-End Shareholders' Equity/Total Assets Number of Employees 724,986 834,503 699,014 754,407 864,380 804,134 (in millions of yen) （%） (No.) 1,000,000 87.7 87.9 87.0 87.8 86.9 90.0 25,000 21,308 80.0 20,203 19,985 20,843 21,171 800,000 662,983 751,937 705,774 70.0 20,000 613,270 60.0 600,000 15,000 50.0 40.0 400,000 10,000 30.0 200,000 20.0 5,000 10.0 0 0.0 0 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ’13/3 ’14/3 ’15/3 ’16/3 ’17/3 ■ Shareholders' Equity Equity Ratio ■ Total Assets Investor relations webpage: http://www.rohm.co.jp/web/japan/investor-relations 22 Corporate Profile Corporate Data Sales Offices R&D Centers QA Centers Production Facilities Distribution ［ Global ］ Main Sales Offices R&D Centers ASIA ROHM Semiconductor Korea Corporation ASIA Korea Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Trading（Dalian）Co., Ltd. Shanghai Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Shanghai）Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Shenzhen）Co., Ltd. Taiwan Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Hong Kong Co., Ltd. India Design Center ROHM Semiconductor Taiwan Co., Ltd. AMERICA America Design Center（Santa Clara） ROHM Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor Philippines Corporation EUROPE Europe Design Center ROHM Semiconductor（Thailand）Co., Ltd. Finland Software Development Center ROHM Semiconductor Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ROHM POWERVATION Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor India Pvt. Ltd. QA Centers AMERICA ROHM Semiconductor U.S.A., LLC ASIA Shanghai QA Center / Shenzhen QA Center ROHM Semiconductor do Brasil Ltda. Taiwan QA Center / Korea QA Center Singapore QA Center / Thailand QA Center EUROPE ROHM Semiconductor GmbH AMERICA Detroit (America) QA Center EUROPE Europe QA Center 23 Com pany Inf o rm ati o n Company Name: ROHM Co., Ltd. Headquarters: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8585 Japan Tel: +81-75-311-2121 Fax: +81-75-315-0172 Date Established: September 17, 1958 Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2017) Representative: Satoshi Sawamura, President Sales Volume: Consolidated 352,010 million JPY (fiscal year ending March 2017) Number of Employees: Consolidated 21,308 (as of March 31, 2017) ［ Japan ］ ［ Japan ］ Production Facilities Sales Offices Production Facilities ASIA ROHM Korea Corporation Kyoto Matsumoto ROHM Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. Tokyo Mito ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. ROHM Integrated Systems（Thailand）Co., Ltd. Yokohama Nishi-Tokyo ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. ROHM Semiconductor（China）Co., Ltd. Nagoya Sendai ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. Fukuoka Takasaki ROHM Mechatech Co.,Ltd. ROHM-Wako Electronics（Malaysia）Sdn. Bhd. Utsunomiya LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech Philippines, Inc. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech（Thailand）Co., Ltd. R&D Centers LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. ROHM Shiga Co., Ltd. AMERICA Kionix, Inc. Kyoto Technology Center (Head Office) Kyoto Technology Center (Kyoto Ekimae) EUROPE SiCrystal AG Yokohama Technology Center QA Centers Distribution Kyoto QA Center ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. Yokohama QA Center 24 60C7102E 08.2017 ROHM © 7000・SG
