Lundbergs as an investment company By being an active, long-term owner, Lundbergs manages and develops a number of portfolio companies. Clear leadership, responsibility and sound, sustainable business acumen are important values that characterize Lundbergs’ work. Responsible, patient ownership is a key prerequisite for enabling companies to continue to develop and to invest in sustainable and profitable operations. 10 LUNDBERGS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Lundbergs as an investment company Objective, business concept, strategy and value creation Objective opportunity to work for strengthened Ownership is also characterized by a Lundbergs’ mission is to generate a market positions, increased competitivestrong belief in the management’s healthy absolute return for its shareholdness and sustainable value creation. In importance for success and in competent ers through growth in dividends and net this way, Lundbergs also has the opportuleaders taking and being given responsiasset value. nity to promote sustainable development bility. Decentralization is crucial for the and value creation outside the borders of companies’ successful development. Business concept its own company. Lundbergs is an investment company Lundbergs’ ownership takes its starting Investment criteria that manages and develops a number of point in excellent knowledge of its port­ Investments focus on companies listed portfolio companies based on long-term, folio companies’ conditions. The boards of on the Swedish stock exchange that have active ownership. directors of the portfolio ­companies play solid market positions, strong and stable an important role in their companies’ cash flows and their own products and Strategy development and take ­decisions on overbrands. Lundbergs has excellent knowlA favorable return and value growth are all strategies. edge of the companies and industries to be achieved by Lundbergs Lundbergs’ active ownership takes they invest in. That knowledge, in combi■■ being an active owner in its portfolio place through genuine and engaged nation with the organization’s collective companies work on the companies’ boards. A board experience and a deep analysis, consti■■ investing in accordance with clear of directors that possesses broad competutes the foundation for investment deci­criteria tence has greater potential to see the big sions. ■■ having a strong financial position that picture and at the same time identify creates freedom of action. ­significant risks and opportunities. Being Financial freedom of action and engaged in the nomination committees’ preparedness Long-term, active ownership work on appointing boards of directors is Lundbergs places a high priority on work Lundbergs invests to develop companies thus one of Lundbergs’ priority areas for to ensure it has the financial ability to and values over a long period of time. promoting sustainable value creation. ­utilize opportunities and cope with chalWith long-term, stable ownership, the Lundbergs places particular importance lenges. The financial risk is minimized by portfolio companies and their respective on the selection of a chairman of the combining low indebtedness with good managements are provided with the board in the respective companies. access to funds. TOTAL RETURN DIVIDEND GROWTH NET ASSET VALUE AFTER DEFERRED TAX % % SEK per share 50 15 700 40 12 600 30 500 9 20 400 6 10 300 3 0 200 -10 0 100 -33 -20 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 LUNDBERGS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 Lundbergs as an investment company Fastighets AB L E Lundberg’s properties 2017, net asset value per share after deestate operations and sales of securities are leveraged to a ­maximum 50 percent ferred tax increased 11.4%. Total annual and properties. SEK 785 m. was invested of the market value; listed shareholdings return on the share has averaged 23.3% in shares and SEK 732 m. in properties. must be unleveraged. In addition to bank per year over the past five years and 14.7% Dividends to the company’s shareholders loans, operations are financed through over the past ten years. Total annual amounted to SEK 694 m. corporate bonds and commercial paper. return over the past 20-year period has averaged 15.1%. Organization Favorable, even growth in dividends Management expenses in relation to Lundbergs’ investment work is performed and net asset value the holdings measured at market value in a small organization with many years of Lundbergs’ mission is to generate a amounted to 0.08% (0.08) in 2017. collective experience and solid compehealthy absolute return for its share­ tence. The organization consists of some holders. This is achieved through growth Cash flows reinvested in operations ten employees, including the ­personnel in dividends and net asset value. Over the One of the fundamental criteria when of the subsidiary L E Lundberg Kapitalförpast five years, net asset value per share, Lundbergs invests is owning a company valtning AB. Organizationally, the wholly excluding dividends and after deferred with strong cash flows. owned real estate company is separated tax, has grown by an average of 15% During the year, Lundbergs received a from the Parent Company and is asannually. Annual dividend growth over total of SEK 2,607 m. from dividends from signed the same status as the Group’s the same period has been 7%. During portfolio companies and funds from real other portfolio companies. A model for responsible and sustainable ownership Lundbergs invests for the long term, starting from financial strength and sound knowledge of its portfolio companies. This creates stability and freedom of action for the companies to develop and to invest in sustainable, profitable operations. Active ownership aimed at developing the companies long term promotes value creation for shareholders, the portfolio ­companies and society. CONDITIONS FOR OPERATIONS OPERATIONS VALUE CREATED BY THE OPERATIONS Knowledge of portfolio compaActive ownership Favorable, even growth nies and sustainability issues in dividends and value Long-term development A long-term approach of holdings Cash flows reinvested and engagement in operations Investments in accordance Financial strength with clear criteria Strengthened market positions, innovation and development Financial freedom of action and preparedness Job openings and social progress Organization A significant portion of value creation is reinvested in operations. 12 LUNDBERGS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Lundbergs as an investment company Sustainability A long-term approach and sustainability permeates all of the portfolio companies. The following policy documents thereby are preconditions for each other. Issues The Code of Conduct means that the form the basis for the Company’s sustaininvolving long-term value creation and portfolio companies are expected to: ability efforts: sustainability are an integral part of the ■■ act in line with the legal requirements ■■ Business ethics policy overall governance of the company, for applying where the company is active ■■ Insider policy which the Board of Directors and the ■■ act in line with the UN Global Compact ■■ Information policy CEO are ultimately responsible. through complying with applicable ■■ Code of Conduct Sustainability efforts take their starting laws, regulations and international ■■ UN Global Compact guidelines point in Lundbergs’ Code of Conduct, guidelines and policies governing the ■■ Diversity policy. which is based on the ten international environment, anti-corruption, labor law principles of the UN’s Global Compact on and human rights A whistleblower function has been estabhuman rights, labor rights, environmental ■■ implement investments by taking into lished for anonymous reporting of violaconsiderations and anti-corruption. The account their long-term economic, tions of the Code of Conduct and/or its company adopted the Global Compact social and environmental impact underlying documents. No reports of in 2016 and has supported it since then, ■■ have relations that are characterized by ­violations of the Code of Conduct or other thereby committing itself to realizing and high business ethics rule violations were made in 2017. integrating these principles in its opera■■ have workplaces that are characterized tions. Lundbergs' annual report constiby openness, responsiveness and Sustainability impact and materiality tutes the Communication of Progress mutual respect and that distance The most significant and operation-critithat is to be reported annually to the UN’s themselves from any form of discri­ cal sustainability issues have been identiGlobal Compact. mination fied on the basis of a risk and opportunity The Parent Company, L E Lundberg■■ strive for openness, clarity and relia­bility perspective through business intelliföretagen, including the wholly owned in external communication. gence, industry analysis, sustainability subsidiary L E Lundberg Kapitalförvaltanalysis in the value chain and discusning AB, has no in-house manufacturing The Code of Conduct is further clarified sions in Lundbergs’ management. The operations of its own – only some ten in a number of underlying documents. issues are handled in regular processes employees – and its impact on the enviA business ethics policy and a diversity for risk management and organizational ronment and the world at large is therepolicy were implemented in 2017. development. fore very limited. For these reasons, no earnings indicators are provided in these areas. The company makes its mark by being a long-term, active owner in the portfolio companies. Through its governance, Lundbergs has an impact on nine portfolio companies with nearly 120,000 employees and sales of goods and services of approximately SEK 390 billion. In this way, Lundbergs has the opportunity to promote sustainable development and value creation outside the borders of its own company. Lundbergs’ Board has established a Code of Conduct that applies to the ­Parent Company and to wholly owned subsidiaries. Through the respective In 2017, the subsidiary Holmen was named one of the world’s most sustainable companies by boards of directors, Lundbergs will also capturing 21st place on the Global 100, an index of the one hundred most s­ ustainable com­ work to ensure that the spirit of the Code panies in the world. 14 LUNDBERGS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Lundbergs as an investment company The following areas have been deemed the most relevant for reducing risks and creating sustainable values for Lundbergs’ key stakeholders: ■■ long-term, sustainable profitability ■■ creating jobs, innovation, development and growth ■■ being an active owner through such measures as efficient governance and handling ESG1 risks in the portfolio companies ■■ capitalizing on business opportunities in the field of sustainability ■■ promoting diversity and attracting and retaining talents ■■ counteracting corruption in own ­operations ■■ transparently reporting the company’s challenges and opportunities. Lundbergs’ key stakeholders Job opportunities are created in the portfolio companies and their subcontractors. ■■ Shareholders in Lundbergs The total number of employees in the nine portfolio companies is about 120,000. ■■ Creditors ■■ Employees in the Parent Company and portfolio companies also promotes increased confidence in nies with the opportunity to build strong ■■ Board members and management management, employees and owners, market positions with good staying power groups in the portfolio companies as well as increased knowledge of and better competitiveness. Through Lundbergs’ objectives and direction. The offering a long-term perspective and Opportunities and challenges main principles for Lundbergs’ external financial strength, Lundbergs gives the As a long-term owner, it is natural that disclosure of information are: companies good opportunities to invest in business intelligence issues are integrated ■■ treating all stakeholders on the stock innovation and further development. The into both own operations and in decisions market equally companies have an obligation to conduct concerning the portfolio companies. The ■■ submitting information of a price-sentheir operations in a sustainable manner. companies are investigated in connection sitive nature correctly and on time, in with investments and both risks and accordance with Lundbergs’ insider Job opportunities and social progress opportunities in such areas as sustainabilpolicy The portfolio companies and Lundbergs ity issues are taken into con­sideration. ■■ meeting legal requirements and observalso contribute to social progress. Job Monitoring takes place ­primarily through ing the stock market rules in force opportunities are created in the compathe companies’ boards of directors. ■■ maintaining a high ethical level nies and their subcontractors, thus pro■■ ensuring the reliability of the informaviding individuals with the opportunity to Transparency tion by maintaining special channels grow. Society receives tax revenues, thus Transparent, properly functioning ­comand procedures for communication. creating conditions for innovation and ­munications promote the company’s social structure. business operations by furnishing the Strengthened market positions, stock market with correct, relevant, clear innovation and development 1) ESG (Environmental and Social Governance) – a comand reliable information in accordance The long-term ownership that Lundbergs pany’s responsibility for how it impacts society from an with applicable regulations. Transparency represents provides its portfolio compaeconomic, environmental and social perspective. LUNDBERGS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15
