CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2 017 TORM’S COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TORM regards responsible behavior as a central part of By looking at our industry, our value chain and our the Company, our business and of the mindset of our business practices, we decided in the beginning of people. TORM is committed to the UN Global Compact 2018, to focus on five distinct SDGs on which we are and our CSR approach is rooted in the values of the working going forward. Company. These five SDGs are rooted in our CSR activities and TORM signed the UN Global Compact in 2009 as the are material to the Company and its stakeholders. As first shipping company in Denmark. In 2017, TORM also such, TORM sees its commitment to and reporting on started looking into the UN Sustainable Development the SDGs as a natural progression of its commitment to Goals (SDGs) and assessed how the Company can best the UN Global Compact. contribute to their achievement by 2030. Please see below graphic showing TORM’s chosen SDGs. Jacob Meldgaard, Executive Director TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 3 ENVIRONMENT Chapter Within the shipping industry, marine pollution constitutes the largest environmental risk. Thus, it is a key priority for TORM to avoid pollution of the seas, the marine environment and the atmosphere. INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS basis. This ensures that corrective action can be taken ballast water may introduce non-native species into the In order to maintain Company standards and exceed at the right time. The One TORM platform facilitates recipient marine ecosystem, whereby disturbing the the targets set by its customers, TORM has enhanced efficient knowledge sharing of key fuel performance local maritime ecosystem and endangering indigenous the vetting preparations and increased the number of data across the Company. species. internal audits on its vessels carried out by Safety Quality and Environment (SQE) officers. On average, A new initiative was introduced during 2017 with the To alleviate this threat and preventing the invasion of each vessel is subject to ten inspections a year. purpose of engaging the vessels on a daily basis to non-indigenous species in alien waters, TORM makes Inspections are carried out by customers, terminals, encourage best practice behavior with regard to power an effort to already comply with the forthcoming internal auditors, ports and classification societies. consumption and thereby fuel consumption. The stipulations of the IMO Ballast Water Management TORM is committed to meeting and outperforming the initiative ensures that corrective action can be taken Convention. ever-increasing standards set both internally and by its swiftly if needed. customers. OIL SPILLS In addition, increased focus was placed on the In 2017, TORM experienced zero oil spills larger than FUEL CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY improvement of hull condition for vessels with a one barrel, but did experience one small oil spill Throughout 2017, TORM continued to have a strong relatively long time to the next scheduled dry-docking. overboard of less than one barrel. The incident was and dedicated focus on reducing fuel consumption, In total, five vessels were taken out of service for a investigated and procedures revised where required. and the efforts made within this area have generated a short four-to-five-day docking during which hull positive result. coating repairs were carried out. In 2016, TORM improved its fuel efficiency by 3.6% GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS compared to a 2015 baseline figure. In 2017, TORM has In 2015, TORM changed the system used for generating continued its efforts and achieved further emission data. Thus, this year’s CSR Highlights for the improvements bringing the fuel efficiency to 5.2% first time include emission data for the three compared to the 2015 baseline. The target for 2018 is to consecutive years 2015-2017. improve fuel efficiency by further 1.5%. As part of the maritime industry, TORM will monitor trends and As can be seen on page six, TORM has significantly targets set by the industry and follow these where decreased its Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions over relevant. the past three years. As in previous years, TORM’s Operational Performance BALLAST WATER team shares the performance of each vessel with the Ballast Water is taken on by the vessel to stabilize trim respective vessel managers and vessels on a monthly and optimizing operational efficiency. The discharge of TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 4 GREEN HOUSE GAS EMISSION DATA GREEN HOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA 2017 2016 2015 VESSEL EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Number of vessels in operation at the end of the year (in technical management) 74 76 72 Number of vessel months (one vessel one year equals 12 vessel months) 914 910 813 Usage of oil and the generated CO2 emissions Used heavy fuel oil (ton) 236,505 308,467 343,785 Used low sulfur heavy fuel oil (ton) 0 0 9,579 Used marine gas oil (ton) 45,470 56,549 50,704 Generated CO2 emission from vessels (ton) 882,253 1,141,862 1,262,933 NOx (ton) 20,800 26,992 30,227 SOx (ton) 11,728 15,289 17,477 Distance sailed in nautical miles 3,207,147 3,279,977 3,214,973 Average cargo on board (ton) 34,721 37,433 39,117 Ton-km 207,597,070,516 251,946,149,526 263,691,358,733 CO2 emission in grams per ton-km (one ton of cargo transported one km) 4.3 g/ton-km 4.5 g/ton-km 4.8 g/ton-km OFFICE EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Electricity, heating and other office-related activities Electricity used in kWh in all office locations 849,644 924,951 1,099,823 District heating in Gj 1,293 1,619 1,340 Generated CO2 emission in ton from office location 524 562 646 Number of office employees at the end of the year 296 277 271 CO2 emission per employee (ton) 1.8 2.0 2.4 FLIGHT EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Air mileage in kilometers 76,832,985 77,284,100 68,523,791 Number of travels 12,354 13,056 12,725 CO2 emissions in ton 6,650 6,750 6,069 TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 5 ENVIRONMENT – REPORTING SCOPE REPORTING SCOPE • Scope 1 emissions from ballast voyages, electricity production, Environmental and social data is based on all vessels Consumption of bunker oil has been calculated to inerting, cargo operations, etc. under TORM’s technical management (vessels for CO2 emissions using IMO’s factors for heavy fuel oil which TORM holds the Document of Compliance). and marine gas oil. SOx and NOx emissions are Having the technical management of a vessel implies calculated using the third IMO GHG Study from having control over the vessel in terms of 2014. Emissions are calculated for each single vessel environmental performance and crew. As of 1 January and then consolidated. Numbers under the scope 1 2018, TORM had 74 vessels under technical data sheet have been collected on board the management compared to 76 vessels as of 1 January vessels or at the offices. The collection is based on 2017. actual usage or disposals. Office emissions are included from TORM’s offices in • Scope 2 Copenhagen, Mumbai, Singapore, Manila and Houston. Emissions from heating (district heating) in the TORM’s offices in New Delhi and Cebu are not included Copenhagen and US offices are calculated using as they have started tracking in 2018. Emissions from Danish and World Resources Institute emission TORM’s office in London is not included as data is factors. currently unavailable. Emissions from air travel are included for all office staff and crew. Data from vessels • Scope 3 is collected according to a specific reporting routine, Emissions from air travel are provided by TORM's mainly on a monthly basis but for certain data with less travel agent. frequency. Other environmental data is collected on an annual basis. Safety data is based on reporting made to OTHER PRINCIPLES TORM’s Safety, Quality and Environmental Department 2017 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated for whenever an incident occurs. vessels in technical management (vessels for which TORM holds the Document of Compliance) in TORM, REPORTING GUIDELINES amounting to a total of 914 vessel months of operation. The 2017 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reporting covers scope 1 (direct emissions from own production), Ton-km is calculated by use of actual cargo multiplied scope 2 (emissions from own production but others’ by the distance with actual cargo; thus, a ballast emissions) of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol except for voyage will give 0 (zero) in ton-km. CO2 emission per the activities listed below and selected scope 3 (others' ton-km is the full CO2 emissions on board all vessels production and emissions services) activities. divided by the ton-km for all voyages; thus, it includes TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 6 SAFETY Chapter Approximately 90% of TORM’s personnel works at sea, and providing heathy, safe and secure working conditions for them, is an essential part of the business. Respecting employee’s human rights is pivotal to the The Company will continue to monitor the risk situation Company, and policies are outlined in TORM’s Business and pre-empt hijacking and robbery attempts by Principles and reflected in the commitment to the UN following security procedures and industry guidelines. Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Company’s safety policy is rooted in the rules and regulations issued by the Danish Maritime Occupational Health Service. LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY (LTAF) AND NEAR-MISS Lost Time Accident Frequency (LTAF) is an indicator of serious work-related personal injuries that result in more than one day off work per million hours of work. The definition of LTAF follows standard practice among shipping companies. During 2017, TORM had an LTAF of 0.67 (2016: 0.65). There has been a slight increase in the LTAF from 2016. Each injury has been investigated and corrective measures taken as SECURITY required. TORM’s response to piracy is founded in the Best Management Practice 4. In 2017, TORM experienced one Near-miss reports provide TORM with an opportunity robbery, four attempts to board our vessels by to analyze conditions that might lead to accidents and suspected thieves and four cases of stowaways found ultimately prevent accidents. A high number of nearon board the Company’s vessels. Throughout the year, miss reports indicate that the organization is aware of the security situation and developments in the various the risks and responds to them. In 2017, TORM risk areas have been monitored closely and actions exceeded the target of 6.0 near-miss reports per have been taken to safeguard TORM’s seafarers and month per vessel on average by reaching 6.7 (2016: vessels. The Company will continue to monitor the risk 6.7) due to continued focus on this area. situation and pre-empt hijacking and robbery attempts by following security procedures and industry guidelines. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 7 ONE TORM SAFETY CULTURE In line with the Company’s strategic focus on safety In June 2017, a comprehensive safety training program performance, TORM continued its focus on the safety was implemented for all staff. Depending on their role, culture program called One TORM Safety Culture – employees ashore participated in Basic Safety Behavior driving resilience in 2017. or Advanced Safety Behavior courses. In April 2017, a kick-off campaign for all employees at For Senior Officers on board TORM’s vessels, Safety sea and ashore was launched. The campaign included Leadership courses were introduced with the intention workshops where employees were introduced to of training the top four officers on board each vessel. TORM’s new safety philosophy and five best-practice These two-and-a-half-day workshops focus on how to behavior principles, the Five Safety I’s: Insight, be a good leader when it comes to safety and how to Innovation, Influence, Intervention and Integration. See positively influence and support colleagues on TORM’s figure: Five Safety I’s. journey to be the Reference Company within safety. Safety Leadership courses are mandatory for all Senior The One TORM Safety Culture driving resilience Officers and key marine shore staff. program is focused on continuously strengthening TORM’s safety culture beyond compliance – the way In 2017, nine Safety Leadership courses have been we think about and act towards safety, including how conducted with a total of 175 attending officers. The we interact with each other across the organization. program will continue in 2018 with new activities to Thus, during 2017, safety was integrated as the fourth ensure that the safety program is fully anchored across value in TORM’s overall leadership philosophy. the organization. FIVE SAFETY I’s. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 8 LABOR Chapter Labor conditions are particularly important for our seafarers because the vessel serves both as their workplace and their home. Employees are the core and most valuable asset of EMPLOYEES AT SEA shore organization and share best practice regarding TORM. The Company continues to grow and thrive due TORM is compliant with the ILO’s Maritime Labour operation of TORM’s vessels. to the efforts and dedication of its staff both at sea and Convention, an international set of standards pertaining on land. to labor conditions at sea. The convention was ratified In 2017, TORM also continued its efforts to allow by 30 countries in 2012. All vessels under TORM’ seafarers to join the same vessel whenever possible. TORM respects employees’ right to associate freely, to technical management were audited and certified as The Company employs seafarers from several join – or not join – unions and to bargain collectively. required under the Maritime Labour Convention of countries, and it is TORM’s experience that having TORM offers equal opportunities for our employees as 2006 when it took effect in August 2013. more than one nationality of seafarers on board the stated in TORM’s Business Principles. TORM has an In 2017, TORM continued its focus on increasing same vessel will help build a professional, resilient and obligation to its customers, shareholders, employees commitment and engagement among seafarers. At safe working environment. and other stakeholders to develop the Company’s year-end, TORM’s retention rate for Senior Officers was talent pool irrespective of attributes such as gender, above 90%, and for the third year in a row TORM could As part of the Company’s continued focus on the religion, sexuality, nationality, ethnicity or disabilities. demonstrate 100% compliance with customer promotion process, TORM introduced promotion logs As stated in TORM’s Business Principles under requirements (the so-called officer matrix compliance). and individual development plans in 2017. Furthermore, ‘Respecting People’, the Company does not accept any a new bonus program for seafarers was implemented kind of discrimination. TORM works towards a diverse In 2017, TORM continued its focus on increasing during the year. workplace, in which everyone is included and commitment and engagement among seafarers. TORM’s annual employee motivation and satisfaction respected, and in which well-being at work is regarded In September 2017, TORM opened a branch office in survey is of great importance to the Company. The as a shared responsibility. For more information on Aero City, a prime business location in New Delhi, India. increased positive results for 2017 prove that TORM TORM’s Business Principles, please visit Thus, TORM expanded its presence in the important continues to have dedicated and motivated staff. http://csr.torm.com/torm-s-way-of-doing-business. Indian crewing market and is now also able to provide closer proximity to seafarers from this location. Among EMPLOYEES ASHORE Since 2006, the Board of Directors has provided a other things, this means reduced domestic traveling for TORM’s annual employee motivation and satisfaction whistleblower facility with an independent lawyer to seafarers from this region and smooth sign-on and survey is of great importance to the Company. The detect any violations of laws, regulations or business sign-off procedures. increased positive results for 2017 prove that TORM ethics by TORM representatives as part of the internal continues to have dedicated and motivated staff. control system. In 2017, the whistleblower facility Throughout the year, TORM continued its focus on received zero notifications. activities to further improve cooperation between In 2017, 96% of all shore-based employees worldwide seafarers and the shore-based organization. For this participated in the voluntary survey, which in itself can purpose, the Company conducted seminars for its be viewed as a testament to employee commitment. senior and junior officers as well as cadets, providing The outcome of the survey showed improvements in all opportunities to interact with colleagues from the TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 9 areas, notably with regard to categories covering engagement, reputation, loyalty and satisfaction. TORM aims to attract and retain the best employees by living the TORM Leadership Philosophy values and by ensuring that the Company’s leaders invest in their employees. Through the One TORM platform, the Company strives to continuously develop the employees’ abilities to do what they do best. At the end of 2017, the shore-based organization had 296 full-time employees: 127 in Hellerup, 109 in Mumbai, two in New Delhi, 36 in Manila, two in Cebu, 14 in Singapore, five in Houston and one at the Company’s office in London. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY Chapter TORM does not accept corrupt business practices. The Company has co-founded the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) to take a joint stand in the industry towards the request for facilitation payments, which exist in many parts of the world. Corruption and bribery impede global trade and can In 2011, TORM co-founded the Maritime Antirestrict non-corrupt companies’ access to international Corruption Network (MACN) to take a joint stand markets. In this way, corruption and bribery have a within the industry towards the request for facilitation negative impact on economic and social development. payments, which exist in many parts of the world For TORM, the risk of corruption does not only mean where TORM conducts business. Within the network, increased costs. Corruption also exposes TORM’s best practices are shared and members align their seafarers to safety and security risks and poses a approach to minimizing facilitation payments. potential risk to the Company’s legal standing and reputation. The network seeks support from government bodies and international organizations to eliminate the root TORM does not accept corrupt business practices and causes of corruption. TORM is committed to as part of its compliance program, TORM has a policy addressing corrupt business practices among on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, which supports the stakeholders by supporting this cross-sector Company’s Business Principles. approach. It is TORM’s policy to conduct all business in an honest In addition to its efforts within MACN, TORM and ethical manner. TORM has a “zero tolerance” continued to strengthen its companywide antiapproach to bribery and corruption, and the Company corruption policies in 2017 to mitigate the risk of is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with bribery and corruption. TORM has continued its antiintegrity in all business dealings and relationships, corruption training program, which includes wherever the Company operates. TORM will uphold all mandatory anti-corruption courses for all shore-based laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all staff and all officers on board TORM’s vessels. The the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. training not only targets new hires, but must be repeated once a year by all the mentioned employees. To continue a high level of transparency and TORM will continue these efforts in 2018. accountability, due diligence, monitoring and control as well as training of TORM’s staff are central parts of implementing the anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 11 Chapter HUMAN RIGHTS Chapter TORM revised our Business Principles to better reflect TORM’s Leadership Philosophy and our commitment to the UN Global Compact, particularly regarding human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS With the TORM Leadership Philosophy, TORM’s Business Principles and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, TORM is committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights as outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). TORM recognizes that implementing the necessary policies and respective processes to be in line with the requirements of the UN Global Principles is part of an ongoing effort. Going forward, TORM will continue to promote its human rights-related policies and processes. No claims or offenses have been reported regarding human rights in 2017. Read more about TORM and our CSR efforts at http://www.torm.com/csr-at-torm. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 12 ACTIONS SUPPORTING UN GOALS AND ISSUES Chapter TORM is a long-standing supporter of maritime education in India and the Philippines. This commitment reflects the Company’s ties to local communities and leads to positive effects on TORM’s core business and on the needs of the societies in which TORM operates. In 2017, 18 students supported by the TORM Philippines Education Foundation graduated. For the school year 2017/2018, the Foundation supports 72 scholars across the Philippines. By June 2018, it is expected that the scholarship program will support an additional 19 new students. Apart from maritime and general education, the program also includes training courses for teachers and a four-year training program for scholars. Furthermore, the program encompasses the distribution of IT equipment and school kits for students in rural schools. In India, TORM supported the building of the ZP Prathmik School in Zadgewadi near Kurkumbh, Pune, which was opened in 2017. With donations from the Company, the school was constructed and the facilities were furnished. The schools enable the students to raise their level of education and increase their chances for better economic conditions for themselves and their families. Furthermore, the personal pride of the students as scholarship recipients of a well-acknowledged foundation is raised. The benefits also include professional and well-educated potential employees for TORM. Thereby, Company’s brand image in competition for the best shipping talents improves. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 13 MANAGEMENT SIGNATORIES TORM’s management is committed to responsible behavior and continues its support of the principles of the UNCG. Our CSR performance is important to our stakeholders and our company. We confirm the performance illustrated by the above-stated material key performance indicators. Jacob Meldgaard Jesper S. Jensen Executive Director Head of Technical Division TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 14
