III ANNUAL REPORT 2016 III < > Introduction Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CONTENT Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Contents Key figures 3 Group management 6 Group structure 7 Where we operate 8 Brief introduction to agder energi 9 Our business 10 Highlights in 2016 11 CEO 13 Corporate governance 15 Enterprise risk management 18 Corporate social responsibility (csr) 21 Directors’ report 23 Board of directors 33 The Agder Energi Group 35 Income statement 37 Comprehensive income 38 Statement of financial position 39 Statement of cash flows 40 Statement of changes in equity 41 Accounting principles 42 Notes 50 Agder Energi AS 92 Income statement 94 Statement of Financial Position 95 Statement of cash flows 96 Accounting principles 97 Notes 99 Auditor´s report 109 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 115 Social and environmental considerations 115 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2015 2 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES RESULTS NOK mill. % 3000 30 2500 25 2000 20 1500 15 1000 10 500 5 0 0 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 EBITDA Driftsresultat Årsresultat Avkastning sysselsatt kapital EBITDA Operating income Net income Return on equity after tax etter skatt Return on capital employed (after tax) Egenkapitalavkastning etter skatt Def. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 FROM INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenues NOK million 8 668 8 260 7 832 9 391 8 946 EBITDA 1 NOK million 1 586 2 886 2 327 2 856 2 283 Operating profit NOK million 978 2 309 1 738 2 354 1 818 Profit before tax NOK million 799 2 138 1 310 1 726 1 581 Net income for the year (controlling interest’s share) NOK million 251 1 314 616 834 1 037 FROM BALANCE SHEET Total assets NOK million 20 319 19 240 16 929 16 091 15 243 Equity NOK million 4 626 4 893 3 990 4 210 3 917 Interest-bearing liabilities NOK million 9 143 9 029 8 299 7 668 7 222 Capital employed 2 NOK million 13 769 13 921 12 288 11 878 11 139 Unrestricted liquidity 3 NOK million 2 023 1 969 1 416 1 412 1 265 Net interest-bearing liabilities 4 NOK million 8 620 8 560 8 257 7 647 7 155 Interest-bearing liabilities due over coming 12 months NOK million 1 379 1 745 1 184 1 773 2 433 Bank deposits excluding restricted assets NOK million 523 469 42 21 67 INCOME STATEMENT (NGAAP) Operating revenues NOK million 9 489 7 447 7 767 8 939 8 710 EBITDA 1 NOK million 2 413 2 072 2 329 2 403 2 032 Operating profit NOK million 1 811 1 495 1 733 1 891 1 525 Profit before tax NOK million 1 571 1 302 1 489 1 722 1 284 Net income for the year (controlling interest’s share) NOK million 744 746 834 846 700 CASH FLOW Net cash provided by operating activities NOK million 1 779 1 502 1 512 1 486 970 Dividends paid NOK million 660 706 713 626 653 Maintenance investments NOK million 522 571 331 509 355 Investments in expansion NOK million 733 625 705 790 601 Acquisition of shares/ownership interests and capital increases NOK million 155 81 42 56 60 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES FINANCIAL POSITION 2015 2014 2013 Equity 4 626 4 893 3 990 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 143 9 029 8 299 Capital employed 13 769 13 921 12 288 Total assets 20 319 19 240 16 929 Def. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 KEY FIGURES Return on capital employed before tax 5 % 7,9 18,6 13,3 17,6 17,8 Return on capital employed after tax 6 % 3,2 11,6 6,9 9,2 11,9 Return on equity after tax 7 % 5,3 29,6 15,0 20,8 29,7 Equity ratio 8 % 22,8 25,4 23,6 26,2 25,7 HYDROELECTRIC POWER EBITDA NOK million 1 749 1 606 1 920 1 675 1 570 Actual electricity generation 9 GWh 8 880 8 996 9 060 7 738 8 138 Expected electricity generation 9 GWh 8 100 7 900 7 900 7 700 7 700 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. GWh 3 766 5 185 3 900 4 250 4 450 Reservoir capacity GWh 5 250 5 250 5 250 5 250 5 250 Average spot price øre/kWh 23,3 17,7 22,8 29,1 21,8 Electricity price realised øre/kWh 27,8 25,8 28,2 29,0 26,3 Cost of generation/kWh øre/kWh 11,3 10,9 10,6 9,1 8,7 GRID OPERATION EBITDA NOK million 637 410 359 685 324 Number of transmission and distribution customers 1000 195 190 190 188 184 Energy supplied GWh 5 581 5 624 5 454 5 308 5 295 Power grid capital (NVE capital) 10 NOK million 4 101 3 833 3 691 3 523 3 322 KILE cost 11 NOK million 53 61 50 45 27 ELECTRICITY SALES EBITDA NOK million 97 104 114 101 61 EBITDA margin % 2,8 4,6 4,2 2,6 1,8 Electricity sales GWh 11 500 8 470 8 670 9 849 9 777 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES Def. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 CONTRACTING EBITDA NOK million -8 -8 22 16 -31 EBITDA margin % -0,7 -0,8 2,4 1,9 -2,0 Share of turnover from intra-group transactions % 13,2 17,5 20,1 25,1 15,2 Order backlog NOK million 634 791 625 810 823 DISTRICT HEATING EBITDA NOK million 33 28 25 29 29 Energy supplied GWh 142 123 118 130 122 Price of heating sold øre/kWh 59 56 57 60 56 Gross margin, heating øre/kWh 32 24 25 39 44 Share of renewable generation % 99 98 98 97 97 EMPLOYEES, HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of permanent and temporary staff at 31 Dec. 1 432 1 294 1 245 1 551 1 529 Number of permanent and temporary full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 1 401 1 270 1 220 1 526 1 494 Sickness absence % 3,6 3,5 3,6 3,6 3,9 Lost time injury frequency (H1) 3,5 3,0 3,5 3,9 6,8 Total injury frequency (H2) 5,4 6,4 8,4 11,2 12,9 DEFINITIONS 1. Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 7. Profit for the year/Average equity 2. Equity + interest-bearing liabilities 8. Equity/total assets 3. Bank deposits and unused credit facilities. Excludes restricted 9. All power generation figures are quoted less pumping. ­assets. 10. Basis for calculating the income cap. Set by the Norwegian Water 4. Interest-bearing liabilities unrestricted liquidity Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE). 5. (Operating profit + financial income) / Average capital employed 11. Adjustment to income cap for energy not supplied 6. (Net income for the year + interest expense after tax) / Average capital employed AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP MANAGEMENT Tom Nysted Steffen Syvertsen Pernille Kring Gulowsen Frank Håland Jan T. Tønnessen Edvard Lauen AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 6 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP STRUCTURE CEO Tom Nysted HR AND FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT SHARED SERVICES Pernille K. Gulowsen Frank Håland CSR AND CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT Unni Farestveit MARKET ENERGY MANAGEMENT HYDROELECTRIC POWER NETWORK Steffen Syvertsen Edvard Lauen Jan T. Tønnessen Svein Are Folgerø OTERA AS LOS AS Administrative and shared service Business areas AE VARME AS Subsidiaries AE VENTURE AS AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR WHERE WE OPERATE Kraftstasjon Fremmøteplass/kontor Power station Fjernvarme/-kjøling Premises/offices Anlegg under bygging District heating/cooling Oslo Power stations under construction Skien Stockholm Södertälje Gøteborg Medelby Holen Skarg Brussel Valle Finndøla Brokke Nomeland Rysstad Zürich Hekni Nisserdam Tjønnefoss Hovatn Dynjanfoss Høgefoss Berlifoss Jørundland Kuli Logna Longerak Tonstad Osen Smeland Finså Skjerka dammer Evje Skjerka Uleberg Lislevatn Hanefoss Evenstad Håverstad Stoa ARENDAL Iveland 2 Rygene Kvinesdal Iveland Nomeland Trøngsla GRIMSTAD Steinsfoss FLEKKEFJORD Høylandsfoss Hunsfoss Færåsen Laudal LILLESAND Tryland LYNGDAL KRISTIANSAND FARSUND MANDAL Lindesnes AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO AGDER ENERGI Agder Energi manages natural, renewatise and an important employer. The Scandinavian business energy supply ble energy sources and converts them Group has around 1,400 employees, market and LOS in the Norwegian resiinto electricity, and its business areas inmainly based in the counties of Aust-Agdential market. LOS Energy is one of the clude hydroelectric power, energy manader and Vest-Agder in southern Norway, leading suppliers to Scandinavian busigement, network operation, retailing, but also elsewhere in Norway, as well as nesses, while LOS is a leading supplier to contracting and district heating. The in countries like Sweden, Denmark and Norwegian households. Group also has a portfolio of ownership Germany. The Group’s head office is in interests and options in related business Kristiansand. Otera supplies technical services to sectors. customers responsible for building, opeMeasured in hydroelectric power generarating and maintaining infrastructure. It Hydroelectric power is a perpetual natution, Agder Energi is Norway’s fourthspecialises in electric power grids and ral resource, and by harnessing it Agder largest energy supplier. Each year, the electrical systems for road and rail infraEnergi is able to add value for its shareGroup’s 49 wholly-owned and part-owstructure. Otera operates in Norway and holders, employees and wider society. ned power stations produce around 8.1 Sweden. Agder Energi has a significant impact on TWh of renewable energy. the wider economy of southern Norway, Agder Energi Varme operates district both by purchasing local goods and serviAgder Energi Nett owns and operates the heating plants in places such as Kristiances and through the dividends and taxes transmission and distribution networks in sand, Arendal and Grimstad. that we pay to the shareholder municipaVest-Agder and Aust-Agder, which comlities. prise 21,300 km of power lines and cables. The company has 195,000 transmisAgder Energi is owned by the 30 municision and distribution customers. palities in the region (54.5%) and Statkraft Industrial Holding AS (45.5%). The electricity retailer LOS operates un­Agder Energi is a major centre of experder two brand names: LOS Energy in the VISION AND VALUES Agder Energi’s vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. The Group has defined its values as closeness, credibility, dynamism and innovation. • Agder Energi shall be close to its customers and the region. • Agder Energi shall gain credibility by keeping promises, both to third parties and within the company. • Agder Energi shall be dynamic, with a conscious corporate strategy that helps it to implement projects and achieve its goals. • Agder Energi shall promote innovation and creativity, so that its employees become more skilled and efficient, enabling them to help to grow and develop the Group. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR OUR BUSINESS Agder Energi has four business areas, efficient operation and successful managecountry’s third biggest electricity which reflect the Group’s core activities and ment of the power grid well are the main supplier overall. LOS also has opera­ how it generates added value: Hydro­electric drivers of value for the business area. tions in ­Sweden. LOS generates profit Power, Energy Management, Network and from the margin it achieves on electriMarketing/Business Development. The business area, which operates through city sales, and by having a cost-efficient Agder Energi Nett AS, is responsible for business model. The parent company, Agder Energi AS, building, operating and maintaining the performs strategic management and ­ transmission and distribution grid in Aust• Agder Energi Varme AS supplies district ­provides shared services. Agder and Vest-Agder. The company is an heating and cooling in the Agder region. independent entity controlled by its own The company adds value by investing in The business areas and administrative AGM and Board. infrastructure for generating and ­departments at the parent company are led distributing water-based heating and ­ by directors. They and the CEO constitute Marketing/Business development cooling to buildings. It generates energy the senior management team. The Marketing/Business development using waste heat and renewable energy ­ business area comprises the contractor sources. Hydroelectric Power Otera AS, the retail supplier LOS AS, and The Hydroelectric Power business area is the district heating supplier Agder Energi • Agder Energi Venture AS invests in responsible for developing, operating and Varme AS, as well as the Group’s strategic ­ nergy-related businesses from start-up e maintaining the Group’s wholly-owned and and financial investments. through to maturity, and adds value by part-owned hydroelectric power stations. actively helping to develop them. The biggest driver of value creation for the • Otera AS is one of Norway’s largest business is its power generating capacity. ­lectrical infrastructure contractors. Its e Goals and results This is affected by the availability of plant at financial results are driven by its ability to The goals and results of the business power stations, reservoir volumes ­permitted implement projects successfully and areas are discussed in the Directors’ ­ by its licence terms and addition of new ­efficiently. Report and in Note 1 Segment Infor­ ­ capacity through reinvestment and by mation to the consolidated financial ­obtaining new licences. • LOS AS is Norway’s biggest supplier of ­statements of the Agder Energi Group. electricity to businesses, and the It operates through the company Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. Energy Management The Energy Management business area is responsible for maximising profit from the electricity generated by the Group. It does this by trying to optimise scheduling and by managing market risks, taking into ­account hydrology, weather data and information about markets. The business area is also responsible for the Group’s trading portfolios. These activities are performed by the ­company Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS, which acts on behalf of Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. Network The Network business area, which operates a monopoly, has a duty to society to provide electrical energy to end users. The government caps its revenues, which means that AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR HIGHLIGHTS IN 2016 In February Agder Energi sold its 20.9% In September LOS signed an agreement p ­ ower station, which lies on the River Niownership interest in Fosen Vind. Our with Otovo that will enable LOS to offer delva in Froland. The project, which will 51.2% interest in Bjerkreim Vind was also solar panels to its retail customers. Otovo cost around NOK 80 million, will involve sold. is Norway’s largest operator of solar patwo generators from 1938 and one from nel systems on residential homes. 1957. Most of the project will be compleIn February Agder Energi signed an agreted in 2017. ement with Nordic Wind Power (NWP) on Agder Energi Varme’s plant at Vestermanaging NWP’s share of Fosen Vind’s veien in Kristiansand completely stopped In November, Otera won two contracts to variable power generation. NWP owns using fossil fuels in September, when its supply all of the electrical installations to 40% of Fosen Vind. peak load boiler plant started using bioNorway’s biggest wind farm, which will be diesel instead of fuel oil. built in Egersund. Otera will install the inThe new power station Iveland 2 was ofternal cabling that will connect all of the ficially opened in June by the Minister of By October, Agder Energi Nett was making 33 wind turbines, as well as the overhead Petroleum and Energy Tord Lien. Iveland good progress with the construction of its line that connects the wind farm to the 2 will increase our generation of clean, new Honna transmission substation and grid. The total value of the contracts is renewable energy by 150 GWh, equivalent the new regional transmission lines from approximately NOK 40 million. to the consumption of 7,500 households. Honna to the Smeland and Skjerka power stations in Åseral. The new substation will Agder Energi has entered the German In June LOS signed an agreement to acprovide additional capacity for voltage market through the acquisition of the quire Telge Kraft, and the acquisition was conversion between the national and regicompanies Nordgröön Energie (61.4%), completed in November. Telge Kraft was onal transmission grids. This will increase Markedskraft Deutschland (100%) and one of the leading suppliers of electricity grid reliability and make it possible to conEntelios (100%). These acquisitions give to Swedish businesses, with turnover of nect new power stations in the area. Agder Energi a foothold in the value chain almost SEK 2 billion. On being acquired, for flexible power, grid and balancing serthe company was renamed LOS Energy. In October, a decision was taken to carry vices and trade in renewable energy with NetNordic acquired IPnett in August. IPout a major rehabilitation of Evenstad Germany. nett is a Scandinavian supplier of networking, communication and security solutions, whose turnover was NOK 330 million in 2015. Agder Energi has a 59.4% ownership interest in NetNordic, which forms part of the Group’s venture capital portfolio. In August Otera was selected as one of two suppliers of emergency response, operation and maintenance services to Agder Energi Nett. Annual sales under the contract will be NOK 100-200 million. The contract runs for three years, with the possibility of being extended. The intake for Iveland 2 power station, which was commissioned in 2016. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 III < > Introduction Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI AND THE ENERGI INDUSTRY AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2015 12 III < > Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ENTERING A NEW ENERGY LANDSCAPE The developments taking place mean that our products will also start to be sold in new markets and in new ways. Nevertheless, our core business will ­ ­remain the generation, sale and distribution of renewable hydropower. Hydropower is, and will always be, the ­foundation stone of the Norwegian electric power industry. Moreover, hydroelectric power is currently one of the biggest contributors to value added in the ­Norwegian mainland economy. It is therefore important for the electric power industry to have a regulatory environment that enables profitable investment in the renewable energy sector. For many years, electricity prices have As we move forward, the two most been falling. They started 2016 at record ­important drivers of the electric power Statnett’s projects to install interconneclow levels, but picked up over the course industry in Europe will be the transition tors to Germany and the UK will make it of the year, resulting in an average spot from a grid based on fossil fuels to one possible to add more value, and another price of 23.3 øre/kWh, up from 17.7 øre/ incorporating more renewable energy positive development is the Norwegian kWh in 2015. Looking ahead, prices are and the move from analogue to digital parliament’s decision in 2016 to change expected to remain low, and from 2018 systems. the Energy Act so that companies other onwards they are expected to fall back than Statnett can own and operate interbelow the levels seen in 2016. These trends will also change which businational interconnectors. A further nesses are involved in energy markets. amendment to the Energy Act requires In spite of the low price environment, European companies like E.ON, Engie and legal and functional separation between Agder Energi achieved net income of ­ RWE are investing in renewable energy the monopoly and competitive operations NOK 744 million in 2016, only two million and cutting back on fossil fuel power staof all grid operating companies regardless than the previous year. That is tions. Back in Norway, Statoil has anless of size. These important changes ­something for both Agder Energi and our nounced that it will invest heavily in offprovide a foundation for greater value shareholders to be proud of! shore wind power. Companies with lots of creation in our industry, which is clearly financial resources and strong project based on a renewable resource. Health, safety and the environment is the execution skills will become powerful top priority at Agder Energi. The Group’s players in the new energy market. That At Agder Energi we will continue to presickness absence rate has been low in rewill alter the competitive landscape, pare the Group for the challenges of the cent years, and in 2016 it was 3.6 percent. while measures to address climate chanfuture and lay the foundations for a flexiWe aim to get it below 3 percent in 2017. ge, technological progress and changing ble business strategy that will enable us Accident figures are also showing procustomer behaviour will create new oppto add maximum value both in the short gress towards our zero accident vision. ortunities to add value. and long term. We will continue to take a proactive and systematic approach to preventive HSE. Agder Energi is readying itself for big Our customers, employees and shareholchanges in the market for renewable ders all benefit from Agder Energi being Renewable energy generation is expect­ energy in Norway and the rest of Europe. financially strong, ambitious and profitable. ed to grow significantly over the coming Doing so is vital to our ability to remain years, as is demand for this kind of an industry leader in terms of financial ­energy. However, technological progress, performance and value creation. It is also inter­nationalisation, digitalisation, chang­ why Agder Energi is investing heavily in ing customer behaviour, new market new technology, and has acquired stakes designs and changes in the regulatory in European companies developing new environment are creating significant unenergy solutions. Tom Nysted certainty. CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 III < > Intruduction Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AGDER ANNUAL ENERGI ENERGI AGDER ÅRSRAPPORT 2014 2015 REPORT 2016 14 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance cal standards, and it discusses ethical 2. Business activities In accordance with Section 3-3b of the ­issues openly both within the company Agder Energi’s purpose is defined in the Norwegian Accounting Act, Agder Energi and with third parties. Our business partcompany’s articles of association: “The has a duty to report on its corporate ners/suppliers are also expected to have company’s purpose is to: exploit, produce ­ governance procedures. Agder Energi high ethical standards consistent with and sell energy; contribute to the safe has chosen to follow the corporate those of the Group. Our internal control and efficient supply of energy; and ex­governance recommendations set out in system, including our whistleblowing ploit related, profitable business opporthe 8th edition of the Norwegian Code of procedures and ethics committee, is detunities within the energy and infraPractice published by the Norwegian signed to ensure that our organisation structure sectors.” Corporate Governance Committee and employees are able to follow the gui(NUES), published on 30 October 2014. delines. Agder Energi is one of Norway’s biggest energy companies, as well as being a maAgder Energi AS has issued bonds that The ethical guidelines can be found on jor employer, with over 1,400 employees. are listed on Oslo Børs. Consequently, we the Group’s website ae.no. The Group’s core business consists of hyhave chosen to implement the Code of dropower generation, energy managePractice in so far as we consider it releCorporate social responsibility (CSR) ment and grid operation. Agder Energi vant and appropriate. Section 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounalso has extensive business operations in ting Act, the Norwegian Corporate Gocontracting, retail electricity sales and Below we have set out how Agder Energi vernance Committee’s Code of Practice district heating. has chosen to follow the recommendaand the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) tions. Each heading represents one topic all establish rules on how Agder Energi Agder Energi has goals and strategies covered by the recommendations. Agder must fulfil its corporate social responsibicovering the whole group, for each busiEnergi has chosen to adapt Section 4 to lity and communicate what it does. These ness area and subsidiary, and for certain Section 8 to reflect its operations and Norwegian and international guidelines aspects of its operations. ownership structure. Apart from this, all emphasise the following four areas: ­Agder Energi considers that it complies human rights, labour, the environment There is a more detailed description of fully with the Code of Practice. and anti-corruption. Agder Energi’s corthe Group’s business activities in a sepaporate social responsibility strategy sets rate section of this annual report. 1. Corporate Governance Statement out the Group’s definitions, goals, plan of The adopted corporate governance prinaction, areas of responsibility and repor3. Equity and dividends ciples regulate the relationship between ting structure in relation to CSR. At 31 December 2016, the Group had the shareholders, Board of Directors and NOK 4,626 million of equity, giving it an executive management of a company, as This annual report includes a separate equity ratio of 22.8%. The Board of Diwell as describing the relevant roles and section with more information about CSR rectors considers it important for the reporting structures. at Agder Energi. Group to have sufficient equity to provide financial stability, bearing in mind its staEthical guidelines Exemption from the Group’s joint ted goals, strategy and risk profile. Ethics constitutes an integral part of the guidelines Group’s operations and of its overall risk The operations of some the subsidiaries The Group’s dividend policy reflects the management process. Along with its in the Group are very remote from, and stated aim of giving shareholders a sta­values, the ethical guidelines adopted by have little in common with, the core actible and predictable return on their inthe Group provide the foundation and vities of Agder Energi, and there are few vestment through cash dividends. The framework for its activities and set out synergies to be realised by integrating Group’s future dividend policy will demodel and obligatory conduct at our them more closely with the Group’s other pend on parameters such as the Group’s ­organisation. The guidelines apply to all activities. This may apply to companies in strategic priorities, expected cash flow, employees, Board members, contractors, the Group’s development portfolio, subsiinvestment plans, financing requireconsultants, intermediaries, lobbyists diary groups or joint ventures. These ments, the need for adequate financial and other people acting on behalf of companies are exempted from some of flexibility and debt-servicing ability. ­Agder Energi. the Group’s joint guidelines. Any exemptions are specified in the relevant internal Equity raising Agder Energi requires all people who act guidelines, and there are separate interEquity increases shall be proposed by the on behalf of the Group to meet high ethinal rules in place of the joint guidelines. Board and discussed by the AGM. The AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Board is not currently authorised to carry 7. Election committee The Board members are presented in a out equity increases. The articles of association specify that separate section of this annual report. the company shall have an election comDetails of who has attended Board me4. Equal treatment of shareholders mittee. It consists of five members, who etings during the year can be found in and transactions with related parties are appointed for a two-year term. Under Note 33 to the consolidated financial staThe Norwegian Corporate Governance the current shareholders’ agreement, the tements. Committee’s Code of Practice recommunicipal shareholders can appoint three mends only having one class of shares. members, while Statkraft can appoint Entitlement of Board members to own Under Norwegian law, private investors two. The election committee nominates shares can only own up to 1/3 of the shares in candidates for the corporate assembly The Code of Practice recommends that hydropower stations that need a licence. and for the Board of Directors. Board members be encouraged to own Agder Energi therefore has two classes of shares in the company. This recommenshares: A and B. Class A shares can only The shareholders’ agreement contains dation has not been implemented at Agbe owned by hydropower licensors. In all certain rules on the work of the election der Energi. Under the company’s articles other respects, class A and class B shares committee, designed to ensure compliof association and the shareholders’ have equal rights. ance with the stipulations of the agreeagreement, neither Board members nor ment. other private individuals are entitled to For significant transactions between the own shares in Agder Energi. company and shareholders, Board mem8. Composition and independence of bers, key employees or any of their relathe corporate assembly and Board of 9. The work of the Board ted parties, the Board shall obtain a vaDirectors The Board’s tasks are regulated by the luation from an independent third party. There are 15 members of Agder Energi’s Limited Liability Companies Act and corporate assembly. Five representatives other relevant legislation, the company’s 5. Free negotiability are elected by and from the employees, articles of association and the Board guiThe Code of Practice recommends that five from the municipal shareholders and delines. The Board works to an annual the articles of association should not plafive from Statkraft. The corporate assemplan. ce any restrictions on the transaction of bly is elected for a two-year term, and shares. This recommendation has not elects its own Chair and Deputy Chair. The Board appoints the CEO. The Board been implemented at Agder Energi. The The corporate assembly is invested with has drawn up instructions for, and delegaconsiderations relating to ownership on the authority and entrusted with the ted authority to, the CEO. which the shareholder agreement is bastasks specified in current legislation goed mean that the shares are not freely verning limited liability companies. Audit committee negotiable. In accordance with the Stock Exchange Details of the current members of the Regulations, the Board of Agder Energi 6. Annual General Meeting corporate assembly can be found on the has established an audit committee that The Code of Practice recommends enabGroup’s website ae.no. assists and advises the Board in relation ling as many shareholders as possible to to its supervision of the Group’s financial exercise their rights by attending the The Code of Practice recommends that reporting and the effectiveness of its incompany’s Annual General Meeting, and the Chair of the Board should be elected ternal control systems. enabling shareholders who cannot attend by the AGM. This recommendation has to vote. This recommendation has not not been implemented at Agder Energi. 10. Risk management and internal been implemented at Agder Energi. Under Under the shareholder agreement, twelve controls the agreements between shareholders, people sit on the Group’s Board of DirecAgder Energi has designed its risk manathe AGM is only attended by one repretors. Four members, including the Chair gement principles based on the guidance sentative of the shareholder municipalitiand Deputy Chair, are elected at the proof the COSO framework for enterprise es and one representative of Statkraft posal of the municipal shareholders, four risk management (2004/2005) and ISO Industrial Holding. The Chair of the Board, members are elected at the proposal of 31000 Risk management (2009), and risk CEO and external auditor shall also atStatkraft and four at the proposal of the management, internal controls and intertend. The election committee and Board employees. The executive management is nal auditing are fully integrated into its members are also entitled to attend. not represented on the Board. Board corporate governance. members are elected for a two-year term. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The Group is inevitably exposed to risks in Details of the fees paid to individual wholly-owned subsidiary Agder Energi a variety of areas throughout the value Board members are presented in Note 32 Venture. chain. The most important risks relate to to the consolidated financial statements. market price movements, capital scarcity, 15. External auditor operational issues, the regulatory envi12. Management compensation Ernst & Young was the Group’s external ronment and adaptation. Management compensation reflects the auditor in 2015. Group’s guidelines on compensation. In line with the Board’s guidelines, the Members of the senior management team The external auditor describes the key Group performs an annual review of interare not entitled to any options, bonuses points of the audit of the previous finannal controls and risk management in color performance-related pay. cial year to the audit committee and laboration with the external auditor. Risk Details of the compensation of each indipoints out any major weaknesses uncoassessments and changes to the regulavidual member of the senior management vered in the internal controls related to tory environment are reported regularly team are presented in Note 32 to the confinancial reporting. to the Board, and all subsidiaries produce solidated financial statements. an annual self-declaration on their interThe external auditor must also: nal controls, which also covers the ethical 13. Information and communication confirm his independence each year guidelines and corporate social responsiAgder Energi satisfies all statutory requistate which services other than statubility. rements relating to financial reporting tory auditing that he has provided to and disclosure. The Group considers the Group during the financial year The company’s internal audit service maintaining good, appropriate lines of describe any threats to his indepenhelps the Board to exercise good corpocommunication with its owners and exdence and document any measures rate governance by providing an indepenternal stakeholders to be a priority. implemented to mitigate them dent, unbiased assessment of the most The thirty municipal shareholders coordiimportant risks facing the company and nate their activities through two forums The Group’s central finance function is has a mandate to communicate directly established for this purpose: the owners’ kept informed of any consulting, tax adwith the Board and the Board’s audit meeting and the work committee. vice and other services provided by the committee. The municipal owners understand that external Group auditor that are not relathe procedures for reporting financial inted to the normal auditing process. The The company provides various channels formation to Statkraft mean that the latexternal Group auditor is responsible for for whistleblowing, one of which is an exter owner is frequently updated before constantly assessing his own indepenternal one approved by the Norwegian the municipalities. dence. Data Protection Authority. The Group’s website ae.no provides acThe external auditor attends the audit There is a more detailed description of cess to financial reports and other inforcommittee’s meetings, as well as the Agder Energi’s internal control and risk mation for investors. Board meeting at which the financial stamanagement systems in a separate sectements are approved. The auditor also tion of this annual report. 14. Acquisitions and disposals meets the Board at least once a year witThe shareholders’ agreement defines the hout Agder Energi’s executive manage11. Board fees pre-emptive rights of current shareholment being present. Norwegian laws and Members of the Board are paid based on ders in the event of shares being sold. regulations define which types of nontheir roles. Their fees are not profit-relaThe disposal and acquisition of the audit services the external auditor can ted. No Board members are entitled to a Group’s ownership interests and subsidiaprovide to Agder Energi. The auditor’s fee pension, options or termination compenries is handled in accordance with the reis set out in Note 10 to the consolidated sation from the company, apart from the levant authorisations at Agder Energi. financial statements. entitlements of the employee representaDisposals and acquisitions can take place tives on the Board in their capacity as as a result of the strategic decisions of employees of the company. companies in the Group or through the AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT At Agder Energi, risk management is an operational efficiency. The relative prioby sharing experiences, coordinating acintegrated part of corporate governance, rity given to these four elements depends tivities and using shared communication both at the strategic and operational levels. on the nature of the businesses and their channels. business models. Areas that involve traCorporate governance ding in financial markets have special risk The general analysis of Agder Energi’s In order to ensure that the instructions management strategies and limits on risk overall risk exposure takes place at the of the owners are followed, and that the exposure. Group level, based on individual compaGroup is managed appropriately, the Board nies’ reports combined with the strategic has established guidelines for its own acRisk assessments and risk manageassessments of the senior management tivities, instructions at subsidiaries and ment team, the technical assessments of shared instructions and an authorisation matrix The Group’s risk management systems services and the technical groups, and the for the Group CEO. These documents undeal with potential positive and negative Group auditor’s comments. The analysis is derpin the Group’s strategy, which in turn outcomes in relation to the company’s gosummarised under three main headings: sets out goals and priorities for the Group als. HSE has top priority and is always the HSE risk, which covers sickness absence and its business areas. The Board has also first item on the agenda at management and accidents; profitability, which relates approved a general description of its cormeetings, both at a Group level and within to potential impacts on financial results; porate governance model, which together the individual companies. and long-term returns on investment, which with the adopted limits on risk exposure is particularly sensitive to changes in the and company guidelines provides the basis Individual companies are responsible for regulatory framework. Risk assessments for the executive management’s integrated identifying and monitoring their own risk are included in reports to the Board. risk management activities. exposures, and risk management at the operational level takes place across the Tools and processes Business plans and risk management organisation as an integrated part of norIn order to promote integrated corporate strategies mal business activities. Companies report governance processes, the Group has imAs part of the implementation of the their risk assessments and risk manageplemented a combined governance and Group’s strategy and limits on risk exment activities to the Group. information management solution, which posure, all of the Group’s business areas helps to further integrate financial and risk have drawn up business plans. The business Inter-company technical groups have been management into management processes. plans set out goals, areas of priority and set up for HSE, quality, risk management We will continue to develop our corporate strategies for managing risk. The areas and controlling. They help to strengthen governance systems in parallel with the covered are HSE, markets, finance and technical expertise and increase efficiency development of the Group as a whole. INTERNAL CONTROLS Internal control system Norwegian Corporate Governance ComSLIK is an important foundation for the Internal controls at the company are immittee (NUES). Group’s work on integrated risk manageplemented through clear guidelines and ment, internal controls and continuous established processes. This is documenThrough SLIK, the full range of the improvement. Systems have been estabted by the fact that governance docuGroup’s governance documents – from lished to ensure that suggestions and ments have been made available to all steering documents through manuals to proposed changes are recorded and disemployees through our quality managedescriptions of work processes – are eascussed. This helps to continuously dement system “THIS is how we do things ily accessible on the Group’s intranet velop and improve the company’s estabat Agder Energi”, generally abbreviated “Energisk”. Subsidiaries in the Group imlished practices. to the first word of the Norwegian name plement SLIK across the organisation – SLIK. SLIK has been established in acthrough their own corporate governance Control mechanisms cordance with the recommendations systems with company-specific goverAgder Energi has established control contained in the COSO framework and in nance documents. mechanisms for critical aspects of the Code of Practice drawn up by the processes in order to prevent, or rapidly AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR correct, any nonconformities. These Auditing is involved. Agder Energi has established comprise a combination of manual conAgder Energi has an internal audit serprocedures that safeguard the rights of trols such as check lists, access controls vice, which assists the Board, senior mawhistleblowers. such as electronic approval processes nagement team and business areas by following the four eyes principle and auproviding an independent, unbiased asIn the past, Agder Energi’s system for retomatic notification systems such as posessment of the Group’s risk manageporting unwanted incidents mainly dealt sition monitoring for trading portfolios. ment procedures. The internal audit with HSE issues. In 2015 the system was In addition, all subsidiaries must submit service’s mandate and guidelines are apextended to also cover suggested improan annual self-declaration on their interproved by the Board, which also reviews vements, leading to an increase in the nal controls. This is done through a comthe internal audit service’s annual report number of reports on processes unrelamon reporting format that makes it clear and its audit plans. ted to HSE. During 2015 the system for what kinds of controls the Group expects reporting unwanted incidents and suggeits subsidiaries to implement. The external auditor is chosen by the sted improvements was rolled out to AGM, and is responsible for the financial more platforms, including a mobile phone Monitoring audit of the parent company, Group and app and a new web-based reporting soluIn order to pick up on changes that are subsidiaries. Agder Energi has a Grouption. Here people can report and record relevant to the company’s business, Agwide agreement with Ernst & Young, nonconformities, observations, suggeder Energi has introduced an Early Warwhich must be used by all subsidiaries for sted improvements, accidents and near ning system. This system is used to carethe statutory audit. Companies in the misses. The reports are analysed with a fully monitor developments in the Group’s seed and venture capital portfoview to limiting potential consequences, regulatory environment and markets in lios may use a different auditor. ensuring that the causes are uncovered which the Group operates, as well as Whistleblowing procedures and implementing measures for continutechnological developments. The inforous improvement. mation thus obtained is used in strategic The Group has several channels for whisand commercial decision-making procetleblowing, one of which is independent dures. The management and Board are of the company. There are formal procegiven regular updates, and are notified dures in place for dealing with whistlebloexplicitly of any critical scenarios. wer reports. Such reports are treated in strict confidence unless criminal conduct RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is inevitably exposed to risks a strong team specialising in energy manCapital allocation in a variety of areas throughout the value agement, analysis and modelling. Subject Agder Energi has a clearly stated goal for chain. The most important risks relate to to the above constraints, the amount of its shadow rating, both to ensure that the market price movements, capital scarcity, electricity sold through futures contracts company is managed well and to provide operational issues, the regulatory environis continuously adjusted, bearing in mind access to credit markets. With the power ment and adaptation. the company’s price expectations and sector currently going through a period of generating capacity. The sale of currency heavy investment, both in power stations Market risk futures also takes into account electricity and grid upgrades, Agder Energi has more Agder Energi is exposed to significant price hedging and the total risk associated investment opportunities than it is capable market risk through the generation and with the generation portfolio. The Group’s of pursuing. Agder Energi considers poor trading of electricity, with its revenues hedging strategy significantly reduced the capital allocation to be one of the most from electricity sales being exposed to potential impacts of market movements on important strategic risks that it faces durelectricity price risk and currency risk. profitability in 2016. ing this period. Information used to reach Hedging strategies for the power gendecisions about investment projects is eration portfolio are subject to limits on At the retail business, which is considered entered in a model for long-term capital how much power can be sold through fua margin business, financial instruments allocation, which is designed to ensure tures contracts and close monitoring of are used to minimise the electricity price optimal use of capital at the Group. downside risks. Agder Energi has built up risk and currency risk. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR That same model is also used to stress company and grid operator. This requires need to be carried out by Agder Energi. test the Group’s profitability and debtit to have appropriate contingency plans The Group believes strongly in open diaservicing capacity in the critical scenarios and preventive measures in place. For the logue with all relevant decision-makers reported by the Early Warning system. The purpose of risk management, Agder Enand in maintaining good relationships with Group has drawn up a financial continergi has chosen to establish contingency all stakeholders. gency plan in order to map out the finanplans, training exercises and preventive cial resources it can draw on should the measures even at companies not covered Adaptation need arise. by the KBO requirements. Change is coming to the power sector, with a variety of energy solutions being Operational risk Regulatory environment offered to the market and new entrants There are operational risks associated Changes in the regulatory environment taking the fight to the traditional players. with all of the processes in the value chain. and political decisions affect the compaCompanies offering technologies based The most important ones are the risk of ny’s room for manoeuvre and constitute on batteries, wind, solar, hydro and hyinjuries to the Group’s employees and third a significant element of the Group’s risk drogen are all competing for space in the parties, damage to power plants, distribuexposure. Agder Energi works systematielectric power market of the future. Agder tion networks and other assets, negative cally to understand how the regulatory enEnergi will need to adapt if it wants to impacts on the environment and climate, vironment is changing and to exploit any remain a key player in the electric power negative impacts on the Group’s reputaavailable room for manoeuvre. Reports industry, although we do not yet know the tion and the risk of failures in administrafrom the Early Warning system describe exact nature and extent of those adaptive and management processes, including external developments and uncertainties, tations. The Group is working to prepare ICT systems. Operational risk is managed including their potential impacts on the itself for this, through measures including through procedures governing activities Group, and help to determine the Group’s a management development programme at operating units, and through continstance on issues and processes relating to that focuses on change management and gency plans. Agder Energi participates the regulatory environment. These stancteamwork, and significant investment in in the organisation “Kraftforsyningens es underpin Agder Energi’s messages in frameworks and tools for continuous imberedskapsorganisasjon” (KBO) as a powconsultation processes, and provide a provement. er generating company, district heating guide for any internal adjustments that AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 20 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Renewable energy is part of the solution Agder Energi has adopted a Group straganisation (ILO) on the right to organise, to the global crisis arising from climate tegy and methodology that establish guithe right to collective bargaining and the change, and electricity plays a key role in delines for the business areas’ activities elimination of forced labour, child labour society. Consequently, the Group’s core with respect to CSR. and discrimination at the workplace. business is inherently sustainable. ­Nevertheless, we realise the importance Agder Energi also has a separate CSR The environment of how we conduct our core business at strategy for the Group as a whole, with Each company within the Agder Energi Agder Energi. associated goals. Agder Energi’s CSR goGroup draws up environmental goals for als are related to the ten basic principles its operations, reflecting the nature of its Agder Energi’s CSR goals: of the UN Global Compact. business. Subcontractors are required to have procedures in place for environAgder Energi is one of Norway’s largest The joint goals for the Group are implemental protection measures. producers of renewable energy, and its mented by the individual companies, CSR activities are designed to ensure which also draw up company-specific goAnti-corruption that its operations are run in a sustainaals. Agder Energi requires subcontracAgder Energi’s goal is that no form of acble and ethical way. tors to take into account the Group’s CSR tive or passive corruption shall take plagoals. ce within the Group’s business activities. The Norwegian Accounting Act, Norwegian Corporate Governance Committee’s The joint Group CSR goals are: More information about the Group’s CSR Code of Practice and Global Reporting activities can be found in the section of Initiative (GRI) all establish rules on how Human rights the annual report on CSR and in the CSR Agder Energi must fulfil its corporate soAgder Energi and its subcontractors shall appendix for 2016 on www.ae.no. cial responsibility and communicate what conduct themselves in accordance with it does. These Norwegian and internatiothe UN’s internationally accepted human nal guidelines all emphasise the following rights conventions. The Group and its four areas: human rights, labour, the ensubcontractors shall never be complicit vironment and anti-corruption. Agder in the breach of human rights. Energi integrates social and environmental considerations into its operations, its Labour rights decision-making processes and the actiAgder Energi and its subcontractors shall vities of its subcontractors. comply with the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labour OrAGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 III < > Intruduction Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR DIRECTORS’ REPORT AGDER AGDER ANNUAL ENERGI ENERGI 2015 REPORT 2016 ÅRSRAPPORT 22 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR DIRECTORS’ REPORT Agder Energi generates and manages renewable energy. The Group’s activities comprise the generation, distribution and sale of energy, as well as providing energyrelated services. Our vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. Most of Agder Energi’s business is done in southern Norway, and the company has its head office in Kristiansand. The Group’s profit for the year was NOK 2015. Agder Energi’s hydropower stations 251 million in 2016 (controlling interest’s generated 8,880 GWh of clean energy in share), compared with NOK 1,314 million in 2016 (2015: 8,995 GWh). HIGHLIGHTS In February Agder Energi sold its 20.9% million in 2015. Agder Energi has a 59.4% 1938 and one from 1957. Most of the proownership interest in Fosen Vind. Due to ownership interest in NetNordic, which ject will be completed in 2017. provisions for possible future adjustments forms part of the Group’s venture capital to the transaction price, only a modest portfolio. In November LOS acquired Telge Kraft, gain was recognised on the sale of Fosen one of the leading suppliers of electricity Vind. Our 51.2% interest in Bjerkreim Vind In June the decision was taken to install to Swedish businesses, with turnover of was also sold. We also signed an agrean extra generator at Skjerka power staalmost SEK 1.9 billion in 2016. This acquiement with Nordic Wind Power (NWP) on tion. Currently its annual production is sition has strengthened LOS’s position in managing NWP’s share of Fosen Vind’s va650 GWh with just one generator. The new the market to supply electricity to Scanriable power generation. NWP owns 40% generator will increase the value of the dinavian businesses. On being acquired, of Fosen Vind. electricity generated by reducing overflow the company was renamed LOS Energy. losses and enabling us to shift generation The power station Iveland 2 was officially from times with low prices to times with Agder Energi has expanded its position in opened in June by the Minister of Petrohigh prices. Having two generators will the German market through the acquisileum and Energy Tord Lien. With an instalalso give us greater flexibility in conjunction of the companies Nordgröön Energie led capacity of 44 MW, it will allow the tion with planned maintenance and reduce (61.4%), Markedskraft Deutschland (100%) Group to generate an extra 150 GWh of the consequences of any outages. and Entelios (100%). The latter two comrenewable energy each year. panies were acquired in January 2017. The In October, a decision was taken to carry acquisitions give Agder Energi a foothold NetNordic acquired IPnett in August. out a major rehabilitation of Evenstad in the value chain for flexible power, grid IPnett is a Scandinavian supplier of power station, on the River Nidelva. The and balancing services and trade in renenetworking, communication and security project, which will cost around NOK 80 wable energy with Germany. solutions, whose turnover was NOK 330 million, will involve two generators from FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Agder Energi’s operating revenues in higher prices and volumes at its NorweThe Group’s operating profit was NOK 978 2016 amounted to NOK 8,668 million, gian business as well as the acquisition of million, compared with NOK 2,309 million compared with NOK 8,260 in 2015. The Telge Kraft in November 2016. This was in 2015. Once again, unrealised gains and main reason for the increase in turnover partially offset by unrealised gains and losses were responsible. The Hydroelectric was that LOS grew its turnover by NOK losses on electricity and currency conPower and Energy Management business 1,224 million, although all of the Group’s tracts, which reduced turnover growth by areas grew their underlying operating business areas saw turnover rise. In the NOK 1,421 million. profit, while the Marketing business area case of LOS, the increase reflected experienced a slight fall. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Net financial expenses rose from NOK 171 net income by NOK 542 million in 2016, plant and equipment and intangible assets million to NOK 179 million. In 2015, finanwhereas in 2015 they made a positive conamounted to NOK 1,397 (1,286) million. cial items benefited from a gain on the tribution of NOK 530 million. NOK 142 (90) million of this comprised disposal of Småkraft. In 2016 there were investments in power distribution infrano equivalent gains, and our share of proCapital structure and cash flow structure paid for by customers. On the fit of associates and joint ventures thereAgder Energi’s assets had a book value of statement of cash flows investments are fore fell by NOK 91 million. Towards the NOK 20,319 million at the close of 2016, presented gross, with customer payments end of 2016, market rates suggested that compared with NOK 19,240 in 2015. Heavy included under net cash provided by opeinterest rates are expected to rise. This investment in the Hydroelectric Power and rating activities. Over 90% of the investincreased the value of the Group’s interNetwork business areas was the main reaments in property, plant and equipment est rate swaps. In total, a NOK 78 (10) son for a NOK 674 million increase in the related to the Network and Hydroelectric million valuation gain was recognised on value of property, plant and equipment. Power business areas. Cash received from interest rate swaps in 2016. The main Meanwhile, current receivables were NOK the sale of associates and joint ventures component of the NOK 266 (274) million 1,061 million higher. This was particularly once again helped to reduce net cash used financial expense was interest expenses. due to an increase in receivables at our in investing activities in 2016. The disposal Interest on the Group’s debt portfolio retail business. Book equity fell slightly to of Fosen Vind made the biggest positive came to NOK 254 million, down from NOK 4,626 (4,893) million. The Group’s contribution to cash flow. The fact that NOK 277 million in 2015. An increase in equity ratio at year-end was 23% (25%). only a modest gain was recognised in the interest-bearing liabilities was more than At the end of the year, the Group had NOK income statement reflects provisions for offset by lower interest rates. Heavy in9,143 (9,029) million of interest-bearing possible future adjustments to the transvestment in projects in the Hydroelectric liabilities. In 2016, the interest rate on Agaction price. Power and Network business areas resulder Energi’s debt portfolio fell once again. ted in NOK 28 (31) million being capitaliThe average interest rate was 3.0%, down NOK 660 (706) million was paid out in sed as construction loans on work in profrom 3.3% in 2015. The Group had NOK dividends. Net cash flow less dividends gress. This meant that the interest 2,023 (1,969) million of unrestricted liquid therefore came to NOK 1,119 (796) milexpense recognised in the income stateassets and undrawn credit facilities. lion. This means that 88% (90%) of the ment was NOK 226 (246) million. net investment for the year was financed Cash flow from operations was strong from cash flow from operating activities, The Group’s pre-tax profit amounted to at NOK 1,779 (1,502) million. The reason while the remaining 12% (10%) was debtNOK 799 (2,138) million, and its tax exwhy cash flow improved, in spite of a sigfinanced. pense was NOK 537 (833) million. The nificant fall in net income, was that the tax expense consists of NOK 154 (519) gains and losses on electricity, currency Proposed dividends million of income tax and NOK 383 (314) and interest rate contracts recognised in Agder Energi’s dividend policy states million of resource rent tax. Income tax the income statement are non-cash items. that the proposed dividend for 2016 was lower due to the fall in pre-tax profit. In 2016, Agder Energi converted some of should be set based on the Group’s net Resource rent tax rose due to an increaits electricity price hedges from forwards income for 2015 under NGAAP (Norwese in resource rent tax payable and an to futures. This was the main reason for gian generally accepted accounting prinupward adjustment to estimated deferthe increase in cash flow from operations. ciples). This is to ensure that shareholred resource rent tax. The increase in Meanwhile, having more capital tied up as ders receive a predictable dividend resource rent tax payable reflected the trade receivables had a negative impact income. The minimum dividend payout is higher spot value of electricity generated on cash flow. Our retail business, where set at NOK 400 million. If NGAAP net inand a rise in the rate at which resource both prices and volumes were higher at come exceeds NOK 400 million, 60 perrent tax is payable. The introduction of the end of 2016 than at the end of 2015, cent of the excess shall be distributed as new tax rates in 2017 resulted in a NOK was responsible for most of the increase dividends. In 2015, the controlling 31 million gain for 2016. in trade receivables. interest’s share of NGAAP net income was NOK 746 million. Based on that, the The Group’s net income for the year was In recent years, Agder Energi has invested Board of Directors proposes a dividend NOK 251 million (controlling interest’s heavily in hydroelectric power and grid payout of NOK 607 million for the 2016 share), compared with NOK 1,314 million infrastructure. This continued last year, financial year. in 2015. The big fall was due to gains and and net investments came to NOK 1,277 losses on electricity, currency and intermillion in 2016, against NOK 885 million The net income for the year of the parent est rate contracts. Together they reduced the previous year. Investment in property, company Agder Energi AS was NOK 785 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (688) million under NGAAP. The Board Accounting principles hority of Norway ordered Agder Energi proposes that Agder Energi AS’s net inIn 2016, Agder Energi changed its accoto separate out the currency portion of come for the year be appropriated as folunting principles in three areas: these contracts as an embedded derivalows: tive, measured at fair value. Classification of derivatives on the statement of financial position. Effect on the income statement of cur(Amounts in NOK million) As of 2016 derivatives are classified as rency derivatives and loans Allocated for dividends 607 non-current if they are not held for trading As of 2016, Agder Energi has chosen to Transferred to other reserves 178 and expire more than one year after the present currency gains and losses as opeTotal allocations 785 statement of financial position date. All rating items, whereas they were previously derivatives were previously classified as considered financial items. Going concern assumption current assets or liabilities. In accordance with the Norwegian AccoComparative figures have been restated unting Act, the Board of Directors conRecognition of long-term electricity conto reflect the new accounting principles. firms that the going concern assumption tracts Also see the note on accounting princiis justified, and that the annual financial Agder Energi has some contracts for phyples and Note 36 to the annual financial statements have been prepared on that sical energy sales that are settled in euros. statements. basis. In 2016 the Financial Supervisory AutBUSINESS AREAS The accounts for the business areas have (25.8 øre/kWh) on the power that it NOK 445 (598) million was invested in been prepared under NGAAP. ­generated in 2016. 2016, of which NOK 130 (230) million related to investments in new projects. The The Hydroelectric Power and Energy The turnover of these two business areas majority of the latter investments were Management business areas was NOK 2,658 (2,513) million in 2016. at the Iveland 2 power station. Test runThe Hydroelectric Power and Energy MaThey made an operating profit of NOK ning of Iveland power station started in nagement business areas are responsi1,457 million, up from NOK 1,350 million February 2016, and the plant was officible for developing, operating and mainin 2015, thanks to net energy sales rising ally opened by the Minister of Petroleum taining the Group’s hydroelectric power from NOK 2,317 million to NOK 2,471 miland Energy in June 2016. In Åseral Munistations, and for optimising revenues lion. Net energy sales benefited from an cipality, two new rock-fill dams are being from the power generated by the comincrease in the spot value of electricity constructed on Lake Skjerkevatn, with pany. They generated 8,880 GWh (8,995 generated from NOK 1,731 million to NOK completion due in 2018. This project is GWh) of power in 2016, if you include 2,097 million, partially offset by a fall in the main reason why investments requi­power generated by wholly-owned power realised gains on hedges from NOK 552 red by the authorities reached NOK 187 stations and Agder Energi’s share of million to NOK 368 million. (201) million in 2016. power generation at part-owned ones. ­ Average annual power generation is ­ As well as paying ordinary income tax, The Network business area 8,100 GWh. the hydroelectric power business also The Network business area is responsipays resource rent tax. When calculating ble for developing, operating and mainThe average spot price in Agder Energi’s resource rent tax, gains and losses on taining the transmission and distribution pricing region (NO2) was 23.3 øre/kWh cash-settled contracts are excluded. The grid in Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder. The (17.7 øre/kWh), up 32% over 2015. Conhigher spot value of electricity generabusiness area’s operating revenues in cession power and electricity supplied ted, combined with a higher tax rate, me2016 amounted to NOK 1,424 million, under various long-standing contracts ant that resource rent tax payable rose compared with NOK 1,161 million in 2015. with industrial customers are sold at priby NOK 90 million to NOK 307 million. In The increase was due to a higher income ces below current spot prices. Nevertheaddition, estimated deferred resource cap. The income cap is set by the Norweless, gains on physical and cash-settled rent tax rose by NOK 120 million to NOK gian Water Resources and Energy Direccontracts allowed Agder Energi to achie155 million, leaving net income at NOK torate, and it mainly rose due to one-off ve an average price of 27.8 øre/kWh 586 (674) million. factors that positively impacted the AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ­ alculation of the permitted revenues of c 5,780 (4,188) million in 2016, while opehas been sold in 2017, with negligible imgrid operating companies. Higher reverating profit was NOK 71 (108) million). pact on the income statement. nues were the main explanation for why The main companies in this business area operating profit rose to NOK 417 (212) are LOS, Otera and Agder Energi Varme. Agder Energi Varme’s turnover in 2016 million. During the first weekend of NoThe Group’s venture capital portfolio also was NOK 101 (92) million, while its operavember, lots of heavy snow and powerful forms part of the business area. ting profit was NOK 21 (10) million. Some winds resulted in many trees being knocof the improvement was due to a NOK 6 ked onto electricity lines. At the worst In June the electricity retailer LOS signed million reversal of previous years’ impairpoint, almost 10,000 households were an agreement to acquire Telge Kraft, one ments against Sørlandsparken. The comwithout power. The bad weather caused of the leading suppliers of electricity to pany supplied 144 GWh (125 GWh) of eneraround NOK 22 million of expenses relaSwedish businesses. The acquisition was gy. Like the previous year, above average ted to energy not supplied (KILE) and completed on 14 November. Telge Kraft temperatures led to less energy than exfault resolution. In December the storm has now been renamed LOS Energy. After pected being supplied in 2016. However, Urd resulted in a further NOK 7 million of the acquisition, LOS has balancing recustomer growth helped to push up volusuch expenses. For the year as a whole, sponsibility for 23 TWh in the Nordic marmes, and the company signed agreements the cost of fault resolution and KILE was ket. LOS’s total turnover in 2016 was NOK with Kanalbyen and Kvartal 42 in Kristianaround NOK 14 million lower than the 3,503 million, compared with NOK 2,279 sand and Barbu Brygge in Arendal. Elecprevious year. million 2015. The increase reflected higher tricity price hedges made a positive conprices and volumes at the company’s existribution in the period. The business area The business area invested NOK 695 ting operations, as well as a contribution invested NOK 21 (25) million. (452) million in 2016, of which NOK 519 of around NOK 410 million from the acqui(299) million related to investments in red business between the acquisition date The Group’s venture capital investments new projects. NOK 211 (70) million was and the end of the year. The company’s are managed through the company Agder invested in the smart meter project. The operating profit was NOK 93 (100) million. Energi Venture. The biggest investments figure for investment also includes NOK in 2016 were the acquisitions of IPnett 109 (53) million invested in Honna subOtera supplies contracting services for and Nordgröön. There were no major disstation. Agder Energi Nett has an option the installation, operation, maintenance posals during the year. The venture capital to let Statnett take over the substation and servicing of electricity, transport and portfolio’s two biggest investments, NEG once it is completed and operational. communications infrastructure. The comand NetNordic, contributed a combined pany made an operating loss of NOK 19 operating profit before depreciation and Including NOK 142 (90) million of custo(20) million in 2016, on turnover of NOK amortisation (EBITDA) of NOK 31 (52) milmer contributions, gross investment in the 1,145 (996) million. The loss was due to lion, on turnover of NOK 773 (609) million. business area was NOK 837 (543) million. Otera Infra, which has performed poorly in recent years. In the first quarter, the Marketing and Business Development company reduced its headcount by business area around 50 workers. Both Otera’s Swedish The Marketing and Business Developbusiness and Otera XP were profitable, ment business area’s turnover was NOK performing better than in 2015. Otera XP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Agder Energi is one of Norway’s largest which promotes sustainable and socially 374 (88) days. The accident figures are producers of renewable energy, and all of responsible policies, and the conventions equivalent to a lost time injury frequency its operations should be run in a sustainaof the International Labour Organisation (number of LTIs per million work hours) of ble, ethical and socially responsible way. (ILO). 3.5 (3.0), a total injury frequency (number of injuries, whether or not they resulted in In its efforts to meet its responsibilities to Health and safety lost time, per million work hours) of 5.4 society, Agder Energi bases its work on During the year, 11 (13) occupational acci(6.4) and an injury severity rate (number globally recognised initiatives and standents resulting in injury were recorded. Of of days lost per million work hours) of 185 dards, including the UN Global Compact, these, 7 (6) resulted in total lost time of (43.4). The main reason for the big increaAGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR se in the number of lost days and the ines, representing 1,401 (1,270) full-time Norway’s reputation by turning the region jury severity rate was one accident in Jaequivalents. 25 (27) of these full-time into a model for how a proactive and sysnuary 2016, in which a technician fell out equivalents were trainees. The increase tematic approach can ensure equal oppof the cage of a scissor lift while installing from 2015 mainly reflects the purchase of ortunity and diversity in the workplace. road lighting in the Granfoss tunnel. IPnett by the venture capital business and The project is a collaboration between the acquisition of Telge Kraft by LOS. The the county governments of Aust-Agder Agder Energi is constantly striving to parent company had 158 (154) permanent and Vest-Agder and the chamber of comachieve its aim of eliminating all injuries, employees at the end of the year. merce in the Kristiansand region. and one of its key health and safety measures in 2016 was the programme “Make Women make up 17% (16%) of the Group’s Ethics and anti-corruption measures it safe”. The aims of the programme inemployees, and 42% (42%) of the parent The Group’s strategy establishes Agder clude raising individual employees’ awacompany’s. The senior management team Energi’s values and has a strong focus reness of their own responsibilities and of has one woman and five men. Women ocon ethical conduct. Agder Energi has set how their conduct affects the risks involcupy 42% (33%) of the seats on the up an ethics committee that helps ved in their work. The programme has Board. ­ managers and employees to deal with been compulsory for all employees and 17 ethical dilemmas. training events were held between April We recruit, develop and deploy human and July. During the autumn the programresources in the way that is best for Clear rules have been established requime continued with company-specific actiachieving the Group’s goals. This involves ring the Group’s subcontractors to also vities and events. offering competitive salaries, ongoing conduct their business affairs in a way training, continuous improvement and a that complies with accepted Norwegian Reporting unwanted incidents/suggested good and safe working environment, as and international principles and guideliimprovements is another key area where well as providing strong leadership. nes relating to human rights, labour, the we are constantly looking to improve. In environment and anti-corruption. In order January we rolled out a new system, inDiversity and equal opportunity to prevent corruption and misconduct, corporating a new app and a new online Our ethical guidelines set out how the the Group has set up procedures for retool for reporting. The number of unwanGroup shall be governed and managed. porting and investigating misconduct, as ted incident reports and suggested imThe guidelines also incorporate principles well as whistleblowing channels. An Inteprovements rose to 1.6 (1.5) per employee relating to equality and diversity. grity Due Diligence is also carried out in in 2016. conjunction with acquisitions. Agder Energi shall show respect for indiIn 2016, the Group’s sickness absence viduals, and shall strive proactively for a The environment rate was 3.6%, compared with 3.5% in good and diverse working environment The Group’s businesses in the hydropo2015. Of that, 1.1% (1.3%) was short-term where there is equal opportunity for all. wer and grid operation sectors are run absence and 2.5% (2.2%) was long-term We do not accept any form of discriminathrough wholly-owned and part-owned absence (more than 16 days). Total tion in areas such as pay, promotion and subsidiaries. These companies operate in sickness absence has remained relatively recruitment. This means that people shall accordance with their licences and with a stable over the past four years, but shortnot be treated differently, excluded or large number of laws and regulations. term absence has been declining, while shown preference based on their gender, the opposite is true for long-term absenage, any disability, sexual orientation, reHydroelectric Power ce. The Group aims to have a sickness ligion, political opinions or national or Dams and power stations change the naabsence rate below 3%, and for some ethnic origin, and that no other form of tural environment, but the Group’s activitime we have been working hard to imdiscrimination shall be tolerated. Neties do not have a bigger impact on natuprove the way in which we deal with abvertheless, in certain circumstances it re or society than is usual for this kind of sences. The companies in the Group have may be both legal and justified to treat business. Furthermore, we make a signifisigned up to the Norwegian government’s people differently in order to ensure equcant positive contribution to the environinclusive working life scheme for the peal opportunity and diversity. ment by generating on average 8.1 TWh of riod 2014-2018. clean, renewable energy each year. The project “Equality at the workplace in Staff and organisational structure 2016-2018” commits Agder Energi to a Damming river systems can affect the At the close of 2016, the Group had 1,432 strong equal opportunity agenda. The ability of fish to live and reproduce. In or(1,294) full-time and temporary employeproject aims to help change Southern der to mitigate this, we have implemented AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR both statutory and voluntary measures in ronmental goals for each one. The plan mer oil leaked out. The company has several river systems. In 2016 we did work was adopted by the county councils in procedures describing how these incion the River Mandalselva by Laudal power 2015, and in 2016 it was approved by the dents should be dealt with in order to limit station, restoring several kilometres of Ministry of Climate and the Environment the negative consequences. the river almost completely to their natuafter some amendments. Each of the reral state. This was done to improve the levant authorities must decide which District heating conditions for salmon. The restoration measures are needed to achieve the enviAgder Energi Varme makes an important measures reflect the work done in the enronmental goals that have been set. We contribution to promoting the use of vironmental design project for the river. expect the Norwegian Water Resources green, renewable energy sources. In Krisand Energy Directorate to revise various tiansand it does this by using the surplus There is a lot of bulbous rush in the rivers licence terms in view of the plan, but for heat from waste incineration and from a in the Agder area. The reasons for this are the moment it is hard to gauge the specinickel refinery, while in Arendal and Grimcomplex. Agder Energi is participating in fic impacts. stad the heat is generated from biomass. a joint regional project to remedy the siOf the total heat supplied by the company tuation. This project, which has received Our control centre recorded four (ten) in 2016, 98.7% came from renewable funding from various sources, is trying to breaches of the rules governing the opesources that help to reduce emissions of control bulbous rush growth in the ration of dams in 2016. No environmental pollutants like CO2 and NOx. region’s river systems, as well as underimpacts were recorded as a result of thestand the causes of the problem. The prose breaches, which were handled in acAgder Energi Varme aims to phase out ject is being led by the County Governor cordance with the current guidelines. the use of fossil fuels for its district heaof Austog Vest-Agder. ting production in normal years, including Power grid peak loads. However, in unusual circumsThe licensing authorities are legally entitThe grid operating company is focusing tances, emergencies and long cold snaps led to modify licence terms, including hard on minimising the risk of unwanted it may be necessary to use fossil fuels for clauses relating to minimum flow and reenvironmental incidents. The main tools short periods of time. servoir restrictions. Based on the Norweused to achieve this are training for emgian water regulations, Vest-Agder Counployees, internal procedures and ensuring Further information about the Group’s ty Council has established a regional compliance with the relevant laws and recorporate social responsibility activities water management plan for Agder. One of gulations in force at any given time. In can be found in a separate section of this the important aims is to describe all wa2016 there was one relatively minor inciannual report. ter resources and establish specific envident in which around 20 litres of transforRISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Risk management and internal controls ness plans set out goals, areas of priority exposure takes place at the Group level The Board has established general guidand strategies for managing risk. Areas and is reported to the Board. elines for the Group’s corporate goverthat involve trading in financial markets nance model. The Group’s strategy sets have their own risk management strateIn order to promote integrated corporate out goals and priorities for the Group and gies and limits on risk exposure. governance processes, the Group has imits business areas, which provide the baplemented a combined governance and sis for the executive management’s inteThe Group’s risk management systems information management solution, which grated risk management activities, todeal with potential positive and negative helps to further integrate financial and gether with the adopted authorisations, outcomes in relation to the company’s risk management into management limits on risk exposure and company guigoals. Individual companies are responsiprocesses. delines. ble for identifying and monitoring their own risk exposures, and risk manageInternal controls at the company are imAs part of the implementation of the ment at the operational level takes place plemented through clear guidelines and Group’s strategy and limits on risk exacross the organisation as an integrated established processes that are made avposure, all of the Group’s business areas part of normal business activities. Geneailable to all employees through our quahave drawn up business plans. The busiral analysis of Agder Energi’s overall risk lity management system SLIK. Through AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR SLIK, all of the Group’s governance docuHedging strategies for the power generalish contingency plans, training exercises ments – from steering documents tion portfolio are subject to limits on how and preventive measures even at compathrough manuals to descriptions of work much power can be sold through futures nies not covered by “Kraftforsyningens processes – are available on the Group’s contracts and close monitoring of downberedskapsorganisasjon” (KBO). intranet. Subsidiaries in the Group impleside risks. At the retail business, which is ment SLIK across the organisation considered a margin business, financial Regulatory environment through their own corporate governance instruments are used to minimise the Changes in the regulatory environment systems with company-specific goverelectricity price risk and currency risk. and political decisions affect the nance documents. company’s room for manoeuvre and conCapital allocation stitute a significant element of the Agder Energi has established control Agder Energi has a clearly stated goal of Group’s risk exposure. Systematic monimechanisms for critical aspects of having a shadow rating of BBB+. Agder toring and analysis is used to describe processes in order to prevent, or rapidly Energi considers poor capital allocation external developments and uncertainticorrect, any nonconformities. These to be one of the most important strategic es, including their potential impacts on comprise a combination of manual conrisks that it currently faces. A model for the Group, and help to determine the trols, access controls and automatic notilong-term capital allocation is designed Group’s stance on issues and processes fication systems. In addition, all subsidiato encourage optimal use of capital at relating to the regulatory environment. ries must submit an annual the Group. The Group has drawn up a fiThese stances underpin Agder Energi’s self-declaration on their internal controls. nancial contingency plan in order to map response to consultation processes, and Risk management and internal controls out the financial resources it can draw on provide a guide for any internal adjustat Agder Energi are described in greater should the need arise. ments that need to be carried out by the detail in this report’s section on “IntegraGroup. ted risk management”. Operational risk Agder Energi is exposed to operational Adaptation Risks risk by all of its processes throughout the Change is coming to the power sector, The most important risks relate to marvalue chain. The biggest operational risks with a variety of energy solutions being ket price movements, capital scarcity, relate to project execution and operatiooffered to the market and new entrants operational issues, the regulatory envinal activities. Risks can lead to injuries to taking the fight to the traditional players. ronment and adaptation. There follows a the Group’s employees and third parties, In order to prepare for these changes, in brief description of these risks. Risks and damage to power plants, distribution autumn 2016 the Group started work on risk management are described in greanetworks and other assets, negative imrevising its corporate strategy. This ter detail in this report’s section on “Intepacts on the environment and climate, process was completed in February 2017. grated risk management”. negative impacts on the Group’s reputaThe Group is working to prepare itself for tion and the risk of failures in administrathe coming changes, through measures Market risk tive and management processes. Operasuch as its management development Agder Energi is exposed to significant tional risk is managed through procedures programme and significant investment in market risk through the generation and governing activities at operating units, frameworks and tools for continuous imtrading of electricity, with its revenues inspection procedures and contingency provement. from electricity sales being exposed to plans. For the purpose of risk manageelectricity price risk and currency risk. ment, Agder Energi has chosen to estabSHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The company’s share capital consists of ces under the relevant current legislation. nicipal shareholders have agreed to coor2,700,000 shares with a face value of Class B shares are freely negotiable. dinate their votes at the AGM. NOK 670. Of these, 1,800,000 are class A shares and 900,000 are class B shaA shareholders’ agreement regulates matres. Class A shares can only be owned by ters such as pre-emptive rights for existing shareholders who meet the conditions for shareholders in the event of shares in the being allocated indefinite waterfall licencompany being sold. In addition, the muAGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters relating to corporate governance are described in a separate section of this annual report. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s investment in R&D shall lay national research centre for green energy: Agder Energi has completed a four-year the foundations for long-term, profitable CEDREN. research project in collaboration with the growth and promote development activiUniversity of Stavanger. The aim was to ties to increase the potential of the core In 2016 Agder Energi established a researgive Agder Energi an in-depth understanbusiness. Through our ownership interest ch programme to increase our understanding of how Norwegian environmental in Teknova, an institute for applied R&D, ding of the challenges that grid operators policy relates to renewable energy policy. we support the research community in will face in the future, and the Group has the region studying renewable energy. launched a programme to make better use Agder Energi has also participated in a of the tools available to it. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no incidents in 2017 that der Energi sold its shares in Otera XP AS, have a significant impact on the financial with negligible impact on the income stastatements for 2016. In March 2017 Agtement. OUTLOOK Power generation we expect this to continue, although the low. However, it appears that the prices At the start of 2017, Agder Energi’s hycontributions will gradually decline. We of coal, gas and CO2 will continue to have drological reserves (water and snow) are therefore likely to achieve lower prithe biggest impact on electricity prices were very close to normal. Assuming norces over the coming years. until 2020, and probably until 2030. Lomal precipitation levels, we therefore exwer coal, gas and CO2 prices are the key pect hydroelectric power generation to As we move forward, the two most imreason why electricity prices in Norway be around average in 2017. Electricity portant drivers of the electric power inand the Nordic region have halved since prices are determined by the marginal dustry will be the transition from a power 2011. These prices may go back up, pushcost of the last (marginal) producer who system based on fossil fuels to one based ing electricity prices up in the process, needs to be used in order for the supply on renewable energy in both Europe and but new technology, such as the hydrauof electricity to satisfy demand. The most the rest of the world, and the move from lic fracturing used to extract shale gas, important drivers of electricity prices toanalogue to digital systems. and competition from growing renewable day are the prices of coal, gas and CO2, energy sources, mean that a significant as well as hydrological conditions, the The transition from a grid based on fossil increase in prices seems less likely than weather and wind strength. In 2016, the fuels to one based on renewable energy it did in the past. Wind and solar power average spot price was 23.3 øre/kWh. Fuwill see a growing proportion of Europeare non-dispatchable, and their increastures markets indicate that prices in 2017 an electricity generated by wind and soing market penetration is creating a growill remain relatively unchanged from lar power. These renewable energy sourwing need for flexibility in the European 2016. From 2018 onwards, electricity prices have low short-term marginal costs, power system. This should increase the ces are expected to be lower. The Group’s and if their market penetration increases value of flexibility, on both the supply and hedging activities once again made a sigin the future, we may see more and more demand sides, and the EU is currently denificant positive contribution in 2016, and hours during which electricity prices are veloping a new market design that will be AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR better adapted to the new power system. re of the industry. Thanks to its size and whose business concept is based on bethe improvements that it has already incoming its customers’ preferred energy Technological developments are driving troduced, Agder Energi is in a strong popartner. We have further strengthened the transition from an analogue system sition to deal with the coming structural this part of our business by the acquisiwith limited ability to adapt to new techchanges. tion of a Swedish company and by estabnology to a digital system that is capable lishing subsidiaries throughout the of adapting rapidly. New digital technoNew digital systems are creating opporNordic region. logy is enabling new forms of communitunities to improve the ways in which buWe expect our contracting business Otecation, new business models and more siness operate and invest, and our grid ra to achieve growth in its main markets efficient processes. operating company is focusing hard on – electrical infrastructure and transporimplementing the changes needed to tation – in both Norway and Sweden. This Grid operation ­become a modern, forward-looking busiis creating opportunities, but new players A lower income cap at the grid operating ness. are entering the market and competition company means that net income in 2017 is increasing in some areas. The company is likely to be lower than in 2016. In 2016 Marketing and business development will therefore have to focus on operatiothe Norwegian Water Resources and The prospects of the companies in our nal efficiency, adapting to the market Energy Directorate (NVE) changed how it Marketing and Business Development and profitable growth in new areas. regulates grid operating companies in a area will depend on changes to the reguway that will reduce fluctuations in the latory framework, greater customer-oriOur district heating business Agder Enerincome cap. Annual variations in the apentation and technological developgi Varme has developed a simpler system proved costs will be reduced by NVE alments. that uses warm tap water as an energy lowing grid operating companies to use a carrier, which makes water-based energy five-year moving average for pension exThe retail electricity provider LOS performore competitive for blocks of flats. penses. med strongly in 2016. The company Along with densification in areas with The introduction of a requirement for leachieved significant customer growth established infrastructure, expanding the gal and functional separation at all grid amongst businesses, and we expect this supply of cooling energy in Kristiansand operating companies, combined with a to continue in the company’s main marwill also play a key role in enabling contigeneral tightening up of the regulatory kets in Norway and Sweden. Business nued growth in the sale of heating enerframework, is likely to affect the structucustomers are served by LOS Energy, gy to commercial buildings. Kristiansand, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2013 2016 32 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Jill Akselsen AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Declaration pursuant to Section 5-5 of the Securities Trading Act We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with current accounting standards, and that the information contained therein provides a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and overall results of the parent company and of the Group. We also confirm that the annual report gives a true and fair view of the performance, results and financial position of the parent company and the Group, as well as describing the most important areas of risk and uncertainty facing the Group’s businesses. Kristiansand, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 34 III < > Intruduction Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2015 35 III < > Introduction Intruduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Income statement 37 Comprehensive income 38 Statement of financial position 39 Statement of cash flows 40 Statement of changes in equity 41 Accounting principles 42 Notes 50 Note 1 Segment information 50 Note 2 Energy sales 53 Note 3 Transmission revenues 55 Note 4 Other operating revenues and other raw materials and consumables used 55 Note 5 Long-term manufacturing contracts 55 Note 6 Unrealised gains and losses on energy contracts 56 Note 7 Employee benefits 56 Note 8 Property taxes and licence fees 57 Note 9 Other operating expenses 57 Note 10 Auditor’s fee 58 Note 11 Financial income and expenses 58 Note 12 Tax 59 Note 13 Depreciation and impairment losses 60 Note 14 Intangible assets 61 Note 15 Property, plant and equipment 62 Note 16 Associates and joint arrangements 64 Note 17 Non-current Financial Assets 66 Note 18 Receivables 67 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 67 Note 20 Share capital and shareholder information 67 Note 21 Provisions 69 Note 22 Pensions 69 Note 23 Interest-bearing liabilities 73 Note 24 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 73 Note 25 Financial instruments 73 Note 26 Derivatives 74 Note 27 Fair value of financial instruments 76 Note 28 Financial risk management 78 Note 29 Accounting hedges 82 Note 30 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 83 Note 31 Contingent liabilities and events after the end of the reporting period 84 Note 32 Management compensation, etc. 84 Note 33 Related parties 86 Note 34 Acquisitions, disposals and buy-out of non-controlling interests 86 Note 35 Group structure 89 Note 36 Changes to accounting principles and correction of errors 91 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2015 36 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK millions) Note 2016 2015 (restated) Energy sales 2 6 044 4 672 Transmission revenues 3 1 143 1 071 Other operating revenues 4 2 100 1 715 Unrealised gains and losses on energy and currency contracts 6 -619 802 Total operating revenues 8 668 8 260 Energy purchases 2 -3 429 -2 200 Transmission expenses -258 -247 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -1 317 -1 006 Employee benefits 7 -1 014 -900 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -608 -577 Property taxes and licence fees 8 -211 -214 Other operating expenses 9 -853 -807 Total operating expenses -7 690 -5 951 Operating profit 978 2 309 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 -7 84 Financial income 11 16 9 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 11 78 10 Financial expenses 11 -266 -274 Net financial income/expenses -179 -171 Profit before tax 799 2 138 Income tax 12 -154 -519 Resource rent tax 12 -383 -314 Tax expense -537 -833 Net income 262 1 305 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 35 11 -9 Of which attributable to controlling interest 251 1 314 Earnings per share/Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 93 487 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 (restated) Net income 262 1 305 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 29 21 8 Translation differences -10 1 Tax impact 12 -5 2 Total items that may be reclassified to income statement 6 11 Remeasurements of pensions 22 191 487 Tax impact 12 -55 -151 Total items that will not be reclassified to income statement 136 336 Total other comprehensive income 142 347 Comprehensive income 404 1 652 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 35 13 -14 Of which attributable to controlling interest 391 1 666 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 38 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK millions) Note 31/12/16 31/12/15 01/01/2015 (restated) (restated) Deferred tax assets 12 300 374 415 Intangible assets 14 476 277 223 Property, plant and equipment 15 13 817 13 143 12 534 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 37 61 297 Derivatives 26 884 1 931 931 Other non-current financial assets 17 1 081 819 455 Total non-current assets 16 595 16 605 14 855 Inventories 142 37 38 Receivables 18 2 573 1 512 1 538 Derivatives 26 466 613 444 Cash and cash equivalents 19 543 473 54 Total current assets 3 724 2 635 2 074 TOTAL ASSETS 20 319 19 240 16 929 Paid-in capital 20 1 907 1 907 1 907 Retained earnings 2 668 2 928 2 000 Non-controlling interests 51 58 83 Total equity 4 626 4 893 3 990 Deferred tax 12 1 109 1 213 720 Provisions 21 1 776 1 348 1 475 Derivatives 26 465 708 518 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 23 7 192 7 284 7 115 Total non-current liabilities 10 542 10 553 9 828 Interest-bearing current liabilities 23 1 951 1 745 1 184 Tax payable 630 463 498 Derivatives 26 206 216 192 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 24 2 364 1 370 1 237 Total current liabilities 5 151 3 794 3 111 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 20 319 19 240 16 929 Kristiansand, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Chair Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 (restated) Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 799 2 138 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 608 588 Unrealised gains/losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts 6, 11, 36 540 -812 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 16 7 -84 Tax paid -440 -484 Change in trade receivables 18 -431 -41 Change in trade payables 24 166 107 Change in net working capital, etc. 530 90 Net cash provided by operating activities 1 779 1 502 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 14, 15 -1 255 -1 196 Purchase of property, plant and equipment paid for by customers 14, 15 -142 -90 Purchase of businesses/financial assets -155 -81 Net change in loans 11 105 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 17 11 Sale of businesses/financial assets 247 366 Net cash used in investing activities -1 277 -885 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 1 113 1 450 Repayment of long-term borrowings -1 199 -1 108 Net change in current liabilities 314 166 Dividends paid -660 -706 Net cash used in financing activities -432 -198 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 70 419 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 473 54 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 19 543 473 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 40 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Amounts in NOK millions) Note Paid-in Cash flow Translation Retained Total for NonTotal capital hedges differences earnings controlling controlling equity interest interests Equity reported in financial statements at 31/12/2014 1 907 -143 10 1 903 3 677 83 3 760 Adjustment to long-term electricity contracts 36 0 0 0 230 230 0 230 Equity at 01/01/2015 (restated) 1 907 -143 10 2 133 3 907 83 3 990 Net income for the year 0 0 0 1 314 1 314 -9 1 305 Other comprehensive income 0 10 6 336 352 -5 347 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -700 -700 -6 -706 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 -38 -38 -5 -43 Equity at 31/12/2015 1 907 -133 16 3 045 4 835 58 4 893 Equity at 01/01/2016 1 907 -133 16 3 045 4 835 58 4 893 Net income for the year 0 0 0 251 251 11 262 Other comprehensive income 0 16 -12 136 140 2 142 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -660 -660 0 -660 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 9 9 -20 -11 Equity at 31/12/16 1 907 -117 4 2 781 4 575 51 4 626 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES General information Classification of derivatives on the statesured at fair value. Agder Energi has deAgder Energi’s activities comprise the ment of financial position. cided to comply with the Financial Supergeneration, distribution and sale of enerIn the past, Agder Energi has classified all visory Authority’s order without gy, as well as providing energy-related currency, electricity and interest rate deappealing it. services. Most of the Group’s operations rivatives as current assets or current liaare in southern Norway. The parent combilities. Agder Energi changed this princiPresentation of the effect on the income pany Agder Energi AS is a Norwegian liple in 2016, and derivatives are now statement of foreign currency derivatives mited liability company, founded and doclassified as non-current if they are not and loans. miciled in Norway. The address of the held for trading and expire more than one Previously, Agder Energi classified unreacompany’s head office is Kjøita 18, 4630 year after the statement of financial polised and realised gains and losses on foKristiansand. sition date. reign currency derivatives and loans as financial items. Currency futures and forBasis of preparation Recognition of long-term electricity coneign currency loans are used to manage Agder Energi’s consolidated financial tracts. the currency risk associated with future statements have been prepared in accorAgder Energi has some contracts for revenues from electricity sales. This link dance with International Financial Reporphysical energy sales that are settled in has become stronger in recent years and ting Standards (IFRS) as approved by the euros. Previously, Agder Energi did not means that presenting currency gains EU. The consolidated financial stateconsider the currency portion of these and losses as operating items will provide ments apply the historical cost principle, contracts to be an embedded derivative more relevant information. except in the cases of certain financial that had to be separated from the host assets and liabilities (including cash-settcontract and accounted for separately as Comparative figures have been restated led derivatives) that are measured at fair an independent derivative. Under the old using the new principles. Also see Note value through profit or loss. accounting practice, these contracts 36. were recognised in their entirety on deliChanges to accounting principles and very. In June 2016, the Financial Supercorrection of errors visory Authority of Norway ordered AgIn 2016, Agder Energi made three chander Energi to separate out the currency ges to its accounting principles: portion as an embedded derivative meaSUMMARY OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Consolidation principles All of the financial statements of indiviTransaction costs are not included in the The consolidated financial statements dual companies included in the consolipurchase price, and are instead expensed present the overall financial performance dated financial statements have been as incurred. The cost of shares in subsiand position of the parent company and restated to ensure that equivalent statediaries is eliminated against equity on its subsidiaries when considered as a sinment of financial position items and the acquisition date. Bargain purchase gle entity. Companies in which the Group transactions are treated consistently gains are based on fair values. These holds a controlling interest are consolidathroughout the Group. All intra-group gains are attributed to any of the ted. A controlling interest normally exists transactions, receivables, liabilities and company’s assets and liabilities with fair if Agder Energi holds more than 50% of unrealised gains and losses have been values that differ from their carrying voting rights, either through an ownerseliminated in the consolidated financial amounts. A provision is made for deferhip interest or through agreements. Substatements. red tax relating to any such asset writesidiaries acquired or established during ups or write-downs. Any part of the barthe year are consolidated from the date Acquisitions gain purchase gain that cannot be of acquisition or establishment. The nonPurchase price allocation is performed attributed to identifiable assets and liabicontrolling interests’ share of profit or for the date when control was obtained. lities is treated as goodwill. No provision loss after tax is specified on a separate This is when the risks and rewards of owis made for deferred tax on goodwill. If line. nership have been transferred, and northe value of the assets and liabilities mally coincides with the acquisition date. transferred in conjunction with an AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR a ­ cquisition exceeds the purchase price, expenses. On the statement of financial Long-term contracts the difference is recognised through position, these investments are classified Revenues associated with long-term ­ profit and loss under other operating as non-current financial assets, and are ­manufacturing contracts are recognised in ­revenues. carried at cost adjusted for the Group’s accordance with the percentage of share of retained earnings since acquisic­ ompletion method. Under this method, Non-controlling interests in the acquiree tion, impairment losses and equity trans­ revenues and profit are recognised are measured either at fair value, or as the actions at the companies. ­gradually as the work related to the connon-controlling interest’s share of the tract is completed. The percentage of comacquiree’s net identifiable assets. The Revenues pletion is normally estimated by looking at measurement method should be chosen Recognition of revenues – general incurred expenses as a percentage of total individually for each business combination. Proceeds from the sale of goods and expected project expenses. Accrued reve­ services are recognised as revenues nues are included on the statement of fiFor step acquisitions, previously held when the goods or service are delivered. nancial position under current receivables, ­assets are measured at fair value at the while advance payments received are date control is obtained. Any gains or l­osses Energy sales ­included under current liabilities. are recognised through profit or loss. Revenues from the sale of electricity are recognised when the electricity is Disposal of property, plant and Changes in ownership interests in ­ supplied. Realised gains or losses on equipment subsidiaries physical and cash-settled energy and ­ When disposing of property, plant and Changes in the parent’s ownership intercurrency contracts are presented as equipment, any gain or loss is calculated est in a subsidiary that do not result in energy sales under operating revenues. by comparing the sales price with the loss of control are accounted for as equiChanges in the fair value of currency ­remaining carrying amount of the asset ty transactions. contracts, cash-settled energy contracts sold. Any gain or loss is presented under and physical energy contracts, which other operating revenues or other operaJoint operations ­ under IAS 39 are considered financial ting expenses respectively. Ownership interests in part-owned power ­instruments, are presented as unrealised stations and water management associagains and losses on energy and currency Green electricity certificates tions are classified as joint operations contracts under operating revenues. Green electricity certificates received as and are accounted for by including the When a contract is closed out, the assoa result of qualifying electricity generaGroup’s share of assets, liabilities, reveciated unrealised gain or loss is reversed, tion are recognised at fair value under nues and expenses on the relevant lines and the realised gain or loss is presented energy sales when the electricity is in the consolidated financial statements under energy sales. Realised gains or ­generated. Green electricity certificates (proportionate consolidation). ­losses on trading portfolios are presenheld by the electricity generation busited net as energy sales. ness are presented as inventories on the Joint ventures and associates statement of financial position, and are A joint venture is a company that is s­ ubject Transmission revenues measured at the lower of their value to a contractual arrangement whereby Grid operation is subject to the regulawhen acquired and current fair value less two or more parties have joint control. tions of the Norwegian Water Resources costs to sell. Special rules on voting rights may give and Energy Directorate (NVE) on income owners more or less control than their caps. Each year, NVE specifies an income When the retail business sells electricity, owner­ship interests would imply. cap for each individual grid operator. The the estimated cost of purchasing electrirevenues recognised in the income statecity certificates to cover the volume sold Associates are companies over which the ment represent the volumes delivered is expensed. A provision for volumes not Group wields significant influence. during the financial period multiplied by covered by purchased electricity certifi­ Normally this applies to companies in the applicable tariff. The difference cates is included on the statement of fiwhich it has a 20-50% ownership interest. ­between the income cap and the actual nancial position under current liabilities tariff revenues creates a surplus or measured at fair value. Green electricity Joint ventures and associates are accoshortfall. This surplus or shortfall is certificates purchased are measured at unted for using the equity method. The ­ recognised through profit or loss as it cost. If the company has more electricity Group’s proportionate share of the profit ­arises. Details of the surplus or shortfall certificates than it needs to cover the or loss for the year of these entities is are given in Note 3. ­volume of electricity sold, the excess is recognised under financial income/­ presented under inventories. Any such AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR excess is measured at the lower of cost than cash flow hedges, unrealised gains calendar year are therefore presented and fair value less costs to sell. and losses are recognised through profit net in the statement of financial position. or loss. Foreign currency In the income statement, gains and The consolidated financial statements Physical contracts for the purchase and ­losses on the fair value of derivatives are are presented in Norwegian kroner sale of energy, CO2 quotas and electricity shown on separate lines. Gains and los(NOK), which is also the functional certificates that form part of the trading ses on energy and foreign currency deri­ currency of the parent company and portfolio are accounted for as financial vatives used as economic hedges of opemain subsidiaries. Subsidiaries with funcinstruments. Like their cash-settled equirating exposure are presented under tional currencies other than NOK were valents, they are measured at fair value. operating revenues, while gains and only responsible for a small proportion of losses on interest rate derivatives are ­ the Group’s turnover in 2016. These are Physical contracts for the purchase and presented under financial income/expentranslated into NOK using the currentsale of energy, CO2 quotas and electricity ses. When they are realised, the proceeds rate method. certificates that have been entered into from the sale of electricity and foreign for the purpose of obtaining electricity currency derivatives are included under When preparing the accounts of the indineeded by the Group, or as a means of energy sales. Regular payments relating vidual companies, transactions in currenselling the electricity it generates, and to interest rate swaps are presented as a cies other than the functional currency of which do not contain embedded derivatifinancial expense. the company are translated into the ves, are normally recognised on delivery. functional currency using the exchange Contracts entered into for different purb) Loans and receivables rate on the date of transaction. Foreign poses are recorded in separate books. On initial recognition, loans and receiv­ currency-denominated statement of ables are measured at fair value plus ­ financial position items are measured Agder Energi has some contracts for ­ directly attributable transaction costs. using the exchange rate on the statephysical energy sales that are settled in Subsequently loans and receivables are ment of financial position date. Translatieuros. The contractual obligation to carried at amortised cost using the on differences are recognised under fi­supply electricity is met using electricity ­effective interest rate method. nancial income/expenses. This does not generated by the Group, so the contracts apply to euro-denominated loans used to do not fall within the scope of IAS 39. Trade and other receivables with an secure future revenues from electricity ­However, the fact that the contracts are insignificant interest component are ­ sales in that currency. Translation diffesettled in euros means that they contain ­ recognised at their nominal value less rences relating to these loans are classian embedded foreign currency derivatiany impairment losses. An impairment fied as operating gains or losses. ve. Under the criteria set out in IAS 39, loss is recognised if there is objective the foreign currency derivatives are not evidence that the Group will not receive Financial instruments closely related to the electricity contract. payment in accordance with the original The Group designates financial instruThey are therefore separated from the conditions. ments in the following categories: a) contracts for physical delivery and ­ Financial assets and liabilities at fair ­measured at fair value. c) Financial liabilities at amortised cost ­value through profit or loss; b) Loans and On initial recognition, financial liabilities receivables; c) Financial liabilities at Presentation of derivatives in the income are measured at fair value plus directly amortised cost. Designation is based on statement and statement of financial attributable transaction costs. Subsequthe type of instrument and its purpose. ­position ently financial liabilities are carried at Instruments are classified when they are Derivatives are presented on separate amortised cost using the effective interacquired. ­lines in the statement of financial positiest rate method. on under assets and liabilities respectia) Financial assets and liabilities at fair vely. Derivatives are presented gross on Hedging value through profit or loss the statement of financial position, In order to manage its risk exposures Financial assets and liabilities at fair ­unless there exists a legal right to offset, ­ arising from fluctuations in electricity ­value through profit or loss are financial and that right will actually be used when prices, exchange rates and interest rates, instruments held for trading purposes. All the contracts are settled. Electricity conthe Group uses euro-denominated loans derivatives must be designated as held tracts traded in markets satisfy the offand derivatives, such as futures c­ ontracts for trading, unless they are part of an setting requirements. Contracts with the for electricity and currency, as well as ­accounting hedge. For derivatives other same counterparty expiring in the same interest rate swaps and basis swaps ­ AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (combined interest rate and currency The Group’s fair value hedges are derivaincurred. The capitalised value of future swaps). The purpose of these instruments tives, which are measured at fair value fees is not included on the statement of is to secure cash flows from future elect­ through profit or loss. The hedged items financial position, but is calculated and ricity generation, as well as to avoid ­large are loans whose carrying amounts flucpresented in Note 8. variations in the interest expense payatuate in parallel with the hedged risks. ble on the Group’s debt portfolio. These changes in value are also recogniTax sed in profit or loss. Changes in the value All of the companies in the Group have to Most of the Group’s hedging instruments of hedged items and hedges are recognipay ordinary income tax. In addition, do not meet the documentation requiresed under financial income/expenses. ­Agder Energi Vannkraft is covered by the ments established by the accounting special rules on the taxation of companistandards for hedge accounting. These Compensation es that generate electricity. The Group contracts are therefore not accounted The Group pays compensation to land­ therefore pays income tax, natural for as hedges, even if they have been owners for the right to use waterfalls and resource tax and resource rent tax. ­­entered into as hedges. These kinds of land. Compensation is also paid for any hedges are treated as financial assets or damage to forests, land, etc. The compenIncome tax financial liabilities measured at fair value sation is a combination of one-off payIncome tax is calculated in accordance through profit or loss. ments and perpetual charges or obligawith standard tax rules. The tax expense tions to supply electricity free of c­ harge. in the income statement consists of tax Certain interest rate swaps, including The present value of annual charges and payable and changes in deferred tax ­basis swaps, do meet the conditions for the cost of supplying free electricity are ­liabilities/assets. This does not apply to hedge accounting under IAS 39, and they presented under provisions. If a contract to deferred tax liabilities/assets relating to are accounted for accordingly. These supply free electricity includes the o ­ ption items recognised as other ­comprehensive hedging relationships are presented in of settlement in cash, it is considered a income and expenses in the statement of the consolidated financial statements as derivative and is measured at fair value ­ comprehensive income or directly in follows: through profit or loss. On i­nitial r­ ecognition, ­ equity, or to deferred tax liabilities/­ the cross entry of the provision is a hydroassets arising in conjunction with Cash flow hedges power licence, which is presented under ­ business combinations. Tax payable is In so far as possible, Agder Energi uses property, plant and equipment. In subse­ calculated on the taxable profit for the cash flow hedges to eliminate its exposuquent periods, ­annual compensation payyear. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are re to fluctuations in cash flows. This ments, as well as c­hanges to provisions, calculated on the basis of the temporary ­ applies to a small proportion of the are considered other operating expenses, differences that exist between accounGroup’s variable-rate loans, which are whereas one-off payments are deducted ting and tax values, as well as the tax swapped to a fixed rate. from the ­provision. ­effect of any loss carryforwards. Deferred income tax liabilities and assets that The effective part of gains or losses on Concession power and licence fees are expected to be reversed in the same hedging instruments is recognised under Each year, the Group supplies electricity period are offset against each other. As other comprehensive income in the to local municipalities at a price set by assessment is made of the extent to statement of comprehensive income, ­ the Norwegian parliament. Revenues which it will be possible to utilise ­deferred whereas the ineffective part is recognisfrom this “concession power” are recogtax assets, and any amount that can ed under financial income/expenses in nised as they are earned, based on the probably be utilised is included on the ­ the income statement. Any effective gain regulated price. The present value of the statement of financial position. or loss on a hedging instrument is recyc­ future loss of revenue due to the diffeled to profit or loss if the hedged item is rence between the regulated price and Natural resource tax recognised in the income statement. spot price is not included on the stateThe natural resource tax payable is not ment of financial position, but it is ­affected by profit, and is calculated on the Fair value hedges ­presented in Note 2. basis of the individual power station’s Agder Energi uses fair value hedges to average generation over the past seven ­ hedge the currency risk associated with Each year, the Group pays licence fees to ­years. The tax is charged at 1.3 øre/kWh. its USD-denominated interest-bearing the central government and ­municipalities Natural resource tax can be deducted from ­ liabilities and the interest rate risk on for the increase in generating capacity income tax. As a result, natural resource ­fixed-rate loans. achieved by damming and piping w ­ ater. tax n ­ ormally neither affects Agder Energi’s Licence fees are expensed as they are tax expense nor its tax payable. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Resource rent tax the statement of financial position, as is ciation and impairment losses, provided Resource rent tax is calculated by applythe part that is likely to be used within a that they meet the criteria for capitalisaing the Norwegian Taxation Act’s special 10-year time frame. Tax-free allowances tion. Intangible assets with an uncertain rules on the taxation of companies that are treated as a permanent difference in useful life, including goodwill, are not generate electricity. The expense in the the year for which they are calculated, and ­ depreciated, and are instead tested income statement consists of resource do therefore not affect the calculation of ­annually for impairment. rent tax payable and changes in deferred deferred resource rent tax. resource rent tax liabilities/assets. Property, plant and equipment Deferred resource rent tax liabilities and Investments in production facilities and Resource rent tax is profit-related, and is assets are presented gross. other property, plant and equipment are payable at a rate of 33% of the net carried at cost, less accumulated depre­resource rent estimated for each indiviClassification of current and non-­ ciation and impairment losses. Hydro­ dual power station. The resource rent is current assets and liabilities power licences are classified as property, estimated from the hourly output of the An asset is classified as a current asset if plant and equipment. Depreciation starts individual power station, multiplied by the it fulfils one of the following criteria: when the assets are available for use. spot price for the corresponding hour. In a) it is expected to be realised in, or is The acquisition cost of property, plant the case of concession power and power held for sale or consumption in, the and equipment includes the expenses supplied under long-term contracts with a ordinary business cycle; ­involved in acquiring and preparing the duration of more than seven years, the b) it is primarily held for trading; asset for use. For large investments, inte­ actual contract price is ­ applied. Actual c) it is expected to be realised within rest payable is calculated using the operating expenses, tax-deductible twelve months of the end of the ­ average interest rate on the Group’s ­depreciation and a tax-free allowance are ­reporting period, or: ­borrowings during the investment period, deducted from the estimated gross rent in d) it is a form of cash or cash equivalent, and the interest is capitalised as part of order to reach the net taxable resource unless it is subject to restrictions which the acquisition cost. Costs incurred after rent. The tax-free allowance is determined mean that it cannot be realised or used the item entered service, such as regular each year by multiplying the tax value of to settle a liability within twelve months maintenance, are expensed. the power station’s property, plant and of the end of the reporting period. equipment by a standard ­interest rate set Costs accrued in relation to internal by the Ministry of ­ Finance. In 2016 the A liability is classified as a current liability ­investments within the Group are capitastandard interest rate was 0.5%. Positive if it fulfils one of the following criteria: lised. The acquisition cost only includes and negative resource rent can be offset a) it is expected to be settled as part of directly attributable costs. between power stations. This only applies the ordinary business cycle; to negative resource rent tax arising in or b) it is primarily held for trading; Depreciation is calculated using the after 2007. Negative resource rent that c) it is due for payment within twelve straight-line method over the expected arose before 2007 can only be offset at months of the end of the reporting useful life. The residual value is taken into the power station where it arose. Any ­period; or: account when calculating annual deprenegative resource rent can be carried ­ d) the company has no unconditional right ciation. Sites are not depreciated. Hydro­forward with interest to be offset against to delay settlement of the liability power licences are not depreciated future positive resource rent. The interest ­beyond twelve months after the stateeither, as they do not revert to public rate applied to carryforwards was 1.9% ment of financial position date. owner­ship. Major maintenance activities for 2016. that do not add anything to property, All other assets are classified as nonplant and equipment (periodic mainDeferred resource rent tax assets and current assets and all other liabilities are tenance) are capitalised and depreciated ­liabilities classified as non-current liabilities. over the maintenance interval. The estiWhen calculating the deferred tax liabilimated useful life, depreciation method ties and assets to be included on the For non-current liabilities, any principal and residual value are reassessed each ­statement of financial position, temporary repayments due over the first year are year. differences and part of the accumulated presented as current liabilities. negative resource rent are taken into When assets are sold or disposed of, their ­account. The part of the negative ­resource Intangible assets carrying amount is deducted, and any rent tax that can be offset against Intangible assets, including goodwill, are loss or gain is recognised in the income ­ temporary differences is capitalised on carried at cost less accumulated deprestatement under other operating AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 46 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR e ­xpenses and revenues. Repairs and ­enerating units). Most of the Group’s g Provisions, contingent assets and regular maintenance are expensed as ­ non-current assets are held by the hydrocontingent liabilities ­incurred. Additions or improvements are electric power and network business areA provision is recognised if the Group has added to the asset’s cost and are depreas. Within hydroelectric power, any power a present obligation arising from a past ciated at the same rate as the asset. The stations on the same river system that are event, and if it is probable that it will have distinction between maintenance and managed collectively are c­onsidered to be to settle the obligation. Provisions are ­upgrades/improvements is judged on the a single cash flow ­generating unit. measured using the management’s best basis of the condition of the asset when estimate of the cost of settling the it was acquired by the company. ­E xpenses In conjunction with each financial report, ­obligations on the statement of financial that lead to significantly higher cash the Group assesses whether any past position date, and are discounted to their flows by increasing the useful life of proimpairment of non-financial assets, ­ present value if this makes a significant perty, plant and equipment and/or except goodwill, should be reversed. difference. ­ reducing maintenance costs, and that also improve functionality, are consideInventories Pensions red reinvestments. Inventories are carried at the lower of Defined benefit plans cost and fair value less costs to sell. The A defined benefit plan is a pension plan If new parts are capitalised on the stateacquisition cost is calculated using the which defines the pension benefit an ment of financial position, the carrying FIFO principle. ­employee will receive on retirement. The amount of the parts that were replaced is pension liability recognised for defined deducted, and any gain or loss is recogniReservoir reserves benefit plans is the present value of the sed in profit or loss. The Group’s most valuable raw material pension benefits earned as of the stateis the water stored in its reservoirs. The ment of financial position date, less the Each year, Agder Energi Nett receives value of this water is not capitalised on fair value of the pension plan assets. The customer contributions that fully or the statement of financial position. pension obligation is calculated annually ­partially pay for new connections or grid by an independent actuary using the upgrades. These contributions are preCash pooling arrangement ­projected credit unit method. sented on the statement of financial Agder Energi AS has a cash pooling ­position as unearned revenue under pro­ arrangement with its subsidiaries, and Remeasurements as a result of changes visions, and are taken to income over the the Group has a joint bank account for to the actuarial and economic assumpuseful life of the relevant investments. short-term deposits and short-term tions are recognised in the statement of ­ loans. External interest income and comprehensive income under other Leases ­interest expenses arising from the cash ­comprehensive income or expenses. This Almost all of Agder Energi’s leases are ­ pooling arrangement are presented as also applies to the positive or negative operational leases. Rent payable under interest income and interest expenses on difference between the return on ­pension these leases is expensed as it arises. the consolidated income statement. On plan assets and the discount rate. the consolidated statement of financial Impairment losses position, net deposits and overdrafts are Changes to defined benefit pension obliProperty, plant, equipment and intangible presented as cash and cash equivalents gations arising from plan amendments assets that are depreciated are also and current liabilities respectively. that are applied retrospectively, i.e. where tested for impairment if there is any indithe change in entitlement also applies to cation to suggest that future cash flows Liquid assets past years of service, are recognised cannot justify the carrying amount. Any Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, ­directly in profit or loss. Changes that are difference between the carrying amount bank deposits and commercial paper not applied retrospectively are ­recognised and the recoverable amount is expensed with a remaining term to maturity of less through profit or loss over the remaining in the income statement. The recoverable than three months when it was acquired. years of service. amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the utility value. Dividends The net pension liabilities associated Proposed dividends are classified as with underfunded pension plans, and When testing for impairment, non-­current equity. Dividends are reclassified as ­ ­unfunded pension plans that are treated assets are grouped at the lowest possible ­current liabilities when they are adopted as operating expenses, are classified as level at which it is possible to identify by the AGM. provisions for non-current liabilities. For independent cash flows (cash flow ­ pension plans with a surplus, the surplus AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR is presented as a net pension asset under three new standards covering areas that services to customers in an amount that other non-current financial assets. are very important to Agder Energi’s reflects the consideration to which the en­financial statements: tity expects to be entitled in exchange for The pension expense for the period is inthose goods or services. The standard apcluded under employee benefits. It conIFRS 9 – Financial instruments: plies to all revenue contracts. The sists of the sum of the current service The new standard introduces changes to Hydroelectric ­ Power and Energy cost, interest on net pension liabilities classification and measurement, hedge ­Management business areas have the bigand employers’ NICs. accounting and impairment. IFRS 9 will gest impact on Agder Energi’s f­inancial replace IAS 39 Financial instruments – performance. The Group does not expect Defined contribution pension plans recognition and measurement. The parts the new standard to have a significant In the case of a defined contribution plan, of IAS 39 that have not been changed as ­ impact on revenue recognition in these the Group makes regular contributions part of this project have been transferred business areas. However, the standard into a separate legal entity, but has no and included in IFRS 9. For Agder Energi, may affect whether some of their ­revenues further liabilities once the contributions the most important change is that the are presented net or gross. We have not have been made. new standard simplifies the rules on the finished analysing the impacts of the new use of accounting hedges. No conclusion standard, so our preliminary conclusions The contributions are expensed as has yet been reached on the extent to may be revised. The standard comes into ­employee benefits when they are made. which this will result in Agder Energi force on 1 January 2018. ­making greater use of hedge accounting. Statement of cash flows Beyond this, the new standard is not IFRS 16 – Leases: The statement of cash flows has been ­ expected to result in any significant This standard replaces the existing IFRS prepared using the indirect method. changes for the Group. We have not standard governing leases, IAS 17 – ­finished analysing the impacts of the new ­Leases. IFRS 16 sets out principles for reNew accounting standards and standard, so our preliminary conclusions cognition, measurement, presentation interpretations may be revised. The standard comes into and disclosures in relation to leases. The Agder Energi did not implement any new force on 1 January 2018. new standard requires the lessee to accounting standards or interpretations ­recognise assets and liabilities for most that had a significant impact on its IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with leasing transactions, which represents a ­financial statements in 2016. customers: significant change from the current The IASB and FASB have issued a new, ­principles. Agder Energi has not analysed The IASB has published a number of new joint standard on revenue recognition, what impact the new standard will have. accounting standards, as well as amendIFRS 15. The standard replaces all e ­ xisting The standard comes into force on ments to existing accounting standards standards and interpretations relating to 1 ­January 2019, but it has not yet been and interpretations, that had not yet revenue recognition. The core principle of ­approved by the EU. ­ entered into force when the financial IFRS 15 is that revenue recognition will state­ ments were presented. There are ­reflect the transfer of promised goods or CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Below we have set out the areas where financial instruments. This applies unless Based on the criteria set out in IAS 39, the the judgements made by management in the contracts have been entered into and senior management team has used its applying the Group’s accounting princicontinue to be held for the purpose of the best judgement to assess which c­ ontracts ples potentially have a material impact receipt or delivery of the energy in should be defined as financial instruments on the consolidated financial statements. accordance with the Group’s expected ­ and which contracts should not. purchase, sale or usage requirements Non-financial energy contracts (the “own use” exemption). In some cases Contracts classified as financial instruNon-financial energy contracts, which in determining whether a contract of this ments are carried at fair value, with gains accordance with IAS 39 are considered kind should be classified as cash-settled and losses recognised in profit or loss, to be contracts that can be “settled net in is based on best judgement. while other contracts are recognised on cash”, are treated as though they were delivery. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 48 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Concession power and licence fees fore non-contractual liabilities. ConsequThe concession power provided and the ently they are not included in the ­financial licence fees paid to the central governstatements, but their present value has ment and municipalities are supposed to been calculated, and is presented in Note compensate for the damage or inconve2 and Note 8. nience caused by hydropower projects. Liabilities arising from the fact that ­future concession power may be supplied at a discount to the market price, as well as the cost of future licence fees, are ­regulatory requirements and are thereUNCERTAINTIES – CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In conjunction with the preparation of the Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax assets are capitalised when financial statements, the management Property, plant and equipment is it is expected that it will be possible to has to make certain estimates and depreciated over its expected useful life, make use of the negative resource rent ­assumptions. These affect the reported giving rise to depreciation in the income within a ten-year time frame. The timing assets and liabilities, including c ­ ontingent statement. The expected useful life is of when it may be possible to make use of assets and liabilities at the end of the estimated on the basis of experience, past negative resource rent is particularly reporting period, and the reported ­ performance and best judgement, and is dependent on assumptions regarding revenues and expenses for the period. ­ adjusted if there are any changes to those future electricity prices. The management Actual results may deviate from these estimates. The residual value, which is has used its best judgement when making ­estimates. taken into account when calculating assumptions about future electricity depreciation, is also estimated. prices and other assumptions that affect The most important assumptions concerfuture resource rent. See Note 12 for a ning the future and other key sources of Impairment losses more detailed description. estimation uncertainty are set out below. The Group has significant investments in intangible assets, property, plant and Pensions Fair value of financial instruments equipment and joint arrangements. Calculating pension liabilities involves The fair value of long-term cash-settled These non-current assets are tested for using best judgement and estimates for a electricity contracts and electricity impairment if there is an indication that number of parameters. See Note 22 for a contracts not covered by the own use they have fallen in value. This might be more detailed description of the assumpexemption is partly calculated using indicated by changes in market prices or tions that have been applied. assumptions that are not observable in contract structures, negative events or the market. Where that is the case, the other operating conditions. When management has based its estimates on calculating the recoverable amount, a the information available in the market in number of estimates must be made combination with its best judgement. regarding future cash flows, with required There is a more detailed description of rates of return, prices, operating margins the assumptions used to value those and sales volumes being the most contracts in Note 27. The fair value of important factors. interest rate, foreign currency and electricity derivatives is calculated based Deferred tax assets on market practice and confirmed by The Group has capitalised deferred tax external market players. assets arising from negative resource rent that has been carried forward. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Amounts in NOK million) Hydroelectric Network business LOS Power and Energy area Management 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 2 658 2 513 1 424 1 161 3 503 2 279 of which external operating revenues 2 531 2 397 1 344 1 073 3 484 2 264 of which internal operating revenues 127 116 80 88 19 15 Energy and transmission expenses -243 -260 -337 -305 -3 235 -2 025 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 0 0 0 0 -3 -3 Employee benefits 7 -192 -176 -104 -95 -78 -70 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -472 -470 -346 -351 -90 -77 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment 1 751 1 608 637 410 97 104 losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -294 -257 -220 -197 -5 -3 Operating profit 1 457 1 350 417 212 93 100 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 0 0 0 0 Financial income 11 15 52 1 1 4 5 Financial expenses 11 -95 -128 -64 -74 -6 -4 Net financial income/expenses -80 -76 -63 -73 -2 1 Profit before tax 1 377 1 274 353 139 90 102 Tax expense 12 -791 -600 -76 -21 -22 -28 Net income 586 674 278 118 68 74 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 8 514 8 051 5 232 4 692 2 059 880 Equity 2 296 2 281 824 759 344 335 Total segment liabilities 6 218 5 770 4 408 3 933 1 715 544 Capital employed 1) 5 945 5 936 3 821 3 449 711 335 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 3 649 3 655 2 997 2 690 367 0 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 286 1 323 637 409 42 107 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 0 75 82 99 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 445 598 620 370 -9 12 Number of full-time equivalents 209 216 166 163 119 73 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. The negative value for LOS is due to its reclassification. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 50 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) Otera Parent/Other Eliminations 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 1 145 996 1 453 1 186 -695 -687 of which external operating revenues 994 822 1 165 922 -28 -31 of which internal operating revenues 151 174 289 263 -667 -656 Energy and transmission expenses 0 0 -69 -38 197 180 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -714 -534 -601 -470 1 1 Employee benefits 7 -308 -337 -458 -370 127 149 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -130 -133 -361 -319 342 327 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment -7 -8 -36 -10 -29 -30 losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -12 -12 -77 -69 5 -37 Operating profit -19 -20 -113 -79 -23 -68 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 5 96 -13 -12 Financial income 11 1 2 1 644 1 939 -1 649 -1 990 Financial expenses 11 -10 -9 -616 -1 104 542 1 033 Net financial income/expenses -9 -8 1 033 931 -1 119 -969 Profit before tax -28 -28 920 851 -1 142 -1 037 Tax expense 12 7 9 -153 -168 216 242 Net income -21 -19 767 682 -926 -795 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 613 615 14 175 13 415 -12 677 -11 791 Equity 59 33 3 306 3 158 -3 566 -3 645 Total segment liabilities 554 582 10 869 10 257 -9 111 -8 146 Capital employed 1) 328 251 13 046 12 583 -11 729 -10 926 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 268 218 9 740 9 425 -8 163 -7 281 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) -11 -11 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 57 67 -19 -7 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 0 48 36 0 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 17 5 117 107 -18 -25 Number of full-time equivalents 391 424 516 394 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) Total (NGAAP) IFSR adjustments Total (IFRS) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 9 489 7 447 -820 812 8 668 8 260 of which external operating revenues 9 489 7 447 -820 812 8 668 8 260 of which internal operating revenues 0 0 0 0 0 0 Energy and transmission expenses -3 687 -2 447 0 0 -3 687 -2 447 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -1 318 -1 006 0 0 -1 318 -1 006 Employee benefits 7 -1 014 -899 0 0 -1 014 -899 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -1 057 -1 023 -7 2 -1 064 -1 021 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment 2 413 2 072 -827 814 1 586 2 886 losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -602 -577 -6 -1 -608 -577 Operating profit 1 811 1 495 -833 814 978 2 309 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 -8 84 0 0 -7 84 Financial income 11 16 9 78 10 95 18 Financial expenses 11 -249 -286 -17 12 -266 -274 Net financial income/expenses -240 -193 61 22 -179 -171 Profit before tax 1 571 1 302 -772 836 799 2 138 Tax expense 12 -819 -567 282 -266 -537 -833 Net income 752 735 -490 570 262 1 305 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 17 917 15 861 2 402 3 379 20 319 19 240 Equity 3 264 2 920 1 362 1 973 4 626 4 893 Total segment liabilities 14 653 12 940 1 040 1 406 15 693 14 347 Capital employed 1) 12 123 11 627 1 646 2 294 13 769 13 921 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 8 858 8 707 285 321 9 143 9 028 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 572 1 631 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 37 61 0 0 37 61 Investments in intangible assets 3) 222 118 2 0 223 118 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 1 173 1 067 142 101 1 315 1 168 Number of full-time equivalents 1 401 1 270 1 401 1 270 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. Segment information is reported using the same segments as used in financial reports to the senior management team. Segment reporting is used by Agder Energi’s management to assess the performance of the various business areas, and to allocate resources to them. Operating segments are presented in accordance with the organisational structure, and are based on the internal business areas. The Network business area is presented as a separate segment. The business area is responsible for power distribution in Agder. The Hydroelectric Power and Energy Management business areas are presented jointly as a single segment. The business areas are involved in the generation and sale of hydroelectric power. Within the Marketing and Business Development business area, LOS and Otera are presented as separate segments, due to their size and the differences between their areas of activity, while the rest of the business area is presented under parent company/other. LOS sells energy to retail customers, while Otera provides electrical contracting services. The financial statements follow Norwegian generally accepted accounting principles (NGAAP), as they are also used for internal corporate governance purposes. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 52 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The Eliminations segment relates to the elimination of intra-group transactions and balances. Transactions between segments are on an arm’s-length basis. The IFRS adjustments segment covers items arising from the fact that the accounts of segments are presented in accordance with NGAAP, while the consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with IFRS. The main reason for the differences between the segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements is that changes in unrealised gains/ losses on derivatives are not included in the segment reporting. In addition, the segment reporting for the Network business area uses the approved income cap, whereas the consolidated statements are based on invoiced revenues; see Note 3. The vast majority of Agder Energi’s turnover comes from customers in Norway or from Nord Pool Spot (the marketplace for trading physical power contracts). The turnover of the subsidiary groups Otera AB and LOS Energy AB comes from the Swedish market. NOTE 2 ENERGY SALES Agder Energi optimises its generation of hydroelectric power based on an assessment of the value of available water in relation to current and expected future spot prices. Contracts for physical delivery and cash-settled contracts are used to secure cash flows from power generation. All contracts are recognised as an adjustment to the underlying revenues from electricity generation based on the difference between the contract price and the spot price (system price for cash-settled contracts). Cash-settled contracts, which include both electricity and foreign currency contracts, are described in greater detail in Note 28. In addition, Agder Energi has long-term physical delivery contracts with industrial customers. Those contracts cover around 20 TWh of energy to be delivered between now and 2030. The Group’s energy sales and purchases are specified in the table below. Electricity generated by the hydropower business and sold through Nord Pool Spot and electricity bought through Nord Pool Spot for the retail business are presented gross. Energy sales (Amounts in NOK millions) 2016 2015 Spot and balancing markets 1 728 1 463 Concession power and contracts for physical delivery signed before 1991 1) 89 97 Contracts for physical delivery signed after 1991 1) 392 353 Financial contracts used for hedging purposes 2) 225 390 Electricity certificates (own generation) 24 20 Other 80 77 Total for power generation 2 538 2 401 Retail market 3 473 2 257 Grid operation 32 29 District heating 100 92 Other 30 0 Eliminations -129 -107 Total 6 044 4 672 1) The Energy Act came into force in 1991. 2) Figures refer to realised gains and losses; unrealised gains and losses are specified in Note 6. Although these contracts are used for hedging purposes, hedge accounting is not applied. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Energy purchases (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Spot and balancing markets 62 69 Other 51 58 Total for power generation 114 127 Retail market 3 235 2 030 Grid operation 129 105 District heating 39 38 Other 30 0 Eliminations -118 -100 Total 3 429 2 200 The table below shows key figures for our power generating activities, as well as gains/losses in relation to spot prices. 2016 2015 Net electricity generation (less pumping) (GWh) 8 880 8 995 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. (GWh) 3 766 5 185 Reservoir reserves as % of capacity 72 % 99 % (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Spot value of net generation 2 097 1 731 Gains/losses on concession power and contracts for physical delivery signed before 1991 -86 -56 Gains/losses on hedges 368 552 Electricity certificates (own generation) 24 20 Gains/losses on other items 22 27 Net energy sales from power generation 2 425 2 274 Hedges include both cash-settled contracts and long-term physical contracts with industrial clients that are used as part of a hedging strategy. The resources Agder Energi needs to generate power are available to it through licences. Agder Energi controls – either directly or indirectly through water management associations and joint arrangements – licences to regulate watercourses and to acquire ownership rights to waterfalls. These licences do not revert to public ownership, with the exception of a few minor regulations of the Arendal river system, which constitute less than 1% of the total river regulation capacity. Agder Energi has a perpetual obligation to supply 544 GWh each year to local municipalities, who are entitled to buy electricity at a regulated price. In most cases this price is set by the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, but Agder Energi has some licences where the price is established individually based on government guidelines. Revenues from concession power are recognised as income when the electricity is supplied. The future loss of revenue arising from the obligation to supply concession power at below market prices is estimated at NOK 2.2 billion. No provisions have been made for this in the financial statements, as it is estimated that the agreed price covers electricity generation costs. The calculation of the loss of revenue is based on a nominal pre-tax interest rate of 5.0%, a price differential of 10 øre/kWh and an expected inflation rate of 2.5%. (Volume in GWh) 2016 2015 Volume of concession power (GWh) 544 543 Regulated price (øre/kWh) 11,4 10,6 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 54 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 3 TRANSMISSION REVENUES The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate regulates the revenues of power grid operators by setting an annual income cap. Based on the income caps they have been allocated and the volumes of electricity they expect to distribute, power grid operators set the transmission tariffs payable by customers. In the event of any difference between actual and expected volumes, revenues from transmission tariffs will show a surplus or shortfall relative to the permitted revenues (income cap). In the accounts of Agder Energi Nett AS, this difference is treated as either a liability or an asset. However, in the consolidated financial statements, which are presented in accordance with IFRS, this surplus or shortfall does not qualify for inclusion on the statement of financial position, and only the actual transmission tariff revenues are recognised in the income statement. (Amounts in NOK millions) 2016 2015 Revenues under next year’s income cap recognised in the consolidated income statement -151 44 Accumulated surplus transmission revenues not included on the statement of financial position 253 404 NOTE 4 OTHER OPERATING REVENUES AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES USED Other operating revenues (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Contracting 5 1 145 996 Services 139 118 Communication 582 373 Other revenues 234 228 Total 2 100 1 715 Electrical contracting services are provided through Otera, and cover areas such as electrical power systems, transportation and telecommunications. Other raw materials and consumables used (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Contracting 5 714 534 Communication 337 212 Other purchases 266 260 Total 1 317 1 006 NOTE 5 LONG-TERM MANUFACTURING CONTRACTS The projects included under this item relate to the electrical contracting business. They are carried out for customers and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method. Profit is recognised in proportion to the percentage of completion of the project. The percentage of completion is estimated to be the ratio between project costs incurred to date and total estimated project costs. Estimated losses on projects are also recognised in profit or loss. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Revenues from fixed-price contracts included under operating revenues 624 403 Revenues, work in progress 534 264 Accrued revenues included under other receivables 69 12 Deferred revenues included under other liabilities 22 3 Costs incurred to date, work in progress 481 220 Share of outstanding receivables not yet due under contract terms 0 7 Remaining turnover from loss-making projects 1 8 NOTE 6 UNREALISED GAINS AND LOSSES ON ENERGY CONTRACTS Breakdown of profit and loss effects of financial instruments by class of instrument: (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Portfolio of production hedges, excluding power for industrial users 26 -755 671 Cash-settled electricity contracts 21 -100 95 Long-term electricity contracts measured at fair value 26 -70 0 Retail customer portfolio 26 -5 -25 Currency contracts, basis swaps and currency loans 26 586 -148 Embedded derivatives 26 -275 209 Total -619 802 Reversal of unrealised gains and losses at 1 January on contracts closed out during the year 1) -397 -164 Gains and losses on contracts that had not been closed out as of 31 December. -222 966 Total -619 802 The above table refers to financial instruments that are used in relation to electricity generation or the retails business and that must be measured at fair value through profit or loss. 1) Value at start of 2016 (2015) of contracts that were closed out during 2016 (2015). NOTE 7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 995 874 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 143 137 Pension expense (incl. employers’ NICs) 22 82 109 Other benefits and reimbursements 14 24 Capitalised wage costs arising from own investments -220 -245 Total 1 014 900 Number of full-time equivalents in continuing operations at 31 Dec. 1 401 1 270 For details of senior management compensation, please see Note 32. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 56 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 8 PROPERTY TAXES AND LICENCE FEES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Licence fees 51 51 Property taxes 161 163 Total 211 214 Licence fees are perpetual payments designed to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by hydropower projects. The fees are paid annually and are adjusted in line with the consumer price index, initially at the first turn of the year five years after the licence was granted and subsequently every five years. Annual and perpetual payments to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by the development of hydropower stations are indexed in the same way as licence fees. The present value of the Group’s future licence fees, for which no provision has been made in the financial statements, has been calculated to be NOK 1.9 billion using a discount rate of 2.5%. NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Property-related expenses 108 87 Lease of machinery and office equipment 25 25 Purchase of plant and equipment 61 62 Repairs and maintenance to equipment 16 24 Contractors 66 82 Operation/maintenance of IT systems 34 32 Technical consultants 54 51 Administrative consultants 112 82 Other external services 53 35 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 43 41 Cost of vehicles 32 39 Leases for cars, machinery, etc. 34 34 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 57 56 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 37 30 Insurance premiums 16 16 Share of other operating expenses at joint arrangements 80 80 Free electricity and compensation 7 -2 Other operating expenses 18 33 Total 853 807 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 10 AUDITOR’S FEE The Group’s auditor Ernst & Young audits the parent company and the most important subsidiaries. The total auditing fees for consolidated companies comprise: (Amounts in NOK millions excl. VAT) 2016 2015 Statutory audit 3,5 3,0 Other certification services 0,0 0,4 Tax advice 0,2 0,1 Other services not related to auditing 1,6 0,1 Total 5,3 3,6 NOTE 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 16 -7 84 Net realised exchange rate gains 0 1 Interest income on loans 0 1 Other interest income 8 0 Realised gains on shares 1 0 Other financial income 7 7 Financial income 16 9 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 26 78 10 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 78 10 Interest expense on loans 1) 178 216 Interest expense on interest rate swaps 76 61 Other interest expenses 12 0 Interest on capitalised construction loans -28 -31 Net realised exchange rate losses 19 0 Realised loss on shares 0 5 Impairment of non-current financial assets 0 11 Other financial expenses 9 12 Financial expenses 266 274 Net financial income/expenses -179 -171 1) Relates to interest expenses on loans carried at amortised cost. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 58 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 TAX (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Tax expense in income statement Income tax payable 350 254 Resource rent tax payable 307 216 Changes in deferred income tax -179 278 Changes in deferred resource rent tax 76 98 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments -16 -13 Total tax expense recognised in income statement 537 833 Reconciliation of nominal and effective tax rates Profit before tax 799 2 138 Expected tax 200 577 Tax effect of Permanent differences 1 -10 Resource rent tax incl. deferred tax 383 314 Changes relating to prior years -16 -13 Net impact of changes in tax rates -31 -35 Total tax expense 537 833 Effective tax rate 67 % 39 % Breakdown of temporary differences and negative resource rent carried forward Taxable income Property, plant and equipment 3 253 2 628 Current assets/liabilities -87 -96 Pension liabilities 611 416 Other non-current provisions -1 056 -781 Derivatives -12 836 Other -39 8 Gross differences 2 670 3 010 Tax rate 24 % 25 % Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 639 753 Resource rent Temporary differences 904 967 Negative resource rent carryforwards expected to be offset against profit over the coming 10 years -408 -704 Gross differences 496 263 Tax rate 34,3 % 33 % Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 170 87 Of which presented in the financial statements as: Deferred tax 1 109 1 213 Deferred tax assets -300 -374 Deferred tax assets arising from negative resource rent carryforwards not included on the statement of financial position -604 -518 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR When assessing whether it is likely that the Group will be able to make use of its accumulated negative resource rent carryforwards, deferred resource rent tax assets are calculated using a conservative estimate of future electricity prices and on the assumption that future yields on short-term government debt will be between 0,.6% and 2.7%. (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Changes in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/ assets (-) over the year Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. prior year 839 24 Change to principle used for embedded derivatives in electricity contracts 36 0 281 Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 1 Jan. 839 305 New deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 14 0 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised in equity 0 8 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) included in other comprehensive income 60 149 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss -103 376 Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 809 839 Changes in deferred tax on items in the statement of comprehensive income Remeasurements of pensions 55 -151 Cash flow hedges 5 2 Net change in deferred tax on items in the statement of comprehensive income 60 -149 NOTE 13 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 39 21 Impairment of intangible assets 14 2 42 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 573 513 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 15 -6 1 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in operating profit 608 577 Impairment of financial assets 11 0 11 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in statement of cash flows 608 588 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 60 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in NOK millions) Goodwill Software Other intangible Total intangible assets assets Acquisition cost 149 161 116 426 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -47 -102 -149 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 149 114 14 277 Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 149 114 14 277 Additions 65 123 34 222 Disposals at book value 0 0 -2 -2 Depreciation 0 -32 -7 -39 Impairment losses 0 0 -2 -2 Other changes 0 0 20 20 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 214 205 57 476 Acquisition cost 214 280 118 612 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -75 -61 -136 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 214 205 57 476 Tested annually for Depreciation period impairment 3-5 years 3-8 years Goodwill impairment The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there is evidence to suggest a fall in value. The test is performed in the fourth quarter, and in 2016 it did not result in any charge, as was also the case in 2015. Agder Energi has not identified any other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Goodwill that has arisen in conjunction with acquisitions has been allocated as follows: Breakdown of goodwill on the statement of financial position (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Otera 94 94 LOS 49 12 NetNordic 39 18 NEG 9 9 Others 23 16 Carrying amount of goodwill 214 149 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION GRID OPERATION (Amounts in NOK millions) Rights and Tunnels and Machinery and Power station Regional power Lokal licences dams electrical buildings nett transdistribution infrastructure and sites mission grid network Carrying amount at 01/01/2015 1 130 2 758 2 045 950 1 189 2 488 Additions 11 93 184 25 98 249 Disposals at book value 0 0 0 0 0 0 Depreciation -5 -58 -136 -51 -56 -113 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 1 136 2 793 2 093 924 1 231 2 624 Acquisition cost 1 179 4 065 4 602 1 897 2 076 4 635 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -43 -1 272 -2 509 -973 -845 -2 011 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 1 136 2 793 2 093 924 1 231 2 624 Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 1 136 2 793 2 093 924 1 231 2 624 Additions 0 321 368 157 172 303 Disposals at book value 0 0 -6 0 -15 0 Depreciation -5 -63 -164 -56 -59 -118 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 1 131 3 051 2 291 1 025 1 329 2 809 Acquisition cost 1 179 4 386 4 962 2 053 2 229 4 938 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -48 -1 335 -2 671 -1 028 -900 -2 129 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 1 131 3 051 2 291 1 025 1 329 2 809 Depreciation period (years) 67/ 67-99 20-50 50-67/ 15-50 15-50 not depreciated not depreciated DISTRICT HEATING OTHER ACTIVITIES (Amounts in NOK millions) District heating Property Other Work in Total property progress lant and equipment Carrying amount at 01/01/2015 553 140 190 1 091 12 534 Additions 49 7 52 400 1 168 Disposals at book value -2 -2 -25 -15 -45 Depreciation -20 -9 -65 0 -513 Impairment losses 0 0 -1 0 -1 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 580 135 151 1 476 13 143 Acquisition cost 737 203 626 1 476 21 496 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -157 -68 -475 0 -8 353 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 580 135 151 1 476 13 143 Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 580 135 151 1 476 13 143 Additions 73 5 278 -363 1 314 Disposals at book value 0 -1 -7 -44 -73 Depreciation -22 -7 -79 0 -573 Impairment losses 6 0 0 0 6 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 637 132 343 1 069 13 817 Acquisition cost 802 207 874 1 069 22 699 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -165 -75 -531 0 -8 882 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 637 132 343 1 069 13 817 Depreciation period (years) 8-60 25-99/ 3-20 not depreciated AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 62 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Additions for work in progress are calculated as gross additions less completed projects within the relevant category. Periodic maintenance is included within the relevant category. Capitalised loan arrangement fees amounted to NOK 28 (31) million in 2016, calculated using the Group’s average interest rate of 3.0% (3.4%). NOK 3,103 million of property, plant and equipment at joint arrangements is included in the main groups under hydroelectric power generation and under work in progress. Of the additions under distribution networks, NOK 142 (90) million were financed through customer contributions. The stated depreciation periods apply to the majority of the assets in each category, although there may be some minor deviations from them. Maintenance expenses came to NOK 197 (218) million in 2016. NOK 302 (323) million of capitalised reinvestments in existing facilities have been included under the additions for the year. Below the useful lives of the most important assets on the statement of financial position are set out: Hydroelectric power stations Hydroelectric power stations Depreciation period (years) Depreciation period (years) Waterfall rights Not depreciated Machinery – Runners 40 Structures – Turbines 40 – Rock-fill dams 99 – Turbine hall cranes, air handling units, pumps 25 – Caverns 99 – Turbine regulators 15 – Concrete dams 67 – Grating cleaners 10 – Power station buildings 67 – Other buildings 50 Process equipment and communication Grid control systems 20 Penstock – Control centre 10 – Underground 99 – Communications/Control/Logging 10 – Underground pipeline 67 – Above ground pipeline 40 Electrical systems – Transformers 40 Gates, gratings, entrances, etc. – Generators 40 – Intake gates 50 – Auxiliary systems (switches, low-voltage systems) 25 – Dam gates 50 – Switchgear and other high-voltage systems 25 – Gratings 50 – Entrances 50 Periodic maintenance (interval) – Stream intakes 50 – Refurbishment of buildings 25 – Machinery – major service 20 Roads and bridges – Electrical systems – major service 20 – Roads/quays 67 – Bridges 50 Other assets Depreciation period (years) Power distribution networks – Sites Not depreciated Depreciation period (years) – Pipeline district heating 60 Regional power transmission grid: – Office buildings 50 – Power and ground cables 50 – Vehicles 8 – High-voltage power lines 40 – Fixtures and fittings 5 Grid control systems 20 – Office and IT equipment 3 Local power distribution network: – High-voltage lines and cables 50 – Low-voltage lines and cables 40 – Distribution substations 35 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 16 ASSOCIATES AND JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Agder Energi has various investments in associates and joint arrangements. Joint arrangements include joint ventures and joint operations. Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, whereas proportionate consolidation is used for investments in joint operations. Associates and joint ventures (accounted for using the equity method) (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Associates 24 20 Joint ventures 14 40 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 37 61 Profit from associates -9 -8 Profit from joint ventures -6 -23 Gain on disposals 7 115 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures -7 84 Breakdown of investments in associates: (Amounts in NOK million) Ownership Carrying amount Additions Disposals Consolidated share Carrying amount interest at 31/12/2015 of profit/loss at 31/12/2016 Otovo AS 18,6 % 0 5 0 0 5 Steinsvik Kraft AS 20,0 % 8 0 0 0 8 Skagerak Venture Capital I KS/GP KS 19,6 % 12 0 0 -2 10 NorthConnect KS/NorthConnect AS 22,3 % 0 7 0 -7 0 Others 0 0 -1 1 0 Total for associates 20 13 -1 -9 24 Breakdown of investments in joint ventures: (Amounts in NOK million) Ownership Carrying amount Additions Disposals Consolidated share Carrying amount interest at 31/12/2015 of profit/loss at 31/12/2016 Statkraft Agder Energi Vind DA 38,0 % 2 4 0 -1 4 Fosen Vind AS 20,9 % 38 17 -55 0 0 Grønn kontakt AS 42,0 % 0 13 0 -4 9 Total for joint ventures 40 35 -55 -6 14 In 2016 Fosen Vind sold its wind farm projects through an asset sale. The sale had no significant impact on Agder Energi’s income statement. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 64 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Joint operations (proportionate consolidation) Joint operations consist of power stations and water management associations. Agreements regulate key areas of cooperation, and the joint owners receive their respective shares of the electricity generated in return for covering an equivalent proportion of the expenses. The Group uses the proportional consolidation method to account for joint operations, and the Group’s share of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are consolidated on a pro-rata basis. Agder Energi is a joint owner of the following power stations and water management associations: Otra Kraft owns the Holen, Brokke and Skarg power stations on the River Otra. Otra Kraft is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft, which has a 68.6% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, which has a 31.4% interest, and is managed through the general meeting. The company has its head office at Rysstad in Valle. Ulla Førre is owned by Statkraft, Lyse Energi, Skagerak Energi, Haugaland kraftlag and Agder Energi Vannkraft. Agder Energi Vannkraft has a 6.0% ownership interest in Ulla Førre, which entitles it to an equivalent proportion of the power generated by the facility. The power station Finndøla kraftverk is 50:50 owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft and Skagerak Kraft. The power station Hekni kraftverk is a statutory co-ownership between Agder Energi Vannkraft, with a 66.67% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, with 33.33%. The co-ownership is managed through a steering committee. Agder Energi Vannkraft represents the co-ownership in dealings with third parties. The water management association Otteraaens Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skagerak Kraft and Vigelands Brug. The association is managed through its Board. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest, including its indirect interest through Otra Kraft, is approximately 73.8%. Otteraaens Brugseierforening has its business address in Valle. The water management association Arendals Vasdrags Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skafså Kraftverk, Skagerak Kraft and Arendals Fossekompani. The association is managed through a Board, and has its business address in Arendal. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest is approximately 52.2%. No single member can have more than 50% of the votes. Sira-Kvina is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft (12.2%), Lyse Produksjon (41.1%), Statkraft Energi (32.1%) and Skagerak Kraft (14.6%). It is managed through its Board. The company has its business address at Tonstad. Below there follows a summary of the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses at jointly controlled assets. The energy sales in the table do not represent actual revenues, and have instead been calculated by multiplying Agder Energi Vannkraft’s actual power generation by the average electricity price, and adding Agder Energi Vannkraft’s share of revenues from concession power. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Energy sales 983 845 Other operating revenues 5 6 Total operating revenues 988 851 Transmission expenses -53 -51 Energy purchases -12 -13 Property taxes and licence fees -26 -26 Depreciation -99 -94 Other operating expenses -77 -82 Total operating expenses -267 -266 Operating profit 721 585 Non-current assets 3 103 3 138 Current assets 74 84 Total assets 3 177 3 222 Other provisions -3 5 Current liabilities 70 63 Net assets 3 110 3 154 NOTE 17 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Investments in shares and ownership interests 12 14 Loans to associates and joint arrangements 7 7 Other receivables 1) 241 196 Pension assets 22 821 602 Total 1 081 819 1) The majority of the amount relates to a subordinated loan to Ventelo AS and a vendor credit in conjunction with the sale of the shares in Ventelo, as well as non-current trade receivables. The fair value of non-current financial assets is described in greater detail in notes 25 and 27. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 66 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 18 RECEIVABLES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Trade receivables 1 886 1 131 Bad debt provision 9 23 Total trade receivables 1 877 1 108 Accrued revenues 388 180 Prepaid expenses 61 74 Receivables from joint arrangements 10 26 Other receivables 173 66 Share of current assets at joint arrangements 64 58 Total receivables 2 573 1 512 Ageing analysis of trade receivables (Amounts in NOK millions) Not overdue 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days Over 90 days Total overdue overdue overdue overdue 2016 1 740 71 32 3 40 1 886 2015 985 70 33 6 37 1 131 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement 32 193 Cash and cash equivalents 491 276 Restricted assets (e.g. term deposits, tax withholding account and client assets) 20 4 Total 543 473 The parent company has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in the Group in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 52 million bank guarantee covering the parent company and subsidiaries has been used as security for tax deductions at source. NOTE 20 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The share capital is made up of Number Face value Share capital of shares (in NOK 000s) Share capital 2 700 000 670 1 809 000 Total 2 700 000 1 809 000 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR List of shareholders in Agder Energi AS Number of % of Number of % class Total number % of tot. Share class A shares class A shares class B shares B shares of shares number of shares capital Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 743 197 41,289 % 485 990 53,999 % 1 229 187 45,525 % 823 555 Arendal Municipality 115 017 6,390 % 57 507 6,390 % 172 524 6,390 % 115 591 Kristiansand Municipality 95 400 5,300 % 47 700 5,300 % 143 100 5,300 % 95 877 Grimstad Municipality 53 327 2,963 % 26 663 2,963 % 79 990 2,963 % 53 593 Flekkefjord Municipality 53 269 2,959 % 14 650 1,628 % 67 919 2,516 % 45 506 Lyngdal Municipality 49 745 2,764 % 13 680 1,520 % 63 425 2,349 % 42 495 Kvinesdal Municipality 49 254 2,736 % 13 545 1,505 % 62 799 2,326 % 42 075 Lillesand Municipality 40 901 2,272 % 20 450 2,272 % 61 351 2,272 % 41 105 Marnardal Municipality 44 500 2,472 % 12 238 1,360 % 56 738 2,101 % 38 014 Sirdal Municipality 43 845 2,436 % 12 057 1,340 % 55 902 2,070 % 37 454 Mandal Municipality 42 343 2,352 % 11 644 1,294 % 53 987 2,000 % 36 171 Vennesla Municipality 42 343 2,352 % 11 644 1,294 % 53 987 2,000 % 36 171 Froland Municipality 31 847 1,769 % 15 924 1,769 % 47 771 1,769 % 32 007 Søgne Municipality 33 601 1,867 % 9 240 1,027 % 42 841 1,587 % 28 703 Evje og Hornnes Municipality 27 511 1,528 % 13 756 1,528 % 41 267 1,528 % 27 649 Songdalen Municipality 31 689 1,761 % 8 714 0,968 % 40 403 1,496 % 27 070 Lindesnes Municipality 31 470 1,748 % 8 654 0,962 % 40 124 1,486 % 26 883 Hægebostad Municipality 28 776 1,599 % 7 913 0,879 % 36 689 1,359 % 24 582 Farsund Municipality 27 502 1,528 % 7 563 0,840 % 35 065 1,299 % 23 494 Birkenes Municipality 22 679 1,260 % 11 340 1,260 % 34 019 1,260 % 22 793 Åmli Municipality 21 921 1,218 % 10 960 1,218 % 32 881 1,218 % 22 030 Risør Municipality 21 052 1,170 % 10 525 1,169 % 31 577 1,170 % 21 157 Valle Municipality 20 327 1,129 % 10 164 1,129 % 30 491 1,129 % 20 429 Bygland Municipality 19 995 1,111 % 9 998 1,111 % 29 993 1,111 % 20 095 Iveland Municipality 19 155 1,064 % 9 578 1,064 % 28 733 1,064 % 19 251 Tvedestrand Municipality 19 066 1,059 % 9 533 1,059 % 28 599 1,059 % 19 161 Åseral Municipality 21 776 1,210 % 5 988 0,665 % 27 764 1,028 % 18 602 Vegårshei Municipality 14 553 0,809 % 7 277 0,809 % 21 830 0,809 % 14 626 Bykle Municipality 13 232 0,735 % 6 616 0,735 % 19 848 0,735 % 13 298 Gjerstad Municipality 12 423 0,690 % 6 211 0,690 % 18 634 0,690 % 12 485 Audnedal Municipality 8 284 0,460 % 2 278 0,253 % 10 562 0,391 % 7 077 Total 1 800 000 100 % 900 000 100 % 2 700 000 100 % 1 809 000 The NOK 1,809 million of share capital is made up of class A and class B shares. Class A shares can only be owned by shareholders who meet the conditions for being allocated indefinite waterfall licences under the relevant current legislation. Class B shares are freely negotiable. In all other respects, class A and class B shares have equal rights. The company has entered into an industrial collaboration agreement with its biggest shareholder, Statkraft Industrial Holding AS. There is also a shareholders’ agreement between the shareholders in the company. The company has a corporate assembly with 15 members, who are elected for a two-year term. The proposed dividend payout for 2016 comes to NOK 607 million in total, equivalent to NOK 225 per share. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 68 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 21 PROVISIONS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Pension liabilities 22 303 296 Other non-current provisions 1 473 1 052 Total 1 776 1 348 Breakdown of other non-current provisions (Amounts in NOK million) Supply of free Supply of free Cash-settled Unearned revenue, Other provisions 4) Total electricity and electricity and contracts 3) customer compensation 1) compensation 2) contributions Carrying amount at 01/01/2015 592 200 77 98 93 1 060 Unrealised gains and losses -61 0 -34 0 0 -95 New provisions 0 9 0 90 13 112 Provisions used 0 0 0 -4 -21 -25 Carrying amount at 31/12/2015 531 209 43 184 85 1 052 Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 531 209 43 184 85 1 052 Unrealised gains and losses 118 0 -18 0 0 100 New provisions 0 7 0 142 199 348 Provisions used 0 0 0 -7 -20 -27 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 649 216 25 319 264 1 473 1) Perpetual obligations to supply free electricity that are presented as financial instruments at fair value in accordance with IAS 39, as they can be settled in cash. Also see notes 25 and 27. 2) Perpetual obligations to supply free electricity and pay compensation that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37. These obligations to supply free electricity cannot be settled in cash. Compensation involves annual cash payments that are adjusted by inflation every five years. 3) Non-current cash-settled contracts measured in accordance with IAS 39. Also see notes 25 and 27. 4) Mainly relates to a provision in conjunction with the sale of Fosen Vind DA. NOTE 22 PENSIONS The Group’s pension plans For employees taken on before 1 April 2007, the Group has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Employees taken on after 1 April 2007, as well as employees at companies outside Norway, are part of a defined contribution pension plan. The Group’s pension plans satisfy the requirements laid down in the Act on Mandatory Occupational Pensions. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees in Norway, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on their number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Provisions for pension liabilities in the pension plan are calculated using a linear accumulation model based on methods and assumptions that comply with the relevant current accounting standard. All remeasurements that arise over the course of the financial year are presented under other comprehensive income in the ­statement of comprehensive income. Changes in defined benefit pension plan liabilities arising from changes to plan arrangements (past service cost), are recognised directly in profit or loss. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 December. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December were estimated by the Group’s management in December. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company pension plan; see Note 32. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Defined contribution pension plan Employees taken on after 1 April 2007 are entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees covered by a public pension plan have an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, which like all such schemes set up from 2011 onwards does not receive a government subsidy. The Group is therefore fully liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. When calculating the pension liability, it has been assumed that there will be a 100% take-up of the early-retirement scheme by the age of 64 and a half. For accounting purposes, employees start accruing early-retirement pension rights on reaching the age of 50 or on joining the Group, whichever is later. Employees in Norway covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme, which from 2011 onwards means a lifelong supplement to their retirement pensions from the National Insurance Scheme. This AFP scheme is partly funded by contributions made by the employer. The state covers the remaining 33% of the cost. The AFP scheme is considered a defined benefit plan, but for the moment it is being accounted for as a defined contribution plan. In 2016, the annual contribution to the scheme was 2.5% (2015: 2.4%) of qualifying pay between 1 and 7.1 times the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) for each employee covered by the scheme. Actuarial assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The discount rate is based on the interest rate on covered bonds. The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are consistent with the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of 31 December 2016. The Group uses the latest version of the Norwegian life tables (GAP 07) for its estimates of life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. Extracts from the actuarial tables are reproduced below. This table shows life expectancy and the probability that an employee in a given age bracket will suffer disability or die within a year. Age Disability risk in % Mortality risk in % Life expectancy Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman 20 0,07 0,07 0,01 0,01 86 90 40 0,22 0,22 0,06 0,04 85 89 60 2,16 2,59 0,45 0,33 84 88 80 5,66 2,97 88 90 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 70 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows Current service cost 50 64 Interest expense on net pension liabilities -8 7 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 7 9 Employee contributions -6 -6 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans 43 73 Private AFP scheme including employers’ NICs 5 6 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 33 30 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement 7 82 109 Pension liabilities and pension plan assets Change in gross pension liabilities Gross pension liabilities at 1 Jan. 1 886 2 348 Current service cost (incl. emp. NICs) 57 73 Interest cost 46 66 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -69 -82 Remeasurements -69 -519 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. (incl. emp. NICs) 1 852 1 886 Breakdown of defined benefit pension liabilities Funded pension liabilities 1 565 1 599 Unfunded pension liabilities 287 287 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 1 852 1 886 Change in gross pension plan assets Fair value of pension plan assets at 1 Jan. 2 192 2 071 Expected return on pension plan assets 54 59 Remeasurements 121 -32 Pension contributions 57 149 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -56 -54 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 2 369 2 192 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) at 31 Dec. -517 -306 Net pension assets recognised on statement of financial position 17 821 602 Pension liabilities recognised on statement of financial position 21 303 296 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) recognised at 31 Dec. -517 -306 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Change in net defined benefit pension liabilities Net defined benefit pension liabilities at 1 Jan. -306 277 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 43 73 Company net contributions incl. employers’ NICs -59 -164 Benefit payments on unfunded pension plans -4 -6 Remeasurements -190 -487 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) recognised at 31 Dec. -517 -306 Remeasurements are made up of Changes in demographic assumptions -54 -136 Changes in financial assumptions -15 -384 Excess return on assets -121 32 Total remeasurements included in statement of comprehensive income -191 -487 The remeasurements in 2016 were mainly due to an excess return on pension plan assets. There was also a slight change in the number of people covered by the scheme. Sensitivity analysis for a +/0.5% percentage point change in the discount rate Increase in pension liabilities if the discount rate falls 123 158 Fall in pension liabilities if the discount rate rises -114 -141 The sensitivity analysis only looks at potential changes in the discount rate, as it is the only parameter considered to have a significant impact on recognised pension liabilities. Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. Discount rate 2,60 % 2,50 % Annual wage growth 2,50 % 2,25 % Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (”G”) 2,25 % 2,25 % Annual indexing of pensions 1,50 % 1,50 % Expected average remaining years of service (funded) 8,2 years 8,7 years Expected average remaining years of service (unfunded) 5,6 years 5,9 years Retirement age: 64.5 years on average for both years. Assumptions used to calculate the pension expense for the year Discount rate 2,50 % 3,00 % Annual wage growth 2,25 % 3,00 % Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (”G”) 2,25 % 3,00 % Annual indexing of pensions 1,50 % 2,25 % Distribution of pension plan assets by investment category at 31 Dec. Property funds 12 % 12 % Interest-bearing financial instruments 34 % 38 % Shares 33 % 39 % Hedge funds 21 % 11 % Total 100 % 100 % Pension plan assets consist of instruments traded on a stock exchange or funds that publish daily prices. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 72 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Number of people covered by the pension plans Defined benefit plan: current employees 430 466 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 1 198 1 170 Defined contribution plan: current and temporary employees 957 791 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 328 369 NOTE 23 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Bonds 4 859 5 336 Liabilities to financial institutions 2 328 1 944 Other interest-bearing non-current liabilities 5 4 Total 7 192 7 284 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper 850 550 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 14 0 Current portion of non-current liabilities (principal repayments due within one year) 1 087 1 195 Total 1 951 1 745 The fair value of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities is described in Note 25. All of the above statement of financial position items are carried at amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39. Note 28 sets out further details of interest rates, durations, liquidity risk, credit facilities, etc. Some loans form part of hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39. See Note 29 for a more detailed description. NOTE 24 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Trade payables 662 399 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 517 355 Share of non-current liabilities at joint arrangements 70 63 Other current liabilities 1 115 553 Total 2 364 1 370 NOTE 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments constitute a significant proportion of Agder Energi’s total assets, and they have a big impact on the Group’s financial position and results. The majority of the financial instruments are used in energy trading or as financial hedges. Within energy trading, financial instruments are used as part of a hedging strategy. When managing the Group’s exposure to risks associated with future electricity prices and exchange rates, these instruments are viewed together with future physical trading; see Note 28. Physical energy trading is only recognised in the financial statements when the energy is supplied/bought, whereas energy and currency derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Large volumes of these derivatives, can therefore cause great volatility in the Group’s reported statement of financial position and net income, without it reflecting the overall financial results. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Financial instruments in the finance area mainly consist of loans and interest rate swaps. When managing the Group’s interest rate risk, these two types of financial instruments are assessed together, and they are also viewed in the context of the Group’s other interest rate risks; see Note 28. In the financial statements, loans are measured at amortised cost, whereas interest rate swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This can cause fluctuations in the Group’s reported profit or loss, without it reflecting its overall financial performance. There are some minor exceptions to this asymmetrical treatment; see Note 29 on accounting hedges. In order to highlight the unrealised impact of these electricity, currency and interest rate contracts, their values and changes in value are presented on separate lines in the statement of financial position and income statement. The table below shows the carrying amount and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments, with the exception of trade debtors and payables, whose carrying amounts are almost identical to their fair values. (Amounts in NOK millions) Note Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value 2016 2016 2015 2015 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives 26 1 350 1 350 2 544 2 544 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1 350 1 350 2 544 2 544 Available-for-sale assets Number of shares 17 12 12 14 14 Total available-for-sale assets 12 12 14 14 Loans and receivables at amortised cost Loans to associates 17 7 7 7 7 Other non-current receivables 17 241 241 196 196 Cash and cash equivalents 19 543 543 473 473 Total loans and receivables at amortised cost 791 791 676 676 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Non-current liabilities, obligation to provide free electricity and pay compensation 21 649 649 531 531 Non-current liabilities for electricity contracts measured at fair value 21 25 25 43 43 Derivatives 26 671 671 924 924 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1 345 1 345 1 498 1 498 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bonds 23 5 952 6 050 6 343 6 318 Liabilities to financial institutions 23 2 328 2 376 2 136 2 214 Commercial paper 23 850 850 550 550 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 23 14 14 0 0 Total financial liabilities at amortised cost 9 144 9 290 9 029 9 082 NOTE 26 DERIVATIVES Agder Energi has both independent derivatives (simply referred to as derivatives) and embedded derivatives. Agder Energi has some contracts for physical energy sales that are settled in euros. The contractual obligation to supply electricity is met using electricity generated by the Group, so the contracts do not fall within the scope of IAS 39. However, the fact that AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 74 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR the contracts are settled in euros means that they contain an embedded foreign currency derivative. Under the criteria set out in IAS 39, the foreign currency derivatives are not closely related to the electricity contract. They are therefore separated from the contracts for physical delivery and measured at fair value. In the table below, derivatives with positive and negative fair values are shown separately by portfolio. The portfolios are described in greater detail in Note 28. The figures for energy derivatives are the accounting values of contracts which, under the criteria set out in IAS 39, fall within the definition of financial instruments. Power contracts for physical delivery that qualify for the own use exemption under IAS 39 are not defined as financial instruments. There are therefore significant discrepancies between accounting values and underlying financial values, as the portfolios contain both contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39 and ones that do not. A small proportion of the Group’s interest rate derivatives are designated as accounting hedges; see Note 29 on accounting hedges. Agder Energi offers several managed electricity trading products to the retail market. With these products, Agder Energi supplies physical electricity to a portfolio of customers, on whose behalf it actively trades electricity through NASDAQ (the marketplace for cash-settled electricity futures). These NASDAQ positions are measured symmetrically. In other words, Agder Energi recognises equivalent contracts with respect to the retail customers covered by the electricity trading products, but with the opposite exposure of the NASDAQ positions. This symmetrical treatment means that these financial positions do not have any impact on Agder Energi’s income statement, but it does result in an increase in total assets, as the gross value of derivatives on the statement of financial position rises. At the end of 2016, the Group had derivatives worth NOK 117 (5) million that were assets in relation to NASDAQ and liabilities in relation to customers. Similarly, it had derivatives worth NOK 14 (203) million that were assets in relation to customers and liabilities in relation to NASDAQ. (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Derivative assets (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 424 966 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 35 0 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 397 651 Interest rate swaps 28 314 Total derivatives 884 1 931 Derivative assets (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 139 544 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 48 69 Interest rate swaps 279 0 Total derivatives 466 613 Derivative liabilities (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 109 4 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 33 303 Interest rate swaps 323 401 Total derivatives 465 708 Derivative liabilities (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 135 4 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 71 212 Total derivatives 206 216 * Includes both the portfolio of financial production hedges and the retail customer portfolio. One of the main reasons for the fall in the value of cash-settled electricity contracts is that some of these contracts were converted from forwards into futures in 2016. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 27 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The below table sets out to what extent observable market data are used to value financial instruments measured at fair value. The financial instruments have been broken down into the various categories used by the Group for classification purposes. (Amounts in NOK million) Note Total Level 1* Level 2** Level 3*** 2016 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value**** 26 1 350 0 905 445 Shares and ownership interests 17 12 0 0 12 Total assets 1 362 0 905 457 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 649 0 0 649 Cash-settled contracts 21 25 0 0 25 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value**** 26 671 0 601 70 Total liabilities 1 345 0 601 744 2015 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value**** 26 2 544 0 1 824 720 Shares and ownership interests 17 14 3 0 11 Total assets 2 558 3 1 824 731 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 531 0 0 531 Cash-settled contracts 21 43 0 0 43 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value**** 26 924 0 924 0 Total liabilities 1 498 0 924 574 * Level 1 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which can be determined from market prices in an active market. ** Level 2 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that only uses market data as its inputs. *** Level 3 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that does not only use market data as its inputs. In 2016 the Group recognised a net loss of NOK 446 million on level 3 financial instruments. **** Consist of listed derivatives, embedded derivatives in electricity contracts, cash settled electricity contracts and electricity contracts with physical delivery measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 39 Level 3 assets and liabilities at fair value* (Amounts in NOK million) Shares and Supply of free Electricity contracts Cash-settled Total ownership interests electricity and measured contracts compensation at fair value Opening balance at 01/01/2016 11 -531 720 -43 157 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss 0 -118 -346 18 -446 Additions 1 0 0 0 1 Closing balance at 31/12/2016 12 -649 374 -25 -288 * Liabilities are shown with a minus sign. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 76 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR FAIR VALUE OF ENERGY DERIVATIVES In measuring the fair value of energy derivatives, the following parameters and assumptions have been applied: Electricity prices Listed derivatives and other bilateral contracts are measured using a smooth forward curve based on the final price on the statement of financial position date. The prices used are discounted. Agder Energi has a number of perpetual supply contracts (compensation power), which are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. The market value of these contracts has been calculated based on a 200 year term. NASDAQ market prices are applied for the first five years. For subsequent periods, best estimates of future prices are used. Foreign currency For contracts quoted in foreign currency, the calculation for the first five years is based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period and the associated forward exchange rates. For subsequent periods separate exchange rate assumptions are used. Commodities For certain electricity contracts, the contract price is linked to the prices of various commodities. Valuations are based on the forward prices on the relevant commodity exchanges. If there are no quoted prices for the relevant time period, the commodity prices are inflation-adjusted from the last quoted market price. Green electricity certificates Contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity certificates that do not qualify for the own use exemption under IAS 39 are measured at fair value. Valuations are based on forward prices. For contracts with terms that run beyond the period for which market prices are available, a risk discount is applied to the available forward prices. CO2 CO2 contracts are valued using the forward price of emission quotas (EUAs) on NASDAQ and ICE. Interest rates Energy derivatives are discounted by the market interest rate curve (swap curve). For the purpose of discounting perpetual supply contracts related to compensation power, a risk-adjusted nominal interest rate is used. FAIR VALUE OF CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES Interest rate swaps, currency swaps and currency forwards Interest rate and currency swaps, as well as currency forwards (including embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts), are valued by discounting future cash flows to their present value. Expected cash flows are calculated and discounted by looking at the observed market interest rates on the various currencies (swap curves) and the observed exchange rates, which are used to derive forward exchange rates. Where possible, the estimated present values are checked against the equivalent calculations carried out by the counterparties to the contracts. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Agder Energi’s business activities expose it to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. There follows a more detailed description of these risks, and of how they are managed. MARKET RISK Market risk primarily consists of electricity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk. Risk management at Agder Energi focuses on entire portfolios of contracts, and not specifically on contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39. There are internal guidelines on exposure to market risk, for both the hedging and trading portfolios. Agder Energi’s back and middle office staff have been given responsibility for continuously monitoring compliance with limits on risk exposure. Trading in both cash-settled and physical contracts is monitored systematically and reported regularly, both to senior management and to the Group’s risk management section. MARKET RISK ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY PRICES Power generation portfolio Agder Energi’s hydroelectric power generation business is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in prices and volumes, as both future prices and precipitation levels are unknown. The power generation portfolio aims to manage the market risks associated with power generation. The net exposure of the portfolio at any given time consists of expected future power generation, purchase and sale commitments under long-term physical contracts, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. Bilateral financial contracts are only used to a limited extent. Agder Energi enters into contracts and trades various cash-settled instruments in order to secure its revenues from electricity sales. This helps to stabilise revenues from one year to another, which is considered desirable on account of the great uncertainty surrounding electricity prices. Hedging activities take into account both the Group’s risk profile and expected electricity prices. For risk management purposes, cash-settled and physical contracts are considered together. The physical contracts in the portfolio comprise contracts concluded on normal commercial terms, contracts to supply concession power and various contracts to supply free power and compensation power. The durations of the commercial contracts vary, but they all expire by the end of 2030. The Group has perpetual agreements to supply compensation power, and the contracts to supply concession power are also perpetual. These perpetual contracts cover less than ten percent of the Group’s mean electricity generation. Retail customer portfolio The retail market covers the sale of electricity to consumers in Norway, and to state-owned entities and private companies throughout the Nordic region. It includes both contracts for physical delivery and cash-settled contracts. Contracts for physical delivery are based on spot prices or prices that have been fixed for varying lengths of time. When the retail business has agreed a fixed price with a customer for a specific length of time, this creates an electricity price risk. This risk is hedged by using cashsettled contracts with Nasdaq or other bilateral counterparties within or outside the Group. The retail customer portfolios are exposed to volume and market timing risks, as many of the physical fixed-price contracts are flexible in terms of the volumes delivered. Based on experience, knowledge of normal seasonal variation and knowledge of other specific issues that affect end users’ electricity consumption, Agder Energi calculates the volumes likely to be consumed, and which consequently need to be hedged. Limits have been set on the maximum unhedged exposure to price and volume risk. Management is kept informed of the exposure level relative to the specified limits. With many of our business customers we have contracts to provide management and electricity trading products that reflect their expected actual electricity consumption. This involves entering into cash-settled contracts with retail customers based on backto-back contracts on NASDAQ or contracts with other bilateral counterparties. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 78 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The net exposure of the retail portfolio at any given time consists of sale contracts with prices that are fixed for varying lengths of time, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. The vast majority of the contracts expire in less than three years, but there are some contracts with longer terms. The portfolio shall minimise electricity price risk and hedge the value of future revenues from this area. The retail portfolio maintains a net long position in cash-settled contracts. Trading portfolios Agder Energi has various trading portfolios which are managed independently of its expected power generation. All trading contracts are measured at fair value. VaR calculations are the most important tool used to manage the risk exposures arising from these portfolios. The financial exposure at any given time is limited in relation to the power generation portfolio. Electricity trading authorisations are expressed in terms of limits on potential losses. At an operating level, risk management focuses on minimising any losses. Electricity price sensitivity Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities at fair value in the event of electricity price fluctuations (Amounts in NOK million) Change in electricity prices -10 % 10 % Total impact on profit before tax 198 -198 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 10% decrease/increase in forward electricity prices. The analysis only covers assets and liabilities measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 39. MARKET RISK – CURRENCY Agder Energi is exposed to currency risk through its electricity generation business and retail business. The biggest exposure to currency risk arises from physical electricity sales by the electricity generation business. Nord Pool Spot contracts are settled in euros, and Agder Energi has also entered into long-term contracts to sell electricity that are payable in euros. In addition, currency risk arises as a result of financial trading on NASDAQ OMX being settled in euros. Exposure to currency risk arising from electricity generation over the coming years is hedged in accordance with adopted limits on risk exposure. Exchange rate hedging can be done separately from electricity price hedging. At the retail business, currency risk arises if retail customers are invoiced in a different currency from the one used to buy physical and cash-settled contracts for electricity, guarantees of origin and electricity certificates. This currency risk is hedged through banks or the parent company and is managed at Group level. An independent risk management section is responsible for checking that trading in foreign exchange instruments adheres to the adopted strategies and limits on risk exposure. The table below shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 5% decrease/increase in the NOK/EUR exchange rate. A decrease is taken to mean the Norwegian krone strengthening in relation to the euro. The analysis covers changes in the value of currency futures, basis swaps, foreign currency loans, electricity derivatives, long-term contracts to sell electricity measured at fair value under IAS 39 and embedded derivatives within long-term physical contracts. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities in the event of exchange rate fluctuations (Amounts in NOK million) Change in exchange rate (NOK/EUR) 5% 5% Total impact on profit before tax -123 123 MARKET RISK – INTEREST RATES The vast majority of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises from its debt portfolio. The Group also has an offsetting exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the deductible interest rate for resource rent purposes, and through the reference interest rate applied to the income cap on its grid operating business. Interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired exposure to interest rates within the Group’s debt portfolio. The fixed interest period is set by using fixed-interest loans and interest rate derivatives. Sensitivity to interest rates is measured by modified duration within a defined period of 1 to 5 years. Average duration at the close of the year was 3.75 years. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. It is based around making use of the Group’s natural interest rate hedges, such as the income cap on its grid operating business and the deductible interest rate used to calculate the resource rent tax payable by the power generation business. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured. Current exposure to interest rate risk in relation to the limit specified in the finance strategy is reported monthly to the CFO. Interest rate exposure is also reported to the Group’s Board of Directors in the risk report. Impact on profit of interest rate fluctuations (Amounts in NOK millions) Change in interest rates -1 percentage point +1 percentage point Impact on interest expense (indicates higher expense) 70 -70 Gains and losses on interest rate swaps recognised in profit or loss -200 180 Total impact on profit before tax -130 110 Gains and losses on hedging instruments, cash flow hedges -78 70 Total impact on comprehensive income (before tax) -208 180 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by a parallel 1% increase/decrease in the yield curve. It also shows the impact on other comprehensive income as a result of certain interest rate derivatives being designated as cash flow hedges. All impacts are shown before tax. The analysis only covers interest-bearing liabilities measured at amortised cost under IAS 39 and interest rate derivatives. Breakdown of interest rates by currency 2016 2015 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 3,3 % 3,4 % Nominal average interest rate, euros 2,3 % 3,0 % Fixed-interest periods within loan portfolio (Amounts in NOK millions) 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total NOK-denominated loans 1 338 -319 2 739 3 758 Euro-denominated loans 415 -277 1 523 1 661 Total 1 753 -595 4 262 5 420 The above table shows the volume of loans with fixed-interest periods of more than one year. A negative number implies an increase in hedged volume. The table includes both the face value of fixed-interest loans and the face value of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 80 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a party to a cash-settled or physical trade will cause his counterparty to incur a loss by failing to fulfil his obligations. Agder Energi takes on counterparty risk by selling and distributing electricity, and by selling other goods and services. The trading of financial instruments also gives rise to counterparty risk. The majority of cash-settled electricity contracts are cleared through NASDAQ. For these contracts, there is assumed to be little counterparty risk. For all other electricity contracts, the maximum exposure to any individual counterparty is determined based on an internal credit rating. The credit rating is based on information such as key financial figures. Counterparties are then grouped in various risk classes, each of which is allocated a maximum exposure level. Bilateral contracts are subject to limits on exposure to individual counterparties, both in terms of value and duration. In order to limit credit risk, bank guarantees are sometimes demanded when a contract is signed. Parent company guarantees are also used. In those cases, the parent company is assessed and classified in the normal way. Agder Energi has good procedures for ensuring that outstanding receivables are paid on time. An ageing analysis of customers is continuously monitored. Historically Agder Energi’s losses on its receivables have been low. The maximum credit risk arising from energy derivatives is virtually identical to the carrying amount on the statement of financial position. For energy derivatives, the credit risk associated with all contracts traded through NASDAQ is limited by the fact that counterparties provide cash collateral or bank guarantees. For bilateral contracts, including long-term electricity contracts with industrial customers, there is not normally any such security. LIQUIDITY RISK Agder Energi is exposed to liquidity risk arising from the fact that its liabilities do not mature at the same time as when cash flows are generated, as well as from variations in margin requirements on futures traded through NASDAQ. Agder Energi manages this risk through liquidity forecasts and simulations, as well as by establishing minimum liquidity requirements. To protect itself against refinancing risk, Agder Energi has set up NOK 1,000 million of credit facilities with banks. This amount is big enough to provide sufficient time to set up alternative financing arrangements. These facilities were unused at the end of the year. The capital markets consider Agder Energi to be a low-risk borrower, and the Group has good access to credit. Liquidity risk is assessed regularly, and the Group finance department is responsible for ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity in relation to its finance strategy. Key figures relating to liquidity risk are included in the Group’s risk report to the Board of Directors. Targets have been established for the minimum remaining term to maturity of the debt portfolio, the minimum proportion of loans maturing within a year covered by credit facilities with banks, the minimum liquidity reserve and the use of bank guarantees in relation to electricity trading. Maturity structure of liabilities (Amounts in NOK millions) Due in Due in Due in Due in Due in Due after Unspecified 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2021 maturity Bonds and liabilities to financial institutions 1 379 942 1 332 1 355 1 069 2 198 0 Commercial paper and overdraft facility 864 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interest payments 247 206 172 142 122 483 0 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2 490 1 148 1 504 1 497 1 191 2 681 0 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 163 53 9 0 7 2 997 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 2 364 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 527 53 9 0 7 2 997 Total 5 017 1 201 1 513 1 497 1 198 2 683 997 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Breakdown of loans by currency (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 NOK-denominated loans * 6 370 7 408 Euro-denominated loans 2 769 1 617 Total 9 139 9 025 * The Group has issued a bond with a face value of USD 100 million. The bond is presented under NOK-denominated loans, as the Group has used currency swaps to ensure that it has no exposure to USD exchange rates arising from the loan. See Note 29 on accounting hedges. The Group has 198 million euros of euro-denominated loans. In addition, Agder Energi has used basis swaps to convert NOK 1,000 million of loans into 107 million euros of euro-denominated loans. This is reflected in the above table. The fair value of the swaps at the end of 2016 was NOK 14 million, which was included under derivatives on the statement of financial position; see Note 26. Basis swaps are contracts to swap principal and interest payments between currencies. When the contract expires, the principal is swapped back to the original currency using the exchange rate when the contract was signed. Euro-denominated loans are used as cash flow hedges to secure future cash flows in euros, but hedge accounting is not used. Credit facilities with banks The parent company has a long-term NOK 1,000 million committed facility with a bank to back-stop its short-term borrowing programme in the event of problems in financial markets. The parent company has also set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. At the close of the year, the Group had NOK 1,500 million in total in unused credit facilities. NOTE 29 ACCOUNTING HEDGES Agder Energi has various interest swaps linked to specific loans that serve as cash flow hedges, i.e. they are variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps. The face value of the hedged items is 65 million euros. Beyond this, the Group has two basis swaps that qualify as accounting hedges. The Group has issued a 7-year, USD-denominated fixed-interest bond, which matures in 2017. In relation to this, it has entered into swap agreements which see it receive fixed USD interest payments, and make a combination of fixed and variable NOK interest payments. From an accounting point of view, these swaps are considered to be fair value hedges, which swap a fixed interest rate with payments in USD to a floating interest rate with payments in NOK. For one of these swaps, the Group receives fixed interest payments in USD and pays fixed interest payments in NOK. For accounting purposes, this swap is considered to be partly a swap from a fixed interest rate with payments in USD to a floating rate with payments in NOK, with this part of the swap being designated a fair value hedge. In addition, it is considered to be a swap from a floating rate with payments in NOK to a fixed rate with payments in NOK, and this part of the swap is designated a cash flow hedge. In addition to the above, until the end of 2013 Agder Energi had designated 168 million euros worth of loans as cash flow hedges of highly probable future revenues from electricity sales. As of 2014, Agder Energi decided not to meet the documentation requirements in relation to accounting for these foreign currency loans as hedges. Consequently, hedge accounting was discontinued for these loans as of 2014. Unrealised foreign exchange losses on the loans that arose during the period of hedge accounting will be reversed through profit or loss in the same period as the hedged electricity sales are recognised. For its other financial hedging relationships, the Group does not satisfy the extensive documentation requirements specified in the IFRS rules on hedge accounting. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 82 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Amounts in NOK million 2016 2015 Fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 285 321 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges -99 -103 Total fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments 186 218 Fair value hedges Gains/losses on derivatives used as fair value hedges -37 132 Gains/losses on hedged items in fair value hedges, hedged risk 37 -132 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 Cash flow hedges Gains/losses recognised in statement of comprehensive income 5 8 Reclassified to profit or loss 17 0 Total gains and losses on hedging instruments recognised in statement of comprehensive income 21 8 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 NOTE 30 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS has no mortgage debt. Subsidiaries held NOK 1 million in mortgage debt. In addition, NOK 27 million of lease liabilities are classified as financial leases and hence included on the statement of financial position. Liabilities and guarantees issued Agder Energi has no covenants relating to financial key figures in its loan agreements. Agder Energi’s loan agreements do contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi has NOK 589 million in off-balance bank guarantees. NOK 163 million of this relates to a cash-settled power e ­ xchange agreement, NOK 52 million to electricity trading, NOK 52 million to tax deducted at source, NOK 145 million mainly to an internal guarantee for transmission tariffs passed on to customers and NOK 177 million to contractual guarantees. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 8 million in relation to subsidiaries’ external liabilities. Contractual obligations At any given time the Group has several ongoing investment projects that involve obligations to fulfil contracts with subcontractors. The Group also has obligations arising from its ownership interests in joint arrangements and water management associations; cf. Note 16. Agder Energi Varme has entered into a long-term contract to buy heating energy from the municipally-owned enterprise Returkraft. The contract, which runs for 20 years with an optional extension, commits Agder Energi Varme to buying an agreed volume from Returkraft’s waste-to-energy plant in Kristiansand from 2010 onwards. Since 2010, Agder Energi has had its head office in leased premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. It has signed a 15+5-year lease on the building with the lessor KN Kjøita AS. The companies in the Otera Group mainly occupy leased premises. In addition, several companies in the Group have leased cars. NOK 83 million was expensed in relation to these leases in 2016. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 31 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD Agder Energi’s operations are extensive, and it can therefore get involved in major and minor disputes from time to time. Contingent liabilities Tax The Central Tax Office for Large Enterprises has questioned the tax treatment of one of Agder Energi Vannkraft’s contracts to supply free electricity in the period since 2011. The company has commented on, and responded to, the tax office’s preliminary evaluation. If the tax office’s interpretation of the tax rules were to be applied, there would be little immediate impact on the Group’s income statement. On account of negative resource rent carryforwards, there would also be little immediate impact on cash flows. However, in the future it could increase the Group’s tax expense and reduce its cash flows by NOK 5-10 million per year. Final payment for construction of power station The Brokke Nord/Sør and Skarg power station hydroelectric project was completed in May 2014. Otra Kraft DA was the client for the project. The project was executed by two main contractors. One of the main contractors was responsible for the water transfer systems at Brokke Sør. The other main contractor was responsible for the construction of Skarg power station, the water transfer systems to the upper reservoir for Skarg power station and Sarvsfoss dam. Otra Kraft, in which Agder Energi holds a 68.6 percent ownership interest, was in December 2015 sued by the main contractor responsible for the construction of Skarg power station, the water transfer systems to the upper reservoir for Skarg power station and Sarvsfoss dam. The total contract value of this part of the project was NOK 472 million. The dispute over the final payment due was heard by the district court at the start of 2017, and the contractor claimed an additional payment of NOK 158 million. The district court is expected to issue a decision in April 2017. Otra Kraft considers that the main contractor has received the full amount that he is entitled to. Based on this assessment, no provision has been made for this case in Agder Energi’s 2016 financial statements. If the main contractor’s suit were to be successful, Agder Energi’s share of the project cost would increase by approximately NOK 108 million. Events after the end of the reporting period In 2017 Agder Energi has sold all of the shares in Otera XP. In 2016 the company made an operating profit of NOK 9 million on turnover of NOK 133 million. The disposal will result in a small accounting gain in 2017. NOTE 32 MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. Board of Directors The compensation of the Board of Directors and Corporate Assembly for 2016 was NOK 1,106,600 and NOK 17,200 respectively. The equivalent figures in 2015 were NOK 967,500 and NOK 16,000 respectively. The Board members are not entitled to any special termination benefits such as bonuses, profit-sharing or options. All of the stated figures exclude employers’ NICs. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 84 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Board of Directors (Amounts in NOK) Directors’ fees Board meetings attended Lars Erik Torjussen, chair 229 165 9 Tine Sundtoft, deputy chair* 99 169 4 Jill Heidi Eklund Akselsen* 87 919 6 Bente Z. Rist, Board member** 45 830 2 Leif Atle Beisland, Board member 131 250 9 Steinar Bysveen, Board member*** 0 7 Steinar Asbjørnsen, Board member*** 0 9 Marit Grimsbo, Board member*** 0 7 Siw Linnea Poulsson, Board member*** 0 9 Johan Ekeland, employee representative 110 000 8 Øyvind Østensen, employee representative 110 000 9 Gro Granås, employee representative 110 000 8 Tore Kvarsnes, employee representative 110 000 9 * Joined the Board in June 2016. ** Left the Board in June 2016. *** Employees of Statkraft are not paid Directors’ fees. In 2016, the audit committee appointed by the Board received NOK 15,000 in fees. In 2016, Board members’ deputies received NOK 73,281 in fees. None of the Board members received compensation from any other companies in the Group, with the exception of the employee representatives, who receive salaries for their ordinary jobs. Their compensation as Agder Energi employees is not included in the above figures. No Board members have any loans from the company. Senior management team (Amounts in NOK 000s) Basic salary Bonus 2) Other Total taxable Pension ­benefits 1) income expense Tom Nysted – CEO 3 133 139 3 272 777 Pernille K. Gulowsen – CFO 1 775 111 1 886 528 Steffen Syvertsen – Business Area Director, Marketing and Business Development 1 974 715 118 2 807 75 Frank Håland – Director of HR and Shared Services 1 776 111 1 887 75 Jan Tønnessen – Business Area Director, Hydroelectric Power 1 776 111 1 887 81 Edvard Lauen – Business Area Director, Energy Management 2 236 131 2 367 617 1) Other benefits include mileage allowance, mobile phones and other minor benefits. A flat in Kristiansand has been made available to the CEO. 2) Bonus paid out in 2016. This amount includes holiday pay that will be received in 2017. Loans/guarantees issued and share option schemes No members of the senior management team have been granted loans or had guarantees issued on their behalf by Agder Energi. Agder Energi does not have any share option schemes for management or other employees. Bonuses and pension plans The Business Area Director for Marketing and Business Development is entitled to a bonus worth up to four months’ gross basic salary based on an assessment of the results achieved against defined goals. The rest of the senior management team have no bonus agreements for 2016. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The CEO has a pension plan that allows him to retire at the age of 67 with a pension equivalent to 66% of his qualifying salary. The qualifying salary is based on his regular salary, and the cost of his pension includes retirement pension benefits in excess of 12G, which are not covered by the National Insurance Scheme or the public sector occupational pension plan. In order to receive this pension, he must have 30 years of qualifying service. The CEO must retire at the age of 67, but between the ages of 62 and 67 both the company and the CEO can decide that he should vacate his position as CEO. The notice period is six months. For other members of the senior management team, the notice period is also six months. There are no special agreements on termination compensation. The executive directors Pernille K. Gulowsen and Edvard Lauen are entitled to a pension equivalent to 66% of their qualifying salaries on retirement at the age of 67. In order to receive this pension, they must have 30 years of qualifying service. These two employees have pension agreements which state that their qualifying salaries are based on their regular salaries, and the cost of their pensions includes retirement pension benefits in excess of 12G, which are not covered by the National Insurance Scheme or the public sector occupational pension plan. Jan Tønnessen, Steffen Syvertsen and Frank Håland have defined contribution pension plans in line with the Group’s standard pension plan. NOTE 33 RELATED PARTIES All subsidiaries and joint arrangements specified in Note 16 are classified as related parties of Agder Energi. The people specified in Note 32, who are members of the Group’s senior management team or Board of Directors, are also related parties of Agder Energi. Agder Energi’s largest shareholder is Statkraft Industrial Holding, which owns 45.525% of the shares in the company. Sales to companies in the Statkraft Group amounted to NOK 29 million in 2016 and NOK 69 million in 2015. Purchases from those companies amounted to NOK 144 million in 2016 and NOK 76 million in 2015. Statkraft Industrial Holding AS is also a joint owner of several of the joint arrangements in which Agder Energi holds an ownership interest. All transactions with related parties are carried out on an arm’s length basis. NOTE 34 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND BUY-OUT OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Acquisitions The table below shows the businesses that were acquired in 2016. All acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. The list below does not include capital increases or other financing from Agder Energi. Acquisitions in 2016 Company Country Interest bought in 2016 Ownership interest in % Activities at 31/12/2016 Telge Kraft AB 1) Sweden 100,0 100,0 Retail market IPnett AS 2) Norway 100,0 100,0 Telecommunications Nordgröön Energie Germany 61,4 61,4 Generators GmbH & Co. KG LedlightGroup AS Norway 100,0 100,0 Lighting 1) The parent company is based in Sweden and has subsidiaries in Denmark, Finland and Norway. On being acquired, the company changed its name to LOS Energy AB. 2) The parent company is based in Norway and has subsidiaries in Denmark and Sweden. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 86 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The total cost of ownership interests acquired in 2016 was NOK 196 million. In November LOS acquired 100% of the shares in Telge Kraft (now LOS Energy), making LOS one of the biggest electricity retailers in the Nordic region. The acquisition is expected to produce synergies through economies of scale, opportunities for cross-selling and an integrated model for the whole Nordic region. Goodwill mainly arises through these synergies, and is not tax-deductible. The acquisition contributed NOK 411 million of turnover to the consolidated financial statements for 2016, and NOK 3 million of net income. Had LOS Energy been consolidated from 1 January 2016, its contribution to the consolidated financial statements for 2016 would have been NOK 1,880 in turnover and NOK 10 million in net income. The table below shows the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Telge Kraft. It is provisional, however, as the identifiable assets have not yet been finally assessed. Calculation of net assets and goodwill at the time of acquisition of Telge Kraft (Amounts in NOK million) Carrying amounts (IFRS) Asset write-up Acquisition statement of at acquisition date financial position Intangible assets 0 29 29 Inventories 36 6 42 Trade debtors and other current receivables 512 0 512 Derivatives 0 43 43 Bank deposits 22 0 22 Deferred tax 0 -17 -17 Trade payables and other current liabilities -542 0 -542 Net assets 28 61 89 Non-controlling interests 0 Net assets acquired 89 Goodwill 37 Total net assets acquired plus goodwill 126 Cash consideration for shares 126 Total consideration 126 NetNordic (in which Agder Energi has a 59.4% interest) acquired all of the shares in IPnett in August. The acquisition makes NetNordic one of Scandinavia’s biggest, specialist system integrators in the fields of networks, broadband, security, integration and cloud computing. The acquisition is expected to reduce costs through economies of scale. Goodwill mainly arises through these synergies, and is not tax-deductible. The acquisition contributed NOK 182 million of turnover to the consolidated financial statements for 2016, and NOK 14 million of net income. Had IPnett been consolidated from 1 January 2016, its contribution to the consolidated financial statements would have been NOK 451 million in turnover and NOK 1 million in net income. The table below shows the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of IPnett. It is provisional, however, as the identifiable assets have not yet been finally assessed. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Calculation of net assets and goodwill at the time of acquisition of IPnett (Amounts in NOK million) Carrying amounts (IFRS) Asset write-up Acquisition statement of at acquisition date financial position Deferred tax assets 7 0 7 Intangible assets 3 21 24 Property, plant and equipment 17 0 17 Inventories 31 0 31 Trade debtors and other current receivables 75 0 75 Bank deposits 47 0 47 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities -11 0 -11 Interest-bearing current liabilities -17 0 -17 Trade payables and other current liabilities -129 0 -129 Net assets 24 21 45 Non-controlling interests 0 Net assets acquired 45 Goodwill 21 Total net assets acquired plus goodwill 66 Cash consideration for shares 43 Consideration for shares settled with shares in acquirer 23 Total consideration 66 Acquisitions in 2015 Company Country Interest bought in Ownership interest in % Activities 2015 at 31/12/2015 Otera Sverige AB Sweden 24,0 100,0 Financial investments NetNordic Enterprise Communications AS Denmark 100,0 100,0 Telecommunications The total cost of ownership interests acquired in 2015 was NOK 46 million. Disposals In 2016 Agder Energi sold its 51.2% shareholding in Bjerkreim Vind. The income statement impact of the disposal was insignificant. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 88 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 35 GROUP STRUCTURE The table below shows the companies in the Agder Energi Group at 31 December 2016. Subsidiaries Ownership interest in %* Country Agder Energi Nett AS 100,0 Norway Agder Energi Vannkraft AS 100,0 Norway Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS 100,0 Norway LOS AS 100,0 Norway LOS Energy Consulting AB 100,0 Sweden LOS Energy AB 100,0 Sweden LOS Energy Trading AB 100,0 Sweden LOS Energy ApS 100,0 Denmark LOS Energy OY 100,0 Finland LOS Kraft AS 100,0 Norway Otera AS 100,0 Norway Otera Infra AS 100,0 Norway Otera XP AS 100,0 Norway Otera Sverige AB 100,0 Sweden Otera AB 70,0 Sweden Otera Ratel AB 100,0 (70,0) Sweden Otera Ratel AS 100,0 (70,0) Norway Agder Energi Varme AS 100,0 Norway Norsk Varmeog Energiproduksjon AS 100,0 Norway Baltic Hydroenergy AS 100,0 Norway UAB Baltic Hydroenergy 100,0 Lithuania JSC Latgales Energetika 64,0 Latvia Stoaveien 14 AS 100,0 Norway Stoa 192 AS 100,0 Norway Stoa 234 AS 100,0 Norway Trøngsla 8 AS 100,0 Norway Agder Energi Venture AS 100,0 Norway NEG AS 67,1 Norway Norsk Energigjenvinning AS 100,0 (67,1) Norway NEG Skog AS 100,0 (67,1) Norway NEG Flis AS 100,0 (67,1) Norway Norsk Biobrensel AS 100,0 (67,1) Norway Norbio AB 100,0 (67,1) Sweden Norbio Energi AS 100,0 (67,1) Norway NetNordic Holding AS 59,4 Norway NetNordic Bedriftskommunikasjon AS 100,0 (59,4) Norway NetNordic Bredbånd AS 100,0 (59,4) Norway NetNordic Services AS 100,0 (59,4) Norway NetNordic Finland OY 100,0 (59,4) Finland NetNordic AB 100,0 (59,4) Sweden NetNordic Enterprise Communications AB 100,0 (59,4) Sweden NetNordic Denmark AS 100,0 (59,4) Denmark NetNordic Enterprise Communications AS 100,0 (59,4) Denmark Ipnett AS 100,0 (59,4) Norway * Figures in brackets indicate Agder Energi AS’s indirect ownership interest in companies where it holds minority interests through intermediate companies. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Subsidiaries Ownership interest in %* Country Ipnett AB 100,0 (59,4) Sweden Imtech AB 100,0 (59,4) Sweden Netteam AB 100,0 (59,4) Sweden IPNett AS 100,0 (59,4) Denmark Nordgröön Energie GmbH 61,4 Germany HPE Holding AS 100,0 Norway Cleanpower AS 100,0 Norway Bioenergy AS 67,9 Norway Bio Energy Sales AS 100,0 (67,9) Norway Lahaugmoen Drift AS 100,0 (67,9) Norway Smart Grid Norway AS 97,3 Norway Verdisikring Safety AS 100,0 (97,3) Norway Ledlight Group AS 100,0 (97,3) Norway Meventus AS 95,0 Norway Meventus ApS 100,0 (95,0) Denmark Meventus AB 100,0 (95,0) Sweden ReSiTec AS 95,0 Norway Netsecurity AS 81,9 Norway AE Venture Energy AS 93,4 Norway Enfo AS** 93,5 (93,8) Norway * Figures in brackets indicate Agder Energi AS’s indirect ownership interest in companies where it holds minority interests through intermediate companies. **6.5% is owned directly by Agder Energi Venture AS Non-controlling interests Most of the Group’s non-controlling interests relate to the three subsidiary groups Otera AB, NEG AS and NetNordic Holding AS. Their turnover and profit are shown in the table below, together with a summary statement of financial position. (Amounts in NOK million) Otera AB NEG AS NetNordic Holding AS 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Operating revenues 597 309 192 235 582 373 Net income 26 15 1 9 -4 13 Non-controlling interest’s share of net income 8 5 0 3 -2 5 Assets 186 136 124 138 363 160 Liabilities 263 249 84 100 318 107 Equity 1) -77 -113 40 38 45 52 Non-controlling interest’s share of equity 0 0 13 13 18 21 1) In the case of Otera AB, the parent company is a pure holding company, and the group’s activities are carried out through two subsidiaries. The group’s negative equity is due to a business combination that resulted in the parent company being financed through a vendor credit from its sister company Otera Sverige AB. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 90 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 36 CHANGES TO ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND CORRECTION OF ERRORS As described under accounting principles, in 2016 Agder Energi changed its accounting principles in three areas, the first two of which involved correcting errors, while the third one was a change of principle: 1) After a reassessment, derivatives expiring more than one year after the statement of financial position date are now classified as non-current. All foreign currency derivatives were previously classified as current. 2) In 2016 the Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway ordered Agder Energi to change the way in which it accounts for long-term electricity contracts denominated in Euros. The financial statements have been presented in accordance with the Financial Supervisory Authority’s order. This involves separating out an embedded currency derivative measured at fair value from long-term electricity contracts settled in euros. 3) Gains and losses on foreign currency contracts and loans were previously considered financial items. After a reassessment, they are now classified as operating items. These three changes to the accounting principles have been implemented retrospectively, so comparative figures have been restated. The impact on the comparative figures for 2015 in the statement of financial position and income statement respectively are shown in the tables below. 31.12.2015 (Amounts in NOK million) Previously Change Restated reported 1) 2) Derivatives (non-current assets) 0 1 280 651 1 931 Derivatives (current assets) 1 824 -1 280 69 613 Equity 4 569 0 324 4 893 Deferred tax 817 0 396 1 213 Derivatives (non-current liabilities) 0 708 0 708 Derivatives (current liabilities) 924 -708 0 216 Full-year 2015 (Amounts in NOK million) Previously Change Restated reported 2) 3) Energy sales 4 835 0 -163 4 672 Unrealised gains and losses on currency and energy contracts 741 209 -148 802 Energy purchases -2 212 0 12 -2 200 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate swaps -138 0 148 10 Financial expenses -425 0 151 -274 Income tax -467 -52 0 -519 Resource rent tax -251 -63 0 -314 Net income 1 211 94 0 1 305 The impact of change number 3 on income statement for 2016 is shown in the table below: Full-year 2016 (Amounts in NOK million) Previous accounting Change New accounting principle 3) principle Energy sales 6 255 -211 6 044 Unrealised gains and losses on currency and energy contracts -1 205 586 -619 Energy purchases -3 431 2 -3 429 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate swaps 664 -586 78 Financial expenses -475 209 -266 Net income 262 0 262 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 III < > Intruduction Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI AS AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2015 92 III < > Intruduction Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI AS FINANCIAL STATEMENT Click on the text to go to the page of youre choice Income statement 94 Statement of financial position 95 Statement of cash flows 96 Accounting principles 97 Notes 99 Auditor´s report 109 NOTES Note 1 Intra-group transactions and balances 99 Note 2 Employee benefits, management compensation, etc. 99 Note 3 Pensions 100 Note 4 Auditor’s fee 102 Note 5 Other operating expenses 102 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 102 Note 7 Tax 103 Note 8 Intangible assets 104 Note 9 Property, plant and equipment 104 Note 10 Other non-current financial assets 104 Note 11 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 105 Note 12 Cash and cash equivalents 106 Note 13 Equity 106 Note 14 Interest-bearing liabilities 106 Note 15 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 107 Note 16 Provisions 107 Note 17 Market and financial risk 107 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 108 Note 19 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 108 2014 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Other operating revenues 1 277 256 Total operating revenues 277 256 Employee benefits 1, 2, 3 -183 -178 Depreciation and impairment losses 8, 9 -14 -13 Other operating expenses 1, 4, 5 -199 -177 Total operating expenses -396 -368 Operating profit -118 -112 Financial income 1, 6 1 643 2 028 Financial expenses 1, 6 -575 -1 052 Net financial income/expenses 1 068 976 Profit before tax 950 864 Tax expense 7 -165 -176 Net income 785 688 Allocation of profit: Proposed dividends 13 607 660 Transferred to other reserves 13 178 28 Total appropriations 785 688 Earnings per share/Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 291 255 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 94 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Intangible assets 8 12 18 Property, plant and equipment 9 38 37 Investments in subsidiaries 11 3 316 3 274 Investments in associates 11 42 56 Other non-current financial assets 10 7 947 7 259 Total non-current assets 11 355 10 643 Receivables 1 1 331 1 299 Cash and cash equivalents 12 744 919 Total current assets 2 075 2 218 TOTAL ASSETS 13 430 12 862 Paid-in capital 13 1 907 1 907 Retained earnings 13 1 178 963 Total equity 3 085 2 870 Deferred tax 7 118 88 Provisions 3, 16 333 143 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 14 7 962 8 135 Total non-current liabilities 8 413 8 366 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14, 17 850 550 Tax payable 7 91 118 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 1, 13, 15 991 957 Total current liabilities 1 932 1 626 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 13 430 12 862 Kristiansand, 29 March 2017 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 950 864 Depreciation and impairment losses 6, 8, 9 14 170 Income from investments in subsidiaries -1 109 -1 104 Tax paid -119 -90 Change in net working capital, etc. 106 -406 Net cash provided by operating activities -158 -566 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets -9 -26 Acquisitions/financial investments and equity investments in subsidiaries -42 -36 Net change in loans -619 -455 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 2 7 Sale of businesses/financial assets 253 361 Net cash used in investing activities -415 -149 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 1 113 1 450 Repayment of long-term borrowings -1 410 -773 Net change in current interest-bearing liabilities 300 250 Group contribution received 913 1 474 Group contribution paid out -153 -473 Dividends received from subsidiaries 295 182 Dividends paid -660 -700 Net cash used in financing activities 398 1 410 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -175 695 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 919 224 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 744 919 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 96 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements have been premeet the criteria for capitalisation, with meet the criteria for hedge accounting, sented in compliance with the Norwegian the exception of research and which means that all profit and loss Accounting Act and generally accepted development costs, which are expensed effects are recognised over the contract accounting principles. as they are incurred. This means that period and the value of the portfolio is expenses associated with intangible kept off the statement of financial Accrual, classification and measureassets are included on the statement of position. ment principles financial position if it is considered In accordance with generally accepted probable that future economic benefits Foreign currency and currency accounting principles, the financial attributable to the assets will flow to the instruments statements are based on the historical company and it has been possible to The finance department manages the cost, revenue recognition, matching, reliably measure the acquisition cost of Group’s overall exposure to currency risk. conservatism, hedging and congruence the asset. To some extent Agder Energi AS acts as principles. In the event of uncertainty, a counterparty within the Group when it best judgement is applied. Financial Property, plant and equipment does not make sense to hedge statements are prepared using uniform Property, plant and equipment is subsidiaries’ exposure to currency risk principles that are applied consistently depreciated in a straight line over its directly in the market. Where the parent over time. The financial statements have anticipated useful life. Maintenance on company has acted as a counterparty in been prepared on the assumption of the property, plant and equipment is conjunction with the need of subsidiaries business being a going concern. considered an operating expense, while to hedge their currency risk exposure upgrades and replacements are added to arising from electricity sales, the Recognition of revenues and the acquisition cost of the asset and are contracts are accounted for as part of expenses depreciated together with the asset. The the Group’s currency hedging activities. Revenues and expenses are recognised in distinction between maintenance and These contracts are presented on the profit or loss when they are earned/ upgrades/improvements is judged on the statement of financial position at fair incurred. Revenues from the sale of goods basis of the condition of the asset when value, with changes in fair value are recognised on delivery. Revenues from it was acquired. recognised through profit or loss. services are recognised in the income statement as they are supplied. Non-current financial investments Receivables The historical cost method is used for Trade debtors and other receivables are General principles for measurement shares, bonds and other financial presented on the statement of financial and classification instruments. This means that shares/ position at their nominal value less Current assets and current liabilities ownership interests are carried at cost, anticipated bad debts. Provisions for bad cover items that are due for payment and any dividends received are recognised debts are made on the basis of individual within one year of the transaction date, as other financial income. Intra-group assessments of the individual receivables. as well as items relating to the business distributions received are recognised in the cycle. Other items are classified as nonyear that they are allocated by subsidiaries. Cash pooling arrangement current assets or non-current liabilities. Dividends from subsidiaries are also Agder Energi AS is part of a cash pooling Current assets are carried at the lower of recognised in the year that they are arrangement with its subsidiaries. This cost and fair value. Current liabilities are appropriated by the subsidiary. Investments means that the Group has a joint bank carried at their nominal value on the are written down to fair value if there is account for short-term deposits and shortinitial date. evidence of other-than-temporary term loans. Interest income and interest impairment. Dividends from associates are expenses arising from the cash pooling Non-current assets are carried at cost, recognised when they are approved. arrangement are classified as external in but are written down to the recoverable the company’s income statement. amount if there is evidence of impairment, Interest rate swaps in compliance with the Norwegian Interest rate swaps are used to match the Pensions accounting standard on the impairment duration and interest rate sensitivity of Defined benefit pension plan of non-current assets. the company’s debt portfolio to the Pension costs and pension liabilities are Group’s policy and strategy. Interest rate calculated using a linear accumulation Intangible assets swaps are managed within the context of model based on assumptions relating to Intangible assets are included on the the Group’s overall debt portfolio. discount rates, projected salaries, the statement of financial position if they Instruments in the hedging portfolio thus level of benefits from the National AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Insurance Scheme and future returns on of any loss carryforwards. Deferred tax be. If there is a smaller than 50% probapension plan assets, as well as actuarial assets are only recognised on the statebility that an uncertain liability will need calculations of mortality, voluntary ment of financial position if it is likely to be settled, information is provided in turnover, etc. Pension plan assets are that they will be realised in the future. the notes. Contingent assets are not measured at their fair value, and have Tax on equity transactions is recognised ­recognised, but if there is a greater than been deducted in the net pension directly in equity. 50% probability that the company will liabilities presented on the statement of receive payment, information is provided financial position. Remeasurements over Liabilities in the notes. The amount is not estimated the course of the year are recognised in Agder Energi AS uses the amortised cost if it would be inappropriate to do so u ­ nder the statement of financial position at the principle, and consequently the effective generally accepted accounting princiend of the year, so that the carrying interest rate method, for interest and ples. Furthermore, under generally amount always reflects the full extent of liabilities. Under the effective interest ­ accepted accounting principles entities the liabilities. In the event of changes in rate method, the carrying amount of a shall be able to recognise liabilities/propension obligations arising from plan loan is the sum of future cash flows vide information based on best judgeamendments, the portion of the change attributable to the loan discounted by the ment without this prejudicing the out­ that has already been accrued at the original effective interest rate calculated come of any court case. time of the amendment is recognised for the cash flows. This means that loan directly in the income statement. Pension arrangement fees are deducted on initial Statement of cash flows expenses and net pension liabilities recognition, and that over the duration of The statement of cash flows has been include a charge for employers’ national the loan, the difference between the prepared using the indirect method. Cash insurance contributions. nominal interest rate (the rate charged) and cash equivalents includes cash, bank and the effective interest rate (the rate deposits and other short-term, liquid Defined contribution plan expensed) is recognised in the statement investments that can be converted into For defined contribution plans, the of financial position under amortisation. known cash values immediately and at pension expense is equivalent to the In practice loans are therefore initially insignificant risk, and that mature less premiums/contributions paid over the recognised at their face value less than three months after their acquisition course of the year. arrangement fees, which means that the dates. debt is not carried on the statement of Taxes financial position at its nominal value. Income tax is calculated in accordance with standard tax rules. The tax expense A provision is made for Agder Energi AS’s in the income statement consists of tax proposed dividends at 31 December. payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. Tax payable is calculated Contingent liabilities and contingent on the taxable profit for the year. assets ­Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calcuIf there is a greater than 50% probability lated on the basis of the temporary difthat an uncertain liability will need to be ferences that exist between accounting settled, a provision is made based on a and tax values, as well as the tax effect best estimate of what the settlement will AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 98 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Intra-group balances Other non-current financial assets 10 7 455 6 825 Trade receivables 30 56 Other current receivables 1 241 1 225 Total receivables 8 726 8 106 Trade payables 15 2 1 Other current liabilities 15 239 153 Total liabilities 240 154 Revenues and expenses relating to intra-group transactions Energy sales 0 0 Other operating revenues 258 236 Total operating revenues 258 236 Other operating expenses 20 13 Total operating expenses 20 13 Income from investments in subsidiaries 6 1 109 1 104 Other interest and financial income 232 267 Other interest and financial expenses 39 65 Net financial income/expenses 1 304 1 306 NOTE 2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2016 2015 Employee benefits Salary 144 128 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 20 20 Pension expense including employers’ NICs 3 11 20 Other benefits and reimbursements 8 10 Total 183 178 Number of full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 153 147 For details of management compensation and non-executive Directors’ fees at Agder Energi AS, please see Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 3 PENSIONS The company’s pension plans For employees taken on before 1 April 2007, the company has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Employees taken on after that date are members of a defined contribution pension plan. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Provisions for pension liabilities in the pension plan are calculated using a linear accumulation model based on methods and assumptions that comply with the relevant current accounting standard. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 December 2016. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December 2016 were estimated by the Group’s management in December. Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company pension plan. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Remeasurements that arose during the year were recognised directly in the statement of financial position, increasing equity by NOK 37 million. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees are covered by different AFP schemes, depending on whether they are part of the defined benefit or defined contribution pension plans. Employees covered by the public pension plan have, in addition to their occupational pension, an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, set up as of 2011. The scheme does not receive any government subsidy. The company is therefore liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. Employees covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme. This AFP scheme is funded by contributions made by the employer. The contribution for 2016 was 2.5% (2015: 2.4%). The contribution is likely to increase further over the coming years. Actuarial assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The discount rate is based on the interest rate on covered bonds. The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are consistent with the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of 31 December 2016. The company uses the latest version of the Norwegian life tables (GAP 07), for life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows Current service cost 11 16 Interest income/expenses on pension assets/liabilities -5 -1 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 2 2 Employee contributions -1 -1 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans 7 17 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 4 3 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement 11 20 The total pension expense also includes unfunded plans for senior managers. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Pension liabilities and pension plan assets (Amounts in NOK millions) 2016 2015 Gross funded pension liabilities 339 342 Unfunded pension liabilities 108 112 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. (including employers’ NICs) 447 454 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 709 644 Net pension liabilities at 31 Dec -262 -190 Change in defined benefit pension liabilities Net defined benefit pension liabilities at 1 Jan. -190 -13 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 8 17 Company contributions incl. employers’ NICs -29 -36 Benefit payments on unfunded pension plans -3 -2 Remeasurements -50 -156 Net pension liabilities at 31 Dec. -262 -190 Net pension assets 370 302 Pension liabilities 108 112 Net pension liabilities (+) / assets (-) at 31 Dec. -262 -190 Remeasurements are made up of: Changes in demographic assumptions -8 -42 Changes in financial assumptions -8 -68 Excess return on assets -34 -45 Remeasurements recognised on statement of financial position -50 -156 The remeasurements in 2016 were mainly due to an excess return on pension plan assets. Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 2016 2015 Discount rate 2,60 % 2,50 % Annual wage growth 2,50 % 2,25 % Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (”G”) 2,25 % 2,25 % Annual indexing of pensions 1,50 % 1,50 % Expected average remaining years of service (funded) 7,8 8,3 Expected average remaining years of service (unfunded) 5,9 6,3 The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are consistent with the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of January 2017. Number of people covered by the pension plans 2016 2015 Defined benefit plan: current employees 72 77 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 323 316 Defined contribution plan: current employees 72 70 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 54 73 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 4 AUDITOR’S FEE (Amounts in NOK 000s excl. VAT) 2016 2015 Total fees paid to auditor for auditing and other services comprise the following: Statutory audit 640 462 Tax advice 10 21 Other services not related to auditing 9 11 Total 659 494 NOTE 5 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Property-related expenses, lease of machinery and office equipment 54 47 Purchase of plant and equipment 4 3 External services 130 101 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 4 4 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 7 7 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 6 5 Other operating expenses -7 9 Total 199 177 NOTE 6 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Income from investments in subsidiaries* 1 109 1 104 Profit/loss on investments in associates 7 100 Exchange rate gain 292 558 Other interest and financial income 236 267 Total financial income 1 643 2 028 Impairment charge against non-current financial assets 0 157 Exchange rate losses 288 557 Other interest and financial expenses 288 338 Total financial expenses 575 1 052 Net financial income/expenses 1 068 976 * Profit/loss from investments in subsidiaries comprises allocated dividends, group contribution from subsidiaries and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries. These amounts are recognised in the income statement as they are considered to reflect the return on the investment. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 7 TAX (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 The tax expense consists of Income tax payable 150 160 Change in deferred income tax 18 20 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments -3 -3 Tax expense in income statement 165 176 Tax payable on the statement of financial position Profit before tax 950 864 Permanent differences -259 -174 Change in temporary differences -89 -100 Profit/loss for income tax purposes 601 591 Income tax payable 150 160 Taxable group contribution -60 -41 Tax payable on the statement of financial position 91 118 Reconciliation of nominal tax rate with effective tax rate Profit before tax 950 864 Expected tax based on nominal rate 237 233 Tax effect of Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income -65 -47 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments -3 -3 Impact of change in tax rate -5 -7 Tax expense in income statement 165 176 Effective tax rate 17 % 20 % Breakdown of temporary differences/deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment -13 -15 Current assets/liabilities 196 258 Pension liabilities 326 237 Derivatives -18 -127 Total taxable (+)/deductible (-) temporary difference 492 354 Total capitalised deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 118 88 Changes in net deferred income tax over the year: Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 1 Jan. 88 27 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) on items recognised in equity 12 42 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss 18 20 Net deferred income tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 118 88 Changes in deferred tax on items recognised in equity Remeasurements of pensions and change in tax rate -12 -42 Total change -12 -42 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 8 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Software Cost as of 01/01/2016 41 Additions 0 Disposals 3 Cost as of 31/12/2016 38 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2016 24 Accumulated impairment losses at 31/12/2016 2 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 12 Depreciation for the year 6 Useful life/depreciation period 3-8 years NOTE 9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Amounts in NOK millions) Properties Vehicles, Total fixtures, property, machinery, plant and etc. equipment Cost as of 01/01/2016 32 47 80 Additions 4 5 8 Disposals 1 20 21 Cost as of 31/12/2016 35 32 67 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2016 9 21 30 Accumulated imp. losses at 31/12/2016 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 26 11 38 Depreciation for the year 2 5 7 Useful life/depreciation period 25 years not depreciated 3-8 years NOTE 10 OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in NOK millions) Note 2016 2015 Loans to Group companies 1 7 455 6 825 Loans to associates 2 2 Other non-current receivables 1) 120 130 Pension assets 3 370 302 Total non-current financial assets 7 947 7 259 1) Other non-current receivables mainly comprise a subordinated loan and a vendor credit provided in conjunction with the sale of the shares in Ventelo. There is also a guarantee to NASDAQ. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 104 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 11 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (Amounts in NOK million) Registered Company’s Company’s Ownership Carrying office equity profit/loss interest and amount* voting rights Subsidiaries Agder Energi Vannkraft AS Kristiansand 2 260 584 100 % 1 937 Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS Kristiansand 36 2 100 % 20 Agder Energi Nett AS Arendal 824 278 100 % 613 LOS AS 1) Kristiansand 343 67 100 % 324 Otera AS 1) Kristiansand 48 7 100 % 190 Agder Energi Varme AS 1) Kristiansand 120 4 100 % 125 Agder Energi Venture AS 1) Kristiansand 35 -11 100 % 68 Stoaveien 14 AS Kristiansand 4 2 100 % 1 Stoa 192 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100 % 2 Stoa 234 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100 % 2 Trøngsla 8 AS Kristiansand 3 0 100 % 2 Baltic Hydroenergy AS 1) Kristiansand 22 0 100 % 34 Total shares in subsidiaries 3 316 Associates and joint ventures 2) Statkraft Agder Energi Vind AS DA*** Kristiansand 40 16 38 % 6 Fosen Vind AS Trondheim 22 157 20 % 0 North Connect KS** Kristiansand 9 -36 22 % 8 North Connect AS** Kristiansand 1 -4 22 % 3 Steinsvik Kraft AS 3) Bergen 111 0 20 % 8 Grønn kontakt AS Kristiansand 16 -8 43 % 15 Others 2 Total for associates and joint ventures 42 * Carried at the lower of cost and fair value ** Associates *** Joint venture 1. Subsidiaries of Agder Energi AS that have their own subsidiary groups. For an overview of the Group’s organisation structure, see Note 35 of the consolidated financial statements. 2. The equity and profit of associates and joint ventures has been estimated for 2016. 3. In January 2017, Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in Steinsvik Kraft AS. The transaction resulted in an estimated gain of NOK 7 million. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in NOK million) 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 289 212 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement 455 707 Total 744 919 Agder Energi AS has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 52 million bank guarantee covering Agder Energi AS and its subsidiaries has been used as security for tax deductions at source. NOTE 13 EQUITY (Amounts in NOK millions) Note Share Share Other Other Total capital premium paid-in reserves equity account capital Equity at 31/12/2015 1 809 47 51 963 2 870 Remeasurements of pensions 3 0 0 0 37 37 Net income for the year 0 0 0 785 785 Allocated for dividends 15 0 0 0 -607 -607 Equity at 31/12/2016 1 809 47 51 1 178 3 085 For details of share capital and shareholder information, please refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 14 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK millions) 2016 2015 Non-current liabilities with a term to maturity of more than 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions 1 024 1 069 Bonds 1 175 1 125 Total 2 199 2 194 Non-current liabilities with a term to maturity of less than 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions 1 276 1 049 Bonds 4 487 4 892 Total 5 763 5 941 Total interest-bearing non-current liabilities 7 962 8 135 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper 850 550 Total interest-bearing current liabilities 850 550 Guarantees and obligations relating to interest-bearing non-current liabilities are described in greater detail in Note 19. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 106 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK millions) Note 2016 2015 Trade payables 17 24 Intra-group trade payables 1 2 1 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 15 14 Allocated dividends 13 607 660 Other current liabilities 111 104 Other current liabilities to Group companies 1 239 153 Total other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 991 957 NOTE 16 PROVISIONS (Amounts in NOK millions) Note 2016 2015 Pension liabilities 3 108 112 Other non-current provisions 224 31 Total provisions 333 143 In 2016, Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in Fosen Vind DA. The final transaction price depends on various future metrics and a large proportion of the amount received has therefore not yet been recognised as income. NOK 184 million of the company’s other non-current provisions are related to this. The remaining NOK 40 million represent a provision against a lease contract. NOTE 17 MARKET AND FINANCIAL RISK Risk policy and risk strategy The Group’s Board of Directors has formulated an overall risk policy containing frameworks and guidelines to ensure a uniform approach to risk management throughout the Group. In order to manage exposure to market and financial risk, and based on the risk policy, separate risk strategies have been drawn up for the following areas: • Production • Electricity trading • Retail market • Finance (interest rates and foreign currency) One of the main purposes of the risk policy and risk strategies is to hedge against fluctuations in future cash flows. Electricity derivatives with subsidiaries and NASDAQ as counterparties Several of Agder Energi AS’s subsidiaries trade cash-settled electricity derivatives on NASDAQ. Formally, this involves Agder Energi AS acting as NASDAQ’s counterparty, and Agder Energi entering into identical contracts with the relevant subsidiaries in parallel. The company uses hedge accounting for these contracts, and so they are off balance. The net value of contracts with NASDAQ was NOK 801 million at 31 December 2016. The value of the company’s contracts with its subsidiaries was NOK -801 million. Debt portfolio The Agder Energi Group’s whole loan portfolio is held by Agder Energi AS. This exposes the company to a significant interest rate risk. The Group has a central Finance department within Agder Energi, which has overall responsibility for banking services, financing, currency operations, corporate finance and other financial services. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Interest rate risk is measured by modified duration, which is kept within a target period of 1 to 5 years. Rules on durations and other rules relating to interest rate portfolios, liquidity risk, etc. are given in the risk policy and finance strategy. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured and monitored. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. The parent company’s debt portfolios include foreign currency loans. 198 million euros in loans are used as a hedge against fluctuations in the Group’s revenues in that currency. Agder Energi AS has lent an equivalent amount in euros to Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. Agder Energi AS has also taken out interest rate and currency NOTE 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Agder Energi AS had no significant contingent liabilities at the end of the year. NOTE 19 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS currently has no mortgage loans. Liabilities and guarantees issued Agder Energi AS has no covenants relating to financial key figures in its loan agreements. Agder Energi AS’s loan agreements contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi AS has NOK 560 million in off-statement of financial position bank guarantees. NOK 163 million of this relates to a cash-settled power exchange agreement, NOK 123 million to an internal guarantee for transmission tariffs passed on to customers, NOK 52 million to electricity trading, NOK 52 to tax deducted at source and NOK 170 million to contractual guarantees. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 8 million in relation to subsidiaries’ external liabilities. Contractual obligations Agder Energi Group leases office premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. The lease contract is between KN Kjøita AS and Agder Energi AS. Since 01/01/2017, the building has been owned by Arctic Securities. This has not resulted in any changes to the terms of the lease. At the end of the year, the contract had 9 years left to run, with a renewal option for a further five years. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 108 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR´S REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR´S REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 110 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR´S REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR´S REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 112 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2016 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2016 Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Social and environmental considerations 115 GRI reporting at Agder Energi 116 Analysis of material aspects 117 Changes in relation to the 2015 report 118 Stakeholders and Agder Energi 118 Ethical guidelines and values 119 The group’s values 119 Group CSR goals 120 Business environment and innovation 120 Agder Energi’s subcontractors 121 Generating economic value 121 Value added statement 122 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 114 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2016 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS The Agder Energi Group takes social and environmental factors into consideration in its operations. Our main responsibility is the safe and reliable generation and distribution of renewable energy. The ways in which we meet our CSR companies in the Group. The guidelines performance, and reassess those strate­responsibilities are set out in a number of include a description of the Group’s gies annually. steering documents. The most important ­values and of how they should be impleones include: mented in HR policy, training, the corpoEthics at Agder Energi rate culture and staff welfare policy. “Ethics at Agder Energi” is guide on Group HSE guidelines proper conduct for employees, Board ­ The Group HSE guidelines set out the They also state that Agder Energi should members, contractors, consultants and ­underlying principles governing activities have a good working environment. Agder anyone else who acts on behalf of Agder related to Health, Safety and the EnvironEnergi shall perform regular working Energi. The guide sets out clearly the ment (HSE). The document also deals ­environment surveys and ensure that any kinds of dilemmas individuals may face in with the duties and areas of responsibilinecessary corrective measures are identheir work and explains what is acceptaty of managers and employees within tified and implemented. All Agder Energi ble and unacceptable conduct. Agder these areas. Agder Energi has a zero acemployees must adhere to the adopted Energi’s ethical guidelines are based on cident vision, and aims to have a low level values and ethical guidelines. Agder loyalty, integrity and trust. All new of sickness absence (< 3.0%). Agder Energi also has an operational HR stra­employees must take an e-learning coEnergi has chosen to have a joint HSE tegy that describes key priority areas urse on our ethical guidelines. management system for the whole and the actions that need to be taken. Group. Individual companies also have The HR strategy applies to all wholly-­ Group procurement guidelines their own manuals covering companyowned subsidiaries. The Group guidelines regulate the frame­ specific issues. work for procurement, as well as estabGroup risk management guidelines lishing goals and corrective measures. New staff must always be given a general The Group risk management guidelines They also regulate ethical aspects of our introduction to their company. This lay the foundations for integrated, approrelationships with our subcontractors. should include information specifically priate risk management at the Agder Procurement processes must be carried about HSE. Companies have a duty to Energi Group, and are designed to ­protect out in a way that ensures high ethical ­ensure that the necessary HSE training is the Group’s profitability and optimise its standards within the Group. Anyone who implemented and documented. capital allocation. Individual companies acts on behalf of the Group must adhere must identify, assess, review and monitor to high ethical standards in their dealings Group HR guidelines their own exposure to risks. They draw up with bidders and subcontractors. The Group HR guidelines aim to ensure risk management strategies for the areas that the management and governance of where required by the nature of the risk key HR processes is consistent at all and its potential impact on their financial AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GRI REPORTING AT AGDER ENERGI Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting that are considered material to GHG protocol requires the company to report covers the following companies: the stakeholders and the Group. For the report CO2 emissions from its electricity • Agder Energi AS 2015 CSR report, the analysis of material consumption using a market-based • Agder Energi Vannkraft AS aspects involved two stages. system and the national power mix. In this • Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS report the Group has chosen to present • Agder Energi Nett AS First the materiality of all of the voluntary CO2 emissions both under the guarantee • Agder Energi Varme AS disclosure items was analysed at the of origin system and using the national • LOS AS Group level, in order to identify the items ­power mix. • Otera Infra AS that were likely to be most relevant to the • Otera XP AS companies in the Group. Then the indiviThe Group considers that this complies • Otera AB dual companies carried out their own with the GRI G4 guidelines. These • Baltic Hydroenergy AS analysis of material aspects, identifying principles help to ensure that the report disclosure items that appeared important contains reliable information that is Together these companies are consideto the company and/or its stakeholders. assumed to be relevant to stakeholders. red to represent the vast majority of the Group’s business activities. Based on a Defining report content The 2014 sustainability report was cost/benefit analysis, smaller companies Agder Energi has previously defined its audited by Agder Energi’s internal audit have been excluded, but we do not belieshareholders, employees and customers service. The audit report pointed out ve that this significantly distorts the overas the target groups for its reporting. areas for improvement, and is thus an all picture of the Group’s impact on sociThese target groups have remained unimportant tool for further work on ety and the environment. changed for this report, after ­consultation reporting. The report has not been with the companies and the chief externally verified to check that the Agder Energi owns all of the shares in ­employee representative for the Group. figures collected adhere to GRI guidelines. Baltic Hydroenergy AS, which is made up of the companies UAB Baltic HydroenerThe purpose of sustainability reporting is Every effort has been made to ensure gy and JSC Latgales Energetika, in which to give a balanced view of the Group’s accuracy in the collection of data for the it owns 100 and 64 percent ownership most important economic, environmental report and its presentation. In so far as interests respectively. and social impacts on society. underlying data has been interpreted, the aim has been to give as accurate and Agder Energi Venture is included in Agder Report quality relevant a picture as possible of the Energi’s annual report, and each year an The CSR report for 2016 adheres to the situation in question. The environmental assessment will be made as to whether it reporting principles set out in GRI G4. For data on which the report is based include is appropriate and relevant to include the the report, all of the reporting companies data from direct measurements, selfbusinesses in the venture portfolio in the performed an analysis of material declared aggregate figures for our CSR report. aspects. A certain degree of stakeholder companies and subcontractors, and involvement was achieved, through a calculated averages. The level of precision The section of the annual report on cormeeting with the chief employee of the data is therefore variable. porate social responsibility (CSR) covers representative, whose job is to safeguard the period from 1 January 2016 to the interests of the employees. Moreover, The GRI index only relates to the items 31 ­December 2016. The Group produces at the consultation meetings with the which the Group has chosen to report. an annual CSR report, which since 2015 companies the latter reported what their has been integrated into Agder Energi’s customers wanted. Reference is only made to disclosure annual report. As well as the discussion of items in the General Standard Disclosures CSR at the Group level in the annual reThe Group wishes to achieve even greater and Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures that port, an appendix has been published that stakeholder involvement in its future are actually used in the report. Full details breaks down the combined figures for the reporting. As such, its ambition is to of all of the Disclosure Items can be found whole Group into topics and companies. consult directly with as many stakeholders on the website of the Global R ­ eporting The appendix is available at www.ae.no. as possible. Initiative, www.globalreporting.org. Process The Group has also chosen to sign up to The CSR report takes into account the the global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) stakeholder groups that are its target Protocol developed by World Resource groups and focuses on the aspects of GRI Institute, adopted in January 2015. The AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 116 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ANALYSIS OF MATERIAL ASPECTS Aspects that are relevant to Agder Energi AE AE VannAE KraftforAE Code Aspect kraft Nett Otera LOS valtning Varme Economic G4-EC9 Procurement Local suppliers Practices • Environmental G4-EU13 Biodiversity Comparison with • unaffected areas Society G4-HR4 Freedom of Risks to freedom of Association and Collective association and collective bargaining in operations • Bargaining and at suppliers G4-SO8 Compliance Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations • • G4-PR1-PR2 Customer Health Safety of customer when using Health and Safety our products and services • • G4-PR3-PR5 Product and Product information Service Labeling and customer satisfaction • G4-PR6-PR7 Marketing Illegal/controversial products Communications and unacceptable marketing Compulsory G4-EU10 Availability Planned capacity against and Reliability projected electricity demand over the long term • • G4-EU15 Employment % eligible to retire -EU18 in 5-10 years, subcontractors (HSE) • • • • • • G4-EU22 Local Communities People displaced physically or economically • • G4-EU25 Customer and Safety Injuries and deaths of nonemployees involving company • • • • G4-EU26 -EU30 Access Power outages, availability and reliability • • The figure shows the outcome of our consultation with the companies, and which reporting categories each company considered relevant to itself. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CHANGES IN RELATION TO THE 2015 REPORT The application of G4 Electric Utilities disclosures. The 2016 report is based on companies, as well as the GRI index, is Sector Disclosures meant that the the analysis of material aspects carried also included in the appendix, which can companies had to include significantly out for the 2015 report. All of the be found at www.ae.no. more potential disclosure items in their companies have reported on the new analysis of material aspects. In order to required items set out in the document In the CSR report for 2016, Agder Energi leave the companies with a manageable on Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures. has implemented the GHG protocol’s number of potential disclosure items, One change from the 2015 CSR report is definition of CO2 emissions from electricity Agder Energi carried out an analysis of that only information for the Group as a consumption by reporting emission material aspects at the Group level. whole has been included in Agder figures for individual companies and the Based on the results of the analysis for Energi’s annual report, whereas the group using both the guarantee of origin the Group, each company analysed the breakdown of that data by topic has been system and the actual power mix in relevance of a selection of voluntary put in an appendix. Data for individual Norway. STAKEHOLDERS AND AGDER ENERGI Agder Energi defines stakeholders as people or groups who are affected by, or who could affect, the Group’s business activities. Cooperation with stakeholders is a high priority for the Group. Agder Energi is a state-owned limited Shareholders reasons why the Group, its subsidiaries liability company, and its core business is Each year, the senior management team and employees both participate in, and entirely dependent on maintaining the meets the shareholder municipalities at are members of, a number of regional, trust of its stakeholders. Cooperation meetings with their executive boards or national and international groups, councils with stakeholders is part of our day-tomunicipal councils. The municipal and committees working on questions day activities. Each company defines its shareholders hold regular shareholder relating to the regulatory framework for most important stakeholders in its meetings. The last shareholder meeting in the Group and the industry. These include business plan. The ones who are relevant 2016 was held in November. The main both technical organisations and trade to the largest number of companies are topic for shareholder meetings is matters associations. One of the most important considered most relevant to the Group. relating to the ownership of the Group, but ones is Energi Norge, the organisation The important stakeholders include other issues of concern to municipalities which represents businesses in the energy employees, shareholders, customers, can also be raised, such as new power sector affiliated to the Confederation of government authorities, subcontractors stations and reliability of supply. Norwegian Enterprise (NHO). Other and other business partners. CSR organisations in which Agder Energi reporting is a key aspect of our Customers participates include Eurelectric – The communication with the Group’s most LOS carries out regular customer surveys. Association of the Electricity Industry in important stakeholders. The results are used to make adjustments Europe, NORWEA – Norwegian Wind to how the company communicates with Energy Association and NECS – Norwegian Employees its customers. Agder Energi Nett also Energy Certificate System. Employee representatives and managers performs regular customer surveys. at Agder Energi have several regular, These are described in greater detail in Power station projects formal channels for discussing both the section on “Society” in this report. In conjunction with all power station strategic and operational issues. There projects, good communication with local are also a number of informal channels of Organisations authorities and other stakeholders in communication. A working environment The big changes taking place in the the local community is a priority. The survey of the Group’s employees is energy industry make it vital to have the issues that are typically of most interest carried out every two years, and one was information that we need to position to stakeholders include secondary performed in 2015. ourselves for the future. This is one of the economic impacts on local businesses AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 118 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR and environmental questions. When a Education intervals. The results have been stable for licence application is submitted, the Each year, the Group fulfils its statutory a number of years, and reveal that people Norwegian Water Resources and Energy duty to give lessons on electrical safety in the Agder region are highly aware of Directorate organises stakeholder and to all students in years 6 and 9 at schools the Group. Two thirds of respondents public consultations. in southern Norway. The students also believe that the Group has a good or very learn about renewable energy during good reputation. Partnerships these lessons. We have had a partnership agreement with the environmental organisation Reputation ZERO since 2013. We carry out reputation surveys at regular ETHICAL GUIDELINES AND VALUES Agder Energi’s Group strategy establishes our values and has a strong focus on ethical conduct. All conduct at the Group should adhere to its ethical guidelines. The ethical guidelines were revised and them. It was checked that the employees The committee also monitors how approved by the Board in December 2013. had completed the course. The aim of whistleblowing is dealt with. Agder Energi The document “Ethics at Agder Energi” these measures is to further raise strives to be as transparent as is describes how anyone representing the awareness about ethical conduct at Agder practicable in its work on CSR. In 2014 the Group should conduct themselves. The Energi. Group signed up to the UN Global main points were published in a separate Compact, which means that it undertakes booklet in 2014. In May/June 2014 all Agder Energi has set up an ethics to run its operations in accordance with employees were sent an e-learning course committee that helps managers and specific principles. on ethical dilemmas and how to handle employees to deal with ethical dilemmas. THE GROUP’S VALUES Closeness reaching them. Individual employees must exploiting any opportunities that exist Agder Energi shall be close to its safeguard their integrity and credibility in within the framework of our overall customers and the region. Customers all of their activities, both within and strategy. shall know that we are there for them. An outside the business. open dialogue based on a joint Innovation understanding of the facts helps us to Dynamism We shall promote innovation and bring out the best in each other. By We shall be dynamic, and have a clear creativity, so that our employees become cooperating we preserve our regional corporate strategy that helps us to more skilled and efficient, enabling them identity and help to develop the region. implement projects and achieve our goals. to help to grow and develop our business. This dynamism shall be shown both by the Innovation is a process in which people Credibility organisation and by individual employees. build on each other’s contributions and We shall gain credibility by keeping Organisational dynamism involves having ideas. We have to think in new ways and promises, both to third parties and within decision-making procedures that ensure create new processes, while also retaining our organisation. The way in which we successful implementation and profit­ the best aspects of what we currently do. achieve our goals is just as important as ability. Individual dynamism involves AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP CSR GOALS Based on our CSR strategy, and subcontractors shall never be complicit its operations, reflecting the nature of its supported by the Group’s ethical in the breach of human rights. business. Subcontractors must have guidelines and HR guidelines, we have procedures in place for environmental set joint Group goals for human rights, Labour rights protection measures. labour rights, the environment and antiAgder Energi and its subcontractors shall corruption. The joint Group goals are comply with the eight fundamental Anti-corruption activities implemented by the individual companies. conventions of the International Labour Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of Organisation (ILO) on the right to active or passive corruption shall take Human rights organise, the right to collective place within the Group’s business Agder Energi and its subcontractors (a bargaining and the elimination of forced activities. subcontractor is defined as anyone who labour, child labour and discrimination at performs services for, or sells products the workplace. to, Agder Energi) shall conduct themselves in accordance with the UN’s Environment internationally accepted human rights Each company within the Agder Energi conventions. The Group and its Group draws up environmental goals for BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND INNOVATION In order to increase the value added by interface between salmon, environmental Innovation the Group, Agder Energi aims to be the protection and electricity generation with In order to ensure that we are in a position industry leader with respect to the aim of finding solutions that are good to exploit the technologies and markets of understanding, exploiting and influencing in terms of both power generation and the future, we are always on the look-out the business environment. Market salmon management. for new opportunities within and beyond developments and relevant technology our current core activities. Over the are closely monitored. This work informs In 2016 Agder Energi established an R&D course of the year, we started several our continual improvement processes, programme to increase our understanding pilot projects to develop new technology lobbying activities and policy positions. of the challenges that grid operators will and solutions. These include a face in the future, and the Group has collaboration with the University of Agder Research and development launched a programme to make better on artificial intelligence at power stations The Group’s investment in R&D shall lay use of the tools available to it. and a project piloting smart grids with the foundations for long-term, profitable Microsoft. Agder Energi is participating in growth and promote development Agder Energi has completed a four-year the Open Innovation Lab, a collaboration activities to increase the potential of the research project in collaboration with the with Stanford University and companies core business. Through our ownership University of Stavanger. The aim of the including the airline Norwegian and interest in Teknova, an institute for applied project was to give Agder Energi an inStorebrand to develop innovative ideas R&D, we support the research community depth understanding of how Norwegian and new business models. Through our in the region studying renewable energy. environmental policy relates to renewable subsidiary Agder Energi Venture, we are Agder Energi also participates in a energy policy, and to what extent it trying to create long-term opportunities national research centre for green energy: promotes investment in wind power. The for growth in the industrial sector. The CEDREN (Centre for Environmental project involved one of Agder Energi’s main focus is on investments in companies Design of Renewable Energy). CEDREN’s employees doing a PhD that was partinvolved in renewable energy generation main focus is on local technical and funded by the Research Council of Norway and their suppliers, as well as smart grids environmental challenges associated with through its Industrial PhD scheme. The and energy efficiency. The aim is to create renewable energy generation, and on how candidate defended his thesis on 9 March a new, profitable business that can be to integrate environmental and energy 2016. integrated into the Group’s future policy. One project is looking at the activities. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 120 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI’S SUBCONTRACTORS Each year, Agder Energi buys goods and services worth around NOK 1.8 billion. We aim to combine the purchasing Technical installations often involve promotes high ethical standards. Anyone expertise of all of the companies in the subcontractors in a number of different acting on behalf of the Group in its Group. Competitive bids are invited for countries. The Group must follow dealings with bidders and subcontractors joint agreements covering all companies guidelines laid down by the Norwegian must adhere to high ethical standards. in the Group after first studying the authorities, as well as comply with the ten market. Agder Energi Nett and Agder principles of the UN Global Compact in In its contracts, Agder Energi requires Energi Varme are covered by the the areas of human rights, labour subcontractors to comply with the Group’s Norwegian Public Procurement Act. standards, the environment and antirules on CSR and HSE. In 2016 the Group Subcontractors to the grid operating corruption. This is defined in separate carried out audits to check that its company must qualify through SELLIHCA, Group goals, which can be found under subcontractors are complying with these which is a supplier register and prethe section on “Group CSR Goals”. requirements. With the help of an external qualification system used by Scandinavian supplier, the Group audited around 20 of utilities. The Group enters into a variety of its subcontractors in 2016, selected on agreements covering day-to-day the basis of an overall risk assessment. For major investment projects, the total purchasing, covering everything from This brings the total number of value of goods and services purchased consumables to administrative services. subcontractors with framework can be of the order of one billion These are often designed as framework agreements who have been audited to Norwegian kroner. Purchases for these agreements, under which there are miniapproximately 35-40. The audits were projects range from construction services competitions between subcontractors. All based on recognised auditing standards. to advanced technical components. procurement shall be done in a way that GENERATING ECONOMIC VALUE Agder Energi’s vision is to be one of the to the other areas covered by CSR. The presented in accordance with International leading companies in the Norwegian Group reports key financial indicators in Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). renewable energy sector. Generating its interim and annual reports, and the economic value and sustainability are accompanying notes. Consolidated prerequisites for a responsible approach financial statements for the Group are AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR VALUE ADDED STATEMENT The value added statement gives an account of the wealth created by the Group over the year, and shows how it is distributed amongst the stakeholder groups: employees, lenders, the public sector, shareholders and the company itself. The figure for value added is adjusted for unrealised gains and losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts. (Amounts in NOK millions) 2016 2015* Operating revenues 9 286 7 458 Goods consumed/operating expenses -5 687 -4 073 Gross added value 3 599 3 385 Capital depreciation -608 -577 Net added value 2 991 2 808 Net financial items, excl. interest -80 35 Available for distribution 2 911 2 843 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Employees Gross salaries and benefits 1 234 1 138 Tax paid by employees -289 -288 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions -143 -137 Net amount received by employees 802 713 Lenders Interest, etc. paid to lenders 177 216 Net amount received by lenders 177 216 The public sector Ordinary taxes 154 519 Property taxes 160 163 Resource rent tax 383 314 Tax paid by employees 289 288 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 143 137 Net amount received by the public sector 1 129 1 421 Shareholders Allocated for distributions by the company 607 660 Net amount received by shareholders 607 660 The company Retained earnings 185 -158 Non-controlling interest’s share of profit 11 -9 Net amount received by the company 196 -167 Total amount distributed 2 911 2 843 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 122 Agder Energi P.O. Box 603 Lundsiden, 4606 Kristiansand Visiting address (head office): Kjøita 18, 4630 Kristiansand Tel. no.: +47 38 60 70 00 Organisation number: NO 981 952 324 Kikkut Photo: Kjell Inge Søreide, Anders Martinsen, Arild de Lange Nilsen, Realf Ottesen, English translation: Språkverkstaden
