Colgate-Palmolive UNGC Communication on Progress In May 2017, Colgate-Palmolive became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). I am pleased to confirm that Colgate reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Ian Cook Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer UNGC GRI Colgate-Palmolive Actions Additional Sources Principles Indicators Human Rights Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting Respecting Human Rights and Labor GRI 102-16 human and labor rights worldwide and supports the United Rights: Disclosure Statements GRI 102-17 Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the (California Transparency in Supply GRI 102-41 1. Support and International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Standards. Chains Act and UK Modern Slavery GRI 405-1 respect the Colgate practices and seeks business partners who share our Act compliance) GRI 408-1 protection of commitment to Universal Human Rights. We recognize the GRI 412-1 internationally responsibility of business to respect human labor rights and Code of Conduct GRI 413-1 proclaimed human will engage with stakeholders and respect all parties’ rights. Third-Party Code of Conduct GRI 414-1 rights. Protecting human and labor rights is one of our Key GRI 415-1 Sustainability Issues. Palm Oil Responsible and 2. Make sure the Sustainable Sourcing policy business is not As a part of our human rights management approach, we Procurement Policies complicit in human identified potential issues (listed below) and the vulnerable rights abuses. Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability groups that might be impacted by these issues. These groups include individuals who work in high-risk geographies, Report 2017 Social migrant workers and other groups who may be impacted. Responsibility/Human Rights (p. 29)  Freedom of Association Colgate 2017 Key Performance  Forced Labor Indicators and Global Reporting  Child Labor Initiative Index  Health and Safety  Hours and Wages  Harassment  Land Rights  Diversity and Inclusion Since the inception of the Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program in 2012, Colgate has assessed more than 80 percent of our spend with direct material suppliers operating in high-risk geographies, including raw material and packaging suppliers, and finished goods contract manufacturers. Labor Colgate is committed to respecting employees’ lawful Respecting Human Rights and Labor GRI 102-41 freedom of association and recognizes all legal rights to Rights: Disclosure Statements GRI 403-2 organize and collectively bargain. Colgate seeks to work with (California Transparency in Supply GRI 404-2 3. Uphold freedom of suppliers who promote this standard. Chains Act and UK Modern Slavery GRI 404-3 association and the Act compliance) GRI 405-1 effective recognition We do not use forced labor within our own operations and GRI 408-1 of the right to we will strive to eradicate forced labor from our supply Code of Conduct GRI 412-1GRI collective bargaining. chains. Colgate believes that every worker should have GRI 414-1 freedom of movement, no worker should pay for a job and no GRI 414-2 4. Support worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Moreover, it Third-Party Code of Conduct elimination of all is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor forms of forced and known to operate with forced labor. In line with the Palm Oil Responsible and compulsory labor. Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) recently announced Social Sustainable Sourcing policy Resolution on Forced Labor, Colgate joins CGF in acknowledging the broad societal problem of modern slavery Equal Opportunity Employer Info 5. Support effective and commitment to eradicate forced labor from supply/ abolition of child value chains. Colgate complies with the UK Modern Slavery Procurement Policies labor. Act. This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes Colgate-Palmolive Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability Company’s anti-slavery and human trafficking statement for Report 2017 Social 2016. Responsibility/Human Rights (p. 29) 6. Elimination of Colgate does not use child labor within our own operations. discrimination in Child labor is defined as employing any person younger than Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability respect of the minimum age in the jurisdiction in question. However, in Report 2017 Occupational Health employment and no event will we knowingly employ anyone younger than 16 and Safety (p. 30-33) occupation. years of age. Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate with child labor. Colgate 2017 Key Performance Indicators and Global Reporting Colgate strives to ensure our organization reflects the Initiative Index diversity of our consumers. We are committed to providing equal opportunity for all employees at all levels regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, age, disability, veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other category protected by law in the terms or conditions of employment. This includes, but is not limited to, recruitment, hiring, promotion, transfer, compensation, training, demotion or layoff. Colgate seeks to work with suppliers who promote this commitment. To manage the risk to our company and to the workers in our supply chain, Colgate has a formal process to identify and manage social, ethical and environmental risks in our supply chain and with other business partners. Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program requires selected suppliers and business partners to complete a selfassessment focused on labor practices, human rights, worker health and safety, environmental management and business integrity. When a supplier is assessed as high risk, a thirdparty audit of their facility is required. To date, Colgate has assessed over 550 supplier and business partner facilities via the SRSA program, commissioned over 215 site audits and reviewed an additional 267 supplier audits commissioned on behalf of other supplier customers. Colgate is also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum dedicated to the promotion of responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. Environment It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and market EOHS Policy GRI 102-11 our products and operate our facilities so that we conform to, GRI 301-2 and often exceed, applicable environmental rules and Ingredient Safety Policy GRI 302-1 7. Businesses are regulations. Our environmental standards, including the No Deforestation Policy GRI 302-2 asked to support a management systems standard, define environmental GRI 302-3 precautionary Palm Oil Policy performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate GRI 302-4 approach to facilities have a fully implemented Environmental GRI 303-1 environmental Product Safety Research Policy Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Management System GRI 303-2 challenges. covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water Procurement Policies GRI 305-1 and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing GRI 305-2 8. Undertake environmental performance goals are included in our Global Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability GRI 305-3 initiatives to promote Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded to siteReport 2017Our Climate GRI 305-4 greater level facility managers, energy managers and EOHS managers. Commitment (p. 65-72) GRI 305-5 environmental Colgate sites are expected to self-assess conformance with GRI 305-6 challenges. Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability our standards and local regulations at an 18-month interval. GRI 306-2 Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, the Report 2017 Making Every Drop Of GRI 306-3 9. Encourage the Water Count (p. 73-80) closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits GRI 307-1 development and are conducted to provide closure assurance. Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability GRI 308-1 diffusion of environmentally Report 2017 Working Toward Zero In 2017, Colgate joined the UN CEO Water Mandate Action Landfill Waste (p. 81-82) friendly technologies. Platform as part of our participation in the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Colgate is working with the UNGC to leverage the SDGs in the ongoing development of our water Colgate 2017 Key Performance stewardship and sustainability strategies. Indicators and Global Reporting Initiative Index At Colgate, we understand the potential consequences of climate change, and we are committed to acting responsibly and conscientiously to protect people and the environment wherever we operate. Reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions also enables Colgate to mitigate costs. Our climate strategy is anchored in setting and achieving science-based goals to reduce greenhouse gases. In 2017, Colgate’s science-based climate goal for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 was approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every stage of the product lifecycle, including at the end-of-life of our products and packaging. In June 2018, Colgate-Palmolive Company joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New Plastics Economy initiative, reflecting our commitment to 100% recyclability of packaging across all its product categories and its target to achieve 25% recycled content in all plastic packaging by 2025. Key elements of our Environmental Strategy include the following:  Setting science-based targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improving our global Energy Management System and investing in planet-related improvements via our manufacturing capital program;  Promoting use of renewable energy;  Integrating climate resiliency into our risk management processes;  Investing in water conservation and assessing water risks associated with our global operations;  Increasing supplier participation in our water stewardship program;  Developing innovative products that enable consumers to use less water;  Working with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water;  Reducing, reusing and recycling waste;  Supporting a vision for a future without deforestation and working to meet our goal of no deforestation by 2020; and  Collaborating with stakeholders AntiColgate is committed to doing business with integrity and Anti-Bribery Policy GRI 102-16 respect for all people and for the world around us. Since GRI 102-17 Corruption 1987, our Code of Conduct has served as a guide for our daily Code of Conduct GRI 102-18 business interactions, reflecting our corporate values and our Donation Policy GRI 102-21 10. Work against standard for ethical behavior. Our Code of Conduct is GRI 102-22 corruption in all its available in 40 different languages. Colgate’s Global Business Political Contributions Policy GRI 102-23 forms, including Practices Guidelines provide further information to our GRI 102-24 Valuing Colgate People extortion and employees on key topics in our Code of Conduct, including: GRI 414-1 bribery. Ethics Line GRI 414-2  Advertising and Advertising Placement GRI 415-1  Anti-Bribery Laws Managing with Respect  Antitrust and Competition Laws Non Retaliation Policy  Confidentiality  Conflicts of Interest Privacy Policy  Corporate Governance Colgate-Palmolive Sustainability  Data Protection and Privacy Report 2017 Business Integrity (p.  International Trade Regulations 16-17)  Product Integrity  Social Media Colgate 2017 Key Performance Indicators and Global Reporting The Colgate Ethics Line provides a means for employees and Initiative Index external parties to ask questions, obtain guidance or report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. Colgate has a long-standing policy against making contributions to political parties or candidates. Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery of governmental officials and private commercial parties anywhere we do business. Colgate also mandates that the third parties with whom we work comply with our anti-bribery policy, which is included in our Third Party Code of Conduct. Colgate’s compliance training, “Ethical Leadership Training,” uses a mixture of classroom and online training and covers numerous priority ethical topics, including Anti-Bribery, Competition Law, Privacy and Trade Compliance. Every year, 100 percent of salaried and clerical employees complete the Code of Conduct training and certification, and every other year all employees complete the course. Training is mandatory and is linked to compensation for certain employee populations.
