United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Raya Holding 2017 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2017 It is our great pleasure to re‐affirm our continuous support to the UN Global Compact and its principles for the 12th year. At Raya, we are committed in doing business in a financially, environmentally and socially responsible way. Having a dynamic and diversified portfolio of business lines, we are constantly anticipating, adapting and creating new business opportunities regardless of the challenges we face in our business environment. Our sustained growth and success lies in our ability to create long‐term value to our key stakeholders; our employees, customers, investors, business partners and the community in which we operate. Indeed, we are well aware of the footprint and socio‐economic impacts we have over the years on local market by introducing and developing products and services and by providing decent jobs opportunities. It becomes critical to get things right. For that reason, we abide by our core corporate values “Respect for People, Customer Focus, Teamwork and Excellence” in setting our ambitious targets and evaluating our performance. To constantly do better, we place a great deal in enabling our people to do their job and furfill their potential in a healthy and safe working environment. We are currently working towards removing any barriers and making Raya a more diverse and inclusive organization where all employees would equally strive and feel aspired and engaged. In 2017, we sustained our commitment to social development addressing pressing challenges in our communities of education and poverty alleviation. We have collaborated with non‐governmental agencies specialized in improving the quality of education in underserved areas and addressing chronic societal issues related to poverty. Believing in the value of civic engagement for our organization and the well‐being it brings to our employees, we have institutionalized corporate volunteering activities within our organization as part of our social responsibility mandate. We do realize that as businesses we play a pivotal in promoting Sustainability Development Goals (SDG’s) and Raya as UN Global Compact active participant is committed to contribute these goals and become a local SDGs pioneer through constant improvement of our economic, social, environmental and governance performance. Medhat Khalil Chairman & CEO Raya Holding 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Chairman Statement of Continued Support in 2017 .................................................................... 2 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 4 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles .......................................................... 5 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles ...................................................... 9 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles .......................................................... 14 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principles ........................................................ 18 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 INTRODUCTION Reporting to the UN Global Compact This Communication on Progress accounts for Raya Holding activities during 2017 and its intended plans to be a sustainable business, having a proactive approach to change and ensuring long‐term profitability . The Communication on Progress captures our contribution as a committed signatory to the UN Global Compact and its 10 universally accepted 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti‐corruption, and its approach to corporate sustainability. We are constantly making efforts in doing business responsibly and profitably creating value to our key stakeholders, shareholders, employees, customers and business partners and society in a sustainable manner. Raya Holding is an active participant in the UN Global Compact since 2005 and is constantly providing the support to the local UN Global Compact Network Egypt. 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 4 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our “Respect for People”‐ Safety Policy. The goal of this policy is provide safe and healthy work place and Raya Holding is committed to protecting working environment to employees, human rights; which is reflected in how we contractors, customers and visitors; having treat our employees, deal with our a proactive management approach to issues suppliers and how we strive to make related to health and safety. Additionally, sustainable impact in the communities we there is a Committee for Health and Safety operate in. “Respect for People” is one chaired by the Company’s Chairman formed Raya’s core values; being a vital principle by members representing different business we adhere to as a company. This lines and departments who is responsible commitment is embedded in our Code of for overseeing health and safety issues and Business Conduct (COBC). demands. Protecting Our People and Other In line with the efforts to promote a Stakeholders corporate culture where health and safety considered in daily business operations, Health and Safety awareness and training sessions are At Raya Holding, we are committed to periodically conducted to employees from protect the health and safety of our fire‐ fighting, first aid training to more employees, guests and neighbors, as part of technical trainings given to employees our support to human rights. We across business lines. In 2017, 270 continuously develop and improve our employees received these trainings and internal standards for safety and security awareness sessions. systems. Since 2012, Raya holding have achieved and continue to maintain OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, which relates to occupational health and safety. As part of our commitment to health and safety, we have developed and implemented an Occupational, Health and 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 Data Privacy and Information Security As part our risk management efforts, at In 2017, we sustained our support to social Raya we recognize the significance of initiatives tackling issues in the educational protecting the privacy and security of sector; focusing on skills development and personal and business data for our creating sustained social impact. customers and employees. We have been providing continuous We have in place an Information Security support to Educate Me in their community Policy committing employees to protect the school in Talbeya, their Teacher Training confidentiality, integrity and availability of Program and School Transformation all the physical and electronic information Program. Based on Raya’s sustained and assets. In line with this policy, Raya Holding continuous support to Educate Me’s is ISO 27001 certified since 2009 and we Education programs, Raya proudly received have established an Information Security a token of recognition for its efforts in Management System (ISMS) which is promoting the quality of education in Egypt. intended to be an enabling mechanism for Raya received this recognition from Educate information sharing, for electronic Me foundation during el “Mo3allem” “The operations, and for reducing information‐ Teacher” conference held last September related risks to acceptable levels. 2017 at the American University in Cairo Moreover, there is an Acceptable Use Policy Raya Holding is currently supporting the (AUP) which ensures that all employees implementation of their school know how to deal appropriately and transformation program in three public responsibly with information considering schools in Sheikh Zayed, 6th of October. The the level of sensitivity of data; preventing aim of the this program is to empower breach of confidentiality of personal and students, teachers and management of business information and preventing targeted public schools with skills, tools and compromising the network systems. principles to enable them to cope with 21st century challenges and seek excellence. Believing in the power of education in Taking Action in Support of Broader creating social change and driving UN Goals and Issues sustainable development, we also this year have partnered with Man Ahyaha Strategic Social Investments; Supporting foundation and sponsored the Education and Promoting Corporate establishment of a classroom in a Volunteering community school in Behbet El Ayyat 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 6 village; an underserved rural area. The offered to Raya’s employees an opportunity objective of this intervention is to improve to participate in a community trip where the quality of life in this village and to they had the chance to witness and promote a value‐based education to the volunteer in the building of a community children. Man Ahyaha community school school in Behbet El Ayyat. Raya employees will provide access to education to 200 volunteered and participated in the building children. of this school. During that day, they had the chance to interact and play with the Promoting civic engagement and reaching children, leaving a smile on their faces. It out to the community is an integral part of was a live enriching experience for Raya our CSR activities. For that reason, we are volunteers and leaving a positive impact on constantly soliciting employee engagement the children and the locals in this village. and corporate volunteering. In 2017, we have organized several volunteering activities. Over the year, employees across Raya Lines of Business invested over 671 hours in community engagement activities. As part of our corporate volunteer program, Raya Holding partnered with INJAZ Egypt to contribute to their skilled‐based education program in public schools. Raya employees Moreover, Raya volunteers participated in leveraged their know‐how by teaching the packing and distribution of Ramadan Egyptian students key skills not covered in food boxes donated by Raya Holding in the public school curriculum, in such fields partnership with Misr El Kheir Foundation. as financial literacy, basic management, Among these civic engagement activities, effective communication, self‐discovery, we organized two blood donation and responsible citizenship. Raya campaigns, across all Raya premises across employees volunteered with an estimate of Cairo. As part of Raya’s emergency relief 297 training hours in public schools to response, we sponsored the full restoration provide students’ with these important and renovation of houses in Qena with the skills, to ensure they are better prepared to aim to promote a better of quality of be constructive members of the economy livelihood for targeted beneficiaries. and work towards sustainable development at large. In 2017, Raya celebrated and thanked its employees who volunteered and In line with our belief that part of giving participated in Corporate Social back is in being connected and engaged Responsibility volunteering initiatives with the community. For that reason, we conducted over year. In recognition of their 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 efforts and time, volunteers who fully completed their volunteering programs received a certificate of appreciation from Mr. Medhat Khalil, Raya Holding Chairman and CEO. For more details on Raya’s CSR initiatives, please contact us at CSR@rayacorp.com or visit our corporate website: www.rayacorp.com. 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment is well articulated in our Code of Business Conduct (COBC), to emphasize respect, Raya’s has ongoing commitment to integrity, fairness and doing the right thing upholding labor standards‐including in everything we do. freedom of association, elimination of forced labor, compulsory and child labor; and elimination of discrimination. This Promoting High Labor Standards for Our commitment to labor standards in People embedded in our different HR policies, worker‐manager social dialogue, training At the core of our business are the skills and and communication tools provided to all the know‐how of our people‐Human employees. Capital. Valuing our people, we make sure that we apply high labor standards in hiring, This is reflected in company’s core values, promoting and implementing talent Respect for People, Customer Focus, management and leadership programs. Our Teamwork and Excellence. These values employees are hired, promoted and receive have helped define Raya and they continue training based on meritocracy. In addition, to shape each of us in our business Raya has well‐ established different relationships with one another, our recognition programs that allow customers, shareholders, suppliers, outstanding employees to be recognized for competitors and the communities in which their achievements. Each employee is we live and operate. We expect to eligible to be nominated for any of Raya’s demonstrate these values in our work. This 2017 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 9
