30 March 2018 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Sutherland supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we are reaffirming our commitment to these principles and sharing an update with you on how we are implementing them into our business practices. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. We have five key Corporate Responsibility categories at Sutherland. I will now briefly update you on the progress of each and in doing so demonstrate our sincere drive to implement and comply with the ten principles of the Global Compact. 1. The Sutherland Foundation In 2014 Sutherland created a free-standing, non-incorporated foundation aligned with the corporate parent to centralize and codify our Corporate Social Responsibility goals and objectives. The Foundation’s current focus includes the following home-grown initiatives: • Digital Literacy Program: This is Sutherland’s flagship corporate responsibility program, sponsored by Microsoft. This program offers a free digital literacy education to disadvantaged and underserved communities around the world. The goal is to empower participants with the ability to use computer technology in everyday life, better enabling them to pursue new social and economic opportunities. Since 2014, Sutherland has trained over 38,700 program participants in India, the Philippines, and Jamaica, of these 93% have achieved certification. The program continues to grow and expand with education interventions taking place in many inner-city schools in India and Jamaica where there has been a significant increase in employees volunteering to provide mentorship for marginalized youth. In Jamaica, there has been quantifiable economic impact from our corporate responsibility initiatives. Over 145 marginalized youth that were certified through the Digital Literacy Program have 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 been employed either by direct hire to Sutherland or through a one year paid Internship at Sutherland. • Sutherland Cares: Sutherland Cares was the charitable giving arm of Sutherland where employees made donations that were matched by Sutherland to organizations around the globe to further our charitable mission. This has been upgraded to the expanded model in the next bullet. • In 2017 Sutherland upgraded its social impact model to focus on education, extreme mentoring, and environmental impact utilizing employee volunteers working directly with our local stakeholder partners. In the US, one such partnership is with the Champion Academy (Founded in 2015 by Rochester native Roland Williams, the Champion Academy Extreme Mentoring & Empowerment Initiative was created to solve Rochester’s teen crisis by providing participants with much-needed accountability, consistency and support necessary to fight for their future and succeed as students and citizens). Continuing in 2018, Sutherland is looking to expand this initiative across many of our worldwide sites furthering the global impact of this partnership. • The CSR Board of Directors meets at least quarterly to review strategic social impact activities globally and ensure alignment with UN Global Compact, the Global Impact Sourcing, and corporate objectives. • Sutherland Community Affairs: Overseen by the CSR Board of Directors it is primarily responsible for strategic charitable investments in local communities through advertising, marketing, and event sponsorship. 2. Verego Social Responsibility Standard Certifications Verego’s structured framework and certifications are specifically designed to be actionable for and by organizations of all sizes and scalable to meet each organization’s unique Social Responsibility objectives and shared value opportunities. http://verego.com/vision-values/. Sutherland is certified with Verego in the areas of Leadership, Ethics, People, and Environment for 2016 and 2017, and is prepared to begin the recertification process for 2018. • Leadership: must show a corporate commitment to social responsibility which includes structured policies and procedures for corporate governance and for our customer base that are clearly defined and communicated to relevant stakeholders. In addition, this certification requires attestation to governmental and legal compliance. • Ethics: policies and procedures to ensure ethical conduct when it comes to anticorruption, fair competition, a socially responsible supply chain and managing relationships with other organizations, including sub-contractors. • People: this certification focuses on the human rights policies and procedures including topics like use of voluntary labor, acceptable working hours, fair wages, humane treatment of works, harassment and discrimination, Human Rights monitoring and reporting and potential grievances. In addition, this certification looks at our labor and employment practices. • Community: this certification looks at our engagement and investments in the communities where Sutherland has a footprint. 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 • Environment: looks at policies and procedures with regards to pollution, resources use, climate, and habitat. 3. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. CDP works with market forces to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and act to reduce them. https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx Sutherland has been reporting to the CDP since 2013. The result of each CDP report is a quantitative and qualitative disclosure on Sutherland’s global footprint from an emissions and environmental standpoint. With a baseline to review we are then able to focus on areas where emissions reductions are possible. Sutherland continues to produce a CDP report following the close of each fiscal year, with the next iteration due in August of 2018. For the fiscal year running from July 1, 2016 to June 30th, 2017 Sutherland had gross CO2 emissions of 48,950 tonnes, or 0.88 tonnes per full time employee. This results in a 3% decrease per-FTE (full time equivalent/employee) emission over the prior year, and aligns with Sutherland’s stated emission reduction goals. Sutherland remains committed to year over year intensity-based emissions reductions. 4. Global Impact Sourcing Coalition (GISC) Impact Sourcing (IS) is the socially responsible arm of the business process and information technology outsourcing industry that employs individuals, especially high potential, disadvantaged youth, women and marginalized people, who would otherwise not have an opportunity for sustainable employment. The GISC is a coalition of some of the top sourcing Buyers, Suppliers & NGOs who have signed on to adhere to an industry standard of approximately 25 metrics that cover meaningful, relevant, and measurable impact sourcing definitions, outputs, and outcomes. These metrics are tied to relevant Corporate Responsibility reporting schemas and certifications by the GISC members. In 2017 Sutherland was focused on working with the standards committee and incorporating the Impact Sourcing philosophy within our hiring protocols. In 2018 we will be tracking and reporting all Social Impact related sourcing as required in the standard. 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534 Thank you for your time Mr. Secretary-General and once again I would like to stress Sutherland’s commitment to the Global Compact and the UN objectives at large. While we have been engaged in communities where we work and live for years, we are very excited as a corporation to step up our efforts and be a part of the solution on a global level in combating the many ills of the developed and undeveloped world. Sincerely yours, Mr. Dilip Vellodi CEO Sutherland 1160 Pittsford-Victor Rd +1-800-388-4557 Pittsford, NY +1-585-784-2200 14534
