The collection and presentation of the content in the Concept & Design MNP 2017 Sustainable Development Report are the product Actualization, Layout & Production Management Easy dot of the work of all units of Piraeus Bank and its subsidiaries Printing Pressious Arvanitidis in Greece and abroad. The 2017 Sustainable Development Report of Piraeus Bank was printed on Munken Lynx and Translucent Clear Paper, obtained by environmentally-friendly processes. The Corporate Development & Investor Relations unit is responsible for developing and editing the content: Theano Kotsaleni The 2017 Sustainable Development Report of Piraeus Bank is Yvonne Papageorgiou available online at: www.piraeusbankgroup.com/annual-report Fyllenia Diakoumi Feedback from our stakeholders improves further development of our financial & non-financial reporting. We look forward to new impulses and your opinion. Contact: Corporate Development & Investor Relations, FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®), Its mission is to 4, Amerikis str., Gr-105 64 Athens Greece, promote environmentally responsible, socially beneficial Τ: +30 210 3335026, Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr and economically viable management of the world’s forests. Copy Editing Team: Katerina Pournara Environmental Unit Christodoulos Riggas Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation Valy Patsoglou Marketing Surveys Kelly Karle Group Human Resources & Organizational Learning The Marketing unit is responsible for the actualization of printed edition and digital applications: Katerina Panoutsou Eltina Antoniou Persa Pergamali Charis Voulgaraki Last update: May 31, 2018 The word praxis in Greek is used in reference to mathematical calculations but also to human actions. This is no coincidence but evidence of the close interconnection of people and numbers. At Piraeus Bank, fully aware of this connection and focused on the values that inspire us, we operate with absolute integrity and consistency. All of our actions are related to people and we shape our activities for the future with people at the center of all activities. So that we can be by their side, in praxis . Contents Chairman’s Note 9 Independent Assurance Statement 15 Selected Figures Associated with the 2017 Sustainable Development Report 19 Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2017 Sustainable Development Report 23 Stakeholders' Dialogue 31 Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonization with Global Standards 37 Corporate Responsibility Principles 41 Corporate Governance Strengthening 47 Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 69 Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 97 Harmonious Relationship with Society 133 Promotion of Culture 143 Environmental Protection 177 GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 217 9 Chairman’s Note Following two years of stabilization, the Greek economy returned to growth in 2017 and is gradually setting its pace. The defining factors that will mark the transition of Greece to a new era are expected to be the completion of the third Economic Adjustment Programme in August 2018 and the implementation of reforms, that will lay the foundations for the return to normality and sustainable development. For Piraeus Bank, this conjunction constitutes an opportunity for a new beginning. During 2017, we proceeded with the structural recomposition of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the legislative framework and the highest international standards. The new BoD, through new procedures and in accordance with best international practices in BoD member succession, elected Christos Megalou as Managing Director (CEO) in March 2017. Mr Megalou has taken important initiatives and has implemented/launched a number of actions that are decisive for the progress of the Bank’s financial position analyzed in depth in the 2017 Piraeus Bank Business Report. Currently, the Bank possesses a Board of Directors with proven international banking experience, thus enhancing its corporate governance in implementing best practices and the supervisory regulations. Furthermore, in the last 12 months, the Bank has reinvigorated its executive management team with the aim to implement with unwavering commitment the Bank’s strategic plan. We now possess the necessary know-how, the experience and the decisiveness to effectively address today’s challenges and to ensure that the Bank is well positioned to deliver to our customers, shareholders and employees. 10 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Bank strives to maintain its position in the Greek market with the aim of improving all its financial fundamentals while at the same time, through its activities and actions, seeking to support and contribute to the broader development of the economy, society, the environment and culture by incorporating the principles of sustainability into its strategy. We invest in shaping strong relationships with all our stakeholders, including those that have already a connection with the Bank, and those that are affected by the Bank’s operations, on the basis of building a relationship of trust, mutual benefit and harmonious cooperation. Piraeus Bank is committed to maintain its key role in the gradual recovery of the Greek economy and to contributing to the support of entrepreneurship and investments as significant factors in sustainable, long-term growth, as well as supporting households with tangible and specific solutions addressing every need. More specifically, the Bank invests in high-quality service for its customers. It is the Bank’s strategy to support sustainable businesses and their initiatives with the aim of financing projects and modern infrastructures, export-oriented businesses, environmentally responsible businesses, agricultural banking and support of primary production as well as third-party asset management by means of highquality services and innovative products in the context of improving productivity and strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy. The Bank’s Management, recognizing the key contribution of its employees in achieving its goals, ensures a workplace environment which is conducive to the balance of work and personal life and promotes their continuous development. Piraeus Bank contributes to protecting the environment through its active support of environmentally responsible entrepreneurship, the constant reduction of the environmental footprint from the Group’s operation, the realization of programs related to the protection of biodiversity and dealing with the risk stemming from climate change. Moreover, the Bank supports corporate responsibility actions, by systematically fostering its relationships with all stakeholders, with particular emphasis on safeguarding culture and preserving traditional technology and industrial heritage in the Greek regions. This is achieved through the network of specialized thematic technological museums developed by Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. Piraeus Bank has participated since 2004 on a voluntary basis in the UN Global Compact, actively supporting and promoting its principles, which pertain to human and labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. It should be noted that Piraeus Bank Group, recognizing the importance of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the widespread acceptance of the Goals globally, has defined in this Sustainable Development Report the most pertinent goals for the Group, thus becoming an active supporter of the success of this ambitious plan with a timetable of achievement by 2030. The following Sustainable Development Report describes the principles of corporate responsibility that we adopt, the actions and initiatives we undertook in 2017 as well as our future goals, according to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, which we believe defines a comprehensive framework of principles that facilitates the publicizing and communicating of sustainable development topics both to the Bank and its stakeholders. The Report has received independent assurance by a third party, which is proof of our commitment to transparency and harmonization with internationally recognized best practices. Chairman’s Note 11 All of us at Piraeus Bank put great effort to ensure the Bank competently responds to the challenges of the present conjuncture. For the first time after many years, prospects emerging to be more positive for customers, employees and the Greek economy in general. George Handjinicolaou Chairman of the Board of Directors 15 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 ey.com INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT* To the Management of Piraeus Bank S.A. The 2017 Sustainable Development Report ( the Report ) of Piraeus Bank S.A. ( the Bank ) has been prepared by the Bank’s Management, which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility is limited in carrying out a limited assurance engagement on specific scope on the Report, with the exception of the Materiality Principle application for which we provide reasonable assurance, as well as the review of the Report’s in accordance Core option adherence against the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards ( GRI Standards ). Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the Bank’s Management and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. Work Scope and Criteria The assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000 revised), in order to provide: 1. Limited level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General Disclosures that are required as a minimum prerequisite for the In accordance – Core option, according to the GRI 102 Standard. 2. Limited level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of statements that correspond to (10) material topics, as those resulted from the Bank’s materiality analysis, against the requirements of the respective GRI Standards for these Specific Disclosures, as well as the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information that correspond to these material topics, against the requirements of GRI 103 Standard Management Approach . The engagement also included a limited level assurance on 2 non material topics against the same criteria. 3. Reasonable level assurance on the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information regarding the application of the Materiality Principle, according to the requirements of the GRI 101 Standard. 4. Limited level assurance on the Report’s In accordance – Core adherence against the GRI Standards’ requirements. The GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement are indicated in the Report’s GRI Content Index, found on pages 218-226. * This statement has been translated from the Greek original version. 16 Sustainable Development Report 2017 What we did to Form our Conclusions In order to form our conclusions we performed (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: • Performed interviews with the Bank’s Management executives in order to understand its corporate responsibility and sustainable development processes, policies and activities for the reporting period. • Reviewed information in order to substantiate quantitative data and statements regarding the Bank’s sustainable development performance during 2017, as these are presented in the Report. • Reviewed the Bank’s processes for determining material topics to be included in the Report, the coverage of these material topics within the Report, as well as material topics resulted from Media review, and through Corporate Responsibility Reports of selected peers. • Reviewed the accuracy and completeness of quantitative data related to the results from the materiality analysis conducted by the Bank, as these are presented in the Report’s materiality map, and the plausibility of statements that pertain to the application of the materiality principle. • Reviewed the Bank’s stakeholder engagement process through, among others, our presence during a relevant discussion with focus group. • Interviewed executives responsible for managing, collecting and processing data related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, for both internal and public reporting purposes. • Reviewed data reported from the reporting entities (branches and management buildings) or from the Group’s subsidiaries, to decide on the level of coverage (depending on assigned boundaries) and to examine, for selected cases, the checks which have been applied at corporate level. • Reviewed relevant documentation and reporting systems, including, among others, data collation tools, standards and guidance documents. • Reviewed the Report for the appropriate presentation of the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, a procedure which also included discussions about limitations and assumptions relating to the way these data are presented. • Reviewed the GRI Content Index found on pages 218-226 as well as the relevant references included therein, against the GRI Standards’ requirements for the In accordance – Core option. Level of Assurance Our procedures for collecting evidence were designed in order to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we formed our conclusions, with the exception of the application of the Materiality Principle for which the relevant procedures for collecting evidence were designed in order to obtain a reasonable level of assurance. The extent of the procedures for collecting evidence for obtaining a limited level of assurance is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is obtained compared to a reasonable assurance engagement. Limitations of our Review • Our review was limited to the Greek version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Greek version of the Report prevails. • Our review was limited to information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, and did not include financial data nor the corresponding narrative text in the Report. • We do not provide any assurance relating to future performance such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. • The scope of our work did not include any third party activities or performance. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of survey results assigned to third parties, nor Information Technology systems used by third parties, but was instead limited to the proper transposition of the final results –under the scope of our engagement– to the Report. • Our review did not include testing of the Information Technology systems used or upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by the Bank. Independent Assurance Statement 17 Conclusions Based on our work and according to the terms of reference and the limitations of our review, we report the following conclusions. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with the What we did to form our conclusions section above. 1. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible is the qualitative information related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary and time period stated in the Report, is not included in the quantitative data of the Report related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the quantitative data related to the GRI General Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report, that would materially affect the way they are presented. • We have reviewed information and explanations on selected Management statements related to the GRI General Disclosures, as these are presented in the Report, for which no misstatements came to our attention. 2. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible are the statements of the Specific Disclosures relating to the (10) material and (2) non-material topics under the scope of our engagement? • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary per material topic and the time period stated in the Report, is not included into the quantitative data of the Report related to the GRI Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the quantitative data related to the GRI Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report that would materially affect the way they are presented. • We have reviewed information and explanations on selected statements, as they are presented in the Report, relating to the material topics under the scope of our engagement against the requirements of the GRI 103 Standard Management Approach , for which no misstatements came to our attention. 3. Is the Materiality Principle applied according to the requirements of GRI 101 Standard? • According to our opinion, the Report has been developed by reasonably applying, in all material respects, the Materiality Principle, according to the requirements of GRI 101 Standard. 4. Does the Report meet the GRI Standards’ requirements of the In accordance – Core option? • Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the In accordance – Core option, as presented in the GRI Content Index, found on pages 218-226. Independence We have implemented a set of audit quality control policies and practices which meet the requirements of the International Standards on Quality Control issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), including the International Standard of Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1). We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants ( the Code ), which requires, among other requirements that the members of the engagement team, as well as the assurance Firm, are independent of the client, including not being involved 18 Sustainable Development Report 2017 in writing the Report. EY has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the existing independence rules as they are defined by the Code. EY and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. Assurance Team The professionals who participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services Global Network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a global level. Athens, 11 June 2018 For and on behalf of ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. Vassilios Kaminaris 19 Selected Figures Associated with the 2017 Sustainable Development Report Selected Figures Associated with the 2017 Sustainable Development Report 21 CULTURE 1. 9 thematic Museums in selected regions of Greece: (Municipality of Athens),”Magniton Kivotos” in • Soufli Magnesia, the Nikos Kazantzakis Museum and • Dimitsana in Arcadia Kazantzakis Publications, the National Theatre of • Lesvos Greece, the Athens Symphony Orchestra, the Jewish • Tinos Museum of Greece and the Jewish Community of • Stymphalia (in the mountainous region of Korinthia) Ioannina, the Hellenic National Commission for • Volos UNESCO, the Benaki Museum, the Historical Museum • Sparta of Crete, the National Library of Greece and the • Chios Diazoma citizen’s movement for the promotion of • Ioannina ancient monuments and theatres. 2. 314,844 visitors in 2017 (270,771 Greeks and 44,073 9. Realization of a research program on the economic foreigners), of which 74% free of charge. history of the business center of Thessaloniki, which 3. Operation of the Historical Archive as a multi-purpose was the theme of the respective exhibition. hall with multiple visitors. 10. Scientific support by PIOP to the Hellenic Ministry of 4. Enhancement of PIOP Library’s operation and Culture and Sports for the promotion of intangible expansion of titles with emphasis on the environment. cultural heritage of Greece. PIOP holds the UNESCO 5. Enhancement and strengthening of PIOP's presence certification as an advisory body on matters of in Thessaloniki with the inauguration of an exhibition intangible cultural heritage. at Piraeus Bank Conference Center, regarding the 11. Participation of PIOP’s Chairman in the Museums' economic history of the city. Committee and of PIOP's Director in the National 6. Implementation of environmental programs for the Committee for Intangible Cultural Heritage of the energy upgrading of PIOP Museums and the submission Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Sports. of the relevant folders for the inclusion of the projects 12. 1,901 volumes of PIOP publications were donated in the new program of the European Structural and to libraries, social groups and organizations, 109 Investment Funds (ESIF). educational folders were delivered to schools, 1,470 7. 14 exhibitions, 166 cultural actions, 133 partnerships volumes (14 titles) of PIOP publications were provided with third parties, 182 training actions for children, as university textbooks at significantly lower prices. 34 regular training programs at all Museums of PIOP 13. Participation of PIOP executives in national and Network. international scientific and educational bodies. 8. Partnerships with third parties such as Technopolis ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IMPROVEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Environmental Management System Piraeus Bank has developed and implements an Environmental Management System (EMS) in all of its branches and administration buildings, certified according to the Regulation Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) of the European Union and the standard ISO 14001:2015. The Bank is one of the largest organizations to have received these demanding environmental certifications. 2017 Key Environmental Achievements 1. 2% reduction in electricity consumption per employee. 4. 74% of total consumed paper was environmentally 2. 1% reduction of total CO2 emissions per employee. certified (eco-label or FSC1). 3. 7% reduction in total paper consumption. 5. In over 300 buildings, energy and water consumption are monitored in real time through the Energy Office . ADDRESSING Climate Change 1. Total climate exposure of the Bank’s business loan48.7% and regulatory exposure 51.3% of total holders was estimated at €541.5 mn for 2017, or climate exposure. 1.3% of total turnover. Physical exposure constitutes 1 F SC® (Forest Stewardship Council®), Its mission is to promote environmentally responsible, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests. 22 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) 1. In 2017, implementation of the Environmental and 6. In 2017, a total of 14 in the classroom seminars were Social Management System (ESMS) was completed in held, covering 1,554 training man-hours, with the the Group’s business financing with commencement of participation of 259 executives from the relevant its gradual application. units. The aim of the seminar, which was designed 2. The Group’s Credit Policy was enriched with details and and executed by the Green Banking & Development clarifications regarding the criteria required for the Programs Unit, was to inform and familiarize environmental and social assessment of business loans. executives with the ESMS requirements as well as 3. All loan agreement were enriched with general the new prospects created in the business loans by environmental and social terms as well as with the implementing the system. addition of Appendixes. 7. At the end of 2017, the design of an e-learning 4. Processes, documents, banking systems were amended lesson commenced on the issue of assessing to support the requirements of the new system. environmental & social risks in business loans with the 5. Successful execution of the pilot application of the aim of disseminating the system and informing Bank system, during which Environmental and Social employees. assessments were made with on-the-spot checks to 8. In order for ESMS to remain an effective and functional customers/businesses from specialized consultant firms. assessment and management system it will require The aim of the pilot application was the assessment and reviews and improvements on a regular basis. selection of the consultants for cooperation agreements. Green Banking 1. 1,134 MW of RES (Renewable Energy Sources) capacity 3. 8% increase versus 2016 in total Green Banking funded by Piraeus Bank Group until the end of 2017. customers, who by year-end 2016, were more than 2. Piraeus Bank’s Green loans prevented the emission of 24,800 in total (individuals and businesses). over 2.35 mn tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY As the last year of implementation of the EU co-funded LIFE-Stymfalia project progresses, the conditions for connecting management of nature with the quest for sustainable business activities are highlighted. This innovative project, coordinated by Piraeus Bank, constitutes one of the very few examples in the EU of development of entrepreneurship through the protection of the environment. Piraeus Bank is the only financial institution in Greece to develop a strategy for businesses and biodiversity. With its participation in international initiatives, it contributes to the shaping of EU policies on the financing of biodiversity. 23 Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2017 Sustainable Development Report The present Sustainable Development Report (SDR) covers the calendar year 2017 and forms an essential part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report. The Sustainable Development Report aims to provide complete and symmetric presentation of certain important nonfinancial aspects of the organization’s work in relation to its administrative structure, its customers, suppliers, employees, society and the environment. It also serves the purpose of gradually and fully implementing the corporate responsibility principles already in effect at Piraeus Bank to all Group subsidiaries as well as extending the relevant know-how required. The present Report has been prepared in accordance with the ISO 26000 and the GRI Standards: Core option, which determines its content and quality guidelines (Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Regular and Timely Information Provision, Clarity, Reliability). Piraeus Bank Group has been implementing the Global Reporting Initiative principles for the 11th consecutive year, believing that this model defines a clear framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of corporate responsibility topics for both the Bank Group itself and all stakeholders. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative (pages 218-226) contains all the information for GRI indices required for 24 Sustainable Development Report 2017 the In Accordance Core option. Since 2013 the Group has also been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000 (pages 227-230), with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organization’s values and principles. This international standard contains guidelines for the implementation and promotion of the basic principles of corporate responsibility in a company’s activities, in key issues such as: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and participation in and growth of society. Piraeus Bank Group voluntarily follows the guidelines for the publication of annual and progress reports as indicated by the UN Global Compact, and posts its Annual Report on the relevant website (www.unglobalcompact.org). Additionally, Piraeus Bank Group, recognizing the importance of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the widespread acceptance of the Goals globally, matches the most material topics identified by the materiality analysis (page 30) with the goals defined as the most relevant for the Group. The present Piraeus Bank Group Report has been assured by Ernst & Young. The detailed Independent Assurance Statement is included in pages 15-18 of the present Report. COLLECTION AND PROCESSING OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT DATA For the collection and processing of the 2017 data, electronic database management systems were applied and internal processes have been adopted in order to ensure the validity and reliability of information. The 2017 Sustainable Development Report aims to cover all Group activities; however, some of the data reported and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Whenever this applies, reference is made to the relevant Report sections. DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS AND PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ISSUES Communication and dialogue with stakeholders constitutes a strong tool for promoting key issues related to Sustainable Development. It distinguishes the most material issues, namely those that reflect the economic, environmental and social impact of the organization or that significantly influence the assessments and the decisions of stakeholders. These issues constitute the basis for the development and activation of mechanisms for constant improvement of an organization’s operations. Towards this direction, in 2017 as well, apart from the regular communication and collaboration framework that has been established with each group of stakeholders, as described on pages 31-36 – Piraeus Bank has also adopted an evaluation process combined by means of a survey and a focus group discussion in order to define and record current issues related to sustainable development issues based on principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Participation, Viability Sustainability Context and Completeness. Participants were invited to assess, on a standardized scale (from 1=not at all to 5=strongly), an extensive range of corporate responsibility issues regarding the level of materiality. The questionnaire was addressed to an extensive sample of 1,139 participants, both internally and externally of the Group. More analytically, the questionnaire was e-mailed to participants and it was also uploaded on the Group’s website and in social media in order to facilitate the general public’s participation in the questionnaire. Additionally, the Bank for a second consecutive time organized a focus group discussion, thus gaining the benefit of direct communication and the opportunity for an open dialogue and the collection of comments with the aim of further enhancing the process of defining and classifying the material topics which clearly influence the decisions and interests of stakeholders. More specifically, following the first focus group discussion with partner suppliers organized by the Bank in 2016, Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2017 Sustainable Development Report 25 a similar focus group discussion was organized with customers, comprised of two groups of customers: individual customers and businesses. The discussion was coordinated by an external Bank partner with the presence of representatives from ERNST & YOUNG HELLAS, thus ensuring alignment with the principles of the 2015 AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard as well as the validity of the procedure. This open dialogue highlighted the sustainable development practices which are ranked as the most significant by customers – this ranking is defined by the type of relationship they have with the Bank. The Group aims to organize similar meetings with focus groups annually and to expand the sample of stakeholders to participate in these in order to utilize the results in enhancing the sustainable development practices it implements. MATERIALITY SURVEY BASED ON QUESTIONNAIRE The materiality survey was conducted based on a questionnaire compiled for the purpose of assessing 20 topics related to the stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests, which consequently have an impact on society, the economy and the environment. These topics have emerged from Piraeus Bank’s systematic communication with the interested parties and are defined by the actuality, current crisis conditions, existing corporate responsibility practices as well as surveys and corporate responsibility indices pertinent to the Bank. All material topics might change over time and as deeper knowledge of these is acquired. Piraeus Bank re-evaluates their materiality once a year, in the context of compiling the Annual Report. The 20 topics were ranked based on their materiality in relation to the stakeholders judgment and decision as well as to their contribution to sustainable development. At the same time, participants noted areas of improvement and/or changes, which will be taken into consideration by the Group. More specifically, the issues incorporated in the survey’s questionnaire constitute aspects of sustainable development which affect stakeholders’ judgment and decisions regarding Piraeus Bank and may possibly have a positive or negative effect on their expectations and interests (customers, employees, suppliers, investors/ shareholders, investment analysts, the media, supervisory and regulatory authorities, the business community, the social/environmental/cultural bodies, NGOs etc). From the analysis of the survey results it was concluded that each category of respondents has a different perspective on the significance of each topic. During the hierarchy process, the ranking of each material topic was weighted in relation to all the questionnaires answered for each category of stakeholders as well as for the Group's management aspect. Based on the results, the following 10 topics arose for both sides, distinguished in order of materiality, and are presented below: 1. New technologies (Q2) programs, historical archive), thus contributing to • The Bank utilizes new technological solutions in order the preservation of the traditional technology and to enhance the quality of products/services to the industrial technology of Greece. benefit of its customers. 4. Employability (Q6) 2. Financial performance (Q1) • The Bank offers full-time employment and is one of • The Bank, with a specific strategic plan, sets the largest employers in Greece. distinct strategic priorities that enhance its financial 5. Supporting local communities through performance and contribute to the restarting and the museum network of the Piraeus Bank Group recovery of the Greek economy. Cultural Foundation PIOP (Q18) 3. Promotion of tangible and intangible cultural heritage • The Bank operates a Network of nine thematic of the country (Q19) museums in the Greek periphery, where life-long • The Bank, through PIOP, records, highlights learning cultural actions are organized while also and promotes tangible and intangible cultural supporting employment, tourism and the economy of heritage of Greece (Museum Network, research local communities. 26 Sustainable Development Report 2017 6. Socially and environmentally responsible banking corporate governance. products and services (Q3) 9. Improving environmental performance (Q14) • The Bank offers specialized products and services • The Bank develops strategies for the improvement of social and environmental benefit (e.g. green and of environmental performance and reduction of the agricultural products). environmental footprint from its operation. 7. Risk management (Q13) 10. Reassurance of human rights with equal opportunities • The Bank places particular emphasis on effective and integration of diversity (Q8) monitoring and management of risks in order to • The Bank ensures employee awareness and education maintain stability and continuation of activities. on issues related to safeguarding human rights and 8. Corporate governance (Q12) provides equal opportunities and incorporation of • The Bank ensures the transparency, completeness, diversity in the workplace. functionality and efficiency of the existing system of The Bank has selected to assure 10 of the above topics, (Q1, Q2, Q3, Q6, Q8, Q12, Q13, Q14, Q18, Q19), with the external firm ErnstYoung (EΥ). Moreover, it is duly noted that for the purpose of comparability with previous years, the Bank has selected to assure two additional topics, specifically Q7 (Constant training and development of employees) and Q15 (Protection of biodiversity). The table below presents the aforementioned material topics, as well as their correlation with the GRI Standards and defines their boundaries. Corresponding GRI Material Topic Boundaries Standards Material Topic New technologies Not applicable Piraeus Bank Group, Customers, Employees, Suppliers, Other Banks, Fintech, Competitors Financial Performance Economic Piraeus Bank Group, Performance Business Community, State-Regulatory Authorities, Customers, Suppliers Promotion of the tangible and intanIndirect Economic Piraeus Bank Group, PIOP, gible cultural heritage of the country Impact Social/Environmental/Cultural Stakeholders, Local Communities, NGO’s, State Employability General Disclosures Piraeus Bank Group, State Support local communities through Indirect Economic Piraeus Bank Group, PIOP, the museum network of the Piraeus Impact Social/Environmental/Cultural Stakeholders, Local Bank Group Cultural Foundation PIOP Communities, NGO’s, State Socially and environmentally responsProduct Portfolio Piraeus Bank Group, Customers, NGO’s, State, ible banking products and services Regulatory Authorities, Ombudsman, Consumer Protection Bureau Content and Compilation Methodology of the 2017 Sustainable Development Report 27 Corresponding GRI Material Topic Boundaries Standards Material Topic Risk management Economic Performance Piraeus Bank Group, State-Regulatory Authorities, Suppliers, Investors/Shareholders, Customers, State Corporate governance General Piraeus Bank Group, State-Regulatory Authorities Disclosures Improving environmental performance Materials, Energy, Piraeus Bank Group, Suppliers Emissions, Effluents and Waste Reassurance of human rights with Human Rights AsPiraeus Bank Group, equal opportunities and integration sessment Customers, State, Suppliers of diversity Continuous training and development Training and EduPiraeus Bank Group, of employees cation Customers, Training Providers Protection of biodiversity Biodiversity Piraeus Bank Group, PIOP, Social/Environmental/Cultural Stakeholders, Local Communities, NGO’s, State The chart below depicts the results of the materiality analysis of the survey regarding the 2017 Sustainable Development Report. The horizontal axis represents how stakeholders perceive the materiality of each topic and the vertical axis represents the evaluation given by Piraeus Bank Group, regarding the significance of the impact of these topics on the economy, society and the environment. Q1 Financial performance Q12 Corporate governance Q2 New technologies Q13 Risk management Q3 Socially and environmentally responsible banking Q14 Improving environmental performance products and services Q15 Protection of biodiversity Q4 Financial inclusion Q16 Climate change Q5 Responsible procurement Q17 Environmental and social risk management system in Q6 Employability financing Q7 Continuous training and development of employees Q18 Supporting local communities through the museum Q8 Reassurance of human rights with equal opportunities network of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural and integration of diversity Foundation PIOP Q9 Healthy, safe and modern workplace Q19 Promotion of tangible and intangible cultural heritage Q10 Recognition and reward of high performance for highof the country potential employees' retention Q20 Connecting culture to the environment and sustainable Q11 Clear communication of the Bank’s strategic direction to development all employees 31 Stakeholders' Dialogue Piraeus Bank Group defines as its main stakeholders the natural and legal persons whose reasonable expectations and interests are significantly affected by its operation as well as those whose actions are reasonably assumed to directly impact the Group’s ability to successfully achieve its strategies and targets. In the framework of its activities and operations, the Group promotes regular communication with stakeholders, the frequency of which is determined by the nature of the relationship with the stakeholders in order to fulfill their needs and expectations and to promptly and effectively respond to issues concerning them. As a result, by means of the dialogue which was pursued in 2017 as well, the Group recognized that the key issues of stakeholders include the exploitation of new technologies to better serve their needs, respect of human rights, employability and respect for the environment and culture as factors contributing to sustainable development as well as issues related to corporate governance, financial performance and risk management. Customers How do we interact? 1. Branch network 7. Seminars and informative meetings with customer 2. Digital networks (ATM, APS, e-banking, mobile groups banking) 8. Customer satisfaction survey 3. 24h/7 Customer Call Centre 9. Personal Partners (Personal, RM-Relationship 4. e-branches Managers) 5. Website (Bank site, microsite) 10. Social media 6. Banking Ombudsman 32 Sustainable Development Report 2017 What are their expectations? 1. A  ccessible and easy banking 24/7 10. Provision of products and services to vulnerable 2. Innovative products and services social groups 3. Transparent and fair commissions and charges 11. Enhancement of business initiatives with the aim of (Transparency in banking transactions) promoting competitive sectors with growth prospects 4. Customer Personal Data Protection/ and possibilities Protection of Company Data 12. Improvement of Environmental Performance/ 5. Personalised service and consulting services Reduction of the Bank’s Environmental Footprint/ 6. Quick and direct service The Bank’s response to the great environmental 7. Financial sustainability of Group challenges (Climate Change and Reduction of 8. System of Corporate Governance of high standards Biodiversity) 9. Socially responsible management of NPEs 13. Transaction security (reference to anti-Fraud) What is our response? 1. Responsible information and provision of products and 18. Sharemarket Results, Annual Report and Sustainble services with respect to the code of business conduct Development Report and ethics 19. Establishment of request receiving application, either 2. Digital banking service (e-banking, mobile banking) through special form on the website or e-mail 3. Automated services (ΑΤΜ, PPU, APS) 20. Regular dialogue wbetwen Personal Partner and 4. Electronic updates (e-statements, alerts) customer for complete and individualized covering 5. e-services for companies (easypay point, Dias Debit, of their needs (additional reference to training and mybank, MasterPass Wallet) executive certification on investment and insurance 6. Loyalty programs programs) 7. Constant updating of antifraud systems 21. Constant upgrading of the corporate governance 8. e-branches systems 9. Branch Network and Call center 22. New, innovative and unique in Greece services for 10. Code of Conduct people with disabilities (innovative at EU level as well) 11. Privacy Policy Framework of serving people with specialized banking 12. Customer Segmentation services needs 13. Grievance process and specialized 23. Data Governance Service of customer written complaint management 24. Platform 360ο for development programs to programs 14. Provision of specialized information on financial to SMEs (NSRF) assistance to businesses through Development agencies 25. Specialized Products for specific customer groups (eg 15. Regular Customer Satisfaction surveys Contract Farming, Agro-Carta, Exoikonomisi Kat’ Oikon, 16. Voice of Customer program: tool applied for systematic Consumer Loan for Knowledge and Skills, tourism) and structured collection and analysis of the customers’ 26. Systematic support of Green entrepreneurship through experience with the Bank’s products and services green products and services 17. Enhancement of customers’ financial literacy through 27. System of environmental and social risk assessment specific programs (eg.use of digital channels) of loans (ESMS) 28. EMAS & ISO 14001 Certification Human Resources How do we interact? 1. Internal networks (Intranet–HR Portal) 5. Training and development programs 2. Employee Engagement Survey. Smaller scale surveys 6. Dialogue with collective representation unions (polls, focus group) 7. Performance Management 3. Open communication with all HR through the role 8. Work relation framework and code of conduct of ΗR-Business Partner 9. Participation in the Environmental Management System 4. Meetings/ events Stakeholders' Dialogue 33 What are their expectations? 1. Ηealth and safety in the workplace 6. Employability and constant employee development 2. Open, two-way communication with management 7. Actions for society 3. Recognition and high standard rewarding 8. Human Rights Assurance 4. Equal opportuities and incorporation of Diversity 9. Reduction of the Bank’s environmental footprint 5. Clear strategic direction What is our response? 1. Employee Support Programs for employees and their 9. Strengthening of the Greek economy through the families provision of full-time employment (2nd employer in 2. Academies and training programs Greece). Contribution to reduction of brain drain through 3. Ιnternal network «HR portal» providing information systematic support of youths on human resources issues 10. Staff planning and Bank employee retention as well as 4. Employee Satisfaction Survey attracting experienced executives from the job market 5. Benefits eg. Healthcare Insurance, Permanent Disability 11. Posting of the Human Rights Policy on the corporate site and Medical Coverage Program 12. Shaping of the Framework of Professional Development 6. Communication of the results of the Employee 13. Re organization (of the Bank’s structure) Engagement Surveys & Focus Groups/Connection 14. Volunteer Actions of Performance Indices with results 15. Design and Implementation of Programs related to the 7. Redesign of the Performance Management process health and safety of human resources 8. Incentive scheme 16. EMAS & ISO 14001 Certification INVESTMENT COMMUNITY How do we interact? 1. Disclosure of quarterly financial results (presentations, 5. Daily contact through emails or teleconferences press releases, teleconferences, internet) 6. Satisfaction survey of the services provided to analysts 2. Announcement of corporate developments by the specialized Shareoholder Registry (press releases, internet) 7. Annual Business Report and Sustainable 3. Disclosure of Financial Results on quarterly basis Development Report (presentations, press releases, teleconferences) 8. General Meetings of Shareholders 4. Contact with the Shareholder Registry What are their expectations? 1. Profitability and growth 7. Solid risk management system 2. Solid, sustainable financial performance 8. Provision of complete, accurate and prompt 3. Best corporate reputation information (financial and other) regarding 4. Corporate Governance System of high standard the course and strategy of the Group 5. Τransparent communication 9. Information on changes to the supervisory and 6. Compliance with laws and regulations regulatory framework What is our response? 1. Constant development and strengthening of the in Piraeus Bank's equity or debt securities corporate governance system (financial and other information) 2. Enhancement of risk management systems 5. The Bank assesses the environmental and social risks 3. Creation and publication of the AGENDA 2020 of its loanholders, as it arises from their business strategic plan activities (ESMS) 4. Ιnformation regarding the course and the strategy 6. The Bank participates in and is assessed by international of the Group as basis for assessing investment sustainability indices whereby investors are informed 34 Sustainable Development Report 2017 State-Regulatory Authorities How do we interact? 1. Ordinary and extraordinary communication with 3. Written and electronic communication supervisory authorities 4. Meetings and on-site visits 2. Data provision, report compilation, meetings, 5. Regular reporting participation in consultations What are their expectations? 1. Compliance with policies and regulations 4. Compliance with institutional framework to the 2. Compliance with commitments benefit of investors/customers/employees 3. Strengthening of banking practices 5. Ensuring the Group’s financial sustainbility What is our response? 1. Group compliance with the applicable 2. Detailed reports on the commitment compliance plan supervisory and regulatory framework (Group 3. Regular performance reports Regulatory Compliance), information regarding 4. Improvement in corporate governance practices policies,processesand adoption of mechanisms & 5. Compliance with Environmental Legislation/EMAS & KPIs for monitoring ISO 14001 Certification SOCIETY, Culture, the Environment How do we interact? 1. Operation of a Museums' Network on a national level 4. Social media 2. Organization of cultural events and training 5. Annual Sustainable Development Reports which programs on a local level include environmental performance data 3. Website of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) What are their expectations? 1. Economic development through investments 7. Improvement in the measurement of resources' on the local communities consumption 2. Utilization of local human resources and the provision 8. Incorporation of environmental criteria in funded of equal employment opportunities projects, investmnents and suppliers 3. Financial support through green products and services 9. Development of strategies for imporoved environmental 4. Financial education performance and reduction of the environmental 5. Minimization of environmental impact footprint from the Group’s operation (waste and emissions) 10. Implementation of processes for management of the 6. Sustainable use of non-renewable resources regulatory and physical risks deriving from climate (energy, water, paper) change and development of risk assessment tools What is our response? 1. Support of local actions (social, cultural, environmental) 5. Collaboration with local suppliers 2. Charitable initiatives to support important local issues 6. Creation of jobs in local communities 3. Advisory role to third parties for cultural development 7. System of environmental and social risk projects assessmnent of loans 4. Environmental initiatives with EU co-financing 8. Implementation of Environmental Policy through Stakeholders' Dialogue 35 related programs (recycling, more effective natural 10. Volunteer Actions resource management) and through environmental 11. Realization of EU-co financed projects for the awareness of employees with the aim of reducing promotion of business and biodiversity environmental impact 9. The Bank assesses the impact and the opportunities arising from climate change for sectors of the Greek economy The Media How do we interact? 1. Press releases and conferences 3. Social Media 2. Communication through the Bank’s Press Office What are their expectations? 1. Timely and precise information provision to journalists on current issues of the banking sector What is our response? 1. Information, communication and promotion of economy and finance related issues, articles for the corporate actions and products of the Group environment, for culture etc 2. Interviews and communication of opinions on Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) How do we interact? 1. Conferences, meetings with NGO representatives 3. Cooperation for the implementation of common 2. Sustsinability Reports related to society and the European projects for the protection of biodiversity environment and the environment 4. Synergies for actions of interest for the environment. What are their expectations? 1. Reduction of environmental and social impact from and entrepreneurship as well as enhancement the Group’s operation of the social fabric 2. Development of innovative solutions for biodiversity 3. Support of environmental activities What is our response? 1. Supporting environmental and social actions 5. Implememtation of Environmental Policy through 2. Volunteer programs related programs (recycling,more effective natural 3. Support of vulnerable groups resource management) and through environmental 4. The Bank supports programs and sustainable awareness of employees with the aim of reducing business initiatives that protect biodiverity and environmental impact ecosystems 36 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Suppliers/Service Providers How do we interact? 1. Subission of offers 3. Policy of management of suppliers and service 2. Established procedures for the participation, providers evaluation and selection of suppliers and service providers through outsourcing. What are their expectations? 1. Transparency in the infrastructures of the Group's 3. Information provision on the course of the submitted governance and operation and in the processes of offer assessment and selection of partners and suppliers 4. Timely payment of services provided 2. Selection of supplies from local businesses What is our response? 1. Renewal of the list of partnering suppliers and 3. Implementation of social and environmental criteria service providers with preference for local suppliers in supplier selection where possible 4. Human Rights compliance in the supply chain 2. Procurement Policy 37 Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonization with Global Standards Piraeus Bank actively participates in global initiatives and corporate sustainability indices. Through these initiatives and based on international standards and practices, the Bank undergoes continuous assessment and upgrades its sustainability practices. PARTICIPATION IN GLOBAL INITIATIVES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT United Nations Global Compact Since 2004, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the UN Global Compact, actively supporting and promoting its principles, which pertain to human and labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The 10 Global Compact principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to comply with these are the following: 38 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Implementation Method Description or Reference to the 2017 Basic Principles Sustainable Development Report Human Rights 1. Support, respect and protection of • Full compliance of the Group with the relevant Greek internationally proclaimed human and international legislation rights within the businesses and • Implementation of the Group’s Human Right’s Policy their sphere of influence • 2017 Sustainable Development Report, 2. Ensure that businesses have no Adoption of Best Workplace Practices complicity in human rights abuses Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the • Full compliance of the Group with the relevant Greek freedom of association and the and international legislation effective recognition of the right to • 2017 Sustainable Development Report, collective bargaining Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Effective abolition of child labour 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Environment 7. Support the precautionary principles 2017 Sustainable Development Report, Protection of in environmental challenges the Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and expansion of environmentallyfriendly technologies Anti Corruption 10. Businesses should work against Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy all forms of corruption, including • Relevant terms in employment contracts extortion and bribery • Labour Relations Framework • Control mechanisms and procedures, and antimoney laundering information systems (including fraud detection) • 2017 Sustainable Development Report, Corporate Governance Strengthening United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank has been participating in the United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), having signed the UNEP Statement of Commitment by Financial Institutions on Sustainable Development. In accordance with the Statement of Commitment, Piraeus Bank recognises that economic development needs to be compatible with human welfare and a healthy environment and it has committed taking into consideration the environment, social responsibility and sustainable development in its business decisions. UN GLOBAL COMPACT CARING FOR CLIMATE: THE BUSINESS LEADERSHIP PLATFORM The Bank has signed the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform , which provides a framework for businesses to advance practical solutions and create public awareness on Climate Change issues. Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonization with Global Standards 39 Initiative PARIS PLEDGE FOR ACTION Piraeus Bank Group has joined the Paris Pledge for Action initiative, launched in the framework of the UN Climate Change Conference 2015 (COP21), whereby the Bank pledges to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. DECLARATION OF INTENT FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF THE UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM FINANCIAL INITIATIVE In September 2015 Piraeus Bank, co-signed the Declaration of Intent on Energy Efficiency of UNEP FI, recognising that the financial sector has the capability to direct capital flows towards activities and investments that promote energy efficiency. The Bank is willing to contribute actively and work for the development of such funding and guide customers to adopt best practices in their decisions. Lastly, the Bank is willing to co-operate with institutional and public bodies that pursue to develop funding tools for the climate. POSITIVE IMPACT MANIFESTO FOR THE TRANSITION TO AN INCLUSIVE GREEN ECONOMY OF UNEP FI In 2015, Piraeus Bank co-signed along with other banks the Positive Impact Manifesto for the Transition to an Inclusive Green Economy . The Manifesto relies on the positive impact of the banking sector and on funding of projects that have a positive impact on society. EU COMMUNITY OF PRACTICE FINANCE AND BIODIVERSITY – EU COP F@Β Since 2016, Piraeus Bank has been participating in the EU Community of Practice Finance and Biodiversity (EU CoP F@Β) initiative to finance biodiversity and in the Advisory Board of the EU Business and Biodiversity Platform. Declaration of Antwerp In 2016, the framework of the Ecosystem Services conference, Piraeus Bank co-signed the Declaration of Antwerp, raising the issue of refocusing the ecosystem services framework on the principles of sustainability and social justice. HELLENIC NETWORK FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR HELLAS) Since 2007, Piraeus Bank is a full member of CSR Hellas, actively participating in initiatives regarding the promotion of corporate responsibility and good practices that are developed in Greek businesses. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INDICES AND DISTINCTIONS The corporate sustainability assessment indices monitor the share performance of the top companies globally with economic, environmental and social criteria, including as constituents companies with the best performance in Corporate Sustainability. Piraeus Bank has been participating in such assessments since 2008 and is constantly improving its sustainability practices while also promoting itself to the international investment community as a Bank harmonized with the principles of Sustainable Development. FTSE4Good Emerging Index Piraeus Bank is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, following its launch in December 2016, by the global index provider FTSE Russel Group. The FTSE4Good stock market index analyses the performance 40 Sustainable Development Report 2017 of businesses with the best practices in sustainability which meet internationally recognized standards of sustainable development. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Since 2010, Piraeus Bank has been submitting to the CDP information concerning its environmental performance and the respective actions and initiatives. In 2017, Piraeus Bank maintained its CDP rating of Management B . Piraeus Bank is the only Greek bank to have reached this level, thus proving that the Bank takes action in order to integrate climate risk and opportunity in its core business. Corporate Responsibility Index (CRI) Piraeus Bank received the Diamond distinction (2016-2017) for its Corporate Responsibility by the Corporate Responsibility Institute. Piraeus Bank participated in the Institute’s annual assessment (CR Index) for the 10th consecutive year. oekom Research Oekom Research, one of the largest research and rating agencies in the world in the field of responsible investments, in January 2018, upgraded Piraeus Bank’s performance on issues of Corporate Responsibility to the level Cmedium (on a scale from A+ to D-). Piraeus Bank’s performance is above average in relation to the 253 companies of the financial sector that are evaluated, of which none has been rated above C+. MSCI ESG Research MSCI ESG Research upgraded Piraeus Bank to the BB from B by positively assessing the Bank's practices for systemic risk management and the measures it takes to reduce the environmental impact of its financing through the implementation of its Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS). ISS Corporate Solutions Environmental & Social Quality Score Piraeus Bank received the highest score of 1 HIGHER DISCLOSURE from ISS Corporate Solutions, both in the environmental and the social pillar ( Environmental & Social Quality Score ), compared to the global banking industry (as of May 2018). The score indicates the excellent identification and management of the relevant environmental and social risks and transparent disclosure practices. OTHER ASSESSMENTS Piraeus Bank is systematically assessed by international rating agencies (vigeo-EIRIS, Sustainalytics etc.) in specific aspects of sustainable development (Corporate Governance, Human Resources, Human Rights, Business Behavior and Responsibility, the Environment). These agencies recognize the Bank’s integrated approach to sustainability, while also noting the areas of improvement. It is noteworthy that the Bank has received particularly high ratings in the sector of the Environment. Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Piraeus Bank has been included for another year in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register of the Forum Ethibel association. This selection is indicative of the Bank’s constant focus on Corporate Social Responsibility, with a rating above average in the banking sector. 41 Corporate Responsibility Principles The European Commission defines Corporate Social Responsibility as the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society.2 For Piraeus Bank, Corporate Responsibility is the means by which businesses voluntarily incorporate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and in their interaction with other stakeholders. Piraeus Bank is committed to including social, environmental, and cultural aspects into its business practices and assumes initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and sustainable development. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRENGTHENING 1. Transparency in governance and operational 3. Symmetric and systematic information dissemination structures, as well as in the processes of partners’ and to the investment and business communities, media providers’ assessment and selection. and NGOs. 2. Adoption and realisation of best practices of governance and operation. ALIGNMENT OF BUSINESS TARGETS WITH SOCIAL PROGRESS AND SOLIDARITY 1. Effective customer service before and after product 2. Strengthening of entrepreneurial initiatives with the and service sales, with emphasis on the Bank’s aim of promoting competitive fields with potential and consulting role. prospects for growth. 2 European Commission, A renewed EU strategy 2011-14 for Corporate Social Responsibility, 25.10.2011. 42 Sustainable Development Report 2017 ADOPTION OF BEST WORKPLACE PRACTICES 1. Development of a humane and responsible organisation, innovate by adding value and to ensure the prosperity where competent, committed and inspired employees and sustainable development of the Group. work collectively to lead the market through diversity, to HARMONIOUS RELATIONSHIP WITH SOCIETY 1. Returning part of the value generated by the Bank to society within a strategically designed and systematic framework of social actions. PROMOTION OF CULTURE 1. Active contribution to the promotion of Greece’s 3. Safeguarding and promotion of Piraeus Bank Group's cultural identity through the creation, operation and Historical Archive. maintenance of the network of thematic technological 4. Provision of scientific advice to public and local museums of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation community bodies and contribution in shaping cultural (PIOP) –which act as cultural focal points in the regions policies. of Greece– and by organizing scientific events and 5. Operation of a specialized library. educational programs for adults and minors. 6. Interconnection of Culture with the Environment 2. Continuous implementation of research programs and through the Cultural Sites thematic field. publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION USING NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY AND SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 1. Systematic support of green entrepreneurship through 3. Development of innovative solutions for business and integrated services to customers. A key concern is the biodiversity and enhancement of the social fabric. development and support of an extensive range of 4. Development of evaluation tools and procedures to green products and services. manage regulatory and physical climate change risk. 2. Development of strategies to improve the Group’s 5. Support to individuals and enterprises and preparation environmental performance and reduce its operational of market to better adapt to the effects of climate environmental footprint. change. Corporate Responsibility Principles 43 Piraeus Group Corporate Responsibility Strategic Targets A To strengthen i. To strengthen internal monitoring and compliance framework Corporate Governance ii. To strengthen the Group’s transparency and accountability iii. To promote extroversion B To engage Human Resources i. To apply best practices in the workplace to allow for employee skill development ii. To create a common Corporate Responsibility culture iii. To place emphasis on continual environmental/social education and training of employees iv. To promote volunteerism and the notion of contribution to society C To Develop a Relationship of i. To inform shareholders and investors about the Group’s strategy Cooperation with our Shareholders and and Corporate Responsibility issues Partners ii. To promote synergies and support civil society in order to achieve social and environmental targets iii. To educate our customers in relation to their banking transactions and inform them about issues of society, culture and the environment iv. To establish a framework of environmental/social approaches with our suppliers v. To strengthen society and vulnerable groups in particular D To Support i. To organize entrepreneurship programs in fields such as agriculthe Knowledge Society tural development ii. To collaborate with Greek tertiary education institutions in the framework of student internships iii. To support educational institutions iv. To facilitate studies by means of targeted educational scholarships E To Promote the Cultural Heritage of i. To promote Greece’s production history by means of thematic muGreece seums, publications and other actions ii. To provide scientific knowledge regarding our cultural heritage iii. To interconnect culture and the environment iv. To protect and promote the Group’s Archive material v. To educate and sensitize citizens about our cultural heritage and for a more prosperous future. F To Protect the Environment i. To reduce the environmental footprint from the Group’s operation ii. To develop strategies to deal with the Bank’s risk from climate change iii. To participate in the restoration and protection of biodiversity and ecosystems G To Promote Green Entrepreneurship i. To create products and services that support Green Entrepreneurship by means of investments in sustainable development in order to deal with climate change, loss of biodiversity and have as a main priority the creation and preservation of jobs ii. To support businesses, bodies and individuals whose investments are beneficial to society and the environment while ensuring the sustainability of such investments H To Support the Young Generation i. To enhance youth entrepreneurship ii. To contribute to the efforts towards retaining the young generation in Greece iii. To create special youth training programs I To Promote Innovation i. To invest in innovative digital applications for customer information, banking services, operation of PIOP Museums ii. To support business plans that promote innovation 47 Corporate Governance Strengthening Piraeus Bank applies a Corporate Governance System with the aim of ensuring effective corporate organization, operation and management and especially of safeguarding the interests of all its stakeholders. The Corporate Governance System of Piraeus Bank adopts and complies with the laws and regulations governing the Bank’s operation. Specifically, Piraeus Bank, in its capacity as a Société Anonyme company listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, applies the provisions of Codified Law 2190/1920, its Articles of Association and the provisions on Corporate Governance of listed companies set out in Law 3016/2002. Furthermore, Piraeus Bank, as a financial institution, supervised by the Bank of Greece, applies the most stringent special provisions of Law 4261/2014 and of the Bank of Greece Governor's Act 2577/9.3.2006 regarding principles of operation of credit institutions and the criteria for evaluating their Internal Control System. Furthermore, Piraeus Bank has established and applies the Corporate Governance Structure and Operating Regulation ( the Regulation ), which constitutes an internal document of the Bank. The Regulation incorporates the regulations arising from the mandatory institutional framework and adopts the international Corporate Governance practices. The Regulation refers in detail to the area of competence and responsibility and to the functioning of key bodies of the Bank, in particular to the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors Nomination Committee, the Strategic Committee, the Group Executive Committee and also to the Internal Audit, the Risk Management and the Regulatory Compliance Units. Moreover, in the context of the provisions of Law 3864/2010, a Relationship Framework Agreement ( RFA ) dated 27.11.2015 was entered between the Bank and the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund ( HFSF ). The RFA regulates the relationship between the Bank and the HFSF on matters related to, amongst others, the Corporate Governance of the Bank, the rights and obligations of the HFSF’s Representative on the Board and the obligatory approval of the HFSF on material matters. 48 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Bank’s administrative, management and supervisory bodies as well as the Systems of Internal Audit, Regulatory Compliance and Risk Management, as mentioned below, exist and operate in accordance with the aforementioned institutional and regulatory framework of Corporate Governance and Operation. GENERAL MEETING The General Meeting of the Shareholders of Piraeus Bank is the supreme body of the Bank and among other functions, it is responsible inter alia for electing the members of the Board of Directors, the external auditors and for the approval of Annual Financial Report that incorporates the Board of Directors’ Report and the Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. The responsibilities of the General Meeting are as provided by the legislative provisions in force and the Bank’s Articles of Association. It is noted that the Bank maintains Investor Relations, Shareholder Information and Corporate Announcement services, entrusted with the task to inform investors, shareholders and appropriate regulatory authorities, accordingly. The aim of the aforementioned services is the ensuring of communication and the transparency of information. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors (BoD) represents the Bank and is qualified to resolve, without any restriction, on any issue concerning the Bank’s management, the administration of its property and the promotion of its business scope in general. The Board of Directors may not resolve on issues which, in accordance with the law or the Articles of Association, fall into the exclusive competence of the General Meeting. In accordance with article 8 of its Articles of Association, as in force today, the Bank is managed by a Board of Directors (BoD) consisting of nine (9) to nineteen (19) members. Pursuant to Law 3016/2002, the Board consists of executive and non-executive members. The number of the non-executive members should not be less than 1/3 of the total number of members. Among the non-executive members, at least two (2) should be independent within the meaning of art.4 of the aforementioned law. In addition, the RFA provides for the following on the composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank: 1. the BoD must be composed of no fewer than seven 3. the majority of the BoD must be comprised of non(7) and no more than fifteen (15) members. Only an executive members, 50% of which (rounded to the odd number of members is permitted, including the nearest integer) and no less than three (3) members HFSF’s Representative on the Board, according to Law (excluding the HFSF Representative) should be 3864/2010; independent, satisfying the independence criteria of Law 2. the Chairman of the Board must be non-executive and 3016/2002 and the Recommendation 2005/162/EC; and should not serve as Chairman of either the Board’s Risk 4. the BoD must include at least two (2) executive Management or the Audit’s Committee; members. At the same time, in accordance with the institutional framework (especially Law 3864/2010 in conjunction with the RFA and Law 4261/2014, as applicable) regarding the management of financial institutions, the elected member should have educational background and professional training and experience in order to adequately oversee the Bank in the entirety of its activities. It is noted that the elected members of the Bank’ s BoD are also subject to assessment by the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) of the European Central Bank, as well as by the HFSF, in accordance with the applicable legislative framework. Corporate Governance Strengthening 49 Additionally, according to Law 3864/2010, a representative of the HFSF, also participates in the Bank’s BoD. The representative’s responsibilities are defined by Law 3864/2010 and the RFA. Specifically, pursuant to the provisions of Law 3864/2010, the HFSF’s Representative in the Board of Directors has the following rights: 1. the right to call a General Meeting of shareholders; • related to corporate actions of art. 7A par.3 of Law 2. the right to veto key corporate decisions of the Bank’s 3864/2010 which may significantly affect HFSF’s Board of Directors: shareholding in the Bank; • related to dividend distributions and the remuneration 3. the right to request an adjournment of a Board policy relating to the Chairman, the Managing Director Meeting for three (3) business days in order to receive and the other Board Members, General Managers and instructions from the HFSF Executive Committee, such their Deputies; right may be exercised until the end of the Board • related to any other matter which may set at risk the Meeting; rights of depositors or have a material adverse effect 4. the right to call a Board meeting; and on the liquidity, solvency and/or, in general, on the 5. the right to approve the appointment of the Chief prudent and orderly operation of the Bank, including Financial Officer. business strategy and asset/ liability management; In exercising his rights, the HFSF Representative shall respect the Bank’s business autonomy. Further to the above, by virtue of the RFA, the HFSF has, amongst others, the following rights related to the operation of administrative bodies of the Bank: 1. the HFSF representative to the BoD has the right to amendments, deviations thereof; participate in the Board of Directors Committees, • any material transactions and corporate e.g. the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the transformations; and Remuneration Committee, the Board Nomination • the management of NPLs and any amendments, Committee and the Strategic Committee; revisions and deviations thereof; 2. the HFSF representative to the BoD has the right to 5. the HFSF may review the annual self-assessment include items in the agenda of the meetings of the exercise of the Board of Directors. In addition, based committee in which he participates; on the assessment provided for in art. 10 of Law 3. the HFSF representative has the right to include items 3864/2010 or the review of the annual self-assessment in the agenda of the General Meeting of Shareholders exercise, the HFSF may proceed to suggestions for convened by the Board of Directors; improvements or possible changes to the Bank’s 4. the HFSF provides its prior written consent for a corporate governance framework; and number of material matters, as such are designated in 6. the HFSF monitors the implementation of the the agreement, including, inter alia: Restructuring Plan and the Bank’s NPL management • the restructuring plan and any amendments thereof; framework as well as the Bank’s performance on those. • the policy on connected borrowers and any revisions, The term of office for the members of the Bank's Board of Directors is three years, and is extended until the Annual General Meeting (AGM) which convenes following the expiry of their term. The current BoD was elected on the General Meeting held on 28 June 2017 and consequently its term of office expires on 28 June 2020, to be extended according to the aforementioned. If a Board member resigns, passes away or forfeits his/her office in any way, or whose office is declared forfeited by resolution of the Board of Directors due to unjustified absence from meetings for three (3) consecutive months, the Board may continue to manage and represent the Bank without replacing the missing members if the remaining members are at least nine (9). If the members of the Board fall below nine (9) the Board shall elect a replacement for the remainder of the term of the member being replaced to make up the minimum number of nine (9). The decision of the election shall be published as per article 7b of Codified Law 2190/1920, as applicable, and the Board of Directors shall announce it at the next General Meeting. 50 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Board of Directors has the following composition, as such was formed following amendments (resignations, replacements of Members) the reconstitution of the Board as a body and the appointment of executive and Νon-Εxecutive Μembers pursuant to Law 3016/2002: 1. George Handjinikolaou, son of Petros 7. Enrico Tomasso Cucchiani, son of Clemente Chairman of the Board, Non-Executive Member Independent Non-Executive Member 2. Karel De Boeck, son of Gerard 8. David Hexter, son of Richard  Vice Chairman of the Board, Independent Independent Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Member 9. Solomon Berahas, son of Albertos 3. Christos Megalou, son of Ioannis Non-Executive Member CEO, Executive Member 10. Alexander Blades,son of Zisis 4. Georgios Georgakopoulos, son of Gregorios Non-Executive Member Executive Member 11. Per Anders Fasth, son of Jörgen 5. Venetia Kontogouri, daughter of Gerasimos Non-Executive Member, Representative of the Hellenic Independent Non-Executive Member Financial Stability Fund to the Board of Directors 6. Arne Berggren, son of Sten pursuant to Law 3864/2010 Independent Non-Executive Member According to the revised RFA, an HFSF Observer attends the Board of Directors meetings without voting rights. Furthermore, following the Second Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece and in the context of the commitments undertaken by the Hellenic Republic towards the European Commission, KPMG was appointed as the Monitoring Trustee of the Bank. The Monitoring Trustee is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Bank’s Restructuring Plan and all the commitments accompanying it, in line with EU state aid rules. This includes, inter alia, verifying compliance with proper corporate governance rules (Commitments on Corporate Governance and Commercial Operations). In this context, representatives of the Monitoring Trustee participate as observers in the meetings of the Board and in executive committees and other important committees, including the Risk and Audit Committees. The Bank’s Board of Directors’ composition is compliant with the applicable regulatory framework pertaining to Executive, Non-Executive and Independent members. The BoD of the Bank consists of members with international leadership expertise and knowhow in strategically-important sectors of financial activity, such banking, auditing, risk management, management and restructuring of non-performing loans, management of public interest entities and financial management. In addition, it became apparent by the assessment performed by the HFSF pursuant to article 10 of L. 3864/2010, with the assistance of an internationally recognized expert, that the members of the Board of Directors actively contribute to the improvement of the corporate governance framework, are driving the respective required amendments whilst actively participating in the creative debates and the quest for solutions to the challenges faced by the Bank. The Board of Directors of Piraeus Bank Group, through organized actions, supports healthy entrepreneurship, collaborates with the production and business sectors of the Greek economy, including Small and Medium size Enterprises –particularly the tourist and agricultural sector– and supports responsibly and consistently the efforts towards the restarting of the Greek economy. Information on the current composition of the BoD and short CV of its members are available on the Bank’s website through the following link: www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Board of Directors and Committees At the same time, the achieved diversity of the BoD members, in line with areas mainly related to skills and educational and professional background as well as the ethnic origin of every member, with respect to the operation of the BoD, contribute to the expression of different views, the constructive dialogue between memCorporate Governance Strengthening 51 bers and the avoidance of group thinking . It is noted that the Bank has adopted a Policy on the Nomination of Board Members and the Board of Directors Diversity Policy. In any case the Bank recognizes and embraces the importance and the benefits of diversity for safeguarding and improving its competitive advantage and innovation as well as for the achieving maximum team performance and effectiveness. In this context, when nominating new Board members or top management executives, a combination of elements is taken into consideration, including inter alia: skills, abilities, qualifications, knowledge, experience, educational background, professional training, professional experience, the gender, the age and other qualities, which may vary depending on the identified weaknesses and the business or strategy needs of the Bank. Moreover, the Bank seeks to further improve the rate of participation of women and is working on that direction despite the strict legislative and regulatory context governing the composition of the BoD and restricting heavily the pool of the available nominees. Finally, it is noted that the strict framework of formal qualifications and professional experience, which each member of BoD (and of the BoD Committees by extension) must possess, considerably limits the possibility of selecting candidate members from any under-represented social groups in the Greek financial market. COMMITTEES Aiming to constantly improve the organization of the Bank and the Group, responsibility for certain areas requiring expert competence has been assigned, inter alia, to the following main committees. The operation of the Committees is governed by the Committees Operating Regulation, which forms part (as an Appendix) of the Bank’s Regulation. The Operating Regulation pertains to all the BoD Committees, as well as other Executive and Administrative Committees and Councils subject, however, to the specific Operating Regulation of each Committee which prevails to the extent that it deviates from the general rules laid down to the Committees Operating Regulation. BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of Non-Executive members of the Board, the majority of which are independent within the meaning of the provisions of Law 3016/2002. The Audit Committee is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive member of the BoD who meets the criteria of article 10 par.8 of Law 3864/2010. The HFSF Representative participates in the Audit Committee, with full voting rights. The Audit Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary and its operation is governed by the Bank of Greece Governor's Act 2577/2006, article 44 of Law 4449/2017, the respective notices, explanations and recommendations of the Supervisory Authorities and additionally by its Operating Regulation. The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are the following: 1. to monitor and evaluate annually the adequacy and the published annual and interim financial statements effectiveness of the Internal Control System, both on of the Group, the Bank and its subsidiaries; a stand-alone and Group-wide level according to the 3. to supervise the company of the external chartered relevant information provided by the Group's Division auditors and check the annual and interim financial of Internal Audit; statements of the Bank the Group and moreover to 2. to supervise and evaluate the compilation process of cooperate with them on a regular basis; 52 Sustainable Development Report 2017 4. to submit proposals to the BoD for the selection of of Internal Audit with emphasis on matters that are the company chartered auditors. The Committee relevant to the degree of its independence, the quality can also propose whenever appropriate their and the range of controls which it executes, the replacement or rotation; priorities which are defined by the external economic 5. to ensure the independence of the auditors of the Bank environment, the systems and levels of risks and in and its subsidiaries, according to the legislation in force; general the efficiency of its operations; and 6. to submit proposals concerning the resolution of 9. to define the range of coverage and to select and detected inefficiencies and monitor the implementation assign periodically –at least every three years– a of measures that were decided by the Management; company of chartered external auditors (except for 7. to submit proposals for particular areas that require the ordinary) to evaluate the adequacy of the Internal further audit by the Group’s Division of Internal Audit; Control System. 8. to evaluate the work undertaken by the Group's Division Risk Committee The Risk Committee is nominated by the Board of Directors and consists of non-executive members of the BoD, who possess appropriate knowledge, skills and expertise to understand and monitor the strategy regarding the risk appetite of the Bank. The representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, with full voting rights, also participates in the Committee according to the provisions of L.3864/2010. At least 1/3 of the members, including the Chairman, meet the independence criteria of Board members set by Law 3016/2002 and the EC Recommendation 2005/162/EC. The Chairman of the Committee possesses extensive experience of commercial banking and preferably in risk and fund management and/or non-performing loans management, as well as acquaintance with the local and international regulatory framework. The Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary and a Secretary. The Executive Secretary is the Group Chief Risk Officer. The term of office of the Committee’s members cannot exceed the term of office of the Board of Directors (three years), but the Board of Directors is entitled to cease or replace them at any time. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of non-executive members of the BoD, the majority of whom, including the Chairman, are independent. The representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, with full voting rights, also participates in the Committee, according to the provisions of L.3864/2010. At least one (1) member of the Committee has sufficient specialization in risk management and in audit issues, in order to ensure the alignment of the remuneration policy to the Bank’s risk profile. The Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Remuneration Committee, as a BoD committee, is responsible for the design, monitor and periodic review of the remuneration policy of the Bank. The Remuneration Committee, in performing its tasks, takes into consideration long term interests of shareholders, investors and other stakeholders, as well as the public interest. It is also oriented towards a long term and prudent management of the Bank and to mitigating or minimizing conflicts of interest that have a negative impact on this type of management. The Committee is able to deliver specialized and independent advice on remuneration policies and their implementation, as well as on the incentives related to risk, capital and liquidity management. Board Members’ Nomination Committee The Board Members' Nomination Committee consists of non-executive members of the BoD, the majority of whom, including the Chairman, are independent. The representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, with full voting rights, also participates in the Committee, according to the provisions of L.3864/2010. The Committee is assisted by an Executive Secretary. Corporate Governance Strengthening 53 The most important responsibilities of the BoD Members’ Nomination Committee are, amongst others, the identification and proposition to the Board of Directors or the General Meeting of Shareholders of candidates for the vacant positions of the Board of Directors, the evaluation of the combination of breadth of knowledge as per scope, skills, and experience of the Board of Directors’ members, the periodic evaluation of the structure, size, composition and performance of the Board of Directors and the provisions of respective recommendations to the BoD, the annual assessment of the individual members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors as a whole and the monitoring of the fulfillment of the independence criteria of Board members. The BoD Members Nomination Committee in the performance of its duties, takes into account on an ongoing basis and to the extent feasible, the need to ensure that during its decision taking, the Board is not unduly affected by the will of one person or of a small group in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Bank as a whole. Strategy Committee The Strategy Committee consists of non-executive Board members and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund, with full voting rights, also participates in the Committee, according to the provisions of L.3864/2010. The Strategy Committee regularly monitors, analyzes and takes decisions on strategic choices of the Bank and, when appropriate, makes a recommendation to the Board. It also determines the axes of the Business Plan, monitors, recommends and decides all issues of strategic importance for the Group. In the event of a crisis, it has the responsibilities of a Crisis Committee. The responsibilities of the Strategic Committee concern both the Bank and Piraeus Group subsidiaries. Details on the responsibilities and the operations of the BoD Committees are available on the Bank’s website through the following link www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Board of Directors and Committees MAIN EXECUTIVE, ADMINISTRATIVE & OTHER COMMITTEES AND COUNCILS Group Executive Committee The Executive Committee consists of its Chairman who is an executive Board member and executives of the Bank’s Top Management, and is assisted by an Executive Secretary. The Committee meets every second Monday and on extraordinary basis, when convened by its Chairman. Its duties cover both Piraeus Bank and its consolidated subsidiaries. Authorized by Piraeus Bank Board of Directors, the Group Executive Committee holds responsibilities it can confer or assign to administrative committees, Committee members or Bank executives. In particular, the Group's Executive Committee monitors the Bank's and Group's Business Plan and Restructuring Plan implementation and takes all necessary decisions to attain the targets that have been set; and proposes the Annual Budget to the Bank's Board of Directors. Supervisory & NPL Management Council The Supervisory & NPL Management Council consists of thirteen (13) members, chaired by one of the Senior General Managers of the Bank. The Vice Chairman is also one of the Senior Managers of the Bank. Members of the Council are Senior General Managers, General Managers, as well as other Top Management executives of the Bank. The Council was established under the Bank's strategy for the effective NPL management. Its purpose is the instruction of the strategic management of non-performing exposures, the creation of a modern system for monitoring these requirements and the configuration of the necessary types of portfolio per regulations. Also ensuring optimal structures and resources for the effective functioning of the NPL management units and the determination of the scope of responsibilities of the institutions and persons involved in the NPL management. Finally, the adoption of arrangement programs and the quarterly update of the Board of the Bank. 54 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO) The Committee consists of eleven members, its Chairman being the Bank’s Managing Director & CEO. Members of the Committee are, Senior General Managers, General Managers, as well as other Top Management executives of the Bank. The Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Committee meets monthly and its main duties are the implementation of the Bank's strategy in developing assets and liabilities; the management of assets and liabilities exercising at the same time a pricing policy in products and services; the approval for the introduction of new deposit or loan products, the follow-up of equity adequacy in relation to the risks, the examination of stress test scenarios and the decision making on preserving the available Group liquidity at acceptable levels. Senior Credit Committee The Committee consists of seven members, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. The members of the Committee are General Managers and Assistant General Managers, while the Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Committee regularly convenes on a weekly basis, being competent to approve credits and risk taking. Its responsibilities regard Piraeus Bank and consolidated subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. Recovery Credit Committee The Committee consists of nine members, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. The members of the Committee are Senior General Managers, Deputy and Assistant General Managers and Advisors to the Management while the Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Committee regularly convenes on a weekly basis and approves issues related to the borrowers that are managed by the Recovery Banking Unit. Its responsibilities regard Piraeus Bank and consolidated subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. Information Technology (IT) Planning and Operating Quality Committee The Committee consists of thirteen (13) members, chaired by one of the Senior General Managers of the Bank. The members of the Committee are Senior General Managers, General Managers, Deputy and Assistant General Managers. The Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Committee meets three times (3) per year or on extraordinary basis, when required. Its duties consist in evaluating the short term and mid & long term information technology projects, in regularly upgrading the projects and annually updating them, in evaluating and approving all the projects of the Group's annual operational action plan, in evaluating risk management related to the information systems, in evaluating studies and large supplies of material, software and services directly or indirectly linked to information technology systems, in supervising all large Group projects and the budget, in defining projects implementation priorities, in securing the necessary resources, in evaluating and approving policies for standards and procedures relevant to planning and implementing information technology systems and in approving and supervising cooperation with third parties (outsourcing). Expenditure Committee The Committee consists of five members, with the Group CFO as its Chairman. The members of the Committee are Senior General Managers, General Managers, as well as other Top Management executives of the Bank. The Committee is supported by an Executive Secretary. The Committee sits on a fortnight basis and it is responsible to approve any kind of expenditure, investments in fixed assets and in Bank infrastructure as well as sale of fixed assets. It is noted that analytical information on the Bank’s Corporate Governance System (institutional and regulatory Corporate Governance Strengthening 55 framework, the composition and the operation of the supervisory bodies and committees and the monitoring system) is provided in the Piraeus Bank Corporate Governance Statement, included in the Annual Financial Report 2017 which is posted on the Bank’s website, through the link www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investors Relations>Financials Statements and Other Information REMUNERATION POLICY Piraeus Bank has established a Remuneration Policy, which, as an integral part of the Group’s Corporate Governance, aims at discouraging excessive risk taking while enhancing the Group’s values and long-term interests. The Remuneration Policy, designed based on the framework of the BoG's Act 2650/19.01.2012 as well as later regulations of Law 4261/2014 (concerning remuneration policy) article 450 of EU Regulation No 575/2013 and No 604/2014, the Remuneration Policy is in line with with the Group’s corporate strategy and supports a performance-driven culture, which aligns the organization’s goals with those of interested parties, employees, management and shareholders. The remuneration setting procedures are clear, written and internally transparent. BASIC PRINCIPLES The Remuneration Policy is based on the following principles: 1. Performance maximization. 4. Compliance with the regulatory framework. 2. Attracting and retaining talents. 5. Internal transparency. 3. Aligning remuneration and rewards with 6. Avoidance of excessive risk taking. profitability, risk, capital adequacy, risk to liquidity and sustainable growth. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the preparation, the monitoring of the implementation and the periodic review of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy. The Committee’s function and responsibilities are governed by its regulation framework. Its responsibilities include among others: 1. The preparation of remuneration-related decisions, the Bank’s liquidity and capital adequacy, are taken into ultimately taken by the Board of Directors, that should account. correspond to the authorities and duties, specialization, 3. The assurance of the participation of responsible units performance and accountabilities of the members of the of the bank (Risk Management, Compliance, Internal Board and affect the risks that the Bank undertakes and Audit, Human Resources, and Strategic Planning) in manages, as well as the monitoring of these decisions’ the preparation, review and consistent implementation implementation. of the Remuneration Policy, as well as that of external 2. The concern that during the evaluation of the consultants, when deemed necessary by the Board of mechanisms adopted to align the Remuneration Policy Directors. with the risks undertaken, all kinds of risks along with OTHER INVOLVED PARTIES The Remuneration Policy is designed by the Group’s Human Resources with the contribution of the Group Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit. It is submitted to, the Remuneration Committee which in turn proceeds with any potential necessary changes or alterations, before submitting it to the BoD’s, for final approval. The non-Executive Board Members approve the Remuneration Policy. 56 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The independent control units contribute to the design and preparation of the Remuneration Policy; nevertheless, they are primarily involved with the Policy’s review and monitoring process, which is conducted at least annually. The Non-Executive members of the BoD could, and when they deem it necessary, co-operate with external consultants for the preparation/review of the policy. It should be noted that during 2017, no external consultants participated in the preparation or review of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE Total remuneration may include –besides fixed– variable components too, ensuring a link between compensation and long-term business efficiency. Under all cases, the fixed component represents the basic proportion of an employee’s total remuneration. Variable remuneration can be provided to reward performance based on pre-defined quantitative and qualitative objectives. Such objectives are linked to the employee’s performance, the business unit’s performance, the overall organization’s/Group’s performance and long-term business goals. The criteria used to assess the award of variable remuneration include indicatively among others, profitability, capital adequacy, efficiency, change management, staff development etc. The variable remuneration, including the deferred portion, is paid or vested only if it is sustainable according to the financial situation of the Group and is justified based on results. It should be noted that the performance evaluation of staff having risk and control responsibilities, is not connected with the outcome/performance of the processes/units they control. In order to enhance the connection between variable remuneration and the Group’s long-term objectives, the award of variable remuneration is spread over time and the amounts awarded for both deferred and not deferred variable components, are not only paid in cash, but in other instruments as well (e.g. shares). CRITERIA FOR CANCELLATION/RETURN OF VARIABLE REMUNERATION The Bank has the right to cancel the award of deferred variable remuneration, if certain performance indicators are not satisfied. The same can happen in cases of detected and verified incidents of non-compliance with existing rules and/or processes. In addition, in cases where it is proven ex-post, that variable remuneration has wrongfully been awarded, the total amount of deferred variable remuneration can be cancelled. Without prejudice to the provisions of labor law, in cases of proven bad intent or deceit for the award of variable remuneration, the Bank can claim back from an employee a full refund of any paid variable compensation. PRINCIPLE OF PROPORTIONALITY The Bank applies the existing regulatory framework on remuneration using the proportionality principle, by taking into account its nature, size, internal organization and complexity of activities. REMUNERATION DISCLOSURE The tables below present by business area, aggregate quantitative information on the remuneration of Senior Management and of staff whose activities have a material impact on Group’s risk profile. Corporate Governance Strengthening 57 Aggregate Quantitative Information on Remuneration per Business Area (in thousand €) Total number Total Fixed Total Variable 2017 of staff per area Remuneration* Remuneration Investment Banking 14 1,736 4 Retail Banking 96 8,112 89 Asset Management 14 603 0 Corporate Functions 50 6,223 18 Independent Control Functions 34 1,950 6 Other Functions 16 1,175 0 * I ncluding severance payment amounts due to Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES). The VES was implemented by Piraeus Bank Group and formulated according to general criteria. The Scheme was addressed to all employees in Piraeus Bank and its Greek subsidiaries, with indeﬁnite term employment contracts and in-house lawyers. VES severance payments were not associated with risk assumption as per the Bank of Greece Governor’s Act 2650/19.01.12. VES Scheme was duly approved by the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF). Aggregate Quantitative Information on Remuneration of Staff Categories that have Material Impact on the Group’s Risk Profile (in thousand €) Categories of staff whose actions 2017 BoD Members Senior Mangement** have a material impact on the Group's risk profile Employee numbers per category 86 18 224 Total fixed remuneration 6,568 3,065 19,800 Total variable remuneration, of which: 12 118 In cash: 12 118 In shares: Share-linked instruments Other types: Total deferred variable remuneration, of which: Vested:*** Unvested:*** Deferred remuneration awarded during the financial year, paid out and reduced through performance adjustments Employees who received sign-in payment Total amount of sign-in payment Employees who received severance payment Total amount of severance payment Highest severance payment amount paid to an individual ** Senior Management includes employees whose actions directly impact the Group’s risk proﬁle. *** Vested remuneration and non-vested deferred remuneration paid in 2017 is included in total remuneration. 58 Sustainable Development Report 2017 INTERNAL AUDIT SYSTEM The Piraeus Bank Group has set up a strong Internal Audit System (IAuS) which constitutes a detailed set of recorded auditing mechanisms and processes which constantly cover all its activities and transactions and contribute to its effective and secure operation. The Group systematically monitors the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing System, which, in accordance with the effective statutory framework, is supported by an integrated communication and Management Information System (MIS) as well as mechanisms which complement each other and constitute an integrated audit system of the organizational structure and the activities of the Bank. Responsible for implementing the IAuS are: 1. The Audit Committee 2. The Internal Auditor 3. The Internal Audit Unit For more details on IAuS, please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>Financial Data>Financial Statements & Other Information>12M Annual Financial Report>Corporate Governance Statement INTERNAL AUDIT The Group’s Internal Audit is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee while it supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control units in the Group subsidiaries. Within this context, in 2017, the Group’s Internal Audit: 1. Conducted the relevant monitoring of effectiveness and 3. Continued the development of a data base using own efficiency of the Internal Audit System and the Central resources aimed at electronic transaction tracing, the Services of the Bank and its subsidiaries with emphasis development of fraud identification and prevention on non-performing exposures (Piraeus Legacy Unit) and scenarios , and at supporting the auditing work compliance with the framework for the management of performed by Regional Divisions’ Auditors. obligations regarding loans in arrears and non-performing 4. Provided consulting in the development of specific loans and Risk Management, particularly in the Internal Bank processes of the Bank and its subsidiaries in order Capital Adequacy Assessment Process-ICAAP and in for them to incorporate proper auditing mechanisms. Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process-ILAAP. 5. Contributed to further strengthening of the Anti Money 2. Maintained its continual observation and monitoring Laundering (AML) monitoring process at Greek branch of Branch activities in Greece and subsidiary banks in network level. Romania, Bulgaria, Albania, Ukraine and Serbia by means 6. Continued training and further specialization of of the Regional Divisions’ Auditors, and in particular its managers, directing them towards appropriate by developing scenarios of examination of related professional certifications (CIA, CISA, CFE, CFSA etc.) transactions. and towards their further specialization. The 2018 action plan for the Group’s Internal Audit, which aims to continuously perform its duties smoothly and successfully in order to strengthen IAuS operation in the parent Bank, as well as in Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, will place particular emphasis on the following, among others: 1. The adequacy and effectiveness of IAuS regarding the to the IRB methods, the Internal Capital Adequacy Piraeus Legacy Unit including monitoring of set targets Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity and of the IT systems that support it. Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). 2. The adequacy and effectiveness of the Internal Audit 3. Further developing scenarios of examination and in Risk Management, with emphasis on the transition search of related transactions. The system is already Corporate Governance Strengthening 59 successfully operating in Greece, Albania, Bulgaria, 6. Application of quality assurance in audit processes at Romania, Serbia and Ukraine. Group level. 4. Implementation of the credit policy and practices manual 7. Further improvement of the auditing work and in regarding compliance with invoicing processes based on developing internal audit key performance indicators risks and ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the for effective monitoring of the Internal Audit’s centralized credit control system. operation. 5. Monitoring that corporate governance rules are being 8. Support the Management for more effective implemented with emphasis on the operation and monitoring of pending findings. regulations of the BoD Committees, the Administration 9. Participation of Internal Audit executives of the Group Council and the Executive Committees, in accordance as speakers at training sessions targeted mainly at with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s binding comprehension of risk exposure during the execution RFA agreement with the HFSF. of transactions and banking activities. EXTERNAL AUDITORS According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 28.06.2017, the audit firm Deloitte was chosen as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s stand alone and consolidated financial statements for 2017. More specifically, Mr Dimitrisos Koutsos-Koutsopoulos (Reg. no 26751) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor. It is noted that in accordance with Law 4449/2017as of 2017, the Certified Auditors may offer their services for a period of no more than five consecutive years and their reappointment may take place after the lapse of three consecutive years. MANAGEMENT OF RELATIONS WITH SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES & ANALYSIS AND OF SUPERVISORY PROJECTS AND CONTROLS Supervisory Relations Unit In accordance with the new supervisory framework and due to the number of supervisory/institutional authorities monitoring the Bank [ECB (SSM, SRM), Bank of Greece, HFSF, Monitoring Trustee etc], in 2015, the special Supervisory Relations Unit was formed with the aim of managing the Bank’s communication with these authorities. The main duties of the Unit are to provide timely and accurate information to the Supervisory Authorities, management of requests as well as consistency in sending the relevant reports. In addition, a key area of responsibility for the Unit is the coordination of the Bank’s Units in order to better manage requests and ensure the necessary response mechanisms to the supervisory requests and the supervisory reports. Finally, the Unit is also responsible for informing the Bank’s management about the requested data and reports as well as about the areas requiring management's intervention with the aim of enhancing the Group’s brand towards the Supervisory Authorities. In 2017, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: 1. Total supervision and management of Group relations and timely compliance with the Commitments of the and communication with the Supervisory Authorities Relationship Framework Agreement. and of the relevant feedback within the Group. 4. Participation in the annual assessment of the Bank 2. Management of relationship with the Monitoring by the ECB in the framework of SREP 2017, with Trustee (KPMG), monitoring of the action plan for management and allocation of the questions as well as the implementation of the Restructuring Plan's collection of the responses for the drafting of the final commitments as well as the coordination of the Bank report to be submitted to the Supervisory Authorities. Units and Group companies to ensure strict and timely 5. Coordination for the preparation of regular and adcompliance with the Corporate Governance and hoc reports such as: the daily report for the deposits, Commercial Practices Commitment. the SREP-STE-3-month report, the Basel III Regular 3. Management of relationship with the Hellenic Financial Monitoring Exercise-6-month report, MREL/BCBS Stability Fund (HFSF) as well as coordination of the QIS-6-month report, MMSR-daily reports, Shipping Bank Units and Group companies to ensure strict portfolio-3-month report. 60 Sustainable Development Report 2017 6. Coordination for Resolution Planning and submission of 8. Coordination and monitoring of implementation of the relevant reports to the new supervisory mechanism the Supervisory projects such as the IFRS9 Thematic SRM (Single Resolution Mechanism). Review, Internal Governance Thematic Review, 7. Monitoring of compliance with supervisory audits' Executive Committee’s Act 102, NPE Stocktake. remarks. Supervisory & Regulatory Projects Analysis & Coordination The aim of the Supervisory & Regulatory Projects Analysis & Coordination Unit is to analyze and detect areas of improvement and coordinate the implementation of inter-Unit projects of strategic importance which upgrade the Group’s overall economic position and value. The Unit is also responsible for the coordination of the project capitalization process and the monitoring of expenses of the projects to be capitalized which are included in the Bank’s action plan project portfolio. Additionally, the Unit suggests improvements in the context of project portfolio management, it supports the operation of the Expenditure Committee in approving expenses and property sales as well as the drafting of administrative reports, it coordinates the Committee’s initiatives and centrally monitors the consultant expenses. It participates in the implementation of automations and improvements in the expense approval procedures. In 2017, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: 1. Coordination of the extremely significant for the Bank the framework of the upcoming 2018 EU – Wide Stress Test IFRS9 Program, as Project Management Office (PMO). of the EBA. The relevant preparation of the Bank began The Program has been in progress since February in June 2017 and was completed in May 2018 with the 2016 and focuses on the implementation of the new announcement of the results. accounting standard IFRS 9, to be implemented 4. Monitoring, as member of the group project and the from 1/1/2018, in replacement of the existing IAS 39 Steering Committee, of the Project for the strategy of standard. The IFRS9 standard regards the calculation of NPLs/NPEs management and target-setting for the provisions that affects the Classification, Measurement next three years, submitted to the ECB/SSM for the first and Impairment of Balance Sheet. In order for the time in 2016. To support the activities related to the IFRS9 Program to be fully implemented, employees Stress Test, the Ιndustrialization tool of predicting from various Bank Units are working intensively, which the progress of NPLs/NPEs has been developed. requires constant coordination from the PMO in order The exercise is being implemented since 2016 and is to ensure the abidance to the strict deadlines and repeated annually, through the constant monitoring of successful completion of activities. the progress of NPEs/NPL volumes. 2. Project Management Office (PMO) for management 5. Participation in and coordination of the trimonthly of the Bank’s obligation to provide analytical credit Monitoring of the PB Shipping Portfolio and data to the ECB/SSM, in the framework of the ECB information provision to the ECB regarding the regulation 2016/867 (ANACREDIT-Analytical Credit progress of its restructuring, with the submission of Dataset) with deadline during 2018. the relevant Loan Data Tape. 3. Continuous coordination and intensive monitoring as 6. Participation in and PMO in various strategic projects Project Management Office (PMO), of all projects related (internal or supervisory) for optimal management of to the preparation of the Bank for the 2018 Stress Test in NPEs, such as preparation of portfolios for sale. Supervisory Inspections Coordination The aim of the Supervisory Inspections Coordination Unit is to coordinate all relevant Bank and Group Units to ensure and prepare the necessary infrastructure thus providing optimal response to the supervisory inspections and the regular supervisory data/reports required. It is also responsible for managing the relations and communication with the supervisory mechanisms both during on-site inspections and for the regular supervisory reports required. Corporate Governance Strengthening 61 In 2017, the Unit focused mainly on the following projects: 1. The Loan Files Quality Review (LFQR) internal project coordination of the extremely important for the Bank regarding the provisions for coverage of borrowers’ on-the-spot audit regarding NPL Management, as loan file deficiencies as well as assessment of possible Project Management Office (PMO). The audit has been exposures. Excellent organization of the project is in progress since November 2017 and is undertaken by crucial in view of the audits undertaken by the Bank an SSM audit team in collaboration with the Bank of supervisors, including the SSM and the Bank of Greece. Greece. In order to best serve the audit, representatives 2. Project Management Office (PMO) regarding various from various Bank Units are coordinating, which makes inspections by the Supervisory Mechanism in the Bank the need for constant communication from PMO as well as internal projects requiring coordinated imperative in order to ensure the successful completion actions by various Bank Units. of the activities. The audit is expected to reach 3. One of the multitude of projects executed is the conclusion during 2018. GROUP'S COMPLIANCE The Group’s Compliance Unit operates according to the Basel III supervisory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece. It is headed by the Group Compliance Officer, who is responsible for the Group’s Compliance Function. The Group’s Compliance Unit reports directly to the Bank’s Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, which monitors and assesses its work by means of reports and updates, and it is audited by the Group’s Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures. According to the Bank’s current organization chart, the Group’s Compliance reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer on administrative issues. 2017 ACTIONS 1. In order to deal with the increased compliance duties of the of the Compliance Chart with the new regulatory Bank, the Group’s Compliance organizational structure was provisions. Based on the new requirements, Compliance amended, with the creation of new areas of responsibility collaborated with the relevant units –where required– in and the restructuring of existing ones. order to integrate them in the Bank’s internal procedures. 2. In the framework of continuously improving its systems 7. Assessment of new and existing processes, products, and applications, the Group’s Compliance upgraded its services and advertising in relation to the requirements IT systems in order to monitor the submission of the of the regulatory framework. supervisory reports. 8. Participation in work groups for the implementation of 3. Requests by Financial, Judicial and Supervisory the important requirements of the regulatory framework Authorities were duly responded. (indicatively FACTA, CRS, DAC2, MiFID ΙΙ, GDPR, PSD2). 4. General, special and thematic inspections in Bank 9. Participation in the execution of training programs branches, Units and in Greek and international aimed at informing and training Bank employees on subsidiaries were performed. The inspections preventing and repressing money laundering and regarded money laundering and terrorist funding and terrorist funding as well as other issues of regulatory compliance with the regulatory framework in general, compliance. aiming for timely detection of possible deviations from 10. In the framework of Compliance’s responsibilities in the provisions of the regulatory framework. relation to the supervision of the Group’s Greek and 5. Review and monitoring of the implementation of the international subsidiaries, it coordinated, supported, agreed corrective measures for impairment of the and assessed the respective Compliance Units’ regulatory risk. performance. 6. Analysis of the key institutional documents and updating Corporate Governance Strengthening 63 2018 TARGETS 1. Continuous monitoring of changes in the institutional 4. Inspections in Bank branches, Units and in the Bank’s and regulatory framework as well as analysis and subsidiaries to assess their compliance with the monitoring of the framework in order to ensure that regulatory framework and adopt corrective actions in the appropriate processes and systems have been possible deviations. developed. The Group’s Compliance will continue to 5. Updating of training material related to regulatory participate in specific projects for the implementation compliance issues following relevant changes as well of the new requirements of the regulatory framework. as Compliance’s participation in the Bank employees’ 2. Upgrading of the AML system regarding constant training seminars. monitoring of transactions, in relation to preventing 6. Continuous training of Compliance Units’ employees in and repressing money laundering and terrorist funding. the Bank’s Subsidiaries. 3. Updating of the assessment and analysis of the regulatory 7. Updating of the Regulatory Compliance Policy with risk for Piraeus Bank and its Subsidiaries, taking into the integration of the recent changes in the regulatory account additional factors of regulatory risk. framework. The Group Compliance has certified its internal processes according to ISO 9001:2008 standards. For further information regarding the Group’s Compliance Policy and duties please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investors>Corporate Governance>Compliance SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS INVESTOR AND ANALYSTS RELATIONS Investor information is provided to individual and institutional investors by the Corporate Development & Investor Relations Unit with the active involvement of the Top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and strategy of Piraeus Bank Group. During 2017, a total of 557 meetings/briefings were held with investors and analysts both in Greece and abroad. In 2017, Piraeus Bank received three important distinctions in the Extel's annual pan-european survey. The survey is conducted through direct voting by the investment community (investors, analysts, custodians, fund managers, etc.) and the Bank was ranked first in the CEO, CFO and IRO categories for investor relations. SHAREHOLDER REGISTRY The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. CORPORATE ANNOUNCEMENTS Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors. SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company. In December 2017, the total number of Piraeus Bank’s shareholders was 30,000. Out of the total common shares (436,659,164 shares of nominal value €6.0 each) 26% was held by the HFSF and 74% by the private sector (more specifically, 68% legal entities and 6% by individuals). 64 Sustainable Development Report 2017 SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP Piraeus Bank evaluates collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers on the basis of specific, objective and measurable criteria, such as the quality to price ratio, reliability and market position, employees and financial viability. There are uniform procedures which apply to all suppliers. Partnerships with all existing suppliers and business partners are regularly assessed and revised so as to maintain effective collaborations and high-quality services. At the same time, the Bank ensures the timely payment of its obligations towards suppliers and partners. In order to ensure smooth and transparent supply management, the Group Procurement Regulation has been adopted, which defines relations with existing and potential suppliers. This regulation contains the rules and basic principles on all products and services supplied as well as describing the manner in which supply requests of all Group organizational units are handled to cover their operational needs. The Group Procurement Regulation is governed by the rules and principles as they are described in the section Outsourcing of Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory Compliance Policy , pursuant to Governor’s Act 2577/2006 of the Bank of Greece. This Regulation is uniformly applied to the entire Group (Piraeus Bank and subsidiaries both in Greece and abroad). Its key targets are: 1. The formation of a regulatory framework through which negotiations for the continuation of partnerships with transparent, clear and uniform procurement management cost containment. procedures take place throughout the Group. 9. Establishment of a uniform contractual framework with 2. Transparent and objective evaluation of submitted offers prospective suppliers and external partners. for all procurement tenders for goods or services. 10. Management of conventional contractual frameworks 3. Definition of quantitative and qualitative specifications through specialized applications in order to allow for for all products and services supplied. direct information on the financial data related to the 4. Mitigation of operational and credit risks which might Bank’s partnership with each supplier and to provide arise from partnership with suppliers. timely information on upcoming contract renewals. 5. Timely supply of products and services to the Group’s 11. Definition of a cooperation framework between the Organizational Units. organizational units involved in management of supplies. 6. Restraining the cost of supplying products and 12. In its efforts to support local economies and services, by using e-auctions. communities and to reduce transportation of goods 7. Formation of long-term collaborations with suppliers thus limiting its environmental footprint, the Bank who are evaluated on a regular basis. ensures that almost 100% its procurements are made 8. Holding regular procurement tenders to streamline by local or/and domestic suppliers. costs and ensure optimal selection of partners or GREEN PROCUREMENT Piraeus Bank applies a policy of green procurement since 2005. More specifically, it selects environmentally-friendly products (chlorine free FSC paper, recycled consumables, light bulbs, replacement of company fleet with low fuel-consumption vehicles, gradual replacement of electric and electronic equipment with energy-efficient appliances) which assist in, among others, reducing the environmental footprint and awareness-raising of employees about green supplies. Since 2015, Piraeus Bank started to gradually use paper certified under FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) for the documents that are sent to customers (account statements, loan statements, notice letters, transactions confirmations, stock exchange statements, trade order confirmations). Corporate Governance Strengthening 65 Statements and Customer Envelopes on FSC paper 2015 2016 2017 A4 Paper (Number) 2,705,031 9,097,996 12,590,901 Envelopes 11x23 (Number) 2,285,172 6,128,748 8,885,028 Envelopes 23x32 (Number) 24,127 56,066 80,641 Additionally, the procurement and use of environmentally friendly cleaning products also continued (recognised by the European Union environmental certification eco label), in Administration Buildings of the Bank and in the offices of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. In 2018, green procurements will be enhanced with the replacement of biodegradable bags at 2 Administration Buildings of the Bank. Electrical and electronic equipment (screens, laptops and refurbished computers) are gradually being replaced with energy-efficient appliances ( energy star label). In the Οekom Corporate Rating Report, in the question related to IT procurements, the Bank was graded with Α+. RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY WITH GUARANTEES OF ORIGIN FOR PIRAEUS BANK GROUP In 2017, Piraeus Bank received for the first time Guarantees of Origin for electricity produced by Renewable Energy Sources (RES’s). The guarantees of origin are equivalent to the 86% electricity consumption of the Group. More specifically, it received Guarantees of Origin for 53,665 Mwh of electricity produced by RES’s in the period 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017. This certification strengthens the Group’s environmental profile while also achieving the following benefits: 1. Improvement of the assessment indices on a global 2. Support and achievement of the annual Group goals level which contributes to the enhancement of its regarding the reduction of the environmental footprint. reputation in a demanding period of economic challenges. 69 Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity Customer relationship Piraeus Bank, the largest bank in Greece in terms of market share in assets, loans and deposits as well as in number of branches and employees, actively and dynamically participates in the improvement and growth of the economy, thus contributing to the prosperity of its customers and of the society in which it operates. With the vision of being the most trustworthy bank in Greece, Piraeus Bank creates long term value for its customers by focusing on responding to their needs, taking into account economic, social and environmental factors. At the center of Piraeus Bank’s operation is always the customers and the unimpeded servicing of their needs. The relationships of trust is established by providing clear information, transparency in contractual terms and security in all types of banking transactions and at all servicing channels, including electronic ones. The products and services offered by the Bank are monitored by specific and specially-designed mechanisms at each stage of development, promotion and provision of them, thus ensuring compliance to the principles of the regulatory framework as well as the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics. Following that, the products and services are defined accurately, without exaggerations, inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or attempts to conceal any features of such products and services, eliminating any possibility of exploitation of the public’s unfamiliarity, inexperience or fears. To this end, the contribution of the Promotion and Advertising Committee and the Group’s Regulatory Compliance is invaluable, the former with its evaluation and approval of the content and style of the campaign and the latter by ensuring that the content is in full compliance with the regulatory framework. Additionally, the Bank takes care to constantly enhance its customers' financial literacy in order to familiarize them with banking terminology and to understand the banking functions, thus facilitating their access to its services. 70 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Particular emphasis is placed on informing and educating customers about the use of the digital service channels as new technologies have changed the shape of bank product provision with e-banking transactions now constituting a significant percentage of total transactions. Consequently, in 2017 as well, the Bank promoted the technologically-advanced service model through the use of digital devices, with free access to internet wifi in branches, to demonstrate the functionality of Electronic Banking to the customers. It prompted and helped its customers in familiarizing themselves with the special ATM’s and easypay, with e-branches, with winbank web, mobile and phone banking and their applications. Optimal Retail Banking customer experience is an aspect of great value for the Bank and consequently particular emphasis is placed on it. More specifically, a specialized team has been formed, which assesses, records and measures customer experience, satisfaction and loyalty in relation to Retail Banking products with the aim of constantly improving its services. Contact with customers is made within 48 hours of this interface with the Bank, for the experience to be as recent as possible. Indicatively, some of the customer satisfaction measurement tools are NPS (Νet Promoter Score) and CES (Customer Effort Score). Specifically, in 2017, 50,000 Retail Banking customers completed the Voice of the Customer questionnaire, which resulted in 460 improvement actions for the Bank in 10 areas of Retail Banking. At the same time, feedback from the Bank’s customers is collected by means of the specialized online reputation tool, for monitoring and recording customer comments in the Bank’s Social Media and in third-party websites and blogs. The Bank recognizes the importance of knowing all the views that arise from the customers’ contact with its products and services. CUSTOMER SERVICE In 2017, one of the key priorities for Piraeus Bank was the evolution and qualitative upgrading of customer service model, aiming to create a modern and outstanding banking experience. In this context, emphasis was placed on developing multi-channel service and on enhancing the branch network’s commercial activity and effectiveness. The key axes and actions of the new service model focus on the following: 1. The transfer of transactions to digital channels and management and service as well as highlighting training customers in their use: aimed at saving the Bank’s utilization of innovation for individual productive time and upgrading the branches’ customer needs. commercial activity. 5. Enhancement of quality customer service: focuses 2. Incorporation of the practice of meetings in on Advisory Banking, through a flexible structure the service culture: it contributes definitively to of the branch network which includes the Branch developing further relations with customers and Systems (Central Branches and Branches-Satellite) strengthens commercial effectiveness. and the Branches. 3. Immediate handling of operating issues: assists 6. Focus on targeted sales: creates value for the in detecting challenging cases and prevents customer and revenue for the Bank. undermining of the success of the Program. 7. Utilization of technology and all available tools 4. Paperless Cashier: application that contributes to offer a memorable service experience: ensures to minimizing the time required for cashier customer trust and loyalty. NEW TECHNOLOGIES FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE UPGRADING Piraeus Bank evolves and innovates with the aim of differentiating itself in the banking environment by providing superior standards of customer service. Following the trends set by competition in the Greek and international markets, the Bank moves forward with an open mind and redesigns its methods of service provision with the aim of exceeding the expectations of increasingly demanding and informed customers. The positive impact of Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 71 this strategy is reflected in the results of the customer satisfaction surveys, which are presented in this Report. The Bank is constantly investing in the upgrading of alternative –non-conventional– and completely safe technological service channels for simpler and easier use, thus providing quality and speed to even more customers. Consequently, its primary concern is the expanded use of technological innovations that have already been adopted by a constantly rising number of customers; at a second level, it designs and implements the expansion of the range of the e-services provided. The Bank facilitates its customers’ familiarization with technology by developing simple-to-use applications that cover their individual needs, while the customercentered service channels support the process at all stages , guiding customers, as the adoption of modern technology: 1. Minimizes manual labor. 4. Expands the geographical area of service provision 2. Accelerates the process of customer service. –almost global coverage– as well as the hours of 3. Optimizes the safe exchange of information. operation of customer service. The large project of migration of transactions from the conventional to the digital service channels proceeded at an intensive pace in 2017, resulting in the total rate of migration of transactions rising to 77% versus 67% in 2016 and 64% in 2015. The progress of the project is monitored with regular measurements at Branch level, which record the rate of transactions served by cashiers in relation to those to be carried out by alternative channels. Consequently, measurements are made and targets are set at branch level in order to monitor the total rate of migration for all transactions that can be realized both from digital channels of service and from the branch's cashiers. Additionally, the rate is also analyzed for the individual types of transactions. Based on the results, the new target is set, which for 2018 is the additional increase of the rate to 86%. Achievement of the target contributes to customers saving time and money (for example, electronic payments are cheaper and queues, which are noted at some branches at the end of the month, are avoided), consequently having a positive effect on their service experience. Implementation of the action is achieved with the diversion of transactions in two directions: 1. Execution of transactions at Branch ATM’s and at 2. Execution of transactions through the web and mobile e-branches. phone, e-channels that the Bank has developed. More specifically, in order to support the first direction in 2017 at Branches: 1. A qualified employee was assigned to customer possibility of issuing yellows gift vouchers to customers reception in order to direct them, according to the wishing to redeem their yellows points. type of transaction they require, to the appropriate 4. The acquisition of the improved types of ATM’s was e-system ΑΤΜ, easypay kiosk and Passbook Printer and approved aiming towards a smoother operation of the to train them in its use, if it is deemed necessary. system. 2. ATMS’s were installed, mainly at large urban centers 5. The number of automated transactions executed at in Greece, which provide greater possibility of online easypay kiosks rose; it is also now possible to pay bills deposits, serving especially businesses with many with the contactless card as well as in installments with banknotes to deposit. the customer’s credit card. 3. Interventions were implemented at existing ATM’s in order to expand and upgrade the services provided such as the In 2017, 89% of cash withdrawals and 18% of total deposits were executed at Bank ATM’s. Transactions at easypay kiosks rose by 28% annually versus 2016, as 25% of deposits and 79% of Passbook updates were executed through these, thus confirming that in addition to faster customer service, they also contribute to the decongesting of Branch cashiers. 72 Sustainable Development Report 2017 At the end of 2017, the new e-branch began operation in Glyfada. This e-branch, the fourth one, gives the possibility to individuals, businesses and professionals in the southens suburbs of Athens to execute their transactions quickly, easily and safely during their expanded working hours on weekdays and Saturday. More specifically, in order to support the second direction, in 2017: 1. The Bank’s electronic platforms were redesigned to 3. A new methodology in customer training was introduced become more user-friendly. More specifically, the to the Private Banking Unit: smartphones were placed in winbank mobile banking service was redesigned so the Network Branches, enabling customers to familiarize as to offer customers greater ease in managing their themselves with the e-banking applications and receive finances and in executing their daily transactions on training in executing e-transactions. This initiative is their smartphone. supported by targeted promotional actions. 2. Simplification of the process for registering in the 4. Training programs for Branch Network employees were system, which is done at the Branches together with held in their workplace on their contribution to the customer training. development of multi-channel behavior of the Private Banking customers. In 2017, new registrations to the winbank web banking service exceeded the all previous years, with an average monthly rate of new registered users noting a 57% increase versus 2016. Moreover, users who executed transactions through the winbank web banking service rose by 28% versus 2016, while customers who used the winbank mobile service rose by 53%, with an average use of once every two days. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Piraeus Bank systematically conducts the Customer Satisfaction Survey annually. Through this process the Bank gathers information about the overall level of customer satisfaction and in particular customer-perception indices. Piraeus Bank’s constant aim is to maintain its high degree of customer satisfaction. The survey for 2017 was conducted in the form of Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing – (CATI) by means of a structured, 12-minute questionnaire by the market research company KANTAR TNS, on a sample of 15,300 Piraeus Bank customers covering the Greek geographical area. Regarding the overall customer experience of Piraeus Bank, the results are positive as 69% of the interviewed customers assessed their overall experience with the Bank as excellent/very good and 25% as good , 4% as moderate while only 1% as being poor . It is noteworthy that the survey showed that 9 out of 10 customers prefer Piraeus Bank strongly to very strongly in comparison to any other bank. The 2017 survey indicated that all satisfaction indices at the customers’ main branch of service note a statistically significant increase versus 2016. Focusing on satisfaction regarding the servicing experience at the customers’ main branch of service with individual indicators, staff politeness and staff expertise scored the highest. In terms of providing complete and clear information from –a measurement of transparency– 74% of customers grade it as excellent/very good whereas only 1% of total customers interviewed perceive their experience as poor . Regarding web banking, it is evaluated as excellent/ very good by 90% of users. The aforementioned results are proof of the Bank’s focus on effective customer service. It should be pointed out that when the survey was conducted, customers were asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank. This information was taken under serious consideration and is being utilized in the implementation of the respective corrective actions. In the graphs below, the percentages have been rounded to the nearest integer. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 85 PERSONAL DATA MANAGEMENT The Bank complies with the Banking Code of conduct, which governs the relationship between banks and their customers, regarding the collection of customer data and the storage of information, the confidentiality and the banking and professional secrecy. The Bank ensures that it complies with the applicable legislative and regulatory framework, the subject of which is to lay down the conditions for the processing of personal data to protect the rights and fundamental freedom of natural persons and in particular of their privacy. The data requested by the Bank is only what is specifically required for the drafting of each contract and for servicing the contractual relationship. The data is used exclusively for the purpose given, while being safely stored for the time imposed by the relevant legislation and the specific contract. The Bank, as controller of data and with the aim of performing credit assessments of loan applications by customers (loan, credit card etc), has access to the database of Tiresias SA, an action for which customers have been previously made aware of and given express consent for –where required (Credit Consolidation System– CCS and credit rating). In addition, all the necessary measures are taken to ensure confidentiality and protection of data regarding customers and anyone making transactions as well as use of this data exclusively for the purpose it was provided. Every customer has the right to know if the personal data they are disclosing is the object of processing (right of access) and to state their objection to this processing (right of objection). Customer rights are posted analytically in the Bank’s General Terms and Conditions and on the Bank’s website www.piraeusbank.gr>Individuals>Useful Information>Terms and Conditions. The customer, as data subject has the right to submit a request for right of access and right of objection from the controller of data , i.e. the Bank, and request information on the purpose of the processing of their personal data, its correction or erasure. All such requests are examined carefully prior to a written reply. The Bank’s preparation for legislation on the processing of personal data, which entered into force from the end of May 2018, as defined by EU Regulation 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data has been defined to enable the Bank to implement the relevant institutional framework directly. The directive is a uniform legal framework whereby the processing of personal data of natural persons within the European Union by other persons or companies is regulated. With the implementation of the new Regulation, the rights of the data subjects are strengthened and at the same time the responsibilities of the controller of data are expanded thus significantly enhancing the personal data protection of the Bank’s customers. In the context of the Bank’s preparation for the protection of personal data processing, the Personal Data Protection Office has been established, with the Data Protection Officer (DPO) –an experienced Bank executive with extensive experience in personal data management– having already taken office. CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS SERVICE In 2017, the Customer Complaints Service (CCS) focused on effective management of complaints/grievances in adverse economic conditions. Each complaint is examined directly and objectively, always abiding by the framework defined by the principles of personal data confidentiality and protection. At the same time, 86 Sustainable Development Report 2017 through the quantitative and qualitative analysis of complaints, possible areas of improvement in the products and services can be detected. A fundamental objective for the Bank –an objective inextricably linked to social responsibility– is to maintain and strengthen the relationships of trust with its Customers. In the context of a consensual and extra-judicial resolution of disputes, the efforts to reach a mutually acceptable solution for payment of debts and the need to reassess the contractual terms (Product Characteristics/ General Terms and Conditions/ Interest Rates etc) were the two key categories of cases submitted in 2017. The complaint resolution mechanism is composed of three levels. Initially, the customer is referred to the Branch/Service Unit to resolve the issue as soon as possible. If the customer’s complaint is not resolved in the 1st level of management, they are referred to the CCS, which deals with the management, resolution of and written response to the complaint. In the case where the customer is not satisfied with the response of the CSS, they are informed that they may address in writing the Ombudsman for Banking or another Alternative Dispute Resolution entity (ADR entity), which intervenes – if the procedural rules they have set are met – in an effort to resolve the issue extra-judicially. Management and communication related to the resolution of complaints is realized through the APPIAN application, with the participation of Branches, Regional Divisions and all Units, with the aim of more effective collaboration and resolution of issues within the time-frame stipulated by the institutional framework. The CCS is in constant contact with the Agencies of alternative dispute resolution (the Hellenic Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services-H.O.B.I.S., the Hellenic Consumers' Ombudsman, the General Secretariat for Consumers etc) aiming for more effective handling of issues. In the framework of the Code of Conduct under L.4224/2013, the CCS receives the appeals submitted by loan-holders in cases where they have been characterized as Non-cooperating , it coordinates relevant procedure and finally informs the customer by means of a written response with the final decision of the Bank, after the evaluation of each case by the appropriate Committee. With the aim of providing fair, equal and accessible-to-all information, the Bank informs analytically private and institutional investors about issues that concern them through the official website of the Bank (www. piraeusbank.gr) and through the website of the Bank of Greece, as is the obligation under the Bank supervisory framework and under the Governor’s Act 2501/2002 of the Bank of Greece on transparency of Banking Transactions. In addition, it updates the data provided (the Bank’s Purchase Invoice, product characteristics, General Terms and Conditions, information regarding the applicable Legislative Act etc). The development of new, automated mechanisms of communication with customers is a priority in the context of strengthening two-way communication. At the end of December 2016, the new electronic complaint submission form was designed and implemented, giving customers the possibility to communicate easily and directly any issues arising with a product/service or any issues of corporate responsibility. The results of the first year of implementation of the form indicate it was particularly successful, as 22% of cases received were submitted through this communication channel. Moreover, a Complaint Form was created (available since the 3d quarter of 2017 at the Bank’s Branch Network). This Form is an additional tool in complaint management and through the standardization of submission a more effective and direct means of communication with the customer is established, as well as the possibility for in-depth communication as part of the Bank’s processes. Aiming to enhance the effectiveness of customer complaint management, to optimize data processing and to reduce the operating risk, the project of redesigning the complaint management application is in progress thus achieving greater automation. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 87 In conclusion, in 2017, the updating of the process related to customer complaint management was completed, while also integrating the changes that arose from the review of the institutional framework. STATISTICAL DATA According to the last Business Report, a decrease was noted in the number of filed complaints in 2017 versus 2016, due to the fact that they derive mainly from Consumer and other Organizations (through standard forms), indicating that the rate of customers who turn to them is declining. The development of new channels of communication, the updating of the framework of complaint management from the first level in cooperation with the CCS as well as the efforts to resolve the conflicts that arise strengthened the direct communication between customers and the Bank without the involvement of third parties. The largest rate of complaints received, 87%, regarded new cases, while 12% related to issues already handled by CCS. It should be noted that of total filed cases, 3,675 (81%) were handled within the pre-defined time-frame. Origin of Filed Complaints* 12m 2017 % Δ% 12m 2016 Δ% Directly by Customer 3,546 79% -3% 3,658 65% Consumer Organizations/Other Organizations 505 11% -53% 1,084 19% Consumer’s Ombudsman 176 4% 3% 171 3% Ombudsman for Banking Investment Services 127 3% -46% 237 4% Ministry of Finance, General Secretariat of Commerce and Consumer Protection 109 2% -61% 281 5% Customer Addressed Complaint to Multiple Recipients 38 1% -77% 166 3% Other 10 <1% -66% 29 1% Total 4,511 100% -20% 5,626 100% * A complaint may derive from different sources; nevertheless, it is considered as one complaint. Status of Filed Complaints 12m 2017 % Δ% 12m 2016 Δ% Filing of New Complaint 3,924 87% -23% 5,065 90% Reply from Previous Request 432 10% -2% 440 8% Reply through Organization 110 2% 13% 97 2% Reconciliation Proposal 35 1% 46% 24 0% Proposal for Debt Settlement under L.4224 10 0% 0% Total 4,511 100% -20% 5,626 100% 88 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Days to Manage a Complaint 12m 2017 % Δ% 12m 2016 Δ% From 0 to 4 1,013 22% -50% 2,007 36% From 5 to 14 1,198 27% -25% 1,606 29% From 15 to 44 1,464 32% -3% 1,517 27% From 45 and over 491 11% 97% 249 4% In progress* 345 8% 40% 247 4% Total 4,511 100% -20% 5,626 100% Data based on database created on 22/01/2018, from which Appeals have been excluded, in the framework of the Code * of Conduct under L.4224/2013. Corporate Communication and Promotion The Group’s Marketing & Communication Unit supports the promotion of the products and services of the Bank and of Group subsidiaries, through multiple, specially-designed promotional actions and advertisements. At the same time, the Unit ensures that corporate communication, both internally and outside the Group, is implemented in accordance with the Group’s Vision and Values. The aim of the Unit’s actions is to support the Group’s strategic choices as well as connecting all stakeholders in a common image. This is achieved by delivering reliable messages and by clear and truthful promotion of products and services. In this way, the Group’s long-standing relationship with its people and with the general public is strengthened and consequently value is created for its shareholders, customers and employees. 2017 ADVERTISING CAMPAIGNS The advertising campaigns that were developed and realized by the Unit were aimed towards supporting and promoting: a) e-services that facilitate the customer-user’s daily life while also providing safe transactions, b) the yellow loyalty program, related to rewarding customers through their overall relationship with the Bank, c) savings products, where the Bank holds a leading position in the market, d) the Personal Banking service, e) Cards and f) Small and Medium Business Banking. More specifically: 1. Mobile Application winbank advertising campaign 9. Apotamievo advertising campaign 2. e-branch advertising campaign 10. Personal Banking advertising campaign 3. Advertising campaign for launching of yellow 11. Miles & More credit card advertising campaign (2nd phase) 12. Advertising campaign of co-branded Piraeus Bank 4. Easter yellow advertising campaign and AB Vassilopoulos cards 5. Summer yellow advertising campaign 13. POS advertising campaign 6. Back to school yellow advertising campaign 14. 360οfunding.gr advertising campaign 7. Anniversary 1 year yellow advertising campaign 15. Loans to Small and Medium size Enterprises 8. Yellow Do It Yourself Time Deposit advertising advertising campaign campaign SPECIAL ADVERTISING ACTIONS During 2017 special advertising campaigns were realized for the launching of www.properties4sale.gr, the first website that gives the public the possibility to get information in acquiring the property they are interested in through an online auction and for the promotion of Gold Sovereigns, as the Bank is now the exclusive representative and distributor of the Royal Mint of Great Britain in Greece. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 89 Agricultural Programs For another year, particular emphasis was placed on the promotion of the agricultural programs and products, as services to farmers and the agricultural sector as a whole constitutes a key concern for Piraeus Bank. As a result, the following were implemented: 1. Farmers' Micro-finance advertising campaign 3. Contract Farming advertising campaign. 2. Integrated Banking Solutions for Farmers advertising campaign These advertising campaigns continued being promoted by means of the Weather Forecast for Farmers on a TV channel and the Epi Gis magazine. More specifically: 1. Weather Forecast for Farmers , ANT1 TV channel. The programs are filed on a special branded mini-site on development and broadcast of a daily weather forecast www.antenna.gr. for farmers on ANT 1, of 4-minute duration, which aims 2. Periodical publication of Epi Gis magazine. The to create daily contact of the Bank with farmers. It is magazine is a periodical publication created in the first time that an advertiser assumes the creation entrepreneurship and is available free of charge at of a daily current affairs program on a large TV station the branch network. It aims to become a tool that for specialized viewers, who utilize it as a daily tool for will aid information provision to farmers and to their their work. The program has opening and closing titles investment activities while also building a relationship with 10’’ branding of the Bank and depicts a clock, of trust and synergy with the sector. communicating the Contract Farming program. All the Bancassurance Moreover, Piraeus Bank was the first to promote bancassurance in 2017, by highlighting its long-lasting collaboration with the leading insurance companies ERGO for General Insurance and NN Hellas for Health/ Life Insurance, as well as the insurance products it offers in the crucial sectors of health and proprerty protection. In this context, the advertising campaign for bancassurance products Where is everyone going? . Synergy to Support the NGO Apostoli In the framework of the Corporate Responsibility, that is part of the philosophy of Piraeus Bank Group, the Bank supported the work of the NGO Apostoli of the Holy Archdiocese of Athens for the Child Care Center. For this purpose, the Bank, jointly with its insurance partner ΝΝ Hellas, deposited €2.5 in the bank account of Apostoli for every SmartPlan junior insurance plan of ΝΝ Hellas, which is offered by the Bank’s Network. In 2017, financial support through the SmartPlan Junior insurance program amounted €10,813 with an equal contribution by ΝΝ Ηellas. Sport Credit Cards The communication and promotional actions of the Bank's products during 2017 included the advertising campaigns and promotional actions related to the sports credit cards that are part of the Bank’s portfolio: 1. Olympiacos BC World Mastercard credit card 4. Champions Mastercard credit card advertising advertising campaign campaign 2. Olympiacos FC Mastercard credit card advertising 5. Promotional actions of the above credit cards and the campaign offer of season tickets of the specific sports teams 3. AEK FC World Mastercard credit card advertising campaign Branch Marketing Management (ΒΜΜ) The continuous restructuring of the Branch Network implies a need for dynamic management of the means of projecting and promoting the Bank’s products and services. The Branch Marketing Management-BMM 90 Sustainable Development Report 2017 application was developed as a channel for two-way communication and feedback on issues of promotion. In 2017, aiming towards continuous upgrading of the customer experience and the promotion of the branch as an important means of communication, statistical data was included in the application targeted at recognizing the particular characteristics and needs of customers, thus upgrading it to a customer-centered sales tool. At the same time, by means of the application, the Bank’s operating cost and environmental footprint were reduced through the utilization of the channels and the time that customers choose to do their banking activities within the Branch Network. This resulted in the following: 1. Reduction of the Bank’s environmental footprint. 2. Minimization of employee time required for monitoring Indicatively: the felling of 1,600 trees was prevented, promotional issues. the emission of 80 tonnes of CO2 was prevented, 3. More effective promotion of products, according to the 67 tonnes of paper were not consumed and 3,500,000 particular characteristics of the customers. liters of water were not wasted. ACTIONS ON A LOCAL LEVEL AND SPECIAL CUSTOMER SEGMENTS By utilizing the wellbeing indices data from regions and prefectures in Greece as well as statistical data of customers through BMM, the dynamic development of specific customer segments was supported aimed at attracting new customers and developing existing partnerships. In this context, actions were realized to attract 7 regional hospitals with the slogan It is good to offer , directed at 7,000 existing and possible customers (doctors, nurses, administrative employees). For a third consecutive year, particular emphasis was placed on tertiary education students as a customer segment of special commercial interest. In order to promote and communicate the products and services which cover these students’ needs, the promotional action Check In Class , which commenced in 2105 at 13 Universities and Technological Educational Institutes and continued in 2017 at 64 public and private tertiary institutions in Greece. The action was directed at 350,000 students, thus supporting the Bank’s targets for retail banking products and the specialized branch network needs as it strengthened the corporate brand in 81 cities with strong student presence, a fact which is noted in the 2017 Customer Satisfaction Survey results which indicate that the TRI*M Index of satisfaction of students reached 92%. In this action, 87,252 students participated, with 278 branches receiving 22,143 visits. A particularly significant element is the fact that Check In Class , with the use of new technologies, was presented at faculties and departments that are involved in Marketing and Communication, as well as at seminars on youth marketing. It is also important that during the promotion of Check in Class students of the respective institutions also participated in. In 2017, Check In Class was enriched with the new, innovative Check In Class Notes functionality, through which student-users can exchange class notes with their peers while also winning yellows. PARTICIPATION IN EXHIBITIONS, CONFERENCES, EVENTS In 2017 as well, the Unit coordinated the design and arrangement of the Group’s presence in Annual General Meeting, in press releases, meetings with specific themes, conferences, exhibitions, cultural and communication events as well as in special informational and promotional actions, in accordance with the Group’s corporate identity and communication strategy. Indicatively: 1. The 29th Annual Conference The Greek Economy 6. 10th International Fair for Livestock and Poultry 2. 2nd Conference on Tourism Ζootechnia 2017 3. 6th Agrotechnology Conference 7. FoodExpo 2017 4. Capital Link 8. Gaia Epicheirein 5. 11th AgroThessaly Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 91 Additionally, in 2017 the Unit supported the Piraeus Bank Management in the organizing of events in Athens and other cities in Greece. These events aimed to communicate the Group’s strategic planning and the new governance model as well as exchanging opinions both with Branch Network executives and the general public. They were held: 1. Athens, the Acropolis Museum, Greek 3. Crete, Herakleion Galaxy, and Chania, Avra Imperial Entrepreneurship and Growth Prospects , with keynote Hotel, July 2017; speaker Mr Yannis Stournaras, Governor of the Bank of 4. Larissa, Larissa Imperial Hotel, October 2017; and Greece, March 2017; 5. Ioannina, Hotel Du Lac, November 2017. 2. Thessaloniki, Makedonia Palace Hotel, June 2017, In May, an event titled Investment prospects in international markets , co-organized by Piraeus Bank’s Private Banking and JP Morgan Asset Management, with the participation of over 150 customers and executives. For the celebration of the first anniversary of the exclusive partnership between Piraeus Bank and the The Royal Mint of the UK for the distribution of the Gold Sovereigns in Greece, a special event was organized by the Group’s Marketing & Communication Unit on 30 Novemeber 2017 at the Makedonia Palace Hotel in Thessaloniki, with the participation of about 250 people from the business world, representatives from official agencies and private customers. PIRAEUS GROUP SUBSIDIARIES Piraeus Bank Group subsidiaries provide a multitude of specialized high-quality products and services which serve the needs of existing customers and aim at the creation of new customers. In this context, in October 2017, was organized: a conference on the Management of Social Security Reserve Funds titled International Practices and new Trends in Greece , an initiative of Piraeus Asset Management M.F.M.C. Additionally, a series of actions targeted at upgrading the role of the Henry Dunant Hospital Center in the field of health. The actions were supported with printed and electronic information material within the hospital grounds and in social media respectively. At the same time, its website was upgraded, both in its look & feel and in content, making it particularly user-friendly. Moreover, the video module What does the doctor say? was inaugurated on Facebook, where doctors of various specialties reply to common questions, and distribution of a newsletter about the news of Henry Dunant Hospital Center as well as of the most significant developments in the medical field commenced. Finally, many important scientific meetings and corporate responsibility actions were held, thus contributing to the overall corporate brand of Henry Dunant Hospital Center as one of the most modern medical centers not only in Greece but in the broader SE Europe region. Support of Entrepreneurship The Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi , a member of the Piraeus Bank Group, offers specialized and certified training programs to the Greek periphery which enhance business skills and offer participants updated knowledge, information, guidance and networking. Its basic pillar of action is supporting sustainable entrepreneurship and emerging sectors of the economy. The subjects are specially adapted and designed for the needs and activities of the individual areas where they are offered and cover different topics and sectors accordingly – they include agriculture, tourism and e-entrepreneurship. Participants are encouraged to develop a different outlook on their businesses, focusing on issues of strategy and business planning as necessary tools for sustainable business, on creating branded agricultural products and on Digital Marketing and e-Commerce. In 2017, the Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi , in collaboration with the eSkills Center and the 92 Sustainable Development Report 2017 support of Beiersdorf Hellas, realized the first academy in Greece on the topic of the digital transformation of retail and wholesale businesses, which is now a defining factor in the survival and development of companies. The aim of the Academy is to prepare high-level executives in effectively leading their business to the digital transformation. In addition to providing financing and specialized training, Piraeus Bank also offers multi-level support to farmers through the 30 Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers which operate in areas with significant agricultural activity. The Bank’s modern approach to providing comprehensive support to farmers and the agricultural economy is implemented through the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Centers, which can offer complete and spherical information regarding the specialized banking products that cover the financial needs of producers. 2017 AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS Piraeus Bank Group received numerous awards and distinctions for its marketing, communication and PR actions: Organization Award Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Award Creative Bravery Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Award Integrated Campaign for winbank Mobile App-Owls Report Ermis Awards 2017 Grand Ermis Award in the category Design/Corporate identity for the 2016 Business Report and the Sustainable Development Report Ermis Awards 2017 Grand Ermis Award in the category Ad/Campaigns for winbank Mobile App-Owls Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Silver Award in the category Production/Production of promotional films for yellows Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Silver Award in the category Media/Television for yellows Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Silver Award in the category Media/digital media for properties4sale.gr Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Silver Award in the category Digital/Web campaigns for winbank Mobile App-Owls Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Silver Award in the category Digital/Integrated Multi-Platform Campaign for winbank Mobile App-Owls Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Bronze Award in the category Digital/Online Ad Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Bronze Award in the category Ad/Promotional Films for winbank Mobile App-Owls Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Gold Award in the category Ad/Campaign in the category Design/Corporate identity for the 2016 Business Report and the Sustainable Development Report Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Gold Award in the category Ad/Advertising for Savings Ermis Awards 2017 Ermis Gold Award in the category Ad/Promotional Films for winbank Mobile App-Owls Marketing Excellence Awards 2017 Award in the category Customer/Consumer Insights for the Bancassurance advertising campaign Where is everyone going? Marketing Excellence Awards 2017 Award in the category Communicating Effectively Low Budget Marketing Communications for the Check In Class Business IT Excellence Awards 2017 Silver Award in the category Special Applications for Companies in the Fields/ Banks for the application Check In Class Business IT Excellence Awards 2017 Silver Award in the category Operating & Business Applications for Automation & Support of Sales/Marketing for the BMM application Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Gold Award in the category Product/Experience for the Olympiacos B.C. World Mastercard credit card and the related loyalty program Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity 93 Organization Award Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Silver Award in the category CSR Programme for the realization of the Summer Camp withb the National Football Team Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Silver Award in the category Engagement/Experiential with the program First Time at a football match for Olympiacos F.C. Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Silver Award in the category Design/Branding for the design and construction of the Branded Bus Stop with the aim of promoting the Olympiacos F.C. Mastercard credit card Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Bronze Award in the category Print for the advertising campaign of Player Escorts Panathinaikos FC Sports Marketing Awards 2017 Bronze Award in the category Print for the advertising campaign of Player Escorts Olympiacos FC 97 Adoption of Best Workplace Practices Piraeus Bank Group acknowledging the basic role held by human resources in the achievement of its corporate strategic goals and the management of challenges, invests in the creation of strong relations with its employees, the open communication, the constant improvement of the working environment and the minimization of risks. Piraeus Bank is one of the largest employers in Greece offering full-time jobs. It invests in the continuous training and development of its people using innovative methods. It ensures a non-discriminatory process for covering its business needs through internal reallocations based on objective criteria and methodology, with a focus on equal opportunities and respect of its people. The Group places great emphasis on recognizing and rewarding its people at an individual and group level in order to ensure their constant growth and alignment of their performance with the Group’s goals and its competitive advantage. At the same time, the Group makes sure to establish and implement policies that promote issues of ethics, trust, devotion, team spirit and acceptance of diversity in the workplace, while it reinforces the commitment of its employees so that they operate according to its Values, Vision and Workplace framework. In 2017, the Human Resources & Organisational Learning continued to invest in the cultivating of a performance culture, the shaping of a new Values model, the development of human resources, new technologies and means of two-way and open communication with employees, as well as in the balanced and transparent utilisation and allocation of its people within the Group. 2017 Actions 1. Design and implementation of an Employee Engagement communication of the results to each Unit and Subsidiary Survey in the Bank and the Greek Subsidiaries, as well as for the formulation of ameliorative action plan. 98 Sustainable Development Report 2017 2. Continuous strengthening of the Restructuring Business 11. Dissemination of knowledge and exchange of Units (RBUs) with additional human resources and their experiences and best practices through the use of reinforcement in stress-management techniques. alternative forms of training. 3. Completion of Staffing of the Branch Network 12. Enrichment and development of training actions for according to the new Structure (Hubs and Spokes). the development of leadership and managerial skills of 4. Design and implementation of training programs and employees. actions for alignment of Branch Network executives 13. Ensuring an average of 47 hours of training per with the new business model, the strategic directions employee at Bank level. and the operating guidelines aiming for their multi14. Design and implementation of training actions focused faceted and complete strengthening in their new roles. on management of environmental and social risk in 5. Examination of crucial roles in order to develop a Job loan provision. Family Model. 15. Assignment of the e-learning Human Rights, Equal 6. Review and redefining of Performance Management Opportunities and Diversity in the Workplace to 5 procedure. Greek and 4 subsidiaries abroad. 7. Completion of the introduction of the Lead 360° 16. Implementation of voluntary actions with more than evaluation system in the Greek Subsidiaries, as well as 10,000 participations of the Group’s employees and design of a tool for the statistical analysis of results. with an impact on 37,268 people and 37 agencies. 8. Completion of the systematic analysis, parameter-setting 17. Adoption of a uniform Group Life Insurance, Permanent and application of the individual development plan with Disability and Medical Coverage Program for the total the aim of incorporating it into the HR systems. of Bank employees in Greece. 9. Expansion of the self-service flow and of MIS Reporting 18. Completion of the integration of the Group's Child of the Human Resources Management System (HRMS), Savings Plan. with the aim of enhancing employee experience and 19. Implementation of Evacuation Exercises at Network contribution to decision-making. branches and Administration buildings. 10. Design and integration of technology at the operations 20. Assignment of Head of Premises Firefighting of Human Resources (Digital HR) based on strategic Operations role for a two-year term. targeting. 2018 Targets 1. Communication of the new vision and values of the 9. Close cooperation with the business units to identify Group, implementation of an action plan for the and cover their training needs with the aim of achieving corporate culture transformation and integration of the the strategic goals and Agenda 2020 . Values in all Human Resources actions. 10. Design of Corporate Social Responsibility 2. Utilization of existing human resources through internal environmental and social risk management programs. reallocations in order to cover the Group’s business needs. 11. Emphasis on actions promoting the holistic health3. Further enhancement of the Restructuring Business wellbeing of employees. Units (RBUs) with specialized employees. 12. Promotion of new volunteer actions with employees' 4. Design of the structure of the Job Family Model for active contribution. Piraeus Bank. 13. Design and integration of technology in the HR 5. Communication and implementation of the operations (Digital HR) based on strategic targeting Performance Management procedure in the Bank and –in continuation of the project initiated in 2017– and its integration into the HR System. constant upgrading of its digital services. 6. Design of training actions for the introduction of the 14. Introduction of innovative and flexible tools and new performance management system and the total of improvement of existing learning applications with human resources aiming at assimilating the new data and emphasis on digital technology. recognizing the value it contributes. 15. Design and implementation of pulse checks aiming at 7. Redesign of the management development model examining employee opinions in selected areas identified with the aim of establishing a new culture and the by the Engagement Survey and the Units’ action plans. achievement of a common way of thinking and acting 16. Implementation of action plans for the reduction of in relation to empowering human resources, based on operational risk of the Group HR unit and processes trust and integrity. redesign to strengthen internal control. 8. Review of the succession planning & potentiality grid. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 99 Contribution to Employability Piraeus Bank Group Human Resources Figures At the end of 2017, Piraeus Bank Group employed 15,121 versus 18,093 people in 2016. The average age of the Group’s employees is 42 years, with 89% of the employees being under the age of 50, unchanged from the previous year. The percentage of employees who are holders of university degrees or/and postgraduate titles reaches 74% in Greece and 85% in subsidiaries abroad. 50% of Bank employees is occupied in the Bank Branches and the other 50% in the Administration Units. At Group level, the same rates are 48% and 52% respectively. 2017 Number of Employees (measured in FTEs*) Total 2016 Total 2017 Piraeus Bank SA 13,192 12,767 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) 14,492 13,253 Subsidiaries Abroad 3,583 1,862 Piraeus Group Total for Continuing Operations 18,075 15,115 * FTE: Full Time Equivalent 2017 Number of Employees (measured in HeadCount) Men Women Total Piraeus Bank SA 5,394 7,374 12,768 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) 5,624 7,632 13,256 Subsidiaries Abroad 547 1,318 1,865 Piraeus Group Total for Continuing Operations 6,171 8,950 15,121 2016 Number of Employees (measured in HeadCount) Men Women Total Piraeus Bank Greece 5,609 7,584 13,193 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) 6,230 8,271 14,501 Subsidiaries Abroad 1,018 2,574 3,592 Piraeus Group Total for Continuing Operations 7,248 10,845 18,093 Headcount: The collection of all HR data has been made through the HR System and with the completion of questionnaires for selected topics, with common admissions for all companies of the Group. 100 Sustainable Development Report 2017 2017 Age Distribution (%) Bank Group <30 0.4% 3% 30-50 88% 86% >50 12% 11% 2016 Age Distribution (%) Bank Group <30 1% 5% 30-50 88% 84% >50 11% 11% 2017 Employee Distribution per Workplace Bank Group Branch Network 50% 48% Administration Units 50% 52% For the organisational structure of the Group and analytical presentation of speciﬁc operations, see www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Chart of Organisational Structure Distribution Based on Employment Type and Contract 100% of Piraeus Bank’s employees receive as a minimum, compensation and benefits as these were specified in the collective bargaining agreements, while at Group level the percentage is 92%. Most of the Bank’s operations are implemented by the Bank’s employees, while Services-Rendered Invoice Employees or Seasonal Employees contribute to individual projects of the Group, constituting only a slight percentage of total workforce. More specifically, in 2017 Services-Rendered Invoice Employees numbered 200, of which 102 men and 98 women, while one (1) Seasonal Employee was hired. 2017 Distribution Based on Employment Type and Contract Bank Men Women Total Ful-time Employment 5,393 7,373 12,766 Part-time Employment 1 1 2 Group Men Women Total Ful-time Employment 6,164 8,941 15,105 Part-time Employment 7 9 16 Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 101 2016 Distribution Based on Employment Type and Contract Bank Men Women Total Ful-time Employment 5,608 7,583 13,191 Part-time Employment 1 1 2 Group Men Women Total Ful-time Employment 7,231 10,819 18,050 Part-time Employment 17 26 43 Geographical Distribution of Indefinite-Time Contract Employees Group Greece 2017 2016 Geographical Area Men Women Total Men Women Total Attica 3,257 4,390 7,647 3,665 4,844 8,509 Thessaloniki 623 736 1,359 703 767 1,470 Rest of Greece 1,743 2,504 4,247 1,847 2,653 4,500 Subsidiaries Abroad 2017 2016 Geographical Area Men Women Total Men Women Total Capital 435 869 1,304 752 1,621 2,373 Other Areas 98 420 518 228 827 1,055 Geographical Distribution of Fixed-Term Contract Employees Group Greece 2017 2016 Geographical Area Men Women Total Men Women Total Attica 1 2 3 8 2 10 Thessaloniki 2 0 2 Rest of Greece 5 5 10 Subsidiaries Abroad 2017 2016 Geographical Area Men Women Total Men Women Total Capital 8 16 24 24 74 98 Other Areas 6 13 19 14 52 66 102 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Social Policy3 Piraeus Bank Group provides its employees compensation and benefits that ensure a steady standard of living and motivate them to be productive. On 31st December 2017, the total payroll expenses reached €562,51 mn, allocated as follows: Staff Compensation (€ mn) Employee Compensations 405.93 Social Insurance Contributions 104.32 Other Expenses* 24.84 Voluntary Exit Scheme Expenses 16.67 Retirement Benefits Expenses Total 10.74 *  ther expenses include: medical care, employee insurance with death and/or permanent disability coverage (Insurance O Scheme), preventive check-up for executives, nursery schools and employer contributions other than social security funds. More specifically, with the aim of supporting further the social aspects of its business practices, in 2017 the Bank proceeded with the following actions related to the benefits to its human resources: 1. In March 2017, adopted of a uniform Group Life • free annual medical check-up package for all employees; Insurance, Permanent Disability and Medical Coverage • the possibility of submitting compensation claims Program for total Bank employees in Greece whereby through an e-platform for more immediate it ensured: compensation. • the possibility of including children under foster care, 2. In December 2017, the homogenization of the Group's with payment of the premium by the Bank for the Child Saving Plan, was completed, giving the possibility term of the foster care; for inclusion of all children of the Bank in Greece who • the possibility of including children of singlemeet the insurance requirements. With the integration of parent families, who are receiving pension from the the program, 2,062 new members (employee children) insurance agency of the deceased parent, without were included in it. premium charges; At the same time, recognizing the contribution of its people and aiming to support them in coping with the everyday and constantly changing challenges, the Bank abided by its commitment to provide substantial support by offering loan products adapted to their needs and with preferential terms. More specifically, in 2017, a total of 5,313 applications for loan approval were examined, as well as the implementation of restructuring of the mortgages under the 1984 Collective Agreement on Working and Transactions (Greek Federation of Bank Employee Unions – OTOE), thus contributing both to the employees’ standard of living and the Bank’s NPL ratio. Finally, the number of loans granted under the terms and conditions of the approval were examined as well as the implementation of restructuring of the mortgages under the 1984 Collective Agreement on Working and Transactions (mortgages and salary-advance loans) was 11,794, amounting €17.3 mn in 2017, with loan balances at €199.9 mn on 31.12.2017. For added beneﬁts to employees, see www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Remuneration & Beneﬁts 3  he data concerning actions for Human Resources from this part of the Report until the end of this unit includes employees on T secondment in the Bank and the Group’s activities held for sale at each subset respectively. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 103 Rewarding Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group encourages efficiency and effectiveness while also recognizing and rewarding every employee’s additional efforts. The established evaluation process is based on objective criteria. Special rewarding systems are applied, either long-term or short-term, which are structured in such a way as to strengthen both individual and team efforts. Apart from efficiency, the following are also rewarded: 1. innovative actions; 3. social responsibility; and 2. morality and integrity; 4. excellent professional presence. Employee Voluntary Turnover In 2017, the voluntary turnover rate was 3% for the Group, while at Bank level the respective percentage was smaller than 1% (with the participation of men by 71% and women by 29%). Total Turnover Rate per Gender Men % Women % Total Piraeus Bank Greece 204 3.7% 211 2.8% 415 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) 253 4.4% 251 3.2% 504 Subsidiaries Abroad 123 22.5% 308 23.4% 431 Piraeus Group Total for Continuing Operations 376 6.0% 559 6.0% 935 Age Distribution of Turnover Rate per Gender Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) Men % Women % Total <30 12 44.4% 7 20.0% 19 30-50 152 3.2% 185 2.5% 337 >50 89 8.8% 59 10.2% 148 Subsidiaries Abroad Men % Women % Total <30 41 31.3% 64 24.8% 105 30-50 72 21.6% 200 21.4% 272 >50 10 12.2% 44 34.9% 54 104 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Geographical Distribution of Turnover Rate per Gender Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) Men %* Women %* Total Attica 159 4.7% 145 3.1% 304 Thessaloniki 26 4.1% 12 1.6% 38 Rest of Greece 68 3.9% 94 3.7% 162 Subsidiaries Abroad Men %* Women %* Total Capital 91 20.5% 178 20.1% 269 Other Areas 32 30.8% 130 30.0% 162 * Where % applies the reason for the number of men/women in the category/Total popopulation of men/women in the category. Healthy, safe and modern workplace environment Collective Representation There are six employee unions active in the context of Piraeus Bank, which represent approximately 85% of human resources. The Management fully respecting the legislative framework governing its relationship with Unions, seeks to strengthen the dialogue with the collective bodies of employees, through which the continuous upgrade of the work environment is achieved. In the framework of regular and constant consultation with the employee unions’ representatives, representatives of the Bank’s Management had multiple meetings with them in 2017, maintaining an average of more than once a month in order to resolve institutional and financial demands, the most important of which were recorded in the Collective Bargaining Agreement that was signed in May 2017 between the union representatives and Management for the period of May 2017-May 2018. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Collective Representation Control Environment Piraeus Bank Group, considers the strengthening of the control environment of strategic importance and to this end reviews regularly the possible risks from its operation as well as monitoring the Risk Indicators related to the abidance to the legal, regulatory and employment framework. Through the design and implementation of special action plans, the Bank aims towards the reduction or elimination of risks and the defining of actions to monitor the flow of processes related to HR. Workplace Accidents Piraeus Bank submits annually to the Hellenic Statistical Authority data related to workplace accidents which result in the absence of the employee for more than three days, according to the European Statistics on Accidents at Work (ESAW) methodology. For 2017, the Bank recorded only one case of workplace accident which was reported to the Authorities, in abidance to the relevant law. Following that, a technical team of Labour Inspection Officers from the Department of Labour Inspection inspected the Branch as to the abidance of the health and safety measures in the workplace, during which it was found to be fully-compliant with the law. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 105 Throughout the year, 30 days of absence were recorded in the Bank in relation to the aforementioned workplace accident. Safety in the Workplace The Bank is fully compliant with issues regarding health and safety in the workplace. As a result, in 2017 the he Greek Labour Inspectorate Body (S.EP.E) of the Ministry of Labour, Social Insurance and Social Solidarity imposed no fines at any of the regular or extraordinary inspections at the Bank facilities. In providing a safe workplace environment, the Bank takes all the necessary preventive measures, supervised by the Safety Engineers of the cooperating Occupational Health and Safety Consultants, which have been assigned with the task of identifying weaknesses or required adjustments to the infrastructures of all its buildings, as set by the legal requirements. In 2017, 10,544 hours of visits by Occupational Doctor and Safety Consultants were recorded at 766 facilities. In addition, Branch Network employees were informed about the applicable Safety Regulations for the buildings, an action which is also being realized at Administration Buildings in 2018. At the same time, 1,415 Evacuation Exercises were held at the Branch Network all over Greece and over 78 Evacuation Exercises at Administration buildings. In conclusion, the Fire Safety-Fire Protection group’s data was updated for the entire Branch Network, while executives were appointed as Installation Managers at Administration buildings for a two-year term at all 64 active Administration buildings, thus implementing the relevant legal framework. Health in the Workplace In the context of providing and promoting a healthy workplace environment, Piraeus Bank Group is fully compliant with the existing legal framework related to the smoking-ban –on tobacco products, new smoking products, electronic cigarettes and refill containers, as well as natural smoking products– at all interior areas of its buildings. At 7 Administration buildings with high numbers of employees (Athens-Thessaloniki), services of permanent medical office with nurse and/or doctor present is provided for preventive and basic health care. These services are also provided to the employees of 11 additional Administration buildings in close proximity, thus covering approx. 4,500 employees. Additionally, the Occupational Doctor's service of the Occupational Health and Safety Consultants is offered to all Bank buildings, thus ensuring for employees a holistic approach to health issues. More specifically, in 2017 the Occupational Doctors dealt with thirty-five special cases of employee health issues, diagnosing and referring them to a specialist doctor. Additionally, they made recommendation for the provision of 47 orthopedic chairs, based on medical reports provided by the employees directly. Finally, all teller chairs (approx. 2,000) were replaced with the latest ergonomic type office chairs. Piraeus Bank Group Summer Camp Fyllarakia With the aim of supporting employees and their families, the summer camp Fyllarakia operated again during the summer of 2017 as a provision to all the children of employees of the Bank and subsidiaries in Greece. In order to further improve the services provided, the Bank’s Technical Projects and Administration Support Unit implemented infrastructure repair work and replaced fixed assets and other materials, in collaboration 106 Sustainable Development Report 2017 with the HRMS team of the Bank. In parallel, in cooperation with the HRMS team, the systemic procedure of applications from parents was upgraded for the children's hosting in the camp. Despite the challenges of the volatile economic climate, the summer camp operated smoothly for two periods of 15 days each, during which 74 people were employed (based on the relevant approval) and 484 children were hosted for free, aged 7-14 years old. Finally in 2017 as well, the Summer Camp program was designed based on the environmentally friendly and socially responsible philosophy of Piraeus Bank Group, providing to the children multiple opportunities to play, learn and familiarise themselves with the Values of the Group. Promotion of Holistic Health-Wellbeing With steady orientation towards ensuring a holistic-health approach in the workplace environment and consequently increasing employees’ commitment and high-performance culture, in 2017 benefits were utilized and actions organized which focused on sensitizing and strengthening employees and their families in the multiple dimensions of well-being. In this context, 54 actions were held in the Group raising awareness regarding issues of the environment, technology, career path management, as well as original activities of cultural and sports interest, with the participation of 800 employees and 1,517 members of their families (2,317 beneficiaries in total). Specifically: Subject Area Actions Beneficiaries Creative Activities 3 183 Career Orientation 3 204 Fair Play in Sports 3 64 Environmental Awareness 20 1.192 Cultural Awareness 2 38 Technology 19 398 well-being 4 238 In the same context of health-wellbeing, the Bank provides the opportunity for the utilization of three gyms, consultation and advice with a nutritionist while also promoting and utilizing well-being services at preferential rates. Empowerment and Education on Issues of Holistic Health – Well-being With emphasis on providing quality education on issues of well-being and supporting the Bank Units, where the greatest need has been identified, 120 executives from the Bank’s Restructuring Unit received support with 720 hours of training on a specially-designed program of stress-management techniques. In the same framework, approximately 100 employees in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patra and Crete made use of the voluntary stress-management training programs. At the same time, intensive training continued on issues related to the detection and management of early indications of dangerous behavior and on management of illnesses in order to reduce the psychosocial risk and its effects on the working place. To date, 1,501 Administration Unit executives, in charge of employee groups, have attended e-learning lessons covering, to an acceptable risk level, 81% of the total Management group of the Bank. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 107 Employee Assistance Programmes-EAPs For the 9th consecutive year, with an unwavering commitment to promoting and ensuring a healthy workplace environment and to providing systematic support to employees, all employees were given the opportunity to utilise counselling support services through the internationally certified EAP in cooperation with a certified external EAP services provider, with: 1. 100% coverage of employees and family members 4. Information provision to 923 employees regarding EAP 24/7 Help Line and counseling. services in Athens and Thessaloniki. 2. 100% coverage of expatriates and members of their 5. 100% rate of satisfaction with the 24/7 Help Line. family. 6. 100% would recommend the services to colleagues. 3. Management of 13 Critical Events, covering 92 employees. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Employee Assistance Programs Distinctions for the EAP Services In 2017, Piraeus Bank Group was rewarded at the international Conference of the Employee Assistance Professionals Association (EAPA) in the category EAP Quality Award for its excellent implementation of the EAP Support Programs, in accordance with international EAPA standards. The award was based on examples of innovative strategies and services related to the promotion of a psychosocially healthy workplace environment with a focus on supporting and ensuring actions that are targeted towards reducing and/or eliminating psychosocial risk. Employee Counseling Service for optimal Management of their Finances The provision of counseling on financial issues constitutes a key Bank service which is also provided to employees in the form of individualized counseling according to the request and needs of each employee. Indicatively, the knowhow of specialized Bank executives on issues of proper management of finances (eg. debt management, savings solutions) is provided for the benefit of employees seeking guidance to improve their financial condition. Utilising Technology to Improve HR Services and the Employee Experience With the Human Resource Management System (HRMS) as the basic axis, the efforts to provide services of high quality and speed to employees, as well as reliable information to Bank executives continues. In 2017, the system’s data base was expanded with the inclusion of data of employees and of the organizational structure of most Greek subsidiaries. The existing approval flows were improved, new functions were integrated, such as the weighing of training activity and development procedures were added, such as the management of the individual development plan of employees. Design and Integration of technology in Digital HR based on strategic targeting The goal of the project is the design and utilization of solutions that promote productivity and innovation through the use of modern tools of communication and collaboration and the adoption of best practices in order to create a modern workplace environment, while also enhancing and strengthening even more employee commitment. In 2017, following the realization of one (1) workshop with the participation of 15 HR executives, at which the targets and the areas of intervention were defined, a series of automation actions of services such as automated flows, analyses and reports on HR data etc were designed and implemented. For 2018, further automation of services provided by human resources is planned, as well as expansion of the communication tools and needs which reshape the operation of HR and cultivate a digital mentality. 108 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Recognizing and rewarding high performance for retention of highly dynamic employees Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles Staff Planning aims at the utilization and retention of Bank executives, as well as at attracting experienced executives from the job market. Throughout 2017, the need arose to cover 4,046 positions within the Bank, of which 94% were covered. Of these, 39% regarded men and 61% women, with 98% being covered by internal transfers or promotions, while only 2% covered by external hiring. At the same time, executives had the opportunity to progress hierarchically within the company. Of total promotions, regardless of the level of hierarchy, 1,396 people were promoted, of which 704 men (50.4%) and 692 women (49.6%). The Restructuring Business Units (RBUs) were reinforced with additional employees for more effective management of NPL’s and NPEs. Specifically, 126 new employees were placed to the two Units. Staffing of the Branch Network was completed according to the new Structure. 139 Hubs and 329 Spokes were staffed. Finally, in the context of the systematic monitoring of women’s participation indices in positions of responsibility, women cover 30% of positions in senior management and 18% in top management in the Bank. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 109 Hirings per Gender Total Hirings per Gender Men %* Women %* Total Piraeus Bank Greece 37 0.7% 37 0.5% 74 Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries) 53 0.9% 42 0.5% 95 Subsidiaries Abroad 158 28.9% 385 29.2% 543 Piraeus Group Total for Continuing Operations 211 3.3% 427 4.6% 638 Age Distribution of Hirings per Gender (Bank) Men %* Women %* Total <30 6 22.2% 5 14.3% 11 30-50 22 0.5% 27 0.4% 49 >50 9 0.9% 5 0.9% 14 Geographical Distribution of Hirings per Gender [Piraeus Group Greece (Bank and Subsidiaries)] Men %* Women %* Total Attica 47 1.4% 35 0.8% 82 Thessaloniki 1 0.2% 0 0.0% 1 Rest of Greece 5 0.3% 7 0.3% 12 Subsidiaries Abroad Men %* Women %* Total Capital 124 28.0% 244 27.6% 368 Other Areas 34 32.7% 141 32.6% 175 Distribution of Hirings by Hierarchical Level and Gender Piraeus Bank Greece Men %* Women %* Total Executives 8 11% 3 4% 11 Senior Management 3 4% 5 7% 8 Middle Management 2 3% 3 4% 5 Professionals 7 9% 9 12% 16 Operational Staff 17 23% 17 23% 34 * Where % applies the reason for the number of men/women in the category/Total popopulation of men/women in the category. Expatriates At the end of 2017, 13 executives were assigned to 6 countries in which the Group operates (Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia, Ukraine and Germany) while 4 executives were assigned to Piraeus Bank Greece for projects related to the Group’s Intentional Activities. In the second half of the year, 2 of the 13 expatriates were relocated from Piraeus Bank Bulgaria and from the Frankfurt Branch in Germany. 110 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Through the practice of assigning executives to the subsidiaries abroad, where the Group is active, the coverage of specialised needs is pursued by the Group while offering at the same time the opportunity for development to highly skilled and competitive executives in the market. Specifically, with the assignment of executives abroad the aims are: 1. The coverage of positions of responsibility by 4. The promotion of a common culture, policies and executives with sufficient knowledge and work procedures of the Group in the countries where it experience. operates. 2. The transfer of technical and professional knowledge, 5. The acquisition of significant experience from the experience and best practices. expatriates and their further strengthening through 3. The development of the executive workforce of the the management of complex situations, aiming for the subsidiaries abroad and their preparation for future transfer of their know-how and experience, as addedsuccession. value to the Organisation with their repatriation. See www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Human Resources>Professional Development>Staffing SHAPING THE FRAMEWORK OF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Job Family Model The project commenced at the end of 2016 with the aim of shaping the framework for management of employees’ professional development, according to the present and future needs of the Group and based on the performance, potential and personal preferences-needs of its people. In total, 29 strategic interviews were held, 7 of which in 2016, headed by the Administration Units in order to examine the most important challenges-priorities for the Group, as well as the crucial roles. At the same time, 2 workshops were held with the participation of 20 executives of the HR and Organisational Learning Units of the Group. The target of the project for 2018 is to make use of the results of the strategic interviews and to design the structure of the Job Family Model. CONTINUOUS EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Development of Human Resources The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication with employees and consistent guidance from their managers, while also creating the necessary framework for the recognition of individual contribution. In parallel, the employees have the opportunity to firstly make a self-assessment and then participate in the review of their evaluation so that they can openly express their opinion before the finalisation of the procedure. The annual evaluation, with the standard criteria of the mentioned procedure, was implemented for the period 1.1.2016-31.12.2016 for the employees of the Bank and of its subsidiaries. At Bank level there were 11,809 appraisals completed out of a total of 12,304 employees. The rate of completed appraisals in Greek and foreign subsidiaries reached 97.5% and 93.3% respectively. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 111 2016 Appraisals Bank Completed 96% Incomplete 4% Total 100% Moreover, the Lead 360° feedback system was introduced to 6 Greek Subsidiaries. The system was implemented for all executives at Senior and Middle Management levels. In particular, evaluations were completed for 1,513 executives in the Bank of a total of 1,601 (94.5%). At Greek subsidiaries, evaluations numbered 51, with a completion rate of 100%. REDISIGN OF THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROCESS In the framework of designing the new process of Performance Management, its philosophy and basic principles were defined, aiming at enhancing the performance of employees and the Organization, at connecting it with the Group’s strategy, vision and values, as well as at developing and rewarding employees. Senior and top management executives from various Units participated in redesigning the process. At the same time, 4 focus groups were held, with the participation of 60 senior and middle-level executives, as well as other employees, who exchanged views and submitted their proposals for the new process. The implementation, dissemination and initiation of the new process is undertaken in the 1st quarter of 2018. Talent Development The philosophy of developing human resources is to predict, adjust and offer directly to employees all the channels for skills development, which provide them with added value and self-confidence throughout their career in the Group. By means of lifelong strengthening of the dynamic and the potential of employees, a culture of high performance is achieved, benefiting the employees themselves, the Group and the market. The rate of highly potential Bank employees is 17.28%. The ability of an organization to develop in its human resources the appropriate skills and specialization required to manage the demands of the market is linked directly to its sustainability and success. At the same time, by recognizing the dynamics of its executives, the Organization is aided in the preparation of succession plans and strengthened in its readiness to respond to every change. In this framework there were implemented: Management Development Centers With the Group’s leadership model as a guide, the methodology of the Management Development Centers aims to develop and enhance the skills of the executives who are already managing or who are to undertake the management of groups of employees. The focus is on personal development and the design of individual actions by the participants themselves, while also connecting every action to their performance and professional development. Period Participants Impact on Organization 1.1.-31.12.2017 94 executives 472 directly supervised employeees 112 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Individual Development Plan In 2017, the systemic analysis, the parameter-setting and the application of the individual development plan was realized thus fully integrating it into the HR IT system. The model guides the employee to set targets for personal and professional growth, to design an action plan to achieve these in cooperation with the Head of their Unit, receiving the benefit of life-long strengthening of their skills and their professional advancement within the Group. At the same time, the development of the communication plan for 2018 was completed, with the aim of launching the new application. Library The library was enriched with 73 new books and responded to 226 requests with the most popular topics being economics, project development, communication and effective presentation of ideas and leadership. The thematic axes of the books in the Library are exclusively related to the skills of the leadership model of the Bank: strategic direction and entrepreneurship, leadership, quality of service and services provided, negotiations, sales, economics, organizing of work, presentation skills, phone communication, adult training, HR development, self-growth, stress management, self-confidence and creativity. Investing in the Continuous Training of Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group, in response to the challenges of the market and the demands of the supervisory authorities, and operating more drastically in dealing with emerging changes in the external environment, is shaping its training and development strategy, thus investing steadily in the strengthening of its human resources. With a steady focus on the vision and mission for the dissemination of knowledge, the Group is constantly evolving and investing consistently in the development of skills and expertise of employees, aiming towards: 1. the full development of the abilities of its human framework and the systematic coverage of the Group resources; against operational, credit and other risks, with 2. the securing of organizational and corporate continuity, methodical monitoring of the relevant educational 3. the strengthening of the alignment of employees with indices and direct response to new training needs; and the value and behavioral system and the promotion 5. the strengthening of expertise of the executives of of a uniform culture; Units that were created in the context of institutional 4. the compliance with the legal and regulatory and structural changes of the Bank. New Approach to Learning With the aim of sustainable development and the creation of value in the Group, a new approach is being adopted by the Organizational learning, which actively contributes to the individualized strengthening of human resources and of the business units in order to achieve high performance with optimal utilization of the potential of employees. On a strategic level, all educational actions incorporate the values of the Bank and are organized within the Pyramid of Learning structure, which is made up of 4 levels, with a healthy and safe workplace at the basis of the pyramid and leadership development at the top. More specifically, the levels are developed as follows: 1. An Environment of Health and well-being: them. This axis includes programs related to safety Covers the need for a healthy and safe workplace and health in the workplace, ergonomics, stress environment so that employees have a sense of management and well-being. belonging to a team and social group that cares about 2. Banking & Business Issues: Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 113 Constitutes a key axis of the knowledge required for that support the Group’s value system. They include: all banking and business executives. The portfolio of communication skills, excellent customer experience, the banking and financial training includes programs negotiations and team work. and actions which enhance comprehension and 4. Modern Leadership: ensure knowledge of the operation of the banking Enhances personal potential in order to influence and system in relation to credit, loans, commerce, improve others’ performance. Series of programs investments, risk, retail, products, services, that are being designed at strategic level for new, technology and IT in the systems. middle level and senior managers, talents, people with 3. Interpersonal Skills: contribution of significance and executives. Evaluation Increases effectiveness and adds value to the service tools, guidance, large and small-scale exercises, case of and cooperation with the customer. Programs and studies and training programs are all utilized for the actions of this level focus on characteristics and skills achievement of professional and strategic goals. and aim to ensure a common perception of the attitudes Organizational Learning Actions The issues of education and development of human resources, such as internal training programs, the training means and the related procedures are posted on the Bank’s internal communication channel HR Portal and are available to all employees. Participation in training/development programs can be requested by the employees themselves in cooperation with their manager or by the Organizational Learning Unit. In 2017, a total of 683,829 training man-hours were recorded in the Group, of which 624,446 at Bank level, including employees on secondment, while there were 3,516 in-house and external business training courses organized, of which 2,767 at Bank level. A total of 11 thematic sections were covered. Distribution of Training ManHours per Training Means (thousand) – Bank Year Classroom Distance Learning 2016 189 490 2017 208 417 In 2017 there were 47 training man hours (47 for men, 46 for women) recorded on average at Bank level, while there were 41 training man hours (42 for men and 40 for women) recorded on average at Group level. 114 Sustainable Development Report 2017 2016-2017 Distribution of Training Man – Hours per Topic Bank and Group Bank 2017 Bank 2016 Group 2017 Group 2016 Finance 217,680 34.9% 134,062 20% 219,433 32.1% 178,256 22% Business Development 111,557 17.9% 145,323 21% 126,637 18.5% 168,298 21% Other 75,086 12.0% 9,731 1% 75,900 11.1% 18,471 2% Regulatory Compliance – Anti – Fraud and Anti – Corruption 68,362 10.9% 168,397 25% 72,417 10.6% 174,506 21% Leadership & Management Skills Development 44,146 7.1% 42,064 6% 46,282 6.8% 51,906 6% IT Systems 36,251 5.8% 86,105 13% 39,046 5.7% 100,819 12% Customer Service 35,807 5.7% 34,224 5% 45,139 6.6% 48,709 6% Human Rights 13,644 2.2% 22,194 3% 17,375 2.5% 22,282 3% Specialized Technical Skills 13,390 2.1% 19,902 3% 32,061 4.7% 30,114 4% Issues of Uniform Corporate Culture 4,804 0.8% 11,170 2% 4,804 0.7% 13,246 2% Corporate Social Responsibility 3,719 0.6% 6,266 1% 4,736 0.7% 7,130 1% 624,446 100% 679,438 100% 683,829 100% 813,737 100% 94% of Bank employees participated in at least one program for 20174 and 95% of Bank employees participated in at least one program for 20164. Development of Leadership and Managerial Skills In alignment with the strategy and values of the Group, in 2017, existing programs continued and new ones were implemented, for the strengthening of managerial and leadership skills of executives, with emphasis on middle and senior management of Administration Units. In 2107, a total number of 7,579 Bank executive participations in in-house or external Leadership Development programs (in the classroom, distance learning and a combination of both) were realized, with emphasis on the following actions: 1. The Situational Leadership programs (Self, One to One 3. For the enhancement of the administrative skills of the and Team) for middle and senior management executives Bank executives who recently assumed positions of continued in order to strengthen their abilities in self, responsibility, two new programs were developed: the one to one and team leadership, with 429 participations blended program Newly Appointed Managers , with recorded. 230 participations, and the First Time Manager with 2. The new workshop Personal Branding and Visibility 90 participations. was realized with the aim of enhancing the participants’ 4. Lastly, 3,849 e-learning lessons of development influence skills on their team members, through content, with emphasis on strengthening managerial management of the corporate and their personal and leadership skills were accomplished for executives image, with 280 participations from executives from the of all organizational levels. Administration Unit recorded. Training in Corporate Governance In 2017, the following training sessions were held: 1. Corporate Governance of Financial Institutions : the and Corporate Secretary of the Board of Directors program was addressed to 28 Corporate Governance (BoD) and was implemented in cooperation with the 4 Instructor-led, technology based. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 115 Hellenic Banking Institute (112 training man-hours). focus on the role of corporate governance in times 2. Modern Governance in Banking : the external, of economic crisis and to be informed about how 80-hour INSEAD program began in 2017 and is still executive-committee members can collaborate in progress. It is addressed to 5 BoD members and effectively with the relevant external monitoring and senior management and provides participants the regulatory agencies as well as with shareholders and chance to be informed about current trends and risks other stakeholders. of corporate governance in the banking sector, to APOLLO Project In the context of the business restructuring of the Branch Network, a number of specially-designed training actions was designed and implemented with the aim of achieving the Group’s strategic goals. More specifically, emphasis was placed on developing programs that reinforce the alignment of Network executives with directions and practices, with the aim of creating a new, unique experience in banking experience that will be imprinted on customers’ minds. At the same time, the training actions mapped the operating guidelines and the solutions for effective management of the changes while also strengthening internal mobilization of employees in a smooth integration into their new professional demands. The Apollo program utilized a total of 49,168 man-hours with 8,391 participations. Schools and Academies During 2017, the creation of two Schools and one Academy continued, aimed at the development of skills and knowledge with a systematic and structured approach, while also covering a wide spectrum of thematic sections. Specifically, in the Bank the following were implemented: S/N Schools – Academies Training Man-Hours Participants 1 Stellar Service Academy 2,784 2,232 2 Personal Partner School 39,056 1,017 3 Small Businesses and Professionals Partner 2,568 69 Total 44,408 3,318 Regulatory Compliance Training Particular emphasis was given by the Group to issues of Regulatory Compliance and combating fraud and corruption. Through the uploaded Regulatory Compliance Policy on the Intranet, but also through the constant training of employees, the Group seeks to define, identify and avert the risk of legal and supervisory sanctions. It also aims at the elimination of any risk of financial loss or damage to its reputation or that of its stakeholders, as a result of a non-or partial compliance to laws, supervisory authority decisions, self-regulatory rules and codes of ethics. The ultimate goal of these actions is the reinforcement of employees with relevant expertise and the strengthening of their ethical behaviour and integrity, which are elements that affect broadly their everyday activity. At Group level there were 72,417 training man hours on issues of Regulatory Compliance, prevention and combating of fraud and corruption, with 11,182 participations. 116 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Training on Health and Safety at Work Fully aligned with the relevant legislation on ensuring Health and Safety at work and with the protection of its people as its key objective, Piraeus Bank Group focused on the training of staff members in safe evacuation from buildings and branches, as well as the training of members of Firefight teams. The sessions aim to transfer the basic fire-safety skills needed for the prevention and suppression of fires and emergencies in workplace. Attendance at training sessions on health and safety at work reached 10,803 in 2017. Business Investment AND Insurance Service Certifications In 2017 and in compliance with the regulatory framework, 298 Bank executives were certified in the provision of investment services, in different levels while 965 already certified employees renewed their certificates for the next five years. In addition, 478 employees were certified for the provision of insurance services. Training in the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) Since 2011, Piraeus Bank Group has been implementing of Environmental Management System (EMAS)5 with annual certifications. At the request of its shareholders, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the European Bank for Reconstruction & Development (EBRD), the Bank proceeded with the gradual integration of the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) into its Business Loan Unit in 2017. As part of the specific project, in collaboration with the Green Banking-Development Programs Unit, a training action was designed and realized titled Assessment of Environmental Risk in Loans . The action was addressed to the Units related to business loans (loan provision, management, approval, assessment, risk) and was completed through 14 sessions with 259 participants (1,554 training man-hours). Sign Language in Banking Customer Service In collaboration with the Customer Innovation – Group Digital banking Unit and the Hellenic Federation of the Deaf, a training action titled Sign Language in Banking Customer Service was realized, lasting 92 hours. Three cashiers from e-branches received training in basic sign language, mainly focused on the provision of banking services to the hearing-impaired customers. The ultimate aim is the provision of optimal service provision to all customers, irrespective of their means of communication. Distance Learning: e-learning With the aim of covering the increasing needs for training and development of the human resources, for strengthening of in-house training and for promoting life-long learning, e-learning constitutes a pillar of the Knowledge Management System of the Group. With systematic utilisation of all available tools, such as chat, library and forum, , e-learning constitutes a medium that gives users (trainees, trainers, business experts) the opportunity to develop communication and synergies, exchange views and good practices, promote knowledge and contribute to its diffusion in the Organisation. In 2017, at Group level, 428,519 training man-hours were recorded through e-learning (416,561 at Bank level). Participation in Training Outside the Bank With the aim of being constantly informed about the new trends of the modern market and at the enrichment and diffusion of knowledge at individual and corporate level, during 2017 there were 1,036 participations of 5 ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/register/search/registration.do?registrationId=604551 Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 117 Bank executives (12,484 training man-hours) at conferences, workshops, and seminars organised by established professional and scientific bodies in Greece and abroad. Books and Subscriptions In the context of covering specialized needs of individual Units and enhancing the knowledge of executives, during 2017, the Bank purchased 125 books and scientific works, while 114 subscriptions in professional bodies in Greece and abroad were utilised. Clear communication of the Bank’s strategic direction to employees The Philosophy of Communication with Human Resources Communication of the Group’s Corporate Vision and Values to its human resources is achieved and disseminated through the creation of a framework of corporate culture which perception of strategic goals, two-way communication, a sense of trust in Management and dissemination of knowledge and information. Piraeus Bank Group recognizes the vital importance of communication with human resources and the effect it has on the relations, views, behaviours, stance of its people, and on the philosophy of the organization itself. With consistency and sincerity in everyday corporate communication, the sense of security is developed and strengthened, good faith, integrity and cooperation are achieved, faster and more effective diffusion of knowledge and transfer of information are accomplished at all levels, with the aim of contributing to the development of new products and services, the servicing of customers and the cooperation with society stakeholders. By utilising different channels of communication, employees are informed, participate, utilise, shape and improve their business and individual thinking and action to the benefit of a common course and corporate identity. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 125 Investing in the Emergence of Synergies and the Communication through the Role of HR Business Partner The modern competitive environment and the challenges it entails demand that Human Resources operate as a conveyor of change, promoting the contribution of the human factor as a primary means of achieving the sustainability of the Group. By establishing the role of HR Business Partner and reinforcing effective internal communication of the goals and the strategic direction of the Organization, the Bank aims at the active participation and the strengthening of the devotion of its people in its plans through their motivation, development and empowerment. HR Business Partner is called upon to act as the link, comprehending the particularities of the business environment, the needs of the internal customers and of the dynamic of the people of the Group and to communicate the vision of Management, thus contributing to the alignment of the organisational culture and ensuring that all work towards the same direction and share the same values and goals. By establishing a relationship of trust, this role becomes crucial as it enhances open and two-way communication in all directions and utilises the synergies with the Units of the Bank and the specialised sectors of the Human Resources, thus adding value to employees and the Group. Shaping the New Corporate Culture With the aim of communicating the new values of the Group in 2018, the stage of data collection and analysis was completed in 2017 by implementing the following actions: 1. Distribution of questionnaire to 435 Senior 3. Distribution of questionnaire to all employees of the Management Executives. Bank and subsidiaries in Greece. 2. In-depth interviews with Members of the Executive 4. Workshop with Members of the Executive Committee of Committee of the Bank. the Bank. Questionnaires Responded Did not Respond Total Period of Completion Pulse Check 7,427 6,634 14,061 29/11 – 4/12/2017 To Senior Management 349 86 435 17/11 – 21/11/2017 Design and implementation of Employee Engagement Survey From the 3d-24th April 2017, an Employee Engagement Survey was conducted in the Bank and the Greek Subsidiaries. The survey was conducted in collaboration with the internationally renowned Korn Ferry Hay Group, thus ensuring the Group’s commitment to the confidential management of responses. The goal of the survey was to assess the level of commitment and empowerment of all employees and the degree of impact of these on further enhancement of the Group’s workplace environment. The survey was completed by 81% of employees (10,833 people), of which 44% were men and 56% women. The rate of Employee Engagement reached 72% with the Support Environment at 68%. The results highlight the following strengths: 126 Sustainable Development Report 2017 1. the provision of a clear direction in the corporate goals; provision of high-quality products and services with focus 2. the positive image and reputation of the Group; on customer service; and 3. the Group’s orientation towards innovation and the 4. corporate social responsibility. Presentation of the Employee Engagement Survey Results Following the analysis and presentation of the results to Top Management, 64 presentations were organized for Heads of the Bank’s Units. In October 2017: a) 2 focus groups were realized with the participation of 45 middle management executives, where improvement actions were discussed and proposed for specific areas identified by the survey, b) 1 Status update meeting was held with the participation of approximately 70 senior management executives, where the best practices for communicating the results and the designed action plan were presented. For further analysis of the results, the design and the monitoring of the action plans, 170 heads of units were given electronic access (reportal tool) to the results of their area of responsibility through the reportal tool. With a focus on selected areas identified by the 2017 Employee Engagement Survey and on the action plans of the individual units, in 2018 smaller scale surveys have been planned with the aim of examining the views of employees and of measuring the effectiveness of the implemented actions. Ensuring human rights with equal opportunities and integration of diversity Commitment to Securing Human Rights Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact for defending human rights and implements the principle of equal opportunities to all its actions, while respect of human rights governs all its policies procedures and practices of human resource management in the Group, thus ensuring a working environment that accepts and integrates diversity. 100% of human resources of the Bank have access to the Human Rights Policy and the Group's Complaint Management Process, which are uploaded on the Intranet and the HR Portal. At the same time, in order to ensure training of all employees in the framework of human rights practices in the Organization, the e-learning titled Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Diversity in the Work Place was assigned to all Human Resources of the Bank. At the end of 2017, 88% of the Bank's employees had received training in the principles governing human rights. In 2018, 1,141 employees have received the e-learning lesson, covering 9% of Bank employees utilizing in total 13,644 man-hours of training. At the same time, the lesson was assigned to Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad. In the training, reference is made to collective representation, equal opportunities, to ensuring a healthy working environment that promotes respect and communication and opposes any form of unprofessional behavior. Finally, there are distinct references made to the responsibility of organizations to matters of the environment and prevention of corruption, as well as on the principle of confidentiality and privacy. In 2017, there were 11 incidents of human rights violations in the Group, none of which concerned a case of discrimination based on gender, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation; all incidents were dealt with and resolved in accordance with the established procedure for complaint management. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 127 In addition, the Bank supported working mothers in their new role, as 100% of the new mothers who requested cumulative leave, utilised it immediately after their maternity leave. More specifically, 14% made use of up to 3 months of cumulative leave, 18% utilised leave of 6 months and 68% of cumulative leave for a period of more than 6 months. Volunteer Actions AND Awareness Campaigns With a clear direction towards its vision and values, the Group systematically seeks sustainable growth with emphasis on Society, Culture and the Environment. In this context, in 2017, there were 126 volunteer actions with the participation of employees and their families, for which information is presented analytically in the section Harmonious Relationship with Society . 133 Harmonious Relationship with Society In the framework of its corporate responsibility, Piraeus Bank Group has incorporated, voluntarily and with the sole motive of solidarity, social and environmental actions in its business activities and its contacts with stakeholders. It constantly adapts the economic, social and environmental aspects of its operation to the balanced management of economic growth –sustainability– social cohesion . In this context, it contributes each year to programs that aim at the strengthening of vulnerable social groups, at the protection of the natural environment, while of particular importance is the contribution of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) in the preservation and promotion of the cultural heritage of the country. The Group has established Key Performance Indicators, which monitors regularly, and focuses on its strategic plan, with the key target of maximizing its value is order to contribute to economic and social development through its actions. The direct economic value created and distributed in 2017 as well as the amounts spent on Corporate Responsibility actions are indicated in the table below. 134 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Group Economic Value by GRI 201-1 Standard Direct Economic Net Income €2,216 mn Value Generated of which payments to Funding Bodies €131 mn Economic Value Distributed Staff Costs €563 mn of which Expenses for Volunteerism, Summer Camp, Support Actions, Health Insurance (other than social security) €10 mn Other Operating Expenses €603 mn of which Loans & Donations according to Law 4374/2016 €5 mn of which PIOP Museum Operation Expenses €1 mn Non-Distributed Direct Economic Value Created ( ) Economic Value Economic Value Distributed €1,050 mn Note: the Bank, reliant on its business plan and the respective tax design and after taking into account the present tax provisions, re-assessed in the current fiscal year the temporary differences between accounting and tax base of loans and receivables, including impairments and recognized the deferred tax asset, which influenced the fiscal year. For more information, see 2017 Annual Report, note 15. The contribution in actions, programs and initiatives of social, cultural and environmental character corresponds for 2017 to 1.4% of annual Group operating expenses. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE In the context of the systematic integration of the principles of Corporate Responsibility to the Group, a committee has been established, presided over by Ms Sofia Staikou, Chairman of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. Members of the Committee include Senior General Managers and General Managers of the Bank, the Scientific Advisor of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and the Director of the Environmental Unit. SOCIAL ACTIONS In the context of the human-centered philosophy that governs its principles, Piraeus Bank remained loyal in its support of the pillars of Sustainable Development: Greek culture, health, education, environment protection, society and vulnerable social groups. Piraeus Bank Group supported many institutions through volunteerism, synergies with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and through the sponsorships and donations program. In the context of its actions with NGOs, the Group made a significant commitment to ELEPAP-Rehabilitation for The Disabled for the continuation of its work and the provision of services to over 1,000 disabled children. At the same time, in response to the needs of the local communities where the Group has presence through its Branch Network, supported municipalities and institutions with the aim of substantially supporting/upgrading the social and cultural life of these societies. In the field of health, Piraeus Bank covered basic needs for the operation of many Greek hospitals such as Sotiria Athens General Hospital for Chest Diseases, General Hospital of Piraeus Tzaneio , Georgios Gennimatas Thessaloniki General Hospital and General Hospital of Athens Alexandra . Harmonious Relationship with Society 135 In the field of education and training, in addition to the provision technical equipment to more than 200 schools in Athens and other areas, the Group supported with direct donations and through the management bodies of the institutions, several universities around Greece such as University of Macedonia, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the University of Piraeus, and more specifically the Series of Academic Seminars in Financial Science of Banking and Financial Management Department. In 2017, for another year, Piraeus Bank supported the sponsorship of the savings program for students of Lipsi and Arki islands, through which every child receives upon entering adulthood a sum of money to help them at the start of their adult life. Through the Bank’s sponsorship and donation program, in addition to the support provided to the work of PIOP and its thematic Museums, Piraeus Bank supports associations and organisations with an undeniable contribution to culture such as the Diazoma citizen’s movement for the promotion of ancient monuments and theatres and the non-profit organisation Plegma cultural activities. Piraeus Bank Group also provided significant support to environmental organizations which protect the environment as a collective-public good and fight to minimize the impact of human intervention. Such organizations are the Environmental Organization for the Wildlife and Nature, Callisto and the Hellenic Society Organization for the Study and Protection of the Mediterranean Monk Seal Mom . In conclusion, in the context of actions that promote entrepreneurship, the Group supported the organising of important conferences in Greece, which attract the interest of Greek entrepreneurship, such as the annual The Greek Economy Conference of the American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce as well as institutes, professional bodies and business associations which organize seminars, forums and conferences, such as Capital Link and the Entrepreneurship Club. DECLARATION OF VOLUNTEERISM The message that defines volunteerism at Piraeus Bank Group is: I care, I participate, I voluntarily act in initiatives that make a difference in Society, Culture and the Environment . Through dialogue with partners and access to open information regarding the volunteer actions, the volunteers choose to contribute to meaningful projects related to specific needs and which significantly affect the lives of fellow citizens. Piraeus Bank has integrated the design and implementation of volunteer actions in the practices of the Human Resources, in cooperation with the Environment Unit and the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). VOLUNTEER ACTIONS With a clear orientation stemming from the Vision and Values of the Group, in 2017, 126 volunteer actions were completed from which 37,268 people as well as 37 bodies were benefited. Especially in 2017, the Group’s «ΕθελωΝΤΕΣ» in Greece in collaboration with the SOS Children’s Villages, the NGO Organisation Earth and the NGO BOROUME Saving Food Saving Lives , offered food and school supplies. The actions were realized with sensitiveness and based on the key pillar of volunteerism, which is to offer to society in order to reduce poverty, eliminate hunger and promote quality education. 136 Sustainable Development Report 2017 We Collected 13.3 Tonnes of Vegetables and other Food Supplies 350 Cases of School Supplies We Cooked and Offered 3,244 Portions of Food We Supported a Total of 34,176 People 10 Bodies SUPPORTING THE NEW GENERATION AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG ENTREPRENEURSHIP With clear orientation towards maintaining a high level of knowledge in society, towards providing quality education and having a healthy collaboration with educational bodies and associations, by means of the voluntary participation of executives in programs of young entrepreneurship, the Group seeks to help the young (students and graduates) understand the meaning of entrepreneurship and innovation guiding them to correct practices of using business, mortgage and consumer credit. At the same time, executives of the Bank acted as mentors to pass on their professional experience to young people who are looking for a job. 1. We collaborated with 3 partners: • Virtual Business • Junior Achievement • My business • Future Leaders • Future Leaders • Job Pairs • Job Pairs 2. We supported the following Projects: 3. We undertook 36 actions • Banks in action 4. 525 beneficiaries, students and graduates SOCIAL AND CULTURAL ACTIONS OF PIRAEUS BANK GROUP INTERNATIONAL NETWORK Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility and abides by the principles of Sustainable Growth in its international network as well, with initiatives and actions that strengthen society and culture. BULGARIA 1. Sponsorship of the Blagodotel (benefactor) campaign institutions to familiarize students with basic banking in collaboration with Unicef. Since 2011, the Bank offers terms and activities. a special series of co-branded cards, the use of which 4. Participation in the annual exhibition Career Days contributes to the gathering of an amount of money which with the gathering of CVs and provision of professional is later reinforced by the Bank, supporting in this way the career opportunities to Bulgarian university graduates. work of Unicef for children with special social needs. 5. Sponsorships of cultural character aiming at the 2. Donations and grants to humanitarian institutions preservation of social bonds and traditions and the and social offer actions for the support of low income rescue of national, historical and cultural heritage. pensioners, children with health problems, with no Piraeus Bank Bulgaria is a sponsor of the action families, premature births, etc. Wonders of Bulgaria organised by Standart News 3. Participation in the European Money Week organized Bulgaria. by the European Banking Federation in March 2017. 6. Sponsorships of visual art exhibitions of the Association Bank representatives gave lectures at various tertiary of Bulgarian Artists. Harmonious Relationship with Society 137 ALBANIA 1. Blood donation for the 9th consecutive year in 4. Sponsorships of cultural character aiming at the cooperation with the Albanian Red Cross. preservation of social bonds and traditions and the 2. Gathering goods voluntarily (food, clothes, toys, rescue of national, historical and cultural heritage. furniture etc), organising recreational actions and 5. Sponsorship of the business exhibition to stimulate sponsorships to support vulnerable social groups such agriculture, cultivation of land and consumption of as the homeless, orphan children, people suffering local products. The Exhibition was organized by the from incurable diseases or who live under the poverty Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration line, etc. Tirana Bank has steady co-operations to with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer support the humanitarian initiatives of Municipalities Protection of Albania. and communities, with the Albanian Red Cross, the 6. Promotion of sports ideals and fair play through the SOS Children’s Villages, the Down Syndrome Albania undertaking of sports sponsorships in cooperation Foundation, Pediatric Clinic, etc. with the Albanian Badminton Federation, the Youth 3. Financial support for restoration of the historic Education Division of Korytsa, which organized the Seferis building in Korytsa, the exterior refurbishment Volleyball and Basketball Championship. of a school in the Bunavi region and for the office 7. Sponsorship of the exhibition ''Financial Education equipment at the Medical Center in the Shijak region, through Art , organized by Money Week in cooperation the Public Health Division in Elbasan and the Saranda the Albanian Association of Banks. Young artists aged 9 Branch of the University of Tirana. worked with the painter Kosta Zhongo and created works of art with the concepts of finance. ROMANIA 1. Participation in the charity initiative of Princess (www.curajromania.ro and facebook page). The Margareta of Romania and of the Special Fund for site started in 2012 from a simple idea: to support Children with donation of funds and school equipment Romanian athletes participating in the Olympic Games. so that the children can have access to education and After the London experience and the spread of the don’t abandon school due to financial difficulties. Olympic Ideals, and of values like national unity and 2. Voluntary financial support and organizing of collective effort, the great effort for a medal inspired recreational events for the support of children from Piraeus Bank Romania to focus on the content of its vulnerable social groups. website on everyday success stories, on people with 3. Encouragement to follow best practices through the courage, ambition and social sensitivity who dare, website Curaj Romania of Piraeus Bank Romania create and inspire the society with their work. SERBIA 1. Collection and offering of gifts to youths and children distinctions in mathematics, physics and informatics in the Pozarevac, Sabac, Cacak, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad and represent Serbia in the International Science and Valjevo regions. Olympiad. 2. Donation of the Bank and fundraising for the charity 4. Spreading the sports ideals and fair play through organisation BELhospice and the initiative that participation in local sports activities and marathon runs supports the creation of the first centre that helps and for the funding of the Children’s Basketball Academy and comforts last stage cancer patients. undertaking of sports sponsorships in cooperation with 3. Support of education through the sponsorship of the National Basketball Team (KSS), the Belgrade Hockey the 5th Competition of the Mathematical Grammar Club and the Basketball Club Mega Bemax . School in Belgrade. The students of the school receive UKRAINE 1. Participation in the 25th Charity Race Run for 2. Donation of books, goods and one PC to the Cheburashka Chestnut Tree House , which aims to collect funds for orphanage as part of the broader social program Library the acquisition of equipment and goods for the Center of Dreams . Piraeus Bank Ukraine donated books and for Pedriatic Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery of the colleagues visited the orphanage, where they spent the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. day playing, studying and giving gifts to the children. 138 Sustainable Development Report 2017 FRANKFURT BRANCH 1. Support and encouragement of business actions 2. Sponsorships of events that promote Greek Culture and synergies between Greece and Germany by and Art. participating to Greek-German Business Forums, trade exhibitions etc. LONDON BRANCH 1. Sponsorship of the Hellenic Bankers Association UK. professionals of Hellenic origin based in the United The HBA_UK holds a key role in the dialogue for the Kingdom. promotion of the interests of bankers and financial 143 Promotion of Culture Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) supports the preservation and promotion of the country's cultural heritage, with emphasis on traditional technology and industrial technology, while also promoting the connection between culture and the environment. Operational Framework and Basic Statutory Goals PIOP is a public benefit institution, funded for its operation by Piraeus Bank. It designs and implements projects and programs related to culture and the environment, while at the same time, through its actions, it fulfills a significant part of the commitments of the Bank regarding Sustainable Growth practices. The Foundation aims at the functional interconnection and the balanced promotion of culture and the environment through the action plan of its Museums in the regions of Greece. In this way, PIOP, and by extension the Bank, contribute significantly and effectively to the cultural affairs in Greece. The Basic Statutory Goals of PIOP are: 1. Provision of well founded information to society history and the contribution to the research on regarding the need to protect and preserve the traditional traditional technology and industrial archaeology. cultural character of Greece and the natural environment, 5. The contribution to the cultural and economic in parallel with its economic growth as well as regarding development of the country through research, the application of proper standards to achieve them. promotion and utilization of its cultural reserve. 2. The safeguarding, recording and promotion of the 6. The protection and management of the natural, urban tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the country. and cultural environment. 3. The recording of the history of the Group through the 7. The preservation and promotion of the landscape in preservation and organization of its archives. the context of the principles of sustainable growth and 4. The safeguarding of traditional and industrial the diffusion of environmental and social awareness to technologies of the country, the recording of their citizens and relevant institutions. 144 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Achievement of the Statutory Goals of PIOP is promoted through: 1. The creation and management of an extensive network 2. The realization of research programs and the serving of of thematic technological museums in the regions the research needs of the scientific community. of Greece. These museums do not belong to the 3. The preservation of a Historical Archive connected Foundation or the Bank but to the Local Authorities to the economic, banking, industrial and agricultural or the Greek State. The Foundation, on the basis of history of Greece and its promotion to special groups program contracts, takes over the responsibility of their and the general public. exemplary operation, their total expenses, as well as 4. The publication of scientific works. the maintenance of their buildings and collections. The 5. The organising of cultural actions. responsibility for these obligations may return to their 6. The reinforcement of rescue actions. owners, upon their will, after a specific time period. 7. The involvement of PIOP in the public dialogue for the shaping of strategies in the field of culture. PIOP’s Communication Strategy The communication strategy of the Foundation regarding the diffusion of informational material for its actions is defined by its organic relation with the financial institution that funds it, the legal status under which it operates, its distinctive theme and its statutory goals. In this framework, communication with the wider public regarding the results of the Foundation's work and of its importance can be accomplished with any available means: lectures, seminars, conferences, exhibitions, films, periodicals and book publications, organisation and rescue of archives and use of all modern communication mediums or any other activities that serve the objectives of the Foundation. The upgrade and operation of the Foundation's website www.piop.gr, is constant. The website operates with contemporary technical capabilities and with a format comparable to that of the largest foundations and museums worldwide. In this context, PIOP has completed the planning and has began the implementation of a strategic plan for the creation and support of local communities on social networking sites in relation to the Museums of its Network, the Historical Archive as well as educational programs and other PIOP actions. It also continues to promote the historical reserve of its Historical Archive, organising academic courses (on museology and cultural management), thematic tours, seminars and conferences. In the context of the promotion of the Foundation to the general public, in 2017, PIOP renewed its cooperation with OTE TV for the broadcasting of PIOP’s documentaries, as well as of films from the Historical Archive. The Foundation publishes a bimonthly action plan on its site (www.piop.gr). PIOP upheld for yet another year the high standards regarding its operation and the services it provides to the Greek society despite the objective difficulties of the current economic circumstances. There was a significant increase of the actions of the Foundation in the regions of Greece, in Athens and Thessaloniki, while at the same time, PIOP enhanced the operation of the Museum Network in the regions of Greece. 148 Sustainable Development Report 2017 ScientiFIc and Experiential Actions The organising of scientific and experiential actions, with emphasis on the production of new and the promotion or popularising of previous research findings, is of great importance and is undertaken in a manner that allows the local communities to utilise the cultural reserve they possess, in the direction of self-knowledge and of their cultural and economic growth. PIOP measures and analyses the effect of its actions on the public through: 1. The systematic collection of data/visits related to the 7. The monitoring of the recipients' response to the museums of its network. electronic newsletter piopnews . 2. The keeping of visitor books at the museums of the 8. The consistent press clipping and archive keeping of Network. articles aimed at understanding the effect of PIOP’s 3. The systematic recording of requests, comments and actions. In 2017, PIOP actions received media coverage complaints, through the process of the PIOP Quality through 2,179 articles (58% more than in 2016). Management System. 9. The use of the questionnaire Your Voice Matters 4. The response to written requests and constant and the annual qualitative and quantitative analysis communication with all interested parties. of the findings of relevant satisfaction survey of 5. The organising of visitor satisfaction surveys for its the beneficiaries of the Historical Archive actions. museums. The results of the quantitative analysis of 803 The results of the quantitative analysis of 2,190 questionnaires in 2017 indicated a 97.51% satisfaction questionnaires indicates that: rate (3% increase in the satisfaction rate). • 94.3% of PIOP Museum visitors assessed their overall 10. The operation of a special platform to monitor research experience as excellent or very good. requests made to the Historical Archive. Indicatively, • 80.1% of visitors are very likely or likely to recommend the requests were related to the Greek economic the Museum to friends and relatives. reconstruction –Central Loan Committee (CLC), • 62.1% of visitors stated that their choice to visit the Economic Development Financing Organization (EDFO), region was very much or significantly influenced by Agricultural Bank of Greece (AGB) Archives– to Greek the presence of the Museum. tourism development, the issue of the Agricultural Bank • 79.4% of visitors stated that they consider very or of Greece cooperatives, with a geographical focus on quite important that a financial institution operates a Crete, Magnisia and Rhodes. Cultural Foundation and through it a Museum Network. 11. The design and deployment of research projects 6. The quantitative and qualitative analysis of its website to assess the social and economic impacts of PIOP visitors. Museums' Network. New Planning Period 2017 was the fourth year of the implementation and execution of the four-year plan of the thematic reorientation, development and activation of PIOP, which began in 2013. The implementation was realised based on the capitalisation of PIOP’s experience and expertise, gained during the previous years of operation, and the accumulated experience since the first year of the implementation of the program. By integrating the dynamic that has been developed – mainly through: a) the new NSRF 2014-2020, b) the Creative Europe program of the European Commission, c) the Horizon 2020 program, d) the INTERREG 2014-2020 and Balkan-Med 2014-2020 programs and e) the UNESCO Action Plan and by including the environment in its statutory goals, PIOP closely monitors the prospects that arise in the fields of culture and environment, in Greece and internationally. In this way, the operational interconnection and the promotion of the fields of culture and the environment are being designed, through the action plan of PIOP Museums and through new thematic priorities such as Cultural Landscapes and Historic Centres , thus intensifying the already close cooperation with the Environment Unit of Piraeus Bank and other institutions in Greece. In addition, 2013 marked the beginning of the effort to reorganize PIOP's Historical Archive, in line with international good practices and increase its extroversion. Promotion of Culture 149 European Programs 1. Implementation of the 3-year Pluggable Social industrial/craftsmanship technology traditions, utilizing Platform for Heritage Awareness and Participation interactive gaming applications. The proposal has (Pluggy) research program, in the context of the been approved, with Foundation funding amounting Call H2020-SC6-CULT-COOP-8-2016 Virtual €127,800. museums and social platform on Europe and digital 4. e-Tracer : PIOP participated in this proposal in heritage, memory, identity and cultural interaction cooperation with the Information Technologies of the European funding program Horizon 2020, in Institute (ITI) of the Centre of Research and Technology cooperation with the Institute of Communication and Hellas (CERTH) (an NGO uder the auspices of the Greek Computer Systems (ICCS) of the National Technical Secretariat of Research and Technology) with its head University of Athens, the Imperial College London, the office located in Thessaloniki and with the companies University of Malaga and five more European academic TETRAGON and EGNATIA ODOS S.A. The aim of the and scientific institutions. The program secures the proposal is to design and develop a system which funding of a research project which aims to create a utilizes innovative technologies for the spatiotemporal virtual museum that will extend beyond the limits of the connection of multiple locations and events of traditional museum. environmental, cultural and tourist interest, thus 2. CULDILE : PIOP participated in this proposal through enabling users to schedule and experience integrated its Historical Archive in cooperation with the National touristic routes and tours as they travel along Egnatia Center for Scientific Research Demokritos (NCSR Motorway. The proposal has been approved, with Demokritos ) and the IT companies DOTSOFT and Foundation funding amounting €70,000. HONEST Partners. The aim of the proposal is to develop 5. PIOP will be participating as an Associated Partner in an integrated software system for enhanced image the RURITAGE – Rural regeneration through systemic capturing and understanding of cultural documents. heritage-led strategies project of the EU Horizon The proposal has been approved, with Foundation 2020SC5-21-2016-2017: Cultural heritage as a driver funding amounting €85,000. for sustainable growth program. The RURITAGE 3. Museum Sites : PIOP participated in this proposal project aims towards the creation of a new paradigm in cooperation with the Department of Product and of rural regeneration, that will be able to transform Systems Design Engineering of the University of the agricultural areas into showcasing labs of sustainable Aegean and the IT companies Geospatial Enabling development, through the enhancement of the cultural Technologies (GET) and Dotsoft. The aim of the and physical heritage dynamics. 30 Southern European proposal is to connect the three thematic PIOP agencies are participating in the project, which is Museums in the Aegean with the architectural heritage expected to commence in mid-2018. of their settlements and to promote their intangible Culture, Environment and Corporate Responsibility Principles In the framework of harmonising its operation and procedures with the environmental ethics of Piraeus Bank, PIOP has already completed the certification of its buildings according to EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) and ISO 14001. In 2017, in the context of the approved environmental programs of the Foundation, the implementation of a series of energy studies and targeted interventions was promoted regarding building and electromechanical equipment of PIOP’s Museums and its buildings in Athens, aimed at improving their energy efficiency and by extension, reducing the environmental footprint of the Group. The 4th Environmental Statement of the Foundation was verified, according to the requirements of EMAS Regulation, by the Cyprus Certification Company, with environmental verifier registration number EMAS ELV-0009 (Accreditation Certificate Number 549) on 11.09.2017. The Foundation, according to 50486/1466/27.10.2014 Ministerial Decree, had already been registered to the Greek EMAS Register with the registration number EL-000110. Additionally, PIOP’s Environmental and Energy Management System has received the following certificates by the Cyprus Certification Company [Reg. no. EMAS ELV-0009 (Accreditation Certificate Number 549)]: 1. CYS EN ISO 14001:2015, No. ES.N.14.007 3. IQNet CY. ES.N.14.007 2. CYS EN ISO 50001:2011, No. EMS.17.001 150 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Further integration of the Sustainable Development principles of Piraeus Bank Group in the operation of PIOP was pursued with consistency, again in 2017. More specifically the following were realised: 1. Continuous monitoring of environmental performance thematic priorities: the publications, the library and the indices, in the context of PIOP’s Environmental Historical Archive. Management System. 3. Design of Sustainable Management System for PIOP 2. Update of the certification of PIOP according to events with certification EN ISO 20121:2012. EN ISO 9001:2015 to cover all fields of activity of 4. Training of employees (more than 1,015 hours of PIOP, update of the regulation and extension of the training for all 99 employees of the Foundation). managerial adequacy of the Foundation to cover new The ever increasing participation of the employees of the Foundation in the adoption of the Sustainable Development practices of the Group is achieved through their constant updating for the developments regarding all relevant actions and public accountability. In addition: 1. The voluntary contribution of 60 employees of the 2. 2 employees volunteered for 144 hours to contribute Group was mobilised in the context of the existing to the work of the Aegean Team towards the Aegean Volunteer Group of the Historical Archive of PIOP communities. (Athens and Northern Greece) with a 6-hour program. Promotion of the Intangible Cultural Heritage The safeguarding, promotion and study of the intangible cultural heritage of Greece are basic thematic axes of the Foundation. In this context, the Foundation has supported scientifically and contributed decisively to the first two inscriptions of intangible cultural heritage elements of the country to the UNESCO’s Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. These are: a) the know-how of mastic cultivation in Chios, which was the first national nomination listed, from the Intergovernmental Committee of the UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, in its annual conference (Paris, 24-28 November 2014) and b) the Tinian Marble Craftmanship, which was listed after the General Conference of the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage, in its 10th Annual Session (Namibia, 30 November – 4 December 2015). These two elements of intangible cultural heritage of Greece are presented in two Museums of PIOP’s Network; the Museum of Chios Mastic in Chios, and the Museum of Marble Crafts in Tinos. In this way, PIOP contributes meaningfully to the promotion of intangible cultural heritage as well as to the support of the regions that host the Museums of its Network. For this reason, in recognition of its contribution to the promotion of intangible cultural heritage of the country and for the advancement of the country’s cultural capital, PIOP received accreditation from the General Assembly of State Parties of UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage in order to operate as advisor and consultant towards the Intergovernmental Committee of the Convention. In the same framework, a research program was implemented to record the local dialect of Ioannina. The research program was included in the efforts to connect the Museum of Silversmithing at Ioannina with the local community with the aim of promoting the region’s intangible cultural heritage. In the context of the program, the linguistic and historical recording of the Ioannina dialect as well as oral interviews of local inhabitants were undertaken. At the same time, 23 specialized actions were held at the Foundation’s Museums with the aim of promoting intangible cultural heritage. Promotion of Culture 151 Culture and Entrepreneurship In the context of the alignment of PIOP with the new orientation axis of the European Union regarding the interconnection of culture with entrepreneurship, through Cultural Industries, the Foundation realised the following actions during 2016: 1. Participation in the Corallia Network and specifically in 3. Cooperation between PIOP and the non-profit gi-Cluster, the first cluster of creative industries formed organization Aelia – Working Life Lab for the in Greece. Several companies, academic and research realization of the Create Professionally action aimed institutions active in the field of Gaming and Creative at providing career empowerment to professionals Technologies and Applications Industry join forces in the in the Cultural & Creative Industries in the cities of Network to create a domestic, industry-led value-chain Ioannina, Chios and Volos. The program was based on developing high-tech, state-of-the-art competitive parallel support on four levels: training, awarenessproducts for the international market . Corallia Clusters activation, advisory and networking and included Initiative is a Unit of the Athena Research and Innovation the provision and development of knowledge tools, Centre in Information, Communication and Knowledge information, skills development and network/ Technologies that operates under the auspices of the community creation. In particular, the program: General Secretariat of Research and Technology of the • Focused on two missions of two-three days in each city, Ministry of Education, Research and Religion. in order to conduct individual Counseling Discussions 2. Organizing of the 6th cycle of the Business Accelerator, and implement the Educational Program which in cooperation with the INNOVATHENS Hub of Innovation consisted of four Educational Workshops of three hours & Entrepreneurship of Technopolis (Municipality of each, as well as additional educational actions. Athens) and of a parallel series of informative and • Was decisively completed throughout the program’s networking events, for the second time in Greece under duration with personalized support through remote the theme of Creative and Cultural Industries . The consultation and networking contacts. 6th cycle is a 3-month program of enhancing business • Was completed with the formation of an active activity in the fields of creative and cultural industries community of beneficiaries aiming towards the through an accelerated course providing free of charge dissemination and exchange of knowledge, experience advice. Following the evaluation of 26 applications, 16 and possible collaborations. were included in the program. The selection criteria • The training Workshops were completed with special were: actions directed at agencies or professionals active in • the innovative nature of the idea combined with its promoting culture and at tourism professionals and feasibility; organized in cooperation with Municipalities, local • the relation of the candidates with the object of their agencies and the program's partners at each location. proposal; • The training stage was completed with 81 and 44 • the complementarity and maturity of the team, beneficiaries having attended the training workshops • the level of maturity and competitiveness in the and special actions respectively at the three cities, targeted market; and while the Consultative and Networking stages were • the feasibility estimate of the project and of raising completed with the networking community numbering funds. 51 active members. MUSEUMS' Network PIOP ensures the sustainability and European-standard operation of a Museums' Network in the regions of Greece. The coordinated actions of the Foundation are constantly enriched by the new knowledge and the developments in the cultural centres in Greece and Europe. The operation of the Museums' Network and the coordinated actions of PIOP in all its buildings contribute significantly to: a) the promotion of Greek cultural heritage and the interconnection of culture with the environment and sustainable growth, b) the promotion of the traditional crafts and the intangible cultural heritage of Greece, supporting employment, economic and tourist activity and the general development of local communities, and c) the creation of areas of culture and life-long learning by organising cultural, scientific and educational actions. The Museums' Network serves PIOP’s fundamental objective for the safeguarding and promotion of the country's productive history, with emphasis on traditional technology and industrial heritage. 152 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Network consists of nine thematic technological museums where the local crafts and industrial traditions are preserved and promoted, along with the tangible and intangible cultural heritage: 1. Silk Museum (Soufli); 6. Museum of Marble Crafts (Pyrgos, Tinos); 2. Open-Air Water Power Museum (Dimitsana); 7. Environment Museum (Stymphalia); 3. Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil (Sparta); 8. Chios Mastic Museum (Pyrgi, Chios); and 4. Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production of Lesvos 9. Silversmithing Museum (Ioannina). (Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos); 5. Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas (Volos); PIOP ensures the sustainability and smooth operation of the Museums of the Network covering the sum of their operating expenses and ensuring proper management based on a centralised management system. At the same time, the Museums have dedicated monitoring committees, with the participation of local partners and representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. The smooth operation of the Museums includes dealing with all routine and unexpected management issues: maintenance and/or expansion works, event support, management and enrichment of Museum Shops and cafes and the further enrichment of the collections (database management, maintenance-storage, support, digital applications etc). With the operation of the Museums' Network, besides the increase of tourism in remote or island regions, PIOP also contributes to the economic development of local communities by creating jobs, while at the same time, procures from the local market the greater part of the goods and products sold in the cafes and Museum shops. The personnel of the Museums (41 people) resides in the area of each Museum’s operation and is periodically trained, thus the services offered to visitors are upgraded constantly (reception of people with vision problems, assisting visitors with the use of audio tour guides, emergency evacuation procedures etc). Visits to the Museums' Network reached 314,844 in 2017 (270,771 Greek and 44,073 foreign visitors). 74% of these visits was free of charge. It is noted that despite the economic crisis (and the consequent crisis in culture), PIOP’s Museums had a 43.2% increase in the number of visitors, compared to 2016. Taking into account that the two new PIOP Museums only operated during the second half of 2016, it is noteworthy that the increase in the number of visitors to the previously existing seven Museums was 18.3%. The number of visitors is connected to the support of the local communities, which recognize the benefits of the promotion of their cultural identity and the enhancement of the local economy, as well as to the constant renewal of the cultural actions through periodic exhibitions, lectures, conferences and several other events. All the Museums of the Foundation have Multipurpose Halls that constitute vibrant cultural cells, hosting educational programs, exhibitions, lectures, seminars and other events. The Halls are a valuable asset for the operation of the Museums' Network, for the interconnection with the local communities and for the broader promotion of the Foundation. The events that take place in these Halls are organised and coordinated primarily by the Foundation, while depending on the situation, they are offered for the activities of third parties, mainly in the context of servicing the needs of local communities. The organising of high-standard cultural events in the Multipurpose Halls of the Museums' Network aims at their establishment as centres of cultural production in the regions of Greece and as everyday areas for the local communities. The Foundation organises artistic and scientific actions that correspond to the character of each Museum or are presented to all Museums, while it often collaborates with local institutions and/or offers the use of the Halls for the hosting of events, the organising of which is assumed by those institutions. Specifically, in 2017 182 educational actions and programs, 180 cultural actions (14 exhibitions and 166 cultural events) and 133 collaborations with third party institutions were organised, based on the thematic axes of PIOP. Promotion of Culture 153 The social role of the Museums is multifaceted. Apart from their key role in promoting cultural goods, they are called upon to sensitise the public and safeguard the cultural heritage for future generations. In addition, the Museums contribute to the economy of the regions where they are located. The economic impact is not limited to the activities during the construction of the building infrastructures and the jobs related to the personnel of a Museum (direct impact). There are also revenues and employment for the sectors that participate in the supply chain of the Museum with goods and services (indirect impact). In addition, revenues created directly or indirectly are channeled to consumption, thus creating further activity for the economy as a whole (induced impact). Finally, their operation as cultural sites contributes to the upgrade of the image of the wider area and attracts visitors, leading to an increase in tourism and in demand of products and services offered in the specific areas (catalytic impact). In the context of a special research study conducted by PIOP, in cooperation with the Foundation for Economic & Industrial Research (IOBE), regarding the social and economic impact of the Museums of the Foundation on a local level, interesting results were produced that show and quantify their impact on local communities. For each of the Museums belonging to PIOP’s Network, the study examines direct, indirect, induced and catalytic impacts from their operation in terms of economic activity and employment, at a local level and for the country as a whole, with the use of a suitably adapted model of inflows-outflows for the Greek economy. The Museums' Network under PIOP's management, besides of the permanent exhibitions, also accomodates cultural events, contributing further to the improvement of the quality of life of local communities. The extent and importance of the contribution of the Museums to the local societies are best understood taking into consideration the economic characteristics of the areas in which they operate. Specifically, with the exception of the Museums in Ioannina and Volos, most Museums are located outside the urban centres of the country, in municipalities with populations below 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, 8 out of 9 municipalities with PIOP Museums have lower per capita income in relation to the national average and lower number of employed per thousand inhabitants. The contribution of the museums to the economy is connected with their ability to attract visitors. It should be noted that despite the economic crisis (and the consequent crisis in culture), PIOP’s Museums have had a consecutive annual increase in visitor numbers. In 2016 approximately 220,000 people visited the Museums of PIOP, noting an increase of 14.25% in relation to 2015 while in 2017 the number rose by 43.2% versus 2016, exceeding 314,000 visitors. In 2016, PIOP commissioned the Foundation for Economic & Industrial Research (IOBE) to conduct a special research study regarding the social and economic impact of the Museums of the Foundation at a local level. By applying the Leontief inflow-outflow model, specially designed for the financial data, the central, peripheral and local economies and administrative structures, it developed a method of calculating the direct, indirect, induced and catalytic impacts from the Museums’ operation at a local level. The results of the study prove and quantify this contribution in specific sectors: 1. An increase in the revenues from tourism in the conservative estimation of the catalytic impact, the corresponding areas of the country (for 2016, at least total contribution of the Museums to the GDP of Greece €5.5 mn with a conservative estimation of the catalytic transcends €13.4 mn, while in the optimistic estimation impact, and with a more optimistic estimate of the it reaches €23 mn.). catalytic impact, up to €11.3 mn.). 3. Contribution of the Museums to employment (for 2016: 2. Impact of the activities of the Museums to the GDP of the country (for 2016: without taking into consideration based on the conservative estimate of the catalytic the catalytic impact, reaches €4.3 mn, while in terms impact reaches 345 jobs. In the more optimistic of employment it amounts to 103 job positions. In the estimate, the respective contribution reaches 600 jobs.). 154 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Based on the above data and given the rising trend in visitor numbers to PIOP's Network of Museums the aforementioned amounts are expected to show an equivalent rising trend in the coming years. Finally, the Museums also contribute to the economy of the country during their construction. Using the most recent example of the Museum of Silversmithing, the total impact of its construction to the economy of the Municipality of Ioannina reached €7.8 mn in terms of GDP, and €10.6 mn for the whole country. In terms of employment, the construction of the Museum led to the creation of 236 jobs in Ioannina and 284 jobs in all of Greece. Historical Archive During 2017, the premises of the Historical Archive hosted 11 scientific meetings, 38 educational actions, 9 scientific exhibitions, 12 artistic events and 23 film screenings. The Historical Archive operates with the same statutory objectives as those of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation, contributing to the Group’s corporate responsibility on issues of transparency and social influence. The Historical Archive of PIOP houses the archives of important Greek banks, which were absorbed by Piraeus Bank Group in the past, as well as archives of institutions and businesses that were connected with these Banks during their historical course. It holds 7 bank archives, 5 archives of state economic organisations, 55 archives of businesses, 4 private archives and 3 archives of collective bodies. The central question one could address to the sum of the material kept in PIOP’s HA regards the development of Greece during the 20th century, in the economy of the country as a whole and in its individual regions. The aim of the Historical Archive’s operation is the development of an archival institution which operates with the highest organizational and operational standards, constantly accessible and inviting to multiple recipient groups, promoting the value of preserving the collective memory of society by utilizing the archival sources. Aiming to provide the best possible diffusion of public history and to enhance cultural history, the Historical Archive is not addressed only to the research and academic community but to the total of the educational and artistic community, the personnel of Piraeus Bank Group, the local communities and in particular to the wider public, providing integrated services and a multi-faceted range of events over the past four years. The actions held at the Historical Archive constitute it a key research point and aim to constantly place it on the cultural map of Athens. Indicatively, the beneficiaries from the operation of the Historical Archive during 2017 numbered 4,715 people (researchers and general public of various categories, according to the verification systems of reservations for the actions and of user satisfaction of the Archive). The key elements of PIOP's cultural management of the archival cultural reserve it holds are the maintenance of a consistent (regarding its goal-setting and its connection with this reserve) and distinct character among its peers, as well as the wide diffusion of knowledge, the complementarity of stimuli towards its recipients, the accessibility of its background and the implementation of international good practices (Quality ISO, Event Sustainability Management ISO, Disaster Response Plan for spaces holding cultural capital resources, EMAS Certification, civil properties insurance and insurance for cultural material) bringing HA in the forefront at national and European levels. In detail, during 2017, distinct actions were performed in the following sets: Archival Work 1. Inventory of volume: the material surpasses 18,000 linear beginning of HA’s reorganisation. meters, which shows a 4.2% increase compared to the 2. Management of Archives: previous year and an 80% increase compared to the • Autopsy, clearing and receipt of semi-active and Προαγωγή του Πολιτισμού 156 Sustainable Development Report 2017 historical archive: 816.4 linear meters, 325 VHS two equally numbered teams of postgraduate students tapes, 190 audio cassettes, 1,017 books, receipt and mature researchers: the economic reconstruction and recording of loaned Chios Mastiha Growers of the country is a key research point [Central Loan Association material: 650 cases. Committee (CLC), Economic Development Financing • Processing: 192,62 linear meters. Organization (EDFO), Agricultural Bank of Greece • Donations: one folder, 3 archival boxes, 24 books. (AGB) Archives] as is tourism development, while some 3. Organising of the recording of archives/collections interest has been expressed regarding the issue of AGB that was conducted for the composition and issuing of cooperatives, which from a geographical point of view a complete catalogue of collections existing in PIOP’s was focused in Crete, Magnesia and Rhodes. 45 related Historical Archive. research queries were served by phone. 4. Management of artefacts’ collection: 1,584 objects in total. 9. Enrichment of the internal Historical Archives Special 5. Completion of the creation of data series/bodies of Library, which aims to assist user research in the HA information. as well as employees in their work and regards rare 6. New archival descriptions on PIOP’s website (30). books (subtotal of archival collections) and themes that 7. Works for the preservation of paper material: • interventional maintenance (146 documents, 35 coincide with the HA's research themes. This material books, 5 ledgers, 13 photographs, 1 topographic plan, is part of PIOP Library's catalogue. In 2017, 115 books 1 architectural plan); were acquired. • initial rescue measures-fumigation (28 pallets); 10. The Library of Greece in the 20th Century : 100 titles • preventive maintenance; and from contemporary history in the Greek language are • editing work for exhibition material. available to caf ARHEION customers for overview and 8. Users' service: 150 requests: 107 for the historical and reading – an effort by PIOP to cultivate book-reading 43 for the semi-active archive (mainly on behalf of ETVA and by the HA to contribute to public history while also Industrial Parks SA). The external researchers comprise upgrading the caf area to a cultural dining area. Research Work/Knowledge Mining 1. Research into HA user service in the context of PIOP’s postwar years for the agricultural population , The Open Archive policy (and the limitations it creates). development of Greek tourism after the war etc. 2. Design of an Economic/Social History Yearbook 7. Productive history of Northern Greece. publication with emphasis on industrial and agricultural 8. Physical remodeling historical issues related to development in Greece in the 20th Century (temporary banks integrated into Piraeus Bank Group for the title: Development in Greece in the 20th Century). requirements of the relevant scientific article in an 3. Research into the required preparations for theatrical international journal [the European Association for performances (theatre-documentary) to be developed Banking History e.V. (EABH)]. and presented in PIOP’s HA. 9. Compilation and updating of research folders related to 4. Update/completion of the list of research topics studies on productive sectors such as tourism, shipping, covered by PIOP’s HA for the information of the the textile industry, the flour-milling industry or areas academic and research community. and themes such as the history of the environment, the 5. An economic history report which will provide information cooperative agricultural movement and the agricultural about the development of the Greek economy in the 20th industries, for the production of relevant cultural century as well as presenting the role of the most important products and the promotion of relevant co-operations financial institutions (acquired by Piraeus Bank Group) in the with other institutions. Greek economy. 10. Scientific preparation (selection of sub-themes/archival 6. Economic restructuring of post-war Greece with material) and pilot implementation of educational indicative subcategories: Economic restructuring of programs for children in relation to nature and the the Region of Magnesia , Archaeological reserve and work of the HA, aiming at familiarizing them with issues economic restructuring , Health and interventional of collective memory, history and the role of archival state policies in post-war Greece and the first institutions. Events 1. Scientific meetings (11 implemented + 2 under 3. Participation in international celebrations (2). implementation), periodic scientific exhibitions in the 4. Thematic tours of the general public and the Group’s context of scientific actions (9+2). employees, accommodation in the areas of the HA’s 2. Artistic actions (visual art exhibitions-5, theatrical/ building complex and support of PIOP events. musical -7), screenings (23 in total; 17 special and 6 5. Accommodation of events of third parties with use and summer screenings). content prerequisites. 158 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Education 1. Design of educational activities for schools: local history. The suitcase also promotes the principles of • One day in the Archive , for primary and secondary archival studies, historical research and the preservation of schools, aimed at the familiarization of students paper materials, providing the relevant tools and methods with historical sources, collective memory, history, as well as information on career orientation. archival science, conservation and the role of archival 3. Preparation of a History Student Conference on the topic institutions; of Greece in the 20th century in cooperation with Doukas • History from the sources (for junior and senior high School, aiming to be held on an annual basis. The action schools); and is targeted at senior high school students in Athens (10 • Our Archive local history programs. annually) and aims to raise student awareness about 2. Sending of educational package ( suitcase of the archive ) history and historical research. to distant schools, upon their request, with information on Library PIOP's Library includes book collections deriving from the libraries of Greek banks integrated into Piraeus Bank Group. The Library has approximately 59,000 Greek and foreign books and more than 132,000 issues of periodical publications while it is being constantly enriched to serve the needs of the research and the academic communities. The acquisition of material (monographs, periodical publications, educational programs) is achieved through purchases and exchanges with similar institutions (in 2017, 1,437 new titles were acquired and 16 subscriptions of foreign-language scientific journals were maintained). The Library holds titles related to the fields of research and activity of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and of Piraeus Bank Group in a broader sense. These include: industrial archaeology, economic and social history, history of technology, geotechnical and environmental issues, museology, cultural management, anthropology, folklore studies, ethnology, financial, banking and economic issues, agricultural economics and politics. The Library’s reading room offers wifi connection and free access to electronic databases containing scientific findings of completed PIOP research programs: 1. Information regarding technology from Archives and 2. Greek musical instruments (the result of a research Libraries of Venice (the result of a research program program in cooperation with the Department of Music on technology in Greek regions under Venetian rule, in Iconography of the School of Fine Arts of the Aristotle cooperation with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and University of Thessaloniki). Post-Byzantine Studies of Venice). Library users may have access to part of its catalogue electronically, visit its premises and participate in actions it organises (seminars, educational programs, theatrical performances and workshops for children and adults). PIOP’s Library is a lending library for Piraeus Group employees, while the existing cooperation with the Kallithea Public Library has been expanded in order that the latter can lend books to the Group’s employees. PIOP’s Library also features a Children's Section, with a collection of classic and contemporary children’s stories, novels for children and youths by Greek and foreign authors, as well as books of a more general interest and encyclopaedic nature, all of which are available to children aged between four and twelve years old. The Children's Sector also hosts PIOP’s regular Educational Programmes, held by a Library employee (31 programs in 2017). In the context of its activities and its active participation in the area’s cultural events, the Library organizes a variety of actions in cooperation with other institutions. More specifically, in 2017, the following were implemented: 9 narrations of children’s stories, 6 workshops, 19 Book Group meetings with authors-members of the Greek IBBY (International Board on Books for Young People) Circle of the Greek Children’s Book, 2 theatrical performances, 4 actions in neighborhoods of Kallithea and 8 major festive events (International 160 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Children's Book Day, events celebrating the Year of Nikos Kazantzakis , science and technology events, celebrations for the European Heritage Days, Christmas activities). PIOP’s Library participates in the Hellenic Economic Library Network (HELIN). In this context, in 2017, the Second Circle of Lectures on Economics for Libraries (3 lectures) and Educational Visits to Libraries HELIN Members (7 visits) were organized. The children’s book writing and illustration competition for adults was an action of special interest that was completed with the publication of the award winning book into an e-book format and the theatrical presentation of the text by the Bank’s Amateur Theatrical Group (cooperation with the Human Resources – Organisational Learning of the Group). The Library also participated in the award ceremony of the 9th Student Festival by the Municipality of Kallithea in honor of the students who were awarded in visual arts and arts competitions from 25 schools in Kallithea. The total number of beneficiaries of PIOP Library for 2017 (readers, distant users, loans, educational programs, small-scale actions and cooperative actions) exceeds 10,000 people, children and adults. Publications Publications covering a wide range of research fields, such as the history of technology, industrial archaeology, museological studies, cultural landscapes, historical centres, intangible heritage and economic history, constitute a PIOP’s activity with defining importance. At the same time, PIOP’s publications support the character and actions of the thematic technological Museums' Network in particular, while they often stem from the Foundation's completed research programs, or/and from others that are in progress or are being presented to the research and general public. They also include submitted research projects which are aligned with the above themes, with the provision that they are in line with the framework of the Foundation’s statutory goals. The appeal of PIOP’s publications in the scientific world is expressed by their selection as university textbooks, albeit the popularised publications still remain important. During 2017, the following printed works were circulated: 1. Matoula Tolka, The Silk Mansion, Illustration by Eleni 5. Gina Chatzinikolaou, Cycladenia6 , Illustration by Kotsoni (publication series Tales for Children ); Aristeidis Tsinaroglou (publication series Tales for 2. First Sculpture Symposium. Catalogue, 17.7-3.8.2016, Children ). It is an e-book, part of a series of PIOP's Museum of Marble Crafts, Pyrgos, Tinos, project head: Publications which have been developed since 2014 Andreas Lapourtas (publication series Contributions ); in the context of the Foundation’s EMAS programs. 3. Marina Noutsou, Silversmithing Museum. Guide, The tale was awarded the first prize in the children’s scientific editor Yota Ikonomaki-Papadopoulos book writing and illustrating competition for adults (publication series Our Museums ); launched by Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation’s 4. Anna Kallinikidou, Chios Mastic Museum. Guide Library and the Municipal Library of Kallithea in April (publication series Our Museums ), Anna Kallinikidou, 2016 in the framework of the International Children's Hios Sakiz Musesi. Rehber Kitap (publication series Our Book Day. Museums ); and In parallel, the possibility of integrating collective works that constitute basic textbooks of international bibliography in the three new thematic axes of PIOP is constantly assessed. These axes are: Intangible Cultural Heritage, Cultural Landscapes and Historical Centres. 6 It is an e-book, part of a series of the PIOP Publications which have been developed since 2014 in the context of the Foundation’s EMAS programs. Promotion of Culture 161 Research Work The production of research work constitutes the support basis of the threefold action of PIOP: Research, Exhibition, Publication. The work is designed along several scientific disciplines and holds the competitive advantage of the long, totally distinct and specialised experience of the Foundation in matters of specific research themes and the development of relative innovation. The results of the research work are utilised in: 1. The creation of thematic technological museums. 6. The digitisation of scientific findings that contribute to 2. The enrichment of the museums' collections. the furtherance of research. 3. The organizing of exhibitions. 7. The contribution of the Foundation to national-scale 4. The publication of studies, often setting the basis for interventions on behalf of Greece, in cooperation with bibliography. esteemed institutions. 5. The creation of tools for the promotion of local economies. Regarding the themes of the research, emphasis is given on traditional technology, the management of the country’s natural resources, the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the recent past. During 2017, the following were realised: 1. Further utilization of the already accumulated research Fire of 1917. This section of the city is considered the reserve, of the scientific specialisation of the emloyees, main commercial area of the historical center of the and of its networking in the research community for the city. The goal was to record the land use of Section C production of multiple cultural products in the service of of the Fire Zone of Thessaloniki, nowadays defined by schools, research, professional and local communities. Venizelou, Egnatias, Dodekanisson, Fraggon, Katouni 2. Capitalisation of PIOP’s research reserve and Streets and Nikis Avenue (Kountoutrioti), and the promotion of it to the general public for the benefit of transformations of this land use during the Interwar local communities and the wider research community. period. The institutional, spatial and social changes had 3. A framework for the digital strategy of PIOP and a an influence on the development of the city (change specialized digitization plan of the research projects of of sovereignty, World War I, the Great Fire, population the Foundation. exchange, building regulations) and its architecture, that 4. Completion of a research program on the economic acted as the framework for the various types of use that history of Thessaloniki. On the occasion of the were created or restructured and defined anew the area centennial of the Great Thessaloniki Fire of 1917, the in addition to constituting the field of action for older thematic objective of PIOP was to examine the social, and younger architects in the city. The conclusions of productivity and urban planning parameters, and their this axis of the program will be utilized in the related, interconnection, which defined the reconstruction of upcoming PIOP publication. Thessaloniki, with emphasis on its historical center. In 5. Realisation of a research program with the objective of this context, the research program was designed and recording the local dialect of Ioannina. This research implemented on two axes: program is part of the effort to connect the Museum of • The first axis focused on: a) the recording and Silversmithing at Ioannina with the local community with examination of the economic activities in the commercial the aim of promoting the region’s intangible cultural center of Thessaloniki as defined by Katouni, Venizelou, heritage. The local dialect was developed within the Aristotelous, Fraggon and Tsimiski Streets – with walls of Ioannina Castle, from the dialect mixing of the emphasis on the change in business use in the 1950dialect of Ioannina (Gianniotiki) with Judaeo-Greek or 1980 period and b) the overview of the main changes in Yevanic dialects, as well as with the Turkish language. The the same area from the early 20th century to 1950. The program is instrumental in defining the time frame and conclusions of this axis of the program were utilized in the conditions for the development of the dialect while at the related exhibition. the same time analyses the interaction among the various • The second axis focused on the urban reconstruction of ethnic groups in the creation of a linguistic phenomenon the historical center of Thessaloniki in the 20th century as well as recording archival sources and the related and the historical, spatial and architectural analysis bibliography. A significant part of the program is the oral of Section C of the H brard city plan –supervised by interviews as the focal research point is the oral tradition. Ernest H brard, the renowned architect and urban The aim was to locate and record as many testimonies planner himself– following the Great Thessaloniki from families who lived within the Ioannina Castle and 162 Sustainable Development Report 2017 have thus acquired the related phonetics. Additionally, study of the aforementioned parameters for the area; interviews with elderly Ioannina inhabitants were • use of terrestrial and satellite images to map the conducted, who have the ability to more accurately define environmental characteristics of the cultural landscape the Ioannina dialect. of the site for the 1972-2016 period, at the intervals 6. Completion of the research program aiming at required for the recording of the changes of the area, recording and mapping the cultural landscape of the especially in relation to Lake Stymphalia; Lake Stymphalia area for the period of the last 35 • recognition of the pressures; years. The program includes: • cartographic depiction of the condition of the site and • reviewing of the bibliography in Greece and abroad; of the changes noted during the 1972-2016 period and • defining the study parameters (environmental, • integration of the results into a public domain GIS residential, land use, cultural etc); (geographic information systems). • developing the methodology for the comparative SYNERGIES WITH THIRD PARTIES SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY SUPPORT The collaborations with third parties and the provision of scientific advisory support to national and public institutions, local authorities, educational units, Environmental Education Centres (EEC), young scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates upon request help the preparation of cultural actions and goods and reinforce projects related to the themes of PIOP. During 2017, the following were achieved: Signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between PIOP and the China National Silk Museum PIOP and the China National Museum of Silk signed on 18 October 2017 in Hangzhou, China a Memorandum of Cooperation. The Memorandum aims at a broader cooperation between the two institutions for the promotion of silk culture as well as cooperation between the China National Museum of Silk and the Silk Museum in Soufli and the PIOP Museums' Network in general. A series of cultural exchanges and joint exhibitions, as well as research and educational actions are planned in this context. This cooperation is inextricably linked with the Chinese initiative One Belt, One Road which includes actions, initiatives and transnational synergies along the Silk Road. PIOP and the China National Museum of Silk have committed to define more specifically the fields of their cooperation and shape a framework of communication that will also include local communities, such as Soufli, for which silk cultivation is an integral part of its heritage. As 2018 has been designated as the European Year of Cultural Heritage, the aim is to initiate the Memorandum directly with a multitude of actions. In the context of her visit to China, the Chairman of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation, Ms Sophia Staikou, addressed the delegates at the Belt and Road for International Silk Forum, organized by the International Silk Union. Signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between PIOP and Technopolis – City of Athens In the context of consolidating its presence in Athens, PIOP signed in 2017 a Memorandum of Cooperation with Technopolis – City of Athens, whereby a Cooperation Program is to be designed and jointly implemented, with an action plan in the thematic axes of: 1. Creative and cultural industries 3. The city through education/Local history 2. Industrial Heritage 4. Outside the walls 1st Meeting of PIOP Museums' Network – Signing of the Covenant of Mayors On 19-20 May, PIOP organized the 1st Meeting of PIOP Museums' Network, titled Nine Museums, nine sites. Mapping the future in collaboration with the Municipality of Gortynia at the Open-Air Water Power Museum in Dimitsana. The aim of the Meeting was to coordinate joint actions and the exchange of best practices between PIOP and the Municipalities in relation to the cultural development of the regions. On the first day of the Meeting Promotion of Culture 163 (19/5), Mayors and representatives from the Municipalities of the nine regions where the Network museums operate (Soufli, Dimitsana, Sparta, Lesvos, Volos, Tinos, Stymphalia, Chios, Ioannina) as well as PIOP representatives exchanged views and agreed on a document of common principles which defines the priorities and the actions to be implemented by the Local Government and PIOP, in the framework of the Museums' Network. Partnership of PIOP and the Chios Mastiha Growers Association In the context of the long-term cooperation between PIOP and the Chios Mastiha Growers Association (CMGA), which culminated with the realization and operation of the Chios Mastic Museum, the next level of joint actions for the promotion of the Chios mastic heritage was ratified on 30 May, 2017 with the signing of the loan of the CMGA historical archive to PIOP for 29 years, in accordance with the archival practices, with the aim of making it accessible to the research community and the general public at the Museum of Chios Mastic, under the scientific guidance of PIOP's specialized employees. For the CMGA, the preservation and promotion of its historical archive according to appropriate methods of management of archival material, is a top priority. Respectively, PIOP, through its Historical Archive, contributes to the documentation and study of the Greek economic history of the 20th century in the fields of agriculture, industry and banking as well as of parameters of the social history of the period. PIOP’s Historical Archive follows a policy of open archives in its accessibility to researchers, is structured according to international archival international archival standards, has introduced in Greece a series of best practices in the management and promotion of archive reserves and is a member of similar Greek and international associations. The scientific research community can expect a great deal from the preservation and promotion of the historical archive by the exclusive management body of a unique intangible good and in relation to the history of agricultural cooperatives in Greece. Of equal significance is the connection between the history of the CMGA and living history of Chios and the Mastic villages, as this is constantly shaped as an element of its identity and of sustainable intangible heritage. 2nd half-marathon at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia Stymphalia Lake Run 2017 In May, PIOP, in cooperation with the Legal Entity of Public Law of Education, Culture and Sports of the Municipality of Sykiona MIKONI and the Lafka Sports Club Stymphalis , organized the 2nd half-marathon Stymphalia Lake Run 2017 , which took place on Sunday, 28 May at Lake Stymphalia. The starting line was at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia and included three races (5, 10 and 21.5km) around Lake Stymphalia, thus offering participants the chance to become acquainted with the cultural site of the Lake as well as with the Museum. Participants were asked to deposit the participation fee to one of the child care institutions suggested in the application form or to an institution of their choice. Signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation with Magniton Kivotos In the context of its cooperation with prestigious institutions in the regions of the Museums of its Network, PIOP signed in June 2017 a Memorandum of Cooperation with the institution Magniton Kivotos, for the preservation of the cultural reserve , which is based in Volos and is active in the field of the preservation and promotion of the tangible and intangible cultural reserve of Magnisia. The Memorandum defines three axes of cooperation: 1. Promotion and preservation of the distinct elements 2. Familiarization with the Intangible Cultural Heritage of of the historical and cultural identity of Volos and Volos and Magnisia. Magnisia. 3. Culture and the environment. 164 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Theatrical performance Ellin Vrikolax On the occasion of the summer full moons, PIOP presented the theatrical performance Ellin Vrikolax [reloaded] , directed by Konstantinos Dellas, at three Network Museums (the Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina, the Open-Air Water Power Museum of Dimitsana and the Museum of Marble Crafts on Tinos) and at the PIOP Historical Archives offices in Tavros in Athens. The theatrical performance Ellin Vrikolax [reloaded] , in its second version, deals with a mostly unfamiliar chapter of Greek folklore regarding vampires, as it emerged in Greece in modern history. Through the diaries of foreign travelers in the pre-1821 Greek Revolution period, newspaper articles, local myths, oral traditions and literary texts, a metaphysical troupe narrates the passions and the panic of humans when faced with the fear of vampires. Engraving the ODYSEY exhibition in collaboration with the Kazantzakis Museum and Kazantzakis Publications As 2017 has been designated as the Nikos Kazantzakis Year, PIOP in collaboration with the Kazantzakis Museum and Kazantzakis Publications, inaugurated the periodic exhibition of Christos Santamouris Engraving the ODYSEY on Sunday 9th July at the Museum of Marble Crafts on the island of Tinos. The exhibition’s focal point is Christos Santamouris engravings. The source of inspiration of this Tinian artist of international standing is found in the The Odysey , a contemporary saga written as a sequel to Homer’s Odyssey, one of Nikos Kazantzakis’ most imposing works. The exhibition also presents objects from the collections of the Kazantzakis Museum, rare documents that relate to the writing of the Odysey . Among these are the book’s collectible first edition (1938), which constituted a milestone in Modern Greek literature as it was the first Greek book to be published using monotonic spelling (instead of the then prevalent polytonic orthography) as well as Kazantzakis’ personal notebook featuring words and concepts that he used to create the saga. The exhibits are accompanied by audiovisual material on the life and work of Nikos Kazantzakis (1883-1957). When Art Becomes Sacred. Jewish heirlooms from Ioannina periodic exhibition at the Silversmithing Museum PIOP in collaboration with the Jewish Museum of Greece and the Jewish Community of Ioannina co-organized the periodic exhibition When Art Becomes Sacred. Jewish heirlooms from Ioannina at the Silversmithing Museum in Ioannina. It comprised of finely crafted heirlooms of the Romaniote (i.e. Greek-speaking) Jews of Ioannina. The exhibits date from the 17th through to the early 20th century and, among others, bear witness to the fact that for the Jewish people the art of silverwork is closely related to their religious practices, whether they are practiced by the community within the synagogue, or by a family in the confines of its home. Visitors had the opportunity to get a close-up view of objects, both silver and of other materials, related to religious ceremonies. The objects on display came from the collection of the Jewish Museum of Greece, from the Jewish Community of Ioannina and from the private collection of Mr Rapha l Mo ss s. The exhibition When Art Becomes Sacred. Jewish heirlooms from Ioannina is the second part of the exhibition triptych with the general title When art becomes sacred . The first, consisting of fine examples of Epirote ecclesiastical silversmithing, was inaugurated in December 2016 and attracted over 18,000 visitors who came to admire them at the Silversmithing Museum. Two-day Conference at the PIOP Historical Archive, Disaster Management at Cultural Foundations PIOP and the Department of Conservation of Antiquities and Works of Art of the Technological Educational Institute of Athens co-organized the first meeting of institutions and foundations in Greece and abroad on the topic of Disaster Management at Cultural Foundations on Monday 11 and Tuesday 12 September at PIOP's Promotion of Culture 165 Historical Archive offices in Tavros. The meeting was under the auspices of the Hellenic National Commission for UNESCO with the contribution of scientists from the Institute of Geodynamics of the National Observatory of Athens and the Laboratory for Earthquake Engineering of the School of Civil Engineering of the National Technological University of Athens. The aim of the Conference was the presentation of related research conclusions and implemented actions, the development of new collaborations between institutions, the generation of interest in the adoption of protocols from other countries and the challenge of constructive discussions among the participants. The Conference was concluded with the relevant informational and educational seminar at the Department of Conservation of Antiquities and Works of Art of the Technological Educational Institute of Athens. Nikos Kazantzakis, the Eternal World-roamer Tribute in collaboration with the Benaki Museum, Kazantzakis Publications, the Kazantzakis Museum, the Historical Museum of Crete and the National Library of Greece. Subsequent to the exhibition held during the summer at the Museum of Marble Crafts on the island of Tinos Engraving the ODYSEY , and on the occasion of the designation of 2017 as the Nikos Kazantzakis Year by the Ministry of Culture and Sports, PIOP participated in the organizing of a tribute to Nikos Kazantzakis. It is an homage to the great Cretan writer, a modern approach to his life and work, shedding light on known but also unknown aspects, through rich audiovisual and archive material. At the Ghika Gallery, the exhibition ODYSEY was presented, referring to the Odysey , the Kazantzakian epic poem, which is the sequel to the famous Homeric epic, featuring the drawings painted by Nikos Hadjikyriakos-Ghika for the English translation of the work of Nikos Kazantzakis (by the Benaki Museum) and the engravings of Christos Santamouris (by PIOP). Student practice at PIOP Museums In 2017, two students of the Interuniversity Prostgraduate Program in Museology-Cultural Management of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, conducted their student practice at PIOP Museums. Furthermore, PIOP provides scientific support regarding the compilation of archives (archival works-material conservation) and the design of extroverted cultural units/organising of cultural-educational activities, upon request, for institutions, companies, social partners and private individuals (7 cases during 2017 including SEV-Hellenic Federation of Enterprises, the Athens Water Supply and Sewerage Company–EYDAP, the Hellenic Pasteur Institute, the Museum/Archive of the Loulis Mills S.A. Company). In parallel, the Historical Archive: a) contributed to academic studies on graduate and post-graduate level (2 cases, 161 beneficiaries), b) realized life-long education actions (4 cases, 226 beneficiaries), c) accepted education visits from schools and the academic community (6 cases, 146 beneficiaries), d) coordinated the research supervision of three post-graduate projects and e) provided practical training of a 31-month total duration to 7 trainees. Education A basic axis of PIOP’s operation is the realisation of educational actions for life-long learning at the Museums and its premises in Athens. For the fifth consecutive year, the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation provided educational programs to schools in Attica (primary and secondary education). The Educational programs of PIOP are designed inhouse by specialised scientists or archaeologists-museologists with specialisation in Museum education, historians and specialists in information technology, on occasion in cooperation with external partners. These programs which contribute to the enrichment and furtherance of the educational goals and are original and innovative, serve the educational and pedagogical purposes of the Curriculum by adding depth, 166 Sustainable Development Report 2017 broadening the pedagogical goals at all levels, promoting meaningful and scientifically-sound knowledge and suggesting relevant bibliography. The sources used include primary historical sources, archival material, exhibits from the collections of PIOP’s Museums, the relevant bibliography, articles and collections, maps, photographs, topographic and architectural designs, oral testaments and traditions, works of art, literary works, travel texts, songs, films, excerpts from the Press, pages from school books, websites and selected internet sources. Based on this material, specific existing needs are served, while also maintaining an interthematic connection with the school subjects-courses as well as providing the use of additional information sources, through PIOP’s publications and the specially-designed educational folders that accompany some of the programs, which are available free of charge to schools that will utilise them. In the educational programs of PIOP, the recommended methodological techniques for students are adapted accordingly, so that they work in teams, depending on their inclinations and interests, while it is emphasised that the participation of students at all levels of the procedure is experiential-energetic, creative and not passive. The educational programs are offered free of charge and are implemented as educational visits of the students to the head offices of the Foundation, the Historical Archive, the Library and the Museums of the Network. The total number of participants in educational actions, in Athens, Thessaloniki and the Network Museums reached 25,288. However, school groups are not the only target groups of the educational actions of PIOP: 1. With a sense of social awareness towards socially activities for adults, families and seniors at the disadvantaged groups, PIOP welcomes at its head offices, Historical Archive. refugee children attending school. 4. In the context of PIOP’s cooperation with Omada Aigaiou, 2. PIOP maintains regular cooperation with the Second regarding the promotion of culture, historical memory Chance School of Agioi Anargyroi (OKANA). and the local history of the communities of Greek border 3. Life-long learning actions for adults were held for a islands, and in continuation of the The archives of our second year with two creative workshop cycles (the community program for students on Greek islands, an handicraft workshop mahalas and a creative writing educational action was realized on the islands of Fournoi, workshop) as well as individual actions of creative Donousa, Amorgos, Astypalaia, Ios, Koufonisia. Participation in National and International ScientiFIc Institutions – Partnerships Participation in national and international scientific and educational institutions constitutes a basic activity of PIOP with the following goals: 1. The contribution to the shaping of cultural policies 4. The networking of PIOP with international scientific (announcements/lectures/speeches by PIOP executives institutions, associations and European networks with in scientific forums, participation in actions organized the goals of knowledge transfer, the dissemination of by the Ministry of Culture and Sports, collaboration best practices, the scientific collaborations and the in the NSRF framework, participation of executives obtainment of funding for common projects: UNESCO, of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in PIOP Museum TICCIH, ICOM Greece, ICOMOS, TIMS, European Monitoring Committees, collaboration with the Museum Academy, European Association for Banking Committee of Business Archives of the Society of Greek and Financial History e.V. (EABH), International Archivists-SGA). Council on Archives, Business Archives Council, Society 2. The participation of the Chairman of PIOP in the of Greek Archivists (participation in the BoD and Museums Council and of the Director of PIOP in the operation of Business Archives Committee: banking, National Commission of Intangible Cultural Heritage of business and industrial archives), General State the Ministry of Culture and Sports. Archives, European Association for Environmental 3. The participation of PIOP in consortiums of research History, National Council on Public History (NCPH, as and academic institutions for the submission of the only European member), European Rural History European scientific programs. Organization (EURHO), JSTOR (JPASS). Promotion of Culture 167 In addition, PIOP executives gave speeches at national and international forums: 1. Sustainability in cultural management. The example meeting of Environmental History Natural and Energy of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation corporate Resources . responsibility. As part of the second lecture titled Banks, 9. The Greek banking system in the early 20th century: Corporate Responsibility and Libraries in the context of some unexplored archives in the context of Economic the Second Series of Economics-oriented Lectures for transformation in Cyprus and the Levant, 1850-1939 , Libraries organized by the Hellenic Economic Library conference, University of Cyprus – Bank of Cyprus Network (HELIN). Historical Archive. 2. Culture and entrepreneurship: an existing and 10. The Marshall Plan in Greece and Europe: Unexploited sustainable relationship? in the context of the archives on the Greek Marshall Plan from PIOP Historical Convention for the Protection and Promotion of Archives in the context of 70th Anniversary of the the Diversity of Cultural Expressions UNESCO 2005, Marshall Plan in Greece , Conference, Alba Graduate organized by the Directorate for Development Business School-US Embassy in Greece. of Modern Creativity (Department of Synergies 11. Housing of the Silversmithing Museum in the western Participation in Multilateral Partnerships) and the bastion (Its Kale) and the development of a permanent Directorate of Modern Cultural and Intangible Cultural exhibition , in the context of New Data in archaeological Heritage of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. and historical heritage: Promotion and management of 3. The role of cultural tourism in the development of local sites and monuments in Western Greece and the Ionian communities: the example of PIOP Museums' Network in Islands conference, organized by the Department of the context of the Interconnection of tourism-culture. The Archives, Library Science and Museology of the Ionian obstacles and the prospects workshop organized by the University in cooperation with the Cultural Heritage Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises (SETE). Management and New Technologies Department of the 4. The contribution of the PIOP Museums' Network in the University of Patras. sustainable local development , in the context of the 19th 12. Museums and Actions: A Crossword for Skilled Solvers , Annual Information Meeting Education and Modern at the Innovative Educational Programs and Activities Greek Cultural Heritage, Museums, Creativity and Local in Museums, Research Institutions and other cultural Communities . institutions conference, Research Promotion Foundation 5. Emergency Management Plan at PIOP's Historical – University of Nicosia, in the context of the Joint Archive in the context of the international Disaster Programming Initiative on Cultural Heritage and Global management in cultural institutions conference. Change: A New Challenge for Europe (JPI-CH). 6. Loans to tourism in post-War Greece in the context of 13. We are the others: issues of identity and diversity in the conference Archaeological Reserve and Economic museums at the workshop Approaching the Holocaust Reconstruction of Greece, 1945-1967 . at school and in the Museum , PIOP, Department of 7. The availability of Archives of PIOP's Historical Archive Early Childhood Education of the University of Thessaly, on the 20th century agricultural cooperative movement the Jewish Community of Volos. in Greece in the context of the Agricultural cooperative 14. Speech titled: Pausanias Network 2.0: from the School to movement in Greece of the 20th century: documents from the Museum, Educational programs for the for Visual Arts the Agricultural Bank of Greece Archive conference. in Gymnasium and Lyceum in the context of the Annual 8. Water management by state bodies in 20th Greece through Panhellenic Conference of Visual Arts Teachers. PIOP's Historical Archive in the context of the 3d two-day ContactS and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies Silk Museum in Soufli 1. Environmental Education Center of Soufli. 3. Meetings with local authorities, professional bodies and 2. Soufli Lyceum, Soufli Gymnasium, 1st Primary School of Soufli associations of the city for the creation of synergies. and 2nd Primary School of Soufli: Information provision to teachers on Educational Programs and Museum actions – Screenings of Educational Films of the Museum. Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Agia Paraskevi, Lesvos 1. Municipal Community of Agia Paraskevi. 3. Visits by refugees from the Refugee Reception and 2. Federation of Agricultural Associations of Lesvos, Identification Services of Lesvos. Agricultural Cooperation of Agia Paraskevi, local associations and organizations. 168 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Museum of Marble Crafts in Pyrgos, Tinos 1. Municipality of Tinos: project titled: Digital applications platform for the • Cultural Association of Pyrgos – Panormos of Tinos: promotion of the tangible and intangible heritage game of treasure hunt at Pyrgos settlement. of Tinos . • Signing of cooperation agreement with PIOP for the 2. Cultural Foundation of Tinos. Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas in Volos 1. Local and regional authorities. 3. Meeting with the administration of the Volos 2. Networking with local professionals and cultural Retirement Home. bodies. 4. Donation of stationery to the Orphanage of Volos. Environment Museum of Stymphalia 1. Municipality of Sikyon. 3. Local cultural associations and sports clubs, parents & 2. Co-organisation with the Municipality of Sikyon of the guardians associations of the local schools. race STYMPHALIA LAKE RUN 2017. 4. Lyceum Club of Greek Women of Kiato. Chios Mastic Museum 1. Introductory meeting with museums of Chios. 3. Thalia volunteer group. 2. North Aegean Administrative Region: Presentation 4. The International Center for Education and Culture Ionia . of the Design, Monitoring, Supervision of Tourism 5. Association of Forest Protection and Fire Suppression Promotion actions for the North Aegean Administrative of the Municipality of Ionia, Chios. Region Project. Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil in Sparta 1. Participation in the 10th Exhibition of Laconia Products 3. Sparta Music Club. in Syntagma Square with communication materials. 4. Non-profit organization Olive and Olive Oil Festival , 2. Provision of the Multipurpose Hall to the TRAVELTALES Legal Entity of Culture and Environment of Sparta LIMITED company for the presentation of the Municipality. catalogue of GEBECO/Dr. TIGGES Tour Operator to German tour operators. Open-Air Water Power Museum in Dimitsana 1. Design of joint actions with: 3. Environmental Educational Centre (CEE) of Kastri in • the Museum of Forest History; and Kynouria: Two-day seminar Museums and paths as • the Museum of Folk Culture Dara. tools for Environmental Education , where the Pausanias 2. Participation of the Museum’s choir: program and the Educational Program A Day at the Mills • at the revival of the custom of Lampadidromies in were presented to teachers of Primary and Secondary Dimitsana with traditional kolokotroneika songs (to education of Attica. commemorate the declaration of the 1821 Greek War 4. Municipality of Gortynia–Mainalos Festival. of Independence) (Dimitsana Women's Association for 5. Levidi Public Library: Participation in the summer Agrotourism and Culture); and book-reading and creativity campaign of 2017. • in the eulogy of Holy Friday at the church of Holy Kyriaki. The Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina 1. Epirus Administrative Region: Week of promotion of the 4. Jewish Community of Ioannina. The Silversmithing Museum , financed by NSRF. 5. Traditional Crafts Center Ioannina. 2. Ioannina Municipality. 6. Ephorate of Antiquities of Ioannina. 3. Holy Metropolis of Ioannina. 7. University of Ioannina. Promotion of Culture 169 Historical Archive The activity of the Historical Archive is directed to the Athenian public. With this in mind, the annual thematic summer action TheAthinai as well as synergies with Athenian and other archival cultural institutions are pursued. At the level of targeted local communities, the Historical Archive: 1. Seeks constant communication with institutions and school Archival Description-ISAD(G) in cooperation with the communities of the Municipality of Moschato-Tavros. Society of Greek Archivists, in Sparta and Thessaloniki. 2. Inaugurated its participation in a new scheme of inter5. Completed, in the context of the cooperation of agency co-operation for the promotion of Peiraios Street. Piraeus Bank Group with the Aegean Team, the second 3. Planned the action titled The Archive at the Museums intervention of a long-term local history cultural action for PIOP’s Network of Museums, with the production of with the title Our Archive and the annual action cultural actions regarding local history and local interests Cycladenia . of each community and commenced the implementation 6. Inaugurated its cooperation with the Archive/Museum of targeted projects (Chios, Magnisia, Sparta, Mytilini). of the Municipality of Karditsa. 4. Realized a life-long learning Workshop of Archiving Standards on the topic of General International Standard PIOP Library PIOP's Library develops synergies on a local level so that they may be a supporting factor towards a strong and sustainable community without exclusions. It is a mode of cooperation that can be reflected in the access to a larger volume and variety of material for everyone and in the strengthening of various services as well as in a the broader perception of libraries as public spaces for social contacts and communication, thus promoting the libraries’ social role with events and actions. In particular, the Library was actively involved in the local community through: 1. the cooperation it has developed with local agencies in collaboration with the Greek IBBY (International Board Kallithea, such as the Municilpality’s Cultural Organization on Books for Young People) since April 2017, aimed at and in particular with the Public Library of Kallithea; local schools; and 2. its Children’s Section, where PIOP's educational 4. the support of the Student Festival by the Municipality Programs are held for school groups free of charge; of Kallithea and the awarding of students in visual arts 3. the targeted actions of Book Group meetings with and arts competitions. authors and illustrators of children’s books, in PIOP Actions in Thessaloniki In the framework of the Foundation’s actions aimed at preserving and promoting cultural heritage, in 2015 it has been decided to expand PIOP’s actions to Thessaloniki, in collaboration with the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank, through the organising of selected events and training programs at the premises of the Centre. The following events were held in 2017: 1. PIOP inaugurated the periodic exhibition THESSALONIKI’S Papaioannou/ ELIA-MIET of Thessaloniki, the Thessaloniki COMMERCE 1870-1970 on Thursday 23 November 2017 History Centre, as well as from the private collectors Alexis at the Piraeus Bank Conference Centre in Thessaloniki. Lapourtas, Aris Papatzikas, Nikos Politis and research A rich collection of photographs and archival material workers Efrossini Roupa and Evanghelos Hekimoglou. brought to life the production history of the town’s old Projections of excerpts from the series Panorama of a commercial centre during the period of 1870-1970. Based century , directed by Fotos Lambrinos and kindly provided on the research programme carried out by Dr Evanghelos by ERT Archives S.A. to PIOP, also livened the exhibition. Hekimoglou, the exhibition was held under the auspices Throughout the duration of the exhibition, PIOP in of the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the Hellenic cooperation with the cultural group Dot2Dot organised Ministry of Culture and Sports. The photographic material special thematic itineraries and alternative guided tours presented in the exhibition came from the photographic in the town’s old commercial centre. At the same time, in archives of the Hellenic Literary and Historical Archive– the context of the exhibition, PIOP participated in OPEN Cultural Foundation of the National Bank of Greece HOUSE THESSALONIKI 2017 with the special thematic tour (ELIA-MIET), from the postcard collection of Angelos Commercial Areas for schools and the general public. 170 Sustainable Development Report 2017 2. Educational Programs for children at the Convention 4. Actions for the adult public: Centre of Piraeus Bank: 5 educational programs were • 8 actions were organised with 1,127 participants. organised with the participation of 138 students. 3. Educational and recreational actions for children: • 9 actions were realised with 3,333 participants. 2018 KEY TARGETS The further dissemination of its work to multiple public groups, in accordance with Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles, remains PIOP's key target for the immediate future. The coordinated realisation of high quality actions in the Greek periphery will be continued as these actions support local communities from a cultural and an economic perspective, with the creation of centres of attraction for tourists. Similar actions addressed to a wide spectrum of recipients will continue to be organised at the Historical Archive and the Library of the Foundation in Athens as well as at the Convention Centre of Piraeus Bank and in other sites in Thessaloniki. 2018 general goals 1. Enhancement of PIOP’s extroversion and contribution to 3. Participation in the shaping of policies in the field of the cultural and broader development of Greece with the culture. support of cultural and creative industries and modern 4. Realisation of actions in the context of the thematic culture as well as by organizing combined cultural, axis Museums – Daily Places . scientific and environmental actions. 5. Realisation of European and co-funded programs 2. Improvement of the quality of services provided to which PIOP participates in/coordinates. Museum visitors and the users of PIOP’s Library and 6. Reinforcement of entrepreneurship in the field of Historical Archive. Creative-Cultural Industries. 2018 TARGETS per field of action Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage 1. Promotion and utilisation of the cultural heritage of the 3. Recording, protection and promotion of cultural country with the goal of inscribing new elements on the landscapes and the intangible cultural heritage. catalogue of Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO. 4. Strategic partnerships with institutions in Greece and 2. Connection of culture with the environment. abroad. Network of Museums 1. Increase of the number of visitors to the Museums 4. Support of cultural tourism and cultural of the Network through the increase and enrichment entrepreneurship in the areas of PIOP’s Network of of the various cultural/educational actions that take Museums. place in the Museums. 5. Development of technological applications in the 2. Improvement of the quality of the provided services Museums with the goal of enriching their role as to visitors. narrative mediums. 3. Operation of the Museums as open, daily areas of 6. Support of modern Greek creation and organising of cultural creation and active participation of the exhibitions, various educational actions and cultural Museums in the cultural and social life of the cities events. they are located in. Historical Archive 1. Operation of the HA as an archival institution with multiple 2. Increase in the volume of processed collections and in beneficiaries, increase in the number of beneficiaries, the applications that provide digital copies of these. combined with enhancement of its role as a multipurpose 3. Increase in the number of promoted and utilized site of culture in the cultural map of Athens. collections to the research and the general public. Promotion of Culture 171 Library 1. Capitalisation on and continuation of the collaboration 3. Expansion of the educational programs realized in the of the Library with local institutions. Library for children and adults. 2. Increase in the number of visitors-users. Publications 1. Continuation of the publishing work of the Foundation, 3. Scientific yearbook by PIOP (annual electronic edition) with works that cover a wide range of research fields titled Development of Greece in the 20th Century . and support the character and actions of the thematic 4. Accompanying volume to the exhibition Teaching technological Museums' Network. Olive Cultivation in cooperation with the Agricultural 2. Promotion of publications through targeted actions University of Athens. and enhancement of their promotion through the participation in Book Exhibitions. Research Work 1. Creation of new research reserve, capitalisation and 4. Development of digital applications for the promotion promotion of the reserve to broad groups of the public of the cultural heritage and the natural environment. through related exhibitions and publications. 5. Scientific advisory support. 2. Development of an information system for the digital 6. Production of a new research capital on the economic inventory of the results of all research projects by PIOP and social history of Greece from the HA collections as well as of a digital strategy plan of PIOP. and its utilization by the research and academic 3. Recording, protection and promotion of the cultural community. landscapes and the intangible cultural heritage of the country. Education 1. Realisation of life-long educational actions at PIOP's 2. Awareness-raising and education of the public on Museums and its premises in Athens and Thessaloniki. issues related to culture and to the environment. Participation in national, international scientiﬁc and educational institutions – collaborations 1. Strategic partnerships with esteemed institutions consortiums for the realisation of actions related to the for the realisation of events and actions in Athens, statutory objectives of the Foundation. Thessaloniki and the PIOP Museums' Network in the 3. Pursuit of European cooperation for the comparative Greek periphery. study of the restructuring of the post-war European 2. Preparation and submission of proposals to national economy. and European co-funded programs for the financing 4. Development of applications that facilitate the access of of PIOP's actions as well as participation in European disabled people to archival sources. 177 Environmental Protection Piraeus Bank Group makes a powerful contribution to environmental protection through its responsible use of natural resources and the support of business activities with environmental and social benefit. 2017 Key Actions 1. Improvement of Environmental Performance 2. Protection of Biodiversity • Piraeus Bank's Environmental Management System • Piraeus Bank participates in the EU Business and was updated (EMS) as to its overall documentation Biodiversity Platform (B@B) and contributes to the (procedures and documents) to comply with the co-shaping of European policies on the interrelation requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standards. between entrepreneurship and natural capital and • 28 branches have been fitted with photovoltaic systems biodiversity. (net metering), of which 6 are fully operational. 3. LIFE-Stymfalia project • Installation of BEMS (Building Energy Management • The international conference on biodiversity, where Systems) to 70 additional branches. the business opportunities in Natura 2000 sites • 83 administration buildings were renovated with where discussed for the first time in Greece, was held energy and water saving -upgrading interventions. for the financing of the protected areas. • 16% reduction in electricity consumption at the Bank’s • The designed logo Stymphalia my Home has Data Center through targeted energy interventions. already been provided to 8 local producers for the • 86% of energy consumption at the Bank’s buildings enhancement of the identity of the local products derived from RES’s, with Guarantees of Origin (GOs). and services. • Over 5,700 collections of materials for recycling realized • 150 acres of reeds cut in the 3d reed-bed cutting around Greece. study, following the approval of the competent • Assessment made that over €700,000 in operating authorities. expenses are saved and over 1 mn tonnes of indirect CO2 • Completion of the environmental interpretation path emissions are prevented through e-Banking. Man and Nature on the Paths of the Time . • 169 branches underwent replacement of external 4. Addressing Climate Change sign lighting bulbs with LED light bulbs, resulting in • Recording and analysis of the Task Force on energy-consumption reductions of over 50% per Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD branch. Recommendations (SWOT analysis) with the aim 178 Sustainable Development Report 2017 of defining future actions for optimal climate risk • 20 articles on Piraeus Bank’s contribution to Sustainable management. Development circulated in the Press. 5. Environmental Awareness and Education • Over 300 people (employees and their children) • 470 completed environmental e-learning courses. participated in environmental awareness actions. • Completion of the e-learning course Environmental and Social Risk . 2018 Key Targets Improvement of Environmental Performance 1. Annual Environmental Management Targets • Expansion of the Scope 3 Emissions methodology of • 2% reduction in total electricity consumption per unit calculating indirect greenhouse emissions. area. • 30%7 reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions • 2% reduction of indirect greenhouse emissions, related (in absolute figures) (five-year target with base year to electricity (Scope 2 Emissions), per unit area. 2014). • 3% reduction of total paper consumption per • 5% of the total electricity consumption in the Bank's employee. branches will be produced by photovoltaic systems • 3% reduction of water consumption per employee. through energy net-metering (two-year target with • 3% increase in the rate of paper recycling in relation base year 2016). to total paper consumption. • 10%7 increase in the use of environmentally-certified • 2% increase in the rate of ink cartridge/toner recycling paper consumables in relation to the total quantity of in relation to total ink cartridge/toner consumption. paper consumed (two-year target with base year 2016). • Ensuring guarantees of origin for the 100% of • 8% reduction of electricity consumption per electricity consumption in the buildings of the Bank. square meter in the Bank's buildings that have been 2. Long-term Environmental Management Targets integrated in the energy management program (three• Creation of a new application aimed at an overall year target with base year 2016). recording of the Group’s environmental performance. Protection of Biodiversity 1. Successful completion of the LIFE-Stymfalia project the specially-designed logo Stymphalia my Home . and continuation of key management actions with 3. Completion of Business Plan and identification of the incorporation of the area in the juristiction of the potential investors for the funding of the long-term, Parnonas, Moustos, Mainalo and Monemvasia. sustainable management of Lake Stymphalia. 2. Strengthening of the Stymphalia Farmers' Network and 4. Participation in initiatives for the promotion of promotion of the local products and services through investments focused on environmental protection. Environmental Framework European and international Framework The United Nations Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development including the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) sets the global framework for dealing with the environmental and social challenges and stresses the importance of private-public sector cooperation in achieving these goals. The global Paris Agreement on climate change defines the course for keeping the rise in global average temperature to well below 2°C. In this context, it aims towards a framework for new technologies, financing tools and education. At an EU level, the EU High-Level Expert Group (HLEG) delivered its final report (January 2018) with recommendations on issues of sustainable finance. With these recommendations in mind, in March 2018, the EU announced the Action Plan: Financing Sustainable Growth . 7 Revision of the target as it has already been achieved. Environmental Protection 179 In conclusion, it is noteworthy that the European Banking Federation issued a special report that highlights the significant role of financial institutions in the course towards a green economy and sustainable development. Piraeus Bank’s Environmental Framework Piraeus Bank monitors, and in some cases, co-shapes international and European trends and has established policies and strategies for the environment since 2004. In the framework of the commitments deriving from its Environmental Policy, Environmental Management Policy and its Strategy on Climate Change and taking into account the Management's commitment, the Bank has developed actions that reduce the environmental footprint from its operation and the environmental-social risk from its business customers. Specifically, since 2011, the Bank’s Environmental Management System (EMS) has been certified under ISO 14001 and EMAS (the strictest environmental management system). In 2017, the Bank’s EMS was updated as to its overall documentation (procedures and documents) to comply with the requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standards. Reduction of the operating environmental footprint achieves a reduction in operating costs, of which the net benefit is estimated at €5 mn annually. The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation applies an EMS certified under EMAS, while four Industrial Parks of ETVA VIPE, have an EMS certified under ISO 14001:2015. In 2017, the procedures for the organizing of the Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) were completed, thus allowing the Bank to recognize and reduce the environmental and social risk deriving from business loans. With its active participation in the Positive Impact Initiative of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), members of which are financial institutions internationally, the Bank contributes to the development of strategies for investments with a positive impact on the environment and society. Additionally, through its participation in the EU Business @ Biodiversity Platform, the Bank is at the forefront of co-shaping European policies on the interrelation between entrepreneurship and natural capital and biodiversity. The experience acquired by these international participations gives the Bank the ability to design new products and create new markets. Piraeus Bank Group Environmental Structure The Group created the necessary infrastructure in order to respond to the environmental and social challenges with the establishment of the Environment Unit in 2004 and the Green Banking Division in 2009. The Environment Unit is responsible for implementing the Group’s Environmental Policy and participating in social actions aimed at promoting sustainability, in the context of Corporate Responsibility. Additionally, the Unit’s key fields of activity are: reduction of the environmental footprint from the Bank and its subsidiaries’ operation, support of internal and external communication related to the environment and sustainability, enhancement of the Group’s transparency, research into and promotion of innovative solutions to environmental issues, provision of know-how to the Organizational Units of the Bank and Group Subsidiaries and coordination of the relevant administrative units on the Group’s strategic approach to the Sustainable Development Goals. The Green Banking Division has a dual mission. On the one hand, it provides support to the Bank, its subsidiaries and customers on matters of green entrepreneurship and utilization of the opportunities arising from the existing national and EU institutional framework and the emerging green technologies. On the other hand, it is responsible for operations management, development of products and services related to all types of development programs, credit guarantee schemes, interest rate and co-financing subsidies as well as all related business activities and support of the other Group and Network Units. 180 Sustainable Development Report 2017 In order to facilitate the operation of the EMS of the Bank and the Group’s subsidiaries, an Environmental Management Officer has been assigned to the Environmental Management Unit (EMU) of the Bank, of PIOP and of the Environmental Council of ETVA VIPE SA. The Bank’s EMU consists of executives of the Environment Unit, the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support, the Group Human Resources & Organizational Learning and the Group IT Operations, among others. The Environmental Council shapes the strategic course of development and implementation of the EMS of ETVA VIPE SA and is staffed by top executives. Additionally, since 2017, the pioneer Energy Office was formed in the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support, with the key objective of continuously monitoring electricity and water consumption in its infrastructure with the use of special software. The Office can also monitor defects and damage to the equipment of buildings and timely detection of of excessive energy consumption. Monitoring and Analysis of Environmental Legislation and Case-Law The subject-specific Database on Environmental Legislation and Case Law (DEL&CL) that has been developed by Piraeus Bank constitutes an innovative tool for legal research and analysis. The DEL&CL provides a systematic framework for organizing specialized legal support to the implementation of Piraeus Bank Group’s Environmental Policy, compliance with applicable environmental legal requirements and the proactive response to the developments in the regulatory framework. The DEL&CL includes the necessary legal information and documentation as well as numerous legal opinions on specific implementation issues. The main pillars of the Database consist of: 1. General obligations and trends of the law for the 3. The legal framework related to the wide-ranging environment and sustainable development. actions undertaken by the Bank to mitigate its business 2. Provisions for preventing and reducing operational environmental impacts. environmental impacts. 4. Detailed and explanatory content lists. Thus, the DEL&CL covers a very broad field of thematic issues, ranging from special actions for EMAS implementation and the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals to dissemination of data related to the measures and programs on environmental protection implemented by financial institutions. The DEL&CL has been developed and is constantly updated by a specialized lawyer, legal advisor on environmental law issues; the Database is also presented in the Guide of UNEP FI Guide to Banking and Sustainability (2016), Edition 2 (pg.41), as practice illustration of the legal approach towards promoting compliance with environmental legislation. IMPROVEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Piraeus Bank is constantly developing strategies to improve its environmental performance and reduce the environmental footprint from its operations. Environmental Management System (EMS) Piraeus Bank, in the context of its commitment for constant reduction of the environmental impacts from its operation, has developed and implements an Environmental Management System (EMS) in all its branches and administration buildings. Since 2011, the EMS of the Bank has been registered in the European EMAS Register, according to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) Regulation of the European Union. The Bank's EMS is also certified according to the Standard ISO 14001:2015. Environmental Protection 181 With over 700 buildings and more than 900 directly involved employees in the EMS, Piraeus Bank is one of the largest organizations in Europe –in number of employees and buildings– to implement such a strict standard of environmental management. Through the procedures of EMS, the environmental performance of all Bank buildings is monitored systematically, while also setting goals for continuous improvement and implementing the relevant environmental programs to achieve these goals. The programs that are implemented are targeted at energy-saving in buildings, reduction of gas emissions (business travel, heating oil etc), solid waste management, paper and consumables savings as well as at continuous improvement of the Bank's environmental performance. EMS certified UNDER the new Standard ISO 14001:2015 In 2017, Piraeus Bank's EMS was updated as to its overall documentation (procedures and documents) to comply with the requirements of the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. With the adoption of the new Standard, a series of innovative elements are introduced to the EMS that, among others, increase the top management participation, integrate the concepts of risks and opportunities management related to environmental aspects and which may affect the Bank’s operation, map the requirements of compliance with and commitment to sustainability and social responsibility undertaken by the Bank. Reduction of Piraeus BANK'S Environmental Footprint The Bank’s activities are characterized by specific environmental aspects which are assessed as to their importance and are monitored throughout the year based on specific processes. The methodolody applied for these calculations is based on the requirements of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Aiming towards integrated management of all environmental data (in excess of 350,000 annually), two applications have been developed: the Environmental Footprint Calculation Database , an innovative tool designed according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative , and the automated Environmental Management procedure in the APPIAN workflow application. The sections below report Piraeus Bank's performance in 2017. The results concern all the Bank's activities in Greece. Energy Consumption The energy sources used for the activities of the Bank are mainly: electricity, heating oil, and fuel (eg petrol/ diesel) for the transportation of employees. Electricity Consumption Electricity is consumed in all building infrastructures for lighting, the operation of electrical and electronic equipment, air-conditioning, while in most buildings for heating as well. Electricity consumption constitutes the environmental aspect of the Bank with the most significant environmental impact. In 2017, total electricity consumption at all Group buildings exceeded 62 GWh, of which 77,000 kWh from photovoltaic systems installed at 6 branches. Electricity consumption per square meter and per employee was reduced by 3% and 2% respectively. In total, in a decade8, electricity consumption per square meter decreased by more than 25%, thus confirming the significance of all the energy-saving and energy-upgrading actions realized to date. 8 2008 is used as a baseline year, as since then all the environmental aspects of the Bank are systematically calculated on an annual basis. 182 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Heating Fuel Consumption In 2017, a total of 323,750 litres of heating oil were consumed at 81 branches and 16 administration buildings. Compared to 2016, the number of buildings was significantly reduced but without the equivalent reduction in consumption as in 2016, 324,315 litres were consumed at 99 branches and 14 administration buildings. This is due to the increased needs for heating in 2017 versus 2016. Specifically, the total Heating Degree Days (HDD) were calculated, taking into consideration data from meteorological stations in 16 cities where a significant increase of 8% was noted. Energy-saving Actions Every year, programs are implemented aimed at energy-saving, while goals are also being set, such as constant energy monitoring of existing and renovated buildings, with the adoption of energy-effective technologies. Energy Interventions at branches In 2017, renovations and energy-upgrading projects were continued at 80 more Bank branches by the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support, the most important of which were: 1. Replacement of single-glazed with double, low-e glass. 4. Installation of VAM heat pump exchanger for overnight 2. Installation of motion sensors in WCs. cooling. 3. Installation of BEMS energy-management systems. 5. Replacement of high consumption lighting bulbs with LED light bulbs. Energy-saving at the Bank’s Data Center In 2017, specific interventions were realized at the Bank’s Data Center, aiming to enhance the building’s energy efficiency. More specifically: the number of racks was reduced from 80 to 2, while certain cooling systems were deactivated in the Server Room. Compared to 2016, total electricity consumption of the Data Center fell by 16%. Energy Saving – Replacement of Central Chillers in A/C system In April 2016, at the building of 87 Syngrou Avenue, the water cooled chillers were replaced with two new ones, with technical characteristics of high energy standards. After a year of full operation, the energy performance of the building has improved significantly, as energy-saving for A/C reached 43%, with an equivalent annual reduction of €33,400 in operating expenses. Energy Saving from light power of buildings During the renovations of building infrastructures, LED light bulbs were installed where possible. The installation is completed following photometric studies with the basic criteria of the achievement of high levels of lighting and the saving of energy. According to 2017 results, the index of installed lighting power density reached 7.10 W/m2. Taking into account that the Installed Lighting Power Density until 2013 was 20.06 W/m2, the reduction was 65%. 1. Number of Branches: 102 3. Reduction in number of light bulbs: 20% 2. Reduction of lighting power: 65% 4. Reduction of installed power density: 53% Based on a study carried out by an external consultant in cooperation with the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support, the annual financial benefit of the above project is estimated at €202,660. Energy-Saving in external Sign Lighting Bulbs – Installation of LED light bulbs At the end of 2017, replacement of external sign lighting bulbs with LED light bulbs at Branches commenced, 184 Sustainable Development Report 2017 following the study enacted by an associate company which proved the possibility of significant energy-saving. More specifically: 1. Energy-saving is at 50% (operation of external sign). 3. The lifetime of the light-bulbs is more than double. 2. The financial benefit reaches €510 annually per Branch. 4. Total energy consumption of the Branches shows a 5% decrease. In early 2018, the number of branches with replacement of external sign lighting bulbs reached 169. Photovoltaic self-production (net-metering) In 2017, the installation of the photovoltaic system (PV), with 173.47 kWp capacity, was completed at 6 Bank Branches as well as their connection to the electricity grid. It is noteworthy that based on the electricity bills issued to date, it has been calculated that 30% of the electricity needs of the 6 Branches is derived from the PV system. In 2018, a further 19 PV systems, with 453.23 kWp capacity, are expected to be connected. With the completion of the project (estimated in 2019), 31 Bank Branches will have PV systems of total 768.78 kWp capacity. Energy Office In order to constantly reduce its environmental footprint, Piraeus Bank aims for optimal operation and constant energy-monitoring of its existing as well as under-renovation buildings through the adoption of energy-efficient technologies. Taking the above into consideration, the Bank proceeded with the design of the Energy Office, an innovative environmental infrastructure program by targeting in energy and water saving. Through the Energy Office, over 300 building infrastructures are monitored. In 2018, this special software will have the ability of monitoring 600 Bank buildings. With the use of a special algorithm and by taking into account the energy profile of each Branch separately, improvement is expected in the environmental performance. Indicatively, the Program offers the possibilities below: 1. Energy data comparison with the use of 3. Assessment of energy-consumption scenarios graphs among Branches. and the possibility of decision-making for the 2. By distance intervention in case of defects implementation of investments in energyor damage. saving projects (eg. change of A/C system with a high-tech equivalent). With full operation of the Energy Office, the following benefits are expected: 1. Significant reduction of the Bank's 4. Conditions improvements of thermal Environmental Footprint. comfort of employees. 2. Monitor and understanding of the energy 5. Raising awareness of Bank's employees and profile of the buildings as well as additional customers through the use of charts and improvements in equipment. energy data presented on projection screens 3. Projections of operating cost reduction. in Branches and administration buildings. Environmental Protection 185 Consumables Paper consumption has been evaluated as the second most important aspect regarding the environmental impacts stemming from the operation of the Bank. Every year, for its calculation, the supplies of paper consumables, the newspaper subscriptions and total quantities of paper used for communication and promotion, are taken into account. In relation to A3, A4 and A5 paper, the Bank almost exclusively (99.99%) used 100% recycled paper with the Eco-Label environmental certification. In parallel, all the quantities consumed for external promotion and communication is FSC certified paper. In 2017, the total quantity of paper consumed reached 1,306 tonnes, of which 922 tonnes from paper that was Eco-Label certified and 41 tonnes from FSC certified paper. Total paper consumption per employee was reduced by 3% compared to 2016, achieving the goal set. In total, over the last decade, paper consumption per employee has fallen by 31%. In relation to printing consumables (ink cartridges/toners), a significant reduction of 37% was noted. In total, over 38,000 items were procured, of which 30% was refilled, thus supporting the re-use of consumables. Paper and Ink-saving Actions 1. The use of Managed Printing Services (MPS) for 3. Additionally, the number of transactions without a management of documents and printouts is applied printed receipt at ATM’s exceeded 49.0 mn. at 31 administration buildings. In 2017, the printing of 4. In 2016, the pilot implementation of the innovative over 3,500,000 pages was prevented (approx.7% of all Paperless Cashier service was initiated at 53 requested printing). branches. The service includes the combination of 2. The use of MPS, combined with the innovative e-Signature e-Signature and digital filing, thus aiming towards the service (electronic signing of documents and contracts), elimination of paper use at branches and simplification which was completed in 2016 at Branch network, aim to and expediting of transactions. reduce paper consumption and printing costs. In particular, approximately 23 mn transactions were made with the Paperless Cashier service in the 01/01/2017-31/12/2017 period, when its gradual integration into the Branches was completed. The table below shows the printing paper distribution: e-Signature Transactions Transactions with Handwritten signature With 1 print out Copy for Customer (Α4) Without print out Copy With 2 print out Copies (Α4) 15,320,743 6,145,107 1,819,829 Solid Waste Management All buildings have implemented recycling programs, while recycling bins have been placed for paper, ink cartridges/ toners, batteries and light bulbs. In 15 large administration buildings, package recycling is available at the canteens. During 2017, more than 5,700 collections of materials to be recycled were realized at all branches and administration buildings. More specifically the collection of paper, ink cartridges/toners, plastic to be recycled is done in cooperation with licensed companies. Regarding the total paper procured by the Bank, a part is consumed in the processing of transactions, other banking activities and other actions (informative, advertising etc) and is given to customers, and the remainder is stored in the Bank premises. The section of the archived files which are not utilized any more is directed towards recycling. 186 Sustainable Development Report 2017 More than 578 tonnes of paper were recycled, while more than 22,000 items of consumables were sent for refilling/ recycling. It should be noted that the amount of paper recycled at Administration buildings rose by 15% versus 2016, while the rate of ink cartridges/toners recycled in relation to the total ink/toner consumption rose by 26% versus 2016. Regarding the collection of small batteries, large accumulators and electrical and electronic equipment waste (including light bulbs and lighting equipment), the Bank collaborates with related licensed alternative management systems. Finally, household waste is placed in the appropriate bins and collected by the garbage trucks of the respective Municipalities. Water Consumption Water consumed in the Bank's buildings comes from the water supply network of the cities where they are located and is mainly used for cleaning and personal hygiene. Water consumption is considered to be of medium environmental significance for Piraeus Bank. Compared to 2016, the total water consumption decreased by 6% and the respective index of total water consumption per employee by 2%. Water-Saving Actions Aiming to achieve its water-saving goals, the Bank implements interventions at its buildings during their renovation. In 2017, installation of dual-flush toilets and controlled water flow faucets in WCs at 31 branches was completed. Additionally, in 2017 a pilot environmental program commenced with the installation of water-saving filters in 40 faucets at 10 Bank branches. The specific program is to be extended to 2018 as well. Liquid Waste Management Liquid waste from Bank's activities is limited to urban wastewater, which is channeled to the sewerage networks of the respective Municipality where it is processed further in accordance with the existing laws, as all Bank buildings are connected to sewerage networks. Total quantity of liquid waste is calculated based on the total water consumption of the Bank, estimating losses (eg due to evaporation losses etc) of 5%. Consequently, in 2017, the estimated total quantity of liquid waste reached 111,395 m3. Transportation In order to calculate transportation, trips by car and by plane of employees are taken into consideration. More specifically, regarding road transport, the transportation of internal mail by motorcycle to and from the Administration Buildings in Athens is also included. For the calculations, the average monthly prices of unleaded petrol and diesel (business transportation), and the distance covered by employees from workplace to the training centre (training transportation), are taken into account. In total, in 2017, more than 26.9 mn kilometres were travelled by car and more than 5.6 mn kilometres by plane. Finally, due to the completion of more than 96,200 e-learning assignments to employees, over 13.3 mn kilometres of road travel were prevented thus eliminating the need for car travel by 33%. Environmental Protection 191 Actions of Transportation Avoidance Aiming to limit transportation, in 2017, older equipment was replaced with newer one to facilitate videoconferences in meeting rooms at administration buildings and branches. The total number of calls in 2017 was 7,138, of which 1,456 were external calls and 5,682 internal. Gas Emissions For the calculation of the total CO2 emissions of the Bank, the operational control method has been applied and the following sources of emissions are taken into consideration: Direct emissions (Scope 1) 1. Heating oil consumption. 3. All refrigerants added to the air-conditioning 2. Petrol and diesel fuel consumption from corporate fleet equipment and heat/cooling pumps. cars/motorcycles. Refrigerants Added to A/C Systems* (kg) 2016 2017 R-407C 332.50 458.40 R-410A 95.20 141.30 R-417A 1.70 1.70 R-422D 47.70 88.00 R-438A 42.00 50.00 * According to existing legislation. Indirect emissions associated with electricity consumed in the Bank’s buildings (Scope 2) 1. Electricity consumption in total buildings and branches. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 1. Employee trips by car for business and educational 2. Employee trips by plane. purposes with rented or private cars. The greenhouse gasses included in the calculations are: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and hydro-fluorocarbons (HFCs). The emissions from the burning of oil for heating or transportation are based on the Guidelines of IPCC and EMEP/ EEA for national emissions inventory. For the emissions from the consumption of electricity, the data of the national energy balance and emissions are taken into consideration, as they were recorded in the recent annual National Inventory Report of Greenhouse Gas and other gases9. Piraeus Bank purchased Guarantees of Origin (GOs) by HERON THERMOELECTRIC S.A. for 86% of its total electricity consumption. More specifically, 53,665 GOs were cancelled (amount in MWh), thus certifying that the specific quantity of electricity derived from Renewable Energy Sources (RES’s). In 2017, total CO2 emissions were reduced by 6%, reaching 41,000 tonnes of CO2. At the same time, a decrease of approx. 1% was noted in the CO2 emissions per employee. In the last decade, CO2 emissions per employee have dropped by 51%, due to two factors: 9 Location-based methodology 192 Sustainable Development Report 2017 1. the significant reduction in electricity consumption 2. the change in the energy mix in the electricity sector in through energy-saving and upgrading projects; and Greece in recent years. Aiming to expand the Bank's Scope 3 emissions methodology in 2017, a study was commissioned to an external consultant whereby additional Scope 3 emissions categories are to be evaluated and recorded, excluding business trips (which are already calculated), which are included in the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard and are significant for the Bank. The study is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018. At the end of 2017, assessment of the categories was completed, with the following 5 categories identified as the most relevant and significant for the Bank: 1. Investments (eg project finance, equity investments etc). 4. Waste generated in operations (including 2. Purchased Goods and services (eg purchased management/transportation thereof). equipment, maintenance services etc). 5. Employee commuting. 3. Upstream transportation and distribution (such as the distribution of electrical and electronic equipment, archive etc). Digital Banking ΤIn 2017, a study was carried out to assess the economic and environmental benefits of Piraeus Bank’s e-banking for 2016. It was estimated that the total economic benefit for the Bank from resource-saving (electricity, paper, ink cartridge/toner) with e-banking amounted €777 thousand for 2016. Additionally, e-banking created a significant energy benefit, as it contributed to the reduction of electricity consumption by approx. 1,500 MW/h and to an environmental benefit, with the Bank’s indirect CO2 emissions dropping by 1.1 mn tonnes. 194 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Trend Target Gas emissionsi 2016ii 2017 2016-2017 2018 CO2 Emissions (tonnes) 43,396.60 40,939.54 -5.66% CO2 Emissions (kg/m2) 88.18 86.16 -2.28% CO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 3,102.14 3,058.96 -1.39% CH4 Emissions (tonnes) 1.90 2.16 13.54% CH4 Emissions (kg/employee) 0.14 0.16 18.67% N2O Emissions (tonnes) 0.84 0.87 3.73% N2O Emissions (kg/employee) 0.06 0.07 8.42% NOx Emissions (tonnes) 113.37 105.71 -6.75% NOx Emissions (kg/employee) 8.10 7.90 -2.53% SO2 Emissions (tonnes) 58.52 54.76 -6.43% SO2 Emissions (kg/employee) 4.18 4.09 -2.20% CO Emissions (tonnes) 94.63 112.72 19.12% CO Emissions (kg/employee) 6.76 8.42 24.51% ΝΜVOC Emissions (tonnes) 14.37 17.00 18.25% ΝΜVOC Emissions (kg/employee) 1.03 1.27 23.60% PM10 Emissions (tonnes) 19.77 18.22 -7.82% PM10 Emissions (kg/employee) 1.41 1.36 -3.65% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)iii scope 1 4,407.74 2,998.94 -31.96% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)iii scope 2 (location-based) 37,102.43 34,671.96 -6.55% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)iii scope 3 3,130.74 4,958.48 58.38% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes) Scope 1, 2, 3 44,640.91 42,629.37 -4.51% CO2,eqEmissions (kg/m2) scope 2 (location-based) 75.39 72.97 -3.20% -2% CO2,eq Total Emissions (tonnes/employee) Scope 1, 2, 3 3.19 3.19 -0.18% CO2,eq Emissions (tonnes)iii scope 2 (market-based) iv 0v 4,901.21 CO2 = carbon dioxide, CH4 = methane, N2O = nitrous oxide, NOΧ = nitrogen oxides, SO2= sulphur dioxide, CO = carbon monoxide, NMVOC= non-methane volatile organic compounds, PM10 = particulate matter i Calculations regard 100% of Piraeus Bank activities in Greece. ii The 2016 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the updating of gas pollutant emission factors for electricity production based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country. (Published data for 2016). iii  For calculation of equivalent CO2 emissions the following factors were applied: 1 for CO2, 25 for CH4 and 298 for N2O. For further details, please refer to: IPCC, Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), Working Group 1, Chapter 2, Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing, Table 2.14, p. 21. iv  For calculation the following have been taken into account: Guarantees of Origin (GO) and the residual energy mix for Greece (Published data for 2016). v  Piraeus Bank purchased Guarantees of Origin (GOs) from the companies Public Power Corporation SA – Hellas and HERON THERMOELECTRIC S.A for 100% of its electricity consumption in 2016. Environmental Protection 195 Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprinti Trend Target 2016 2017 2016-2017 2018 Energy Consumption Consumption of electricity (GWh)from electrical gridii 66.41 62.06iii -6.55% Consumption of electricity (kWh)from photovoltaic systemsii 0.00 76,648.72 Total electricity consumption (GWh) 66.41 62.13 -6.44% Consumption of electricity (kWh/employee)ii 4,746.88 4,642.43 -2.20% Consumption of electricity (kWh/m2)ii 134.93iv 130.77 -3.08% -2% Heating fuel consumption (litres) 324,315.23 323,750.39 -0.17% Heating fuel consumption (litres/employee) 23.18 24.19 4.34% Consumption of electricity (GJ)ii 239,059.27 223,675.11 -6.44% Heating fuel consumption (GJ)v 11,768.65 11,748.16 -0.17% Total energy consumption (GJ) within the Organisationv, vi 285,675.81 245,464.86 -14.08% Total energy consumption (GJ) – outside of the Organisationv, vii 43,397.31 68,682.70 58.26% Transportation Business trips by plane jetfuel (tn) 201.78 220.89 9.47% Business trips by plane (km) 5,096,539.20 5,579,678.54 9.48% Business trips by plane (km/employee) 364.32 416.91 14.43% Business trips by leased/corporate car – diesel fuel (litres) 582,763.22 191,612.86 -67.12% Business trips by leased/corporate car or motorcycle – gasoline fuel (litres) 417,540.36 94,121.19 -77.22% Business trips by rented/private car – gasoline fuel (litres) 952,809.32 1,659,592.03 74.18% Business trips by car/motorcycle viii (km) 26,489,795.39 25,202,719.60 -4.86% Trips by car for educational purposes – gasoline fuel (litres) 98,571.69 136,685.73 38.67% Trips by car for educational purposes (km) 1,247,742.80 1,730,199.13 38.67% Total kilometres travelled by car (km) 27,737,538.19 26,932,918.73 -2.90% Total kilometres travelled by car (km/employee) 1,982.78 2,012.40 1.49% Total Miles travelled (km) 32,834,077.39 32,512,597.27 -0.98% Trips prevented by opting for e-learning (km) 9,397,654.00 13,341,956.00 41.97% Water Consumption Water consumption (m3)ii 125,061.16 117,257.78 -6.24% Water consumption (m3/employee) 8.94 8.76 -2.00% -3% Consumables Paper consumption from newspaper subscriptions (tonnes) [I] 36.78 27.26 -25.88% Paper consumption from the use of paper consumables (tonnes) [IΙ] 424.45 315.94 -25.56% Conventional paper consumption for marketing purposes (tonnes) [IΙΙ] 1.14 0.00 -100.00% Total conventional paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 462.37 343.21 -25.77% Total conventional paper consumption (kg/employee) 33.05 25.64 -22.41% Total consumption of original toner and cartridges (items) [VI] 48,817 27,534 -43.60% 196 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Trend Target Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprinti 2016 2017 2016-2017 2018 Green Procurement A5, A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (tonnes) [IV] 812.02 921.60 13.49% A5, A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (kg/employee) 58.05 68.86 18.63% FSC paper consumption for marketing purposes (tonnes) [V] 135.30 41.17 -69.57% Total paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV]+[V] 1,409.69 1,305.97 -7.36% Total paper consumption (kg/employee) 100.77 97.58 -3.16% -3% Percentage of recycled chlorine-free vs. total consumption (%) 57.60% 70.57% 22.51% Percentage of FSC paper vs. total consumption (%) 9.60% 3.15% -67.16% Percentage of environmentally certified (eco-label or FSC) paper consumed vs. total paper consumption (%) 67.20% 73.72% 9.70% Consumption of refilled toner and cartridges (items) [VII] 11,230 10,577 -5.81% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items) [VI]+ [VII] 60,047 38,111 -36.53% Total consumption of toner and cartridges (items/employee) 4.29 2.85 -33.66% Percentage of refilled vs original (%) 18.70% 27.75% 48.40% Solid Waste Management Amount of paper recycled (tonnes)iv 857.66 578.49 -32.55% Amount of paper recycled (kg/employee) 61.31 43.22 -29.50% Amount of paper recycled (recycled/consumed)ix (%) 31.15% 31.28% 0.42% 3% Amount of toner and cartridges reused/recycled (items) 27,495 22,070 -19.73% Amount of cartridges/toner recycled/reused (tonnes) x 20.62 16.55 -19.73% Amount of plastic recycled (kg) 6,404.90 5,105.58 -20.29% Amount of batteries recycled (kg) 8,960.70 7,156.02 -20.14% Amount of large accumulators recycled (kg) 1,026.50 2,076.00 102.24% Amount of light bulbs and lighting equipment recycled (kg) 15,140.12 12,644.26 -16.49% Amount of other electrical and electronic equipment recycled (excl. lights bulbs and lighting equipment) (tonnes) 514.31 380.84 -25.95% Quantity of ferrous metals recycled (tonnes) 51.26 72.24 40.94% i Calculations regard 100% of Piraeus Bank activities in Greece. ii Bills received until the ﬁrst week of May 2018 are included. iii Piraeus Bank purchased 53,665 Guarantees of Origin (GO) (amount in MWh) from the company HERON THERMOELECTRIC S.A. iv Data regarding the Bank's Warehouses have been included. v  Regarding calculations: the net calorific value and the density of each fuel type have been taken by the IPCC Guidelines (2006) and the International Energy Agency Manual (2005), respectively. vi Energy consumption from car/motorcycle transportation of the company’s fleet is included. vii All business travel by car and by plane is included except travel with the corporate fleet. viii Based on the assumption that the average consumption of a gasoline-powered vehicle is 7.9 litres/100km and of a diesel-powered vehicle is 6.4 litres/100km while average consumption of a motorcycle is 4.7 litres/100km. ix The target concerns all building infrastructures of the Bank except warehouses. x Based on the assumption that a cartridge/toner weighs on average 750 gr. Environmental Protection 197 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY The Bank develops innovative solutions that interconnect entrepreneurship and protection of biodiversity. Piraeus bank recognizes that protection of biodiversity is one of the greatest global challenges and has incorporated it into its Environmental Policy. The development of innovative solutions that interconnect entrepreneurship and protection of biodiversity is included in Piraeus Bank Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles. The first attempt to connect business and biodiversity began with the innovative co-funded project LIFE-Stymfalia, which started in October 2013 and is to be completed in September 2018. The goal of the project is the protection and restoration of Lake Stymphalia while also creating business activities to support the refinancing of the lake's management in the future. The LIFE-Stymfalia project provided the opportunity for Piraeus Bank to join forces with other financial institutions and organizations, through its participation in the EU Business and Biodiversity Platform (B@B), the goal of which is to develop measuring tools, principles and approaches which incorporate the aspects of biodiversity into business practices as well as to promote optimal business practices at a European level. In the framework of the Platform, the Bank participates in the ΕU CoP F@B Working Group, regarding mainly financial institutions, which was created by the need to find new methods for financing biodiversity and the natural capital as well as by challenges and opportunities created for the financial sector. Additionally, Piraeus Bank was invited to participate in a team of experts in the framework of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) project entitled Incubator for Nature Conservation , with the aim of promoting business opportunities and achieving financial sustainability for protected areas. This pilot program has selected 10 protected areas globally, one of which is Lake Pamvotida. European Project LIFE-Stymfalia In the framework of Piraeus Bank Group's sustainable development practices, the successful implementation of the European co-funded project LIFE-Stymfalia, which commenced in October 2013, is still ongoing. By means of the LIFE-Stymfalia project, Piraeus Bank, in collaboration with the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), Municipality of Sikyonion, OIKOM Environmental Studies Ltd, Society for the Protection of Prespa and Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES), aims at the restoration of the wetland and at the long-term protection and management of Lake Stymphalia through the development and enhancement of mild business activities, thus ensuring the sustainability of the Lake’s management even after the completion of the project. Following the request to the European Commission for a one-year project extension, due to delayed granting of licensing for the core conservation activities, an official extension approval was granted, expiring in September 2018. During the one-year project extension and with the approval of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, a third a reed-bed cutting took place at an area of 150 acres. At the same time, procedures continued for the licensing of the winter reed-bed cutting plan for 2018, the final one before the completion of the project. With the approval of the 4th reed-bed cutting, it is hoped that 200 more acres of reeds will be cut, in compliance with the project's contractual obligation to the European Commission, which included the reed-bed cutting of 340-440 acres. 198 Sustainable Development Report 2017 It should be noted that for the priority species of Lake Stymphalia conditions in 2017 were worse than 2016 due to the drying of the Lake bottom. Improvement is expected for the avifauna (the birds of the area) as soon as the areas that have been cut in the context of the present program are filled with water. However, if drought conditions continue without any hydrological management interventions, the prospects for the protected species are bleak. For this reason, small technical works have been planned for the creation of ponds and land islets for fish species and aquatic birds; however, licensing from the competent authorities is still pending. The cut reeds were transported to an existing composting plant to undergo the process for soil improver production. The compost produced, with reeds from Lake Stymphalia as raw material, will be distributed to members of the Stymphalia Farmers’ Network. Following the completion of the training seminars for the Farmers' Network of Stymphalia and the design of the logo Stymphalia my Home , 8 Network members are already entitled to use the logo, according to specific criteria that have been set. The first packaging with the logo has been delivered to the beneficiaries and is to be used directly with the aim of enhancing the recognizability of local products and services. Additionally, the environmental interpretation path Man and Nature on the Paths of the Time was completed and the distribution of the educational suitcase Mission ... Stymphalia commenced at schools in Corinth. A Business Plan for the refinancing of the Lake's management is being developed. It aims to promote the comparative advantages of the protected area and to strengthen the Lake’s sustainability, through the creation of RES actions and mild tourism activity. The collaboration and involvement of all stakeholders is crucial to the successful operation of this innovative business scheme. In June 2017, the International Conference Business and Biodiversity in Natura 2000 sites: The way forward was held in Kastri and at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. For the first time in Greece, delegates from private and public sector discussed the development of business and biodiversity in Natura 2000 sites, which could provide alternative funding for biodiversity and ecosystems protection. In the conference’s conclusion, participants adopted the LIFE-Stymfalia Statement, encouraging all stakeholders to move beyond the perception that Natura 2000 sites are an obstacle to development and to recognize them instead as opportunities for promoting sustainable business that benefit biodiversity and ecosystems. The project's progress is monitored through the submission of regular reports to the European Commission, which ensures uninterrupted and successful development of the project. In May 2017, the fourth project visit of LIFE-Stymfalia project was held by the External Monitoring Team of the European Commission at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. In 2018, one more project visit will be held and the cycle of the regular reports will conclude with the submission of Progress Report No 2 , and the Final Report to the European Commission. Piraeus Bank, a pioneer in its support of innovation and green entrepreneurship and in the framework of its Environmental Policy, has began actions that aim to identify opportunities that arise from the protection of biodiversity with the goal of developing a new market. The EU co-funded project LIFE-Stymfalia and active participation in international initiatives create the know-how for the Bank and lay the foundations for the promotion of investments taking into account environrmnetal protection. For more information see: www.lifestymfalia.gr Environmental Protection 199 ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE Piraeus Bank recognizes the effects and the opportunities arising from climate change, particularly in relation to the sectors of the Greek economy included in its business portfolio. Piraeus Bank Group responds to the international challenges that derive from climate change. It constantly monitors and actively participates in developments by shaping its Strategy on Climate Change accordingly. In 2009, the Bank acknowledged the contribution of financial institutions to dealing with climate change and developed a tool of economic impact assessment of climate change to financial sectors and businesses in its portfolio. In 2010, BoD adopted a specific Strategy on Climate Change, with the aim of reducing its environmental footprint as well as enhancing RES’s and green entrepreneurship. Since then the Bank has been monitoring international interest in climate change and has been participating in international initiatives such as the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform , the Positive Impact Manifesto for the Transition to an Inclusive Green Economy , the Paris Pledge for Action Initiative, launched in the framework of the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris. Following the decisions taken at the Paris Conference in December 2015 ( Paris Agreement ), international interest in climate change grew. The speed with which initiatives are developed at a European and international level to deal with climate change attest all the more the importance of the role of financial institutions in dealing with climate change and in sustainable growth. In its published recommendations, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) analyzes the risks, opportunities and economic impact of climate change while also emphasizing the adjustments that need to be made to the pillars of Corporate Governance, Strategy, Risk Management and Goals. In the past years, Piraeus Bank has proceeded with an initial recording, evaluation and assessment of the risks and opportunities. In 2017, it recorded the key points of the TCFD already implemented by the Bank and conducted a SWOT analysis of the strengths, the weaknesses, the opportunities and the threats for the Bank, with the aim to identify the actions required in the future for climate risk management. Piraeus Bank’s CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY The Strategy on Climate Change (2010) is an integral part of the Strategy for sustainable growth and follows four axis points: 1. Gradual reduction of the carbon footprint deriving 3. Evaluation of the risk arising from climate change for Greek from the Bank’s operations10. businesses by means of special procedures and tools. 2. Support of investments in RES and energy-saving 4. Finding solutions for the adjustment of businesses to projects11. the climate changes. Climate Risk and Exposure Piraeus Bank made the first coordinated efforts towards the economic evaluation of the climate risk exposure of businesses active in Greece. Specifically, through the Climate Risk Management Model it has developed, the Bank calculates annually the climate exposure of its business borrowers from various sectors that are likely to be affected financially by climate change. 10  iraeus Bank Group’s Environmental Management System: www.piraeusbankgroup.com/en/corporate-responsibility/environment/ P environmental-fields-of-action/environmental-management/environmental-management-system 11 Green Entrepreneurship: www.piraeusbankgroup.com/en/corporate-responsibility/environment/environmental-fields-of-action/green-business 200 Sustainable Development Report 2017 The Model was developed in 2012, in the framework of the EU co-funded LIFE climabiz program, and in the following years was expanded to more branches of economic activity. In 2016, a related scientific article12 and research was published, related to the impact of climate change and the methods of adaptation in the agricultural sector. The study assesses the impact on crops and cultivation in Greece and emphasizes the need for assessment of the risk from climate change in the agricultural sector and the relevant adjustment of the adaptation actions and of the banking products offered. In the framework of the EU climabiz program, the Bank, as a coordinating partner, invested approx. €770,000. It invested an additional €43,000 in 2016 for the upgrading of the Model and the study for the agricultural sector as well as €31,500 annually for the calculation of the climate exposure and to support the Model. For 2017, the characteristics of the business portfolio with impact from climate change and the general structure of the business borrowers that were included in the final sample per sector of economic activity are illustrated in the Tables below: Characteristics of Sample loan-holders Total Number of Sample business borrowers 10,655 Total Turnover from Sample business borrowers € 44,413,535,577 Structure of Subject business borrowers per Sector of Economic Activity Offices 5.045 Agriculture 1.514 Energy Production 1.346 Processing 1.345 Hotels 1.247 Shipping 94 Hospitals 64 Total climate exposure of the Bank’s business borrowers was estimated at €541.5 mn for 2017, or 1.3% of total turnover. Physical exposure constitutes 48.7% and regulatory exposure 51.3% of total climate exposure13. Composition of the business loan portfolio for the last three years (2015-2017), with the criterion of climate exposure of the economic sectors with loans is as follows: Composition of the Business Loan Portfolio Based on Climate Exposure of the Economic Sectors with Loans Climate Exposure Sector Category Percentage 2017 Percentage 2016 Percentage 2015 Sectors of Negative Climate Exposure (benefit) 1.1% 1.1% 1.2% Sectors of Zero Climate Exposure 69.4% 73.7% 63.6% Sectors of Low Climate Exposure 17.1% 12.8% 19.0% Sectors of Medium Climate Exposure 5.7% 5.7% 7.3% Sectors of High Climate Exposure 6.7% 6.7% 8.9% 12 E lena Georgopoulou, Sevastianos Mirasgedis, Yiannis Sarafidis, Maria Vitaliotou, Dimitris Lalas, Ioannis Theloudis, Kaliopi-Despoina Giannoulaki, Dimitris Dimopoulos, Vrassidas Zavras, Climate change impacts and adaptation options for the Greek agriculture in 20212050: A monetary assessment, Climate Risk Management Journal, DOI: 10.1016/j.crm.2017.02.002, 2016. 13 For calculation of climate risk exposure of the specific sector of business loan-holders, the price of €7/tn CO2eq was used as the average unit price to buy greenhouse gas emission allowances Environmental Protection 201 It is noted that 87.6% of loan portfolio relates to sectors with negative to low climate exposure and only 12.4% of loan portfolio relates to sectors with medium and high climate exposure, at similar levels as 2016. It is the goal of Piraeus Bank to assess the impact of climate exposure in relation to the total risk of business borrowers to allow for future assessment of the financial impact for the Bank and the Group. Climate Risk Management Model The goal of the Climate Risk Management Model is to assess the climate exposure of Greek businesses and evaluate solutions to reduce exposure. The Model can be applied to calculate: 1. to cost of climate risk (natural and institutional) to reduce its climate risk; and related to climate change at economic sector, 3. the environmental footprint (gaseous sub-sector and business level; emissions, greenhouse gases, liquid waste,solid 2. the cost and benefits of the practices that waste) at both a sub-sector and business level. can be implemented by a business in order Physical Climate Risk is the financial impact to a business due to the change in climate conditions (increase/ decrease in average temperature or average rainfall, rise in sea levels, extreme weather conditions, eg. heat waves, flooding etc). Regulatory Climate Risk is the financial impact to a business due to the reforms in the institutional framework in order to deal with climate change (eg. participation in the EU Emissions Trading System EU ETS). For annual assessment of climate exposure, data are collected from the total of the Bank’s business portfolio. Following that, a sample is selected from businesses in specific sectors of economic activity, which are exposed to climate change and are of particular interest for the Bank’s loan portfolio, and Typical Units are developed (standard modeled representations of the productive units and the representative financial sub-sectors). For the assessment of climate exposure, the turnover of the business borrower is assessed, as are the parameters according to the sector or sub-sector of economic activity. Indicatively: 1. for the agricultural sector: the type and method industry, oil refinery, aluminum production of cultivation, geographical region; etc); and 2. for services: the climate zone and for hotels 4. for electricity production: the fuel and the in particular the season duration, year of technology utilized as well as the installed construction, type of energy utilized; power density and annual electricity 3. for manufacturing: the type of production. manufacturing it is involved in (steel Additionally, the business borrowers are categorized according to whether they participate in the EU emissions Trading System (EU-ETS), a factor which is taken into account in calculating climate exposure due to regulatory risk. Following that, data from the Typical units are added to the Climate Risk Management Model and the calculations are executed. In order to categorize financial sectors according to climate exposure, the Economic Sector Climate Exposure Index (ESCE) is calculated as the ratio of climate exposure in relation to the total turnover of the business borrowers, and the sectors are divided into categories as follows: 202 Sustainable Development Report 2017 1. Negative climate exposure : sectors with ESCE <0%. 3. Low climate exposure : sectors with 0% < ESCE ≤1%. 2. Zero climate exposure : sectors with ESCE =0% 4. Μedium climate exposure : sectors with 1% < (mainly concerns sectors not exposed to climate ESCE ≤5%. change). 5. Ηigh climate exposure: sectors with ESCE >5%. Collaborations Piraeus Bank collaborates with Society for the protection of biodiversity and the environment. The Society for the Protection of Prespa participates as a partner in the implementation of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia of the Bank, which began in October 2013. In the context of the employees’ participation in volunteer programs, in 2017 the Bank collaborated with Organisation Earth , while the cooperation with the social cooperative Klimax Plus for the collection of paper to be recycled in Attica continued. This cooperation, besides its contribution to the achievement in the environmental goals of the Bank, also supports vulnerable social groups and contributes to their re-introduction to society. Environmental Awareness and Training An integral part of the Group's philosophy is the shaping of a unified culture culture for its human capital and its stakeholders. This quality objective is achieved with environmental training and awareness-raising on planet's critical environmental issues. The Bank ensures systematic training of its employees through e-learning and experientially through environmental actions. At the same time, it organizes a multitude of actions targeted at the protection of nature as well as creating alliances with NGO’s, institutions and organizations. Internal Communication and Environmental Awareness in the Group Environmental Awareness and Training of Employees The goal of e-learning is to promote key environmental terms and the Bank’s environmental work as well as making topics such as well as and specific topics such as green entrepreneurship, the Bank’s green products as well as the procedures of the Environmental Management System under EMAS of the Bank comprehensible. In 2017, 147 Environmental Management Co-ordinators were trained in specially-designed e-learning related to EMAS and the Environmental Management System of the Bank. Additionally, 470 people completed environmental e-learning programs in issues of energy-saving, RES’s, eco-driving as well as solid waste and water management and financing. By aiming to strengthen the knowledge of Green Entrepreneurship and Environmental Banking, executives from Entrepreneurship Centers, the Directors and executives of the Branch Network and executives of subsidiaries received e-learning. In total, in 2017, man-hours of training on environmental e-learning reached to 2,232. E-learning course on Environmental and Social Risk With the goal of raising employee awareness, the Human Resource Unit in collaboration with the Environment Unit completed the e-learning lesson Environmental and Social Risk . The lesson has already been delivered to 78 selected Bank executives, with the aim of disseminating it to more employees in 2018. Green News Green News uploaded on the intranet continued this year to inform employees. On average, 550 employees follow the bulletins. Environmental Protection 203 Annual Environmental Management Competition Piraeus Bank, organizes annually the Material Recycling and Energy Saving Competition Green Behaviour Wins! with the total participation of the branches and administration buildings, which are included in the Environmental Management System (EMS) and are rewarded for: the quantity of materials recycled in paper, batteries and ink cartridges/toners as well as for the greatest reduction in electricity consumption. Apart from the sensitisation of employees, the recycling competition also aims to constantly improve Piraeus Bank’s environmental performance and reduce its environmental footprint. For the seventh consecutive year, the employees of Branches and Administration Buildings who were awarded received symbolic gifts with environmental overtone, thus rewarding proper and responsible environmental behaviour in their everyday operation. Eco-driving In 2017, Human Resources Unit and the Environment Unit in collaboration with the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES) conduct seminars on ecological and safe driving. In total, 10 seminars were held at the Bank’s training center in Kastri, in the context of the lesson organized by Green Banking regarding ESMS, attended by 126 executives. Employee training was conducted in three parts. In the first part, a short drive was taken with employee vehicles in the area. In the second, a 15-minute theoretical session was held on the issue of Principles of Safe, Ecological and Economical Driving. In the third, the first route was taken again, applying the Principles of Eco-driving. By comparing the data from the employees’ driving before and after and with the use of the vehicles’ trip computers, it was noted that almost all drivers achieved an average fuel-saving of 11.5% by applying the Principles of Eco-driving. Environmental Education of Employees' Children The Bank, in the context of its cooperation with the American Farm School of Thessaloniki, organized in 2017 a course of environmental-educational program for Group employees from Thessaloniki and their families. In March 2017, a Tour titled Getting to know Athens by walking was organized, followed by a visit to the National Garden. Moreover, the Treasure Hunt Get to know Plaka for Fun , an action with cultural and environmental content held in April, received very positive response. At the Piraeus Bank Group Historical Archive, employees and their children had the opportunity to play the board-role-playing game Mission Stymphalia , which is included in the educational suitcase of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia. Through play, parents and children became acquainted with the problems of the wetlands and cooperated so as to save Lake Stymphalia. In total, more than 300 people participated in the above actions, both adults and children. Environmental Management System (EMS) Awareness Campaign With the aim of raising awareness of Piraeus Bank Group’s environmental management to employees and the wider public, in 2016, a related campaign was designed, which is expected to continue until the end of 2018. The campaign includes posters and brochures placed at buildings and branches as well as note pads, bookmarks and leaflets distributed to employees during their training. Environmental Behavior Questionnaire In the context of a study conducted every two years since 2007, related to the environmental performance of Bank employees, 1,923 employees completed on a volunteer basis the questionnaire Our daily habits and the environment 204 Sustainable Development Report 2017 which was posted on Intranet. The results are analyzed by the Ecological Recycling Society. The average environmental performance of employees, on a 10-point scale, in 2007 was 5.8, in 2009 it rose to 6.3 and in 2011 to 6.8. In 2013 and 2015 it stood at 6.4. In 2017, employees’ environmental performance remained unchanged at 6.4. External Communication and Environmental Information Social Media The Think Green platform, operates since 2011, has created an internet community with presence in the most popular social networks (Facebook, twitter, YouTube, Flickr). The platform has more than 33,000 friends on facebook in the seven years of its operation and constitutes a precious source of information on environmental issues, with daily posts of articles which are aiming at sensitizing users. More information is available on the website of the Group www.piraeusbankgroup.com, where its environmental work is presented thoroughly, while on the web-pages of climabiz and LIFE-Stymfalia the progress and results of these projects are presented as well as the other LIFE programs. Press and website listings-Newsletters The Group’s environmental work is promoted regularly in the printed media and in various websites. 20 separate articles and press releases appeared in newspapers with broad circulation in 2017 on issues such as the achievements of Piraeus Bank Group’s Environmental Management System, LIFE-Stymfalia project as well as the practical commitment of the Bank to the principles of Corporate Responsibility. Educational suitcase of the Archive In the framework of the European project LIFE-Stymfalia, the educational suitcase Mission ... Stymphalia was created and borrowed September-December 2017 by three schools in Corinth (1st and 2nd High School of Kiato, 2nd High School of Xylokastro) raising awareness about the problems and threats of wetlands to a total of 308 students. Path of environmental and cultural interpretion Considering the environmental and cultural identity of Lake Stymphalia and in the framework of LIFE-Stymfalia project, in April 2017 the environmental interpretation path Man and Nature on the Paths of the Time was constructed. The path connects the Environment Museum of Stymphalia with the wetland and the archaeological site. From April to December 2017, the path has attracted more than 2,500 people, including organized groups such as schools, scouts, NGO’s, mountaineering clubs etc. Installation of bicycle stands With the aim of sensitizing Human Resources as well as the broader public on issue of environmentally-friendly transport, in 2017 the relevant Environmental Program was completed. After conducting the relevant study and obtaining the required permits, bicycle stands were placed at two Bank Administration buildings and at in a province Branch. Green Banking SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE BANKING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES For the past 10 years, Piraeus Bank has been continuously promoting the integration of social and environmental aspects into its business practices by means of the coordinated actions and initiatives that it Environmental Protection 205 undertakes, with the aim of improving social welfare and sustainable growth. For 2017, the Bank’s management and its stakeholders assessed promotion of environmentally responsible products and services as an important issue in contributing to sustainable development. With Green Banking and Development Programs guiding it, the Bank monitors developments in the energy sector, which constitutes the majority of the Group’s green portfolio, and in all sectors that contribute to the promotion of a sustainable model of growth. Since 2009, the Bank has been actively promoting the fields of Renewable Energy Sources (RESs), energy-saving, proper water and waste management, organic farming and agro-tourism and eco-tourism. The Group’s specialized green products and services aim to serve these fields and to promote clean technologies in order to serve the investment choices of individual and business customers. The indirect impact of these specific loans is reflected in Greek society with the creation and preservation of jobs, with the support of low-income groups and with the protection of the environment in general. The Group’s approach to this issue is strengthened by the Corporate Responsibility Principles, the Environmental Policy (2010), the Strategy on Climate Change and the Sustainability Statement of the Piraeus Bank Group Executive Committee. Piraeus Bank Group offers individuals green loan products for: 1. The purchase or construction of a house with an energy 3. The purchase of consumer goods (eg Green appliances) efficiency class higher than B+. or other green interventions. 2. Installation of photovoltaic (PV) systems in their homes or environmentally-friendly repairs/interventions to improve their home’s energy-efficiency. Small businesses, by means of Piraeus Green Business , are able to receive loans either for the purchase and installation of PV systems suitable for self-production with energy offsetting (Net Metering) or for selected energy-upgrading expenses of business premises. Finally, Piraeus Bank Group, through the Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship Excelixi SA, provides specialized green services such as Green Key, carbon footprint, environmental management services and energy studies. These services are aimed at enhancing its customers’ competitiveness by reducing their operating expenses, their involvement in new, innovative sectors and adaptation to new standards. The development and promotion of specialized green products and services requires the synergy of all the stakeholders, both within and outside the Group. Consequently, in 2017, the Green Banking and Development Programs Unit designed and realized targeted training seminars for Group employees in order to disseminate its know-how on issues of green banking while also actively participating in meetings, conferences and workshops with Greek and international institutions related to all sectors of green entrepreneurship. Piraeus Bank, through analytical procedures of monitoring its green portfolio, notes at regular intervals, the positive contribution of green loans to sustainable growth (positive impact). The Unit aims to provide constant information to all stakeholders in relation to qualitative and quantitative portfolio data. At the end of 2017, the Group had more than €1.79 bn approved limits, proving in this way its strong commitment to the financing of new green entrepreneurship projects and especially RES projects that are in the planning and implementation phases. The total number of green clients (private individuals and businesses) to have been financed by Piraeus Bank Group at the end of 2017 rose to 24.8 thousands. In total, at the end of 2017, loan balances of the green portfolio exceeded €976 mn, with the portfolio maintaining its quality characteristics. More analytically, by the end of 2017, in excess of 22.2 thousands individuals had received funding to complete their green investments. At the end of 2017, loan balances of the green portfolio exceeded €66.8 mn. Most loan balances regarded the installation of PV systems on roofs (€46 mn). The majority of individuals were from the Exoikonomisi Kat’ Oikon program, which had expired in 2015. However, in 2017, as in 2016, additional beneficiaries from the Ministry of Environment and Energy were included in the program. 2,950 applications 206 Sustainable Development Report 2017 were initially eligible, giving more individual customers the opportunity to proceed with the energy-saving interventions to their homes. According to the additional decisions for inclusion in the intermediate program which have been published for 2017, the Bank exceeded 50% of eligible applicants, more than any other year. At an adverse economic period (2011-2017), the Bank actively supported with loans over €70 mn, more than 17,000 of its customers in their efforts to complete the energy-saving projects and consequently reduce their family expenses. The majority of citizens who received loans are in the lowest income scale with individual income under €12,000 or family income under €20,000. At the end of 2017, approximately 2,500 businesses had Bank loans of active status for implementation of green entrepreneurship projects. Green loans to businesses of the bank Units of Small and Medium size Enterprises (SMEs), Business Centers, Large Corporates and Piraeus Leasing exceeded €874 mn, constituting 89% of green pertfolio. Loans to RES projects continue to constitute the majority of the Group’s green portfolio. In particular, PV systems had loan balances amounting €491 mn at year-end 2017. Wind farm projects have also received significant financing, with loan balances reaching €306 mn (+20% versus 2016). Finally, the Bank holds loan balances for 16 small hydro-electric stations amounting €63 mn as well as loans for 15 biomass/ biogas projects. Constant financial and technical assessment of existing and new green investments, which include technical and environmental criteria in their assessment, plays an important role in the quality of the green portfolio. The total capacity of financed projects (including paid-off loans) by the Group, at year-end 2017 reached 1,134 MW, holding the 20.5% of the total RES capacity in Greece. Operation of these investments prevents on an annual basis, the emissions of 2.35 mn tonnes of CO2. RES Project Volumes 2017 2016 Change Capacity (MW) from bank-funded RES 1,134 1,017 +11.5% CO2 Emissions Prevented (thousands tonnes)* 2,350 2,124 +11% Green Loan Limits of RES projects (€ bn) 1.38 1.31 +5% Green Loan Balances of RES projects (€ bn) 0.89 0.95 -6% * Calculation of the CO2 quantities of emissions prevented is achieved based on the latest available average rate of CO2 emissions from Greek conventional electricity production and the average annual electricity production per RES technology according to the latest published data by the Operator of Electricity Market. IMPLEMENTATION OF AN Environmental & Social Management System for Financing The Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) was completed in 2017 and its gradual implementation began. The purpose of the system is to evaluate and manage the environmental and social risks, ie the negative impact on the environment and society that may arise from the business activities of financed business customers. In accordance with the ESMS specifications, the Bank initially assesses the loan applications and defines the scope of due diligence review in order to identify the environmental and social risks. With this initial assessment and in alignment with Law 4014/2011, it ranks the loans on a three-point qualitative scale of low (c), medium (B) and high (A) risk, and specifically: Environmental Protection 207 1. Category A: of potentially significant environmental or which do not usually affect an area broader than the social risks and/or impacts that are multidimensional, sites or facilities. irreversible, or unprecedented and which usually affect 3. Category C: of manageable environmental or social an area broader than the sites or facilities. risks and/or impacts that are reversible with the 2. Category B: of potentially significant environmental implementation of the appropriate measures and which or social risks and/or impacts that are reversible and usually affect the sites or facilities. In all categories of environmental and social risk, the Bank assesses the background of the client and of the shareholders-stakeholders in relation to serious environmental and social incidents and/or complaints that may have arisen, utilizing all available public information. At the same time, the Bank has incorporated into its Credit Policy list of excluded activities, on which the Bank bases the exclusion from financing certain business activities. Subsequently, the Bank, according to the ranked category of business activity, undertakes case-by-case due diligence by conducting spot checks and/or off-site check of permits and licenses. In cases where during the check, the risks are found to be unmanaged, a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is developed with a specific deadline of implementation, which is agreed upon with the customer. For implementation of the system, the Bank has incorporated in all its loan contracts the right to: 1. Monitor the premises of the funded business. 2. Propose corrective measures with customer approval. 3. Set the relevant terms and clauses on a case-by-case basis. The Bank monitors and evaluates regularly the environmental and social performance of loan holders according to the social and environmental criteria it has set as the risks and the degree of compliance of the loan holder may change. Development Programs Piraeus Bank responding with consistency to its commitment to the financing of projects and actions which protect the environment, support Greek society and offer significant financial returns, continued in 2017 its cooperation with development institutions in Greece and internationally in relation to development, guarantee and co-funded programs in order to provide the necessary tools to businesses that wish to grow and expand their activities. At the end of December 2017, Piraeus Bank completed its inclusion in the pilot program Private Finance for Energy Efficiency (PF4EE). The PF4EE program is an innovative tool combining the provision of liquidity and loan guarantees through the European Investment Bank (EIB), aimed at financing energy-saving projects. This agreement amounts €100 mn and is the only one of its kind in Greece and, in the context of the specific program, the largest in Europe. The program is expected to be activated by the middle of 2018. Additionally, in the framework of this agreement, further reduction of interest rate is provisioned for businesses willing to create or have created within the past 6 months at least one job for young people (15-25 years old). Sustainable Development and Investments The Principles of Sustainable Development (Environmental, Social and Governance ESG) have begun changing investments. The capital already invested, which takes into account not only financial criteria but the principles of Sustainable Development as well, has increased steadily in the last 2 years. Indicatively, while in the three-year period of 2011-2013, this type of capital increased with a regular growth rate of 11% annually, reaching €60 bn. Following the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris in 2015 and to date, the capital invested under these 208 Sustainable Development Report 2017 principles soared to €145 bn. In addition, EUROSIF estimates that at present in Europe companies are excluding investment opportunities amounting approximately €10trn by not complying with the principles of Sustainable Development14. The most recent significant development was the one from the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), which announced that one of its priorities is monitoring businesses’ compliance to the Accounting Directive to disclose non-financial and diversity information in the composition of their staff. The effect of this announcement, apart from its immaterial value, will prove profitable for businesses which abide by the Principles of diversity, as the new capital to be directed towards these will be notably high. Piraeus Asset Management is a subsidiary of Piraeus Bank and is part of the Piraeus Financial Markets Sector (PFM), having as a basic purpose the investment management of Mutual Funds and Institutional and Private Portfolios. In continuation of the 2016 actions, in February 2017, following the relevant approval of the Hellenic Capital Market Commission (HCMC), the Company launched a Mutual Fund (MF) in the Greek market which invests in companies that abide by the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) principles. The MF is called PIRAEUS BALANCED DEFENSIVE STRATEGY FUND OF FUNDS and invests primarily in international MF of the major international firms such as JP Morgan, Pictet and Parvest, which after extensive analysis of their securities, have an ESG rate. In this respect, Piraeus Asset Management SA has developed a database of over 3,000 international companies, which are analyzed based on ESG as they are defined internationally. Moreover, it developed a list of MF specialized in Sustainable Development Principles in order to shape the proper framework of permitted investments from which to select the best MF to invest in. ETVA INDUSTRIAL PARKS SA (ETVA VIPE SA) Environmental Management at ETVA VIPE SA Environmental management of ETVA Industrial Parks SA (ETVA VIPE) includes all the company’s fields of activity (water supply, solid and liquid waste management, noise level estimation, environmental monitoring). At the same time, efforts are made for the adoption of best practices by the businesses located or to be located in the industrial areas, i.e. environmental management is an organizational framework that plays a key role in the company’s overall operation. The Environmental Management System, certified under ISO 14001:2015, is implemented at the company’s head offices (since 2016) and at four additional Industrial Parks (since 2017). Within 2018, a new file will be submitted with additional data to enroll in the EMAS Register. In the key fields related to the environmental management of the activities of the Industrial Parks, the data for 2017 are as follows: Liquid Waste Management In 2017, ETVA Industrial Parks SA processed a total of 3,903,137 m³ of industrial wastewater at 7 Waste Treatment Plants under its management. The volume of sludge produced and managed by the company was 6,877 tonnes. The innovative wastewater processing method of applying bio-enhancers to the biological process was continued in 2017 at the Waste Treatment Plants of Patra and Kommotini, at which the production of dehydrated sludge was reduced by more than 80% in relation to 2016 and a total of 250 tonnes was produced. 14 Source: Deutsche Bank report Konzept 2018 Environmental Protection 209 Liquid Waste Management In 2017, a total of 5,561,708 m³ of water was pumped for the needs of the Industrial Parks, while 50.472 litres of chemicals (sodium hypochlorite) were used for purification. ETVA Industrial Parks SA provided water to 738 businesses in the secondary and tertiary sectors under ETVA VIPE. The company has carried out work on the maintenance, restoration, supply and upgrading of the water supply systems, in the context of the plan to deal with water losses, which also included an aspect of accelerating intervention in case of leaks. In total, in the period 2016-2017, the company continued water-saving actions, providing a total of 26,983 m³ less water than 2016. Environmental management performance indices In 2017, ETVA Industrial Parks SA applied for another consecutive year the environmental monitoring program, with indicative volumes for the year: 1. 131 water analyses (100 on average parametres) to ensure Kommotini, Irakleion, Lamia, Larissa and Drama and of the quality of the water network on a regular basis. the waterways it is sent to, by certified external labs. 2. 2,880 regular measurements for determination of 5. 1,700 regular controls and the respective analyses (15 chlorine for on-site drinking-water quality control. on average parametres) to verify optimal operation 3. 644 analyses (4 on average parameters) of waste of the Waste Treatment Units of the Industrial Park of samples at installed businesses at Industrial Parks in Thessaloniki (Waste Treatment Plant of Building Block Thessaloniki (Waste Treatment Plant of Building Block 52), Patra, Kommotini, Irakleion, Lamia, Larissa and 52), Patra, Kommotini, Irakleion, Lamia, Larissa and Drama at the ETVA Industrial Parks SA labs. Drama to monitor the condition of the network and the 6. 200 regular controls at the rainwater collection waste to be processed. networks at set locations to monitor the quality of the 4. 138 regular controls of the final flow of the Waste ETVA VIPE waterways that receive it. Treatment Units of the Industrial Park of Thessaloniki 7. 80 on-site noise level estimations at 22 ETVA VIPE (Waste Treatment Plant of Building Block 52), Patra, around Greece for 2016-2017. The results of the environmental monitoring program are provided to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy in the period January-March every year. Substantial results have been achieved in the water balance of the Industrial Park of Larissa and Kommotini in view of the implementation of the Environmental Management System. Natural losses of the network have been reduced by over 10%. In 2017, the positive course of loss reduction has been stabilized. This has been achieved through systematic recording of leaks in the drinking-water system. Implementation of environmental problems is expected to contribute to the further identification and management of natural losses. Recognizing the present challenges, ETVA Industrial Parks SA is in the design phase of Smart Business Parks. In this direction, a pilot IT application Internet of Things (IoT) was realized, during which various devices (meters and electromechanical installations) were interconnected with IT systems in an integrated online-monitoring platform. During its pilot implementation, notifications were activated which allowed for better handling and prevention of problems and leaks. Additionally, Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) were developed. At a later level, the IoT will be expanded to include more data and Industrial Parks. In an industrial ecosystem as Industrial Parks is, the development of the Internet of Things systems can enhance synergies between the individual units (businesses) as it promotes their networking, create economies of scale thus making them more competitive and give added value to their product and provide the necessary infrastructure for the units to adopt innovative IoT solutions. 210 Sustainable Development Report 2017 Environmental PROTECTION ACTIONS of the Piraeus Bank Group International Network Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility and abides by the principles of Sustainable Development at its international network as well, with initiatives and actions that protect the natural environment. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS Bulgaria 1. Dispatch of e-statements for monthly banking 2. Promotion of e-banking aiming at the conservation of transactions in an effort to reduce paper and natural resources. energy consumption and consequently protect the environment. Romania 1. Use of social media to disseminate and encourage 3. Promotion of e-banking aiming at the conservation of environmental actions. natural resources. 2. Programs for paper, plastic and light bulb recycling at the Branches and Management Buildings. Serbia 1. Use of electronic means such as winbank, e-newsletter, 2. Recycling programs for paper and electrical and e-card, e-learning etc, to save natural resources and electronic equipment. reduce operating expenses. Frankfurt Branch 1. Program for scanning, destroying and recycling paper 3. Program for the recycling of light-bulbs in cooperation which began in 2011 in cooperation with Praunheimer with the non-profit organization Lightcycle, which has Werkstätten gemeinnützige GmbH that employs people a constantly growing, Germany-wide network of lightwith special needs. The company undertakes recycling bulb collection with over 9,000 active collection points processes at the workplace or at home. Six special paper and which is constantly growing. In 2016, the Frankfurt recycling bins have been installed at the Branch and they Branch installed two light-bulb recycling bins for its are regularly replaced. The destruction of a printed archive personnel and its visitors. and the recycling is done based on DIN 66399 of existing 4. The Branch has on display posters with Energy Saving legislation. Instructions and special signs to indicate the recycling 2. Program for the recycling of batteries in cooperation points in order to encourage the personnel and its with the GRS Batterien11 Institution. In 2016, the customers towards environmentally friendly practices. Frankfurt Branch installed two battery recycling bins for its personnel and its visitors. 217 GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 218 Sustainable Development Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation General Disclosures (Core option) GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization Piraeus Bank SA  General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, piraeusbankgroup.com  Standard and services Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 Amerikis street, 105 64, Athens  102-4 Location of operations piraeusbankgroup.com>  Group Profile>Group Presence 102-5 Ownership and legal form piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations>  Corporate Governance>Articles of Association, SDR: Shareholder structure 102-6 Markets served piraeusbankgroup.com>Investor Relations  >Presentations>2018>Corporate Group Presentation 102-7 Scale of the organization piraeusbankgroup.com>Group Profile>Corporate Profile  SDR: Number of People Working at Piraeus Bank Group BR: At a Glance, Group’s Financial Data Analysis AFR: Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Presentation of 2017 Results: piraeusbankgroup.com/en/investors/financials/ presentation-audio-archive>slide: 22>Assets and Liabilities Overview, 69>Loan & Deposit Portfolios 102-8 Information on employees and piraeusbankgroup.com>Group Profile>At a Glance  other workers SDR: Number of People Working at Piraeus Bank Group, Distribution per Employment Type and Contract, Collective Representation, Social Policy 102-9 Supply chain SDR: Supplier Relationship  102-10 Significant changes to the piraeusbankgroup.com>Group Profile  organization and its supply SDR: Supplier Relationship chain BR: A Note from the CEO AFR: Εvolution of Volumes and Results of Piraeus Bank Group 102-11 Precautionary principle or piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate  approach Responsibility>Environment>Environment Fields of Action >Environmental Management>Piraeus Bank’s Environmental Statement SDR: Environmental Database Legislation and Case Law, Targets 2018, SDR: Environmental Statement, SDR: Internal Audit System and External Auditors, SDR: Independent Assurance Statement, SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards * External Assurance GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 219 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation General Disclosures (Core option) 102-12 External initiatives SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives and  Harmonisation with Global Standards 102-13 Membership of associations Hellenic Banking Association (hba.gr)  UN Global Compact (unglobalcompact.org) SDR: Participation in Global Initiatives and Harmonisation with Global Standards SDR: Piraeus Bank Group’s Declaration of Volunteerism SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage, Museum Network 102-14 Statement from senior SDR: Chairman’s Note  decision-maker BR: A Note from the CEO 102-16 Values, principles, standards, SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles  and norms of behavior SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening piraeusbankgroup.com/el/investors/corporategovernance>Corporate Governance Structure & Operating Regulations, Code of Conduct 102-18 Governance structure AFR: Corporate Governance Statement  SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening 102-22 Composition of the highest AFR: Corporate Governance Statement  governance body and of its SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening committees 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  102-41 Collective bargaining SDR: Distribution per Employment Type  agreements and Contract 102-42 Identifying and selecting SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue  engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017  Sustainable Development Report SDR: Stakeholders’ Dialogue 102-45 Entities included AFR: note 26>Investments in Consolidated Companies,  in the consolidated financial SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017 statements Sustainable Development Report 102-46 Defining report content SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017  and topic Boundaries Sustainable Development Report 102-47 List of material topics SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017  Sustainable Development Report Please refer to Material Topics * External Assurance 220 Sustainable Development Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation General Disclosures (Core option) 102-48 Restatements of information SDR: Environmental Protection>Reduction of  Environmental Footprint of Piraeus Bank 102-49 Changes in reporting SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017  Sustainable Development Report 102-50 Reporting period 01.01.2017-31.12.2017  102-51 Date of most recent report 28.06.2017  102-52 Reporting cycle Annual  102-53 Contact point for questions Business Planning & Investor Relations > investor_  regarding the report relations@piraeusbank.gr 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance SDR: Information Regarding the Content of the 2017  with the GRI Standards Sustainable Development Report 102-55 GRI content index SDR: GRI Standards Content Index  102-56 External assurance SDR: Independent Assurance Statement  Material topics New technologies (Q2) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade customer  Management and its Boundaries service Approach 103-2 The management approach and SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade customer  its components service 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade customer  approach service GRI 102: Piraeus Bank Index: Use of digital SDR: Use new technologies to upgrade customer  New Technoservice channels service logies-InnovPiraeus Bank Index is defined as the ative Services percentage of transactions made in digital channels in relation to the total number of transactions. Financial performance (Q1) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic BR: Selected Figures  Management and its Boundaries BR: A Note from the CEO Approach BR: Group’s Financial Data Analysis * External Assurance GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 221 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics 103-2 The management approach and BR: Selected Figures  its components BR: A Note from the CEO BR: Group’s Financial Data Analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management BR: Selected Figures  approach BR: A Note from the CEO BR: Group’s Financial Data Analysis GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated BR: Group’s Financial Data Analysis  Economic and distributed AFR: Consolidated Income Statement and Performance corresponding notes to the financial statements Promotion of tangible and intangible cultural heritage of the country (Q19) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Museum Network  Management and its Boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Museum Network  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Museum Network  approach GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and piop.gr  Indirect services supported SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles, Economic Promotion of Culture Impacts SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage SDR: Museum Network SDR: Historical Archive, Library, Education SDR: Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies 203-2 Significant indirect economic piop.gr  impacts SDR: Promotion of Culture SDR: Museum Network Employability (Q6) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Adoption of Best Workplace Practices  Management and its Boundaries SDR: Social Policy Approach SDR: Human Resources Reward * External Assurance 222 Sustainable Development Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics SDR: Staff Departures SDR: Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles 103-2 The management approach SDR: Adoption of Best Workplace Practices  and its components SDR: Social Policy SDR: Human Resources Reward SDR: Staff Departures SDR: Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Adoption of Best Workplace Practices  approach SDR: Social Policy SDR: Human Resources Reward SDR: Staff Departures SDR: Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires SDR: Adoption of Best Workplace Practices The number  of employee Employment and employee turnover SDR: Social Policy hires, by age group, is only SDR: Human Resources Reward available for Piraeus Bank in Greece. SDR: Staff Departures SDR: Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles Supporting local communities through the museum network of the Piraeus Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) (Q18) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Museum Network  Management and its Boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Museum Network  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Museum Network  approach GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments www.piop.gr  Indirect and services supported SDR: Corporate Responsibility Principles, Economic Promotion of Culture, Impacts SDR: Culture and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Principles, Promotion of Intangible Cultural Heritage SDR: Museum Network SDR: Historical Archive, Library, Education SDR: Contact and Networking with Institutions in Local Societies * External Assurance GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 223 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics 203-2 Significant indirect economic piop.gr  impacts SDR: Promotion of Culture SDR: Museum Network Socially and enviromentally responsible banking products and services (Q3) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Green Banking, Socially and enviromentally  Management and its Boundaries responsible banking products and services Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Green Banking, Socially and enviromentally  and its components responsible banking products and services 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Green Banking, Socially and enviromentally  approach responsible banking products and services FS-Product FS-8 Monetary value of products BR: Green Banking  Portfolio and services designed to deliver SDR: Green Banking, Socially and enviromentally a specific enviromental benefit responsible banking products and services for each business line broken down by purpose Risk management (Q13) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic BR: Risk Management  Management and its Boundaries SDR: Climate Risk-Climate Exposition Approach 103-2 The management approach BR: Risk Management  and its components SDR: Climate Risk-Climate Exposition 103-3 Evaluation of the management BR: Risk Management  approach SDR: Climate Risk-Climate Exposition GRI 201: 201-2 Financial implications and other SDR: Climate Risk-Climate Exposition  Economic risks and opportunities due to Performance climate change Corporate governance (Q12) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening  Management and its Boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening  and its components * External Assurance 224 Sustainable Development Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening  approach GRI 102: 102-18 Governance structure SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening  General 102-22 Composition of the highest SDR: Corporate Governance Strengthening  Disclosures governance body and its committees Improving environmental performance (Q14) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate  Management and its Boundaries Responsibility>Environment>Environmental Policy Approach www.piraeusbankgroup.com>Corporate Responsibility>Environment>Environmental Management Policy>Piraeus Bank Environmental Statement SDR: Environmental Framework 103-2 The management approach SDR: Environmental Framework, Environmental  and its components Management Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Environmental Framework, Environmental  approach Management Policy GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight SDR: Consumables Materials or volume SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 301-2 Recycled input materials used SDR: Consumables SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within SDR: Energy  Energy the organization SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 302-2 Energy consumption outside SDR: Energy  of the organization SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 302-3 Energy intensity SDR: Energy SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 302-4  Reduction of energy SDR: Energy consumption SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SDR: Emissions  Emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG SDR: Emissions  emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG SDR: Emissions  emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint * External Assurance GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 225 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SDR: Emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SDR: Emissions SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur SDR: Emissions oxides (SOX), and other SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint significant air emissions GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal SDR: Effluents and Waste Effluents and method SDR: Piraeus Bank Environmental Footprint Waste Reassurance of human rights with equal opportunities and integration of diversity (Q8) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights  Management and its Boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights  approach GRI 412: 412-2 Employee training on human SDR: Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights  Human Rights rights policies or procedures Assessment Continuous training and development of employees (Q7) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Investing in People’s Development  Management and its Boundaries Approach 103-2 The management approach SDR: Investing in People’s Development  and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Investing in People’s Development  approach GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per SDR: Investing in People’s Development The average  of man-hours Training and year per employee of training per hierarchical level Education is only available for Piraeus Bank in Greece. * External Assurance 226 Sustainable Development Report 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Omission EA* GRI 101: Foundation Material topics Protection of biodiversity (Q15) GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic SDR: Environmental Framework, Biodiversity and the  Management and its Boundaries Environment, Life-Stymfalia European Project Approach www.lifestymfalia.gr>Life-Stymfalia Project> Partners 103-2 The management approach SDR: Environmental Framework, Biodiversity  and its components and the Environment 103-3 Evaluation of the management SDR: Environmental Framework, Biodiversity  approach and the Environment GRI 304: 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, SDR: Biodiversity and the Environment Biodiversity products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored SDR: Biodiversity and the Environment  www.lifestymfalia.gr>Life-Stymfalia Project>AimObjectives www.lifestymfalia.gr>Life-Stymfalia Project> Partners www.lifestymfalia.gr>The area of Lake Stymfalia> Species www.lifestymfalia.gr>Life-Stymfalia Project> Actions>Preparatory Actions Notes: BR: Business Report 2017 SDR: Sustainable Development Report 2017 AFR: Annual Financial Report 2017 It is noted that the table contains brief description of GRI indices for reasons of presentation. For the complete description, please refer to the following link https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-download-center/. GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 227 ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Report Table 2010 Clauses Reference to GRI Standards Principles of Social Responsibility 4 Responsibility/Accountability 4.2 The application of the GRI Standards provides organizations Transparency 4.3 with a tool for accounting for and being transparent in their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. Ethical behaviour 4.4 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Respect for stakeholder interests 4.5 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 5. Stakeholder Engagement Respect for the rule of law 4.6 SDR 2017: Compliance Respect for international norms of behaviour 4.7 Sustainability Context Principle GRI 102 General Diclosures: 2. Strategy Respect for human rights 4.8 SDR 2017 Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights Recognizing social responsibility and engaging 5 stakeholders Recognizing social responsibility 5.2 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Stakeholder identification and engagement 5.3 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 5. Stakeholder Engagement Guidance on social responsibility core subjects 6 GRI 103 Management Approach Organizational governance 6.2 GRI 102 General Diclosures: 2. Strategy, 4. Governance Decision-making processes and structures 6.2.3 GRI 102-7 Scale of the Organisation Human rights 6.3 6.3.1 SDR 2017 Adoption of Best Workplace Practices 6.3.2 Due Diligence 6.3.3 SDR 2017 Participation in Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Supplier Relations In order to actively contribute to the safeguarding of human rights, special assessment criteria have been established for associates and suppliers Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 SDR 2017 Commitment to safeguarding human rights. See also 6.3.3 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 SDR 2017 Compliance, Investing in people’s development Resolving grievances 6.3.6 SDR 2017 Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 SDR 2017 Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Civil and political rights 6.3.8 GRI 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile 228 Sustainable Development Report 2017 ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Report Table 2010 Clauses Reference to GRI Standards Labour practices 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.1 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile 6.4.2 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Social dialogue 6.4.5 GRI 102 General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Health and safety at work 6.4.6 SDR 2017 Providing a modern and safe working environment, Employee Assistance Programmes EAPs Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee The Environment 6.5 The Environment 6.5.1 Category Environment 6.5.2 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 GRI 305-7 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization GRI 302-3: Energy Intensity GRI 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 GRI 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption GRI 305-1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 305-2: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 305-3: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Protection of the environment, biodiversity and 6.5.6 GRI 304-2: Description of significant impacts of activities, restoration of natural habitats products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 304-3: Habitats protected or restored Fair operating practices 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.1 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 2. Strategy, 3. Ethics and 6.6.2 Integrity, 4. Governance Anti-corruption 6.6.3 GRI 102 General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Fair competition 6.6.5 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Category: Economic GRI Content Index and ISO 26000 229 ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Report Table 2010 Clauses Reference to GRI Standards Respect for property rights 6.6.7 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 3. Ethics and Integrity Specific Standard Disclosures: Economic Performance Consumer issues 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.1 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service 6.7.2 information and labeling GRI 102-43, 44: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and 6.7.3 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service fair contractual practices information and labeling Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Consumer service, support, and complaint and 6.7.6 GRI 102-43, 44: Results of surveys measuring customer dispute resolution satisfaction Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 SDR 2017: Customer service and Ombundsman for Banking Investment Services, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Access to essential services 6.7.8 SDR 2017: Extensive branch network and accessibility Education and awareness 6.7.9 GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling Community involvement and development 6.8 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported SDR 2017: Museum Network Community involvement and development 6.8.1 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services 6.8.2 supported Community involvement 6.8.3 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported SDR 2017: Museum Network Education and culture 6.8.4 SDR 2017: Participation in Global Initiatives United Nations Global Compact, Commitment to safeguarding human rights Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Health 6.8.8 SDR 2017: Providing a modern and safe working environment, Employee Assistance Programmes EAPs Social Investment 6.8.9 GRI 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported 230 Sustainable Development Report 2017 ISO 26000 Sustainable Development Report Table 2010 Clauses Reference to GRI Standards Guidance on integrating social responsibility 7 throughout an organization The relationship of an organization’s characteristics 7.2 GRI 102: General Disclosures to social responsibility Due Diligence 7.3.1 GRI 103: Management Approach Determining relevance and significance of core 7.3.2 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice subjects and issues to an organization An organization’s sphere of influence 7.3.3 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Establishing priorities for addressing issues 7.3.4 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 6.Reporting Practice Setting the direction of an organization for social 7.4.2 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 2. Strategy responsibility Building social responsibility into an organization’s 7.4.3 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 4. Governance, governance, systems and procedures GRI 103: Management Approach Types of communication on social responsibility 7.5.3 GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile Enhancing the credibility of reports and claims about 7.6.2 GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile social responsibility Reviewing an organization’s progress and 7.7.3 GRI 103: Management Approach performance on social responsibility Improving performance 7.7.5 GRI 102: General Disclosures: 4. Governance GRI 103: Management Approach Voluntary initiatives for social responsibility 7.8 GRI 102: General Disclosures: Organizational Profile
