2017 Highlights Each Interaction Matters 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS 2 Each Interaction Matters “I always think about what is next. If one is not thinking about what’s next, then they are always behind.” Daniel Julien, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer We make a positive difference in people’s lives across the globe. Every member of our team is an interaction expert who is able to communicate through every channel, anywhere and anytime. Our mission is to create an empowered and lasting relationship between customers and their favorite brands. Teleperformance is proud to be the global leader in our industry and we are totally committed to serving as the personal link our clients rely on to establish a strong and lasting bond with their prospects and customers. This report serves as an annual summary of our 2017 results which we are very proud to share with our clients, shareholders, key stakeholders, and, of course, our globally diverse family of 223,000 wonderful people in 76 countries. Speaking of people, we continue to work very hard to create and maintain 350 great workplaces worldwide and to be a good corporate citizen in all the communities where we live and work. We reconfirm our ongoing commitment to, and support of, the United Nations Global Compact and all of its principles. Achieving stellar business results and also making the world a better place is not easy, but it can be achieved through the incredible efforts of dedicated, passionate and hard-working people united by a common purpose. And so I thank our people for a strong year of continued growth with even bigger expectations for 2018. I also thank our clients, our shareholders and all of our stakeholders for your continued trust in Teleperformance during our continuing incredible journey. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS CONTENTS 3 1 We are a People Company 5 TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 7 THE BEST PARTNER 8 AWARDS 2 10 OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE We Treat Your Business Like Our Own 19 OUR PORTFOLIO 22 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 26 INFORMATION SECURITY 29 THE TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER 3 EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 33 INSPIRING EVENTS We Support the Communities Where We Work and Live 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 CITIZEN OF THE WORLD 43 CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 45 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS 4 We are a People Company Our main asset is our people and we strongly believe that great performance comes from a great team. We select the right people, invest in training, and create inspiring workplaces to engage and motivate our team to deliver superior interactions. Happy people perform better happy happy happy employees = customers = clients TP IN USA HIGHER ENGAGEMENT, BETTER INTERACTIONS. BETTER RESULTS, STRONGER LOYALTY. Your customers are more likely to have a better experience when interacting with us! CHINA 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 5 We Have the Largest Multicultural Team in the Market TP IN EGYPT Countries where we operate Present in We serve Over 76 countries 160 markets 223 thousand employees We provide services in Revenue of 265 languages and dialects € 4.180 billion In 2017 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERS 6 TP IN PORTUGAL Connecting Brands and People Growing Our Global Footprint We have the largest multicultural team We maintain our position as a global in the market, and we certainly love industry leader by continuously to interact with people. Through our expanding our operations. As a matter of omnichannel customer experience fact, we have strengthened our presence capabilities, we interact with millions in Asia. Together with the expansion of of customers every year by voice, email, our existing facilities in Beijing, Nanning, chat, click-to-call, social media, and and Xi’an, we now offer a comprehensive other channels, connecting the biggest multilingual solutions hub to cover and most respected brands on the planet greater China, Korea, Japan, and with them, and ensuring consistently Southeast Asia. In April, we expanded positive customer interactions. our operations into Guangzhou-Foshan, making Teleperformance China the most A Network of Award-Winning complete language solution in its market. Hubs Also just recently opened, our site in Through our multilingual solutions hubs, Penang, Malaysia serves as another we are able to offer our clients a global, premium multilingual solutions hub standardized customer experience that is for Teleperformance Asia Pacific, aligned with a cost-effective structure and offering services in over 20 languages supported by a consultative approach. and Asian dialects from more than Each hub is located in a cosmopolitan city, 500 workstations. attracting and retaining the best talents from Furthermore, we are excited and all over the world. optimistic about the opening of our new In the CEMEA region, which includes Central site in Lima, Peru, expanding our Latin and Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa, American presence to 10 countries that we can be found in more than 40 countries. include Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, On the other hand, we have a strong team Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El working out of several facilities in the EWAP, Salvador, Guyana, and Jamaica. which includes the US, Canada, Philippines, In Europe, Teleperformance expanded and China, while our Ibero-LatAm presence, into Kosovo in 2017, to provide services to which includes operations in Mexico, German-speaking customers. Colombia, Spain, and Portugal. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE BEST PARTNER 7 Worldwide Leader in Outsourced Omnichannel Experience Management Our offerings allow companies all over the world to integrate omnichannel services in order to connect more effectively with customers and optimize their brand experiences across all interaction channels. We have been at it for almost four decades–improving and learning, while creating processes, methodologies, and tools to deliver the most remarkable experiences. We have the specialization in each channel, in-depth knowledge of customer preferences, and expertise in all of the major industries, all based on the commitment to see your business as our own. We Are Values-Driven Our values serve as a compass for our actions and describe how we behave in the world. They represent the way we serve our clients on a daily basis. Cosmos Earth Metal Air Fire Integrity Respect Professionalism Innovation Commitment I say what I do, I treat others I do things right the I create I’m passionate I do what I say. with kindness very first time. and improve. and engaged. and empathy. Before we start working with you, we will align Teleperformance’s culture and values with yours and discuss interaction techniques to deliver superior results to your business. The Blue Diamond Club is Teleperformance’s most exclusive employee recognition program that is designed to bring our top performers together with the leadership of the company to celebrate our outstanding culture. TP IN THEPHILIPPINES 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS AWARDS 8 Through our team’s hard work and commitment, we were able to reach new heights as told by the awards and recognitions we have received in 2017. We remain grateful to our employees—our success is your success! A complete list of awards and recognition may be found at www.teleperformance.com. Here are some of the independent accolades we have received: TP IN INDIA EVEREST GROUP Everest Group named Teleperformance the worldwide leader in management of outsourced contact centers for the fifth consecutive year. FROST & SULLIVAN Five 2017 Frost & Sullivan prizes were awarded to Teleperformance: Company of the Year (Asia-Pacific, Europe) Company of the Year (Colombia) Competitive Innovation and Leadership Award (India) GREAT PLACE TO WORK® (GPTW) Great Place to Work® (GPTW) prizes were awarded to Group companies for 2017: Teleperformance in Mexico (Nearshore) Teleperformance in Dominican Republic Teleperformance in El Salvador Teleperformance in Portugal Teleperformance in Brazil Teleperformance in Greece Teleperformance in India 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS AWARDS 9 AON HEWITT The 2017 Global Best Employers™ Program prize was awarded by AON Hewitt to Teleperformance in Albania, China, India, and El Salvador. ASIA PACIFIC CUSTOMER SERVICE CONSORTIUM IAPP VEREGO The Asia Pacific Customer Service Consortium Teleperformance won the coveted HPE­-IAPP Teleperformance was awarded with an honored Teleperformance in China with the CRE Privacy Innovation Award for the Privacy Enterprise-Wide Certification for Social Customer Experience Lab Outsourcing Services Operations category. This prestigious global award Responsibility by Verego for the third award. win underscores the company’s cross-industry consecutive year. leadership in data and privacy security practices. HUMANA IAOP PHILIPPINE ECONOMIC ZONE AUTHORITY (PEZA) HUMANA PARTNER INNOVATOR OF THE YEAR AWARD Teleperformance ranked among the best Teleperformance in the Philippines received Teleperformance in the United States was named outsourcing service providers at the International two awards from the Philippine Economic Zone Partner Innovator of the Year by Humana. Association of Outsourcing Professionals’ (IAOP) Authority (PEZA): Outstanding Employer of the Year Global Outsourcing 100® awards for the third year and Outstanding Community Project of the Year. in a row. PEZA is the primary agency establishing economic zones for foreign investment in the country. CONTACT CENTER WORLD ASIA CEO AWARDS CHINA INTELLIGENT SERVICE GOLDEN SERVICES AWARD Teleperformance in Portugal received top Teleperformance in the Philippines won Top Teleperformance in China received the China recognition from Contact Center World. Employer of the Year at the 2017 Asia CEO Awards. Intelligent Service Golden Services award at the 2017 Beijing International Fair for Trade in Services. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 10 Inspiring Passion We want our people to be inspired and motivated. We want them to feel proud to belong to our team, that’s why we invest so much in our programs, relationship initiatives, and internal campaigns. We work hard to create the best place for them. The happiness of our employees at work is Teleperformance’s main goal. That is why we organize themed parties for them every year. TP IN RUSSIA 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 11 TP IN PORTUGAL Embrace the Spotlight The Teleperformance For Fun Festival is our annual celebration of the artistic talents of our people around the world. It is an amazing opportunity for our employees to showcase their skills in dance, music, art, photography, and short film. Because The 2017 For Fun Festival saw the we are a people company, this event allows us to positively introduction of two new categories: highlight our different nationalities and cultures, promote photography and short film. pride, and create a unique, worldwide family bond. There were a total of almost 5,000 submissions across all categories. Art Dance Music Photography Short Film TOTAL 654 1,103 2,093 630 519 4,999 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 12 For Fun Festival USA Telerperformance in the USA scouted for top talents Around the World across all locations. BRAZIL In the ninth edition of the For Fun Festival, Brazil celebrated with two new categories: short film and photography. CHINA Teleperformance in China’s top 20 finalists were chosen through voting, where the top three finalists received prizes. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Teleperformance in the Dominican Republic had solo acts, duos, and groups that showcased their talents and competed to qualify for the global INDIA MADAGASCAR phase. For Fun Festival in India encouraged employees to At Teleperformance in Madagascar, employees pursue their talents at their workplace, inspiring showcased their talents during “Concours feelings of pride, happiness, and a sense of de Chant” to select the brightest stars for belonging. Teleperformance’s For Fun Festival. TP IN USA 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 13 We believe that building sports teams teaches our people the value of teamwork, passion, and connecting with one another. This is our basketball team based in Salt Lake City, UT. We are an Adrenaline-Fueled Team At Teleperformance, our passion extends to every aspect of our lives. And because success is our own form of high-octane fuel, we never tire of pushing the envelope. We work hard, but we also play hard. The Teleperformance Sport Club is our worldwide program promoting sports as a tool for physical well-being and better TP IN SOUTH AFRICA quality of life. Not only does it encourage our people to play and have fun, it also fosters a culture of camaraderie and genuine About Sport Club 2017: teamwork and promotes a healthy lifestyle. 342 73 93 34 soccer basketball bowling volleyball teams teams teams teams 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 14 Our Homegrown Athletes in Action RUSSIA Teleperformance in Russia truly loves its sports, COSTA RICA as the football and volleyball championships Teleperformance in Costa Rica organized a Game TUNISIA became the most anticipated event of the year. Fest to allow all the gamers in our staff to have Teleperformance in Tunisia launched “TP League fun showing off what they do in their spare time. 2017,” the first edition of the inter-site football tournament. CANADA Teleperformance in Toronto put together a BRAZIL softball team named TP Diamonds for the 2017 In 2017, the seventh Soccer Society Teleperformance spring season. They had employees register Cup was held in Brazil. With open games, for this team from agent level, support staff, NETHERLANDS participants were able to invite friends and family to executive leadership. Every year, Teleperformance in the to the event. Trophies and medals were given to the Netherlands organizes a football tournament best teams. for all its employees. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 15 TP IN DUBAI Working for Wellness Passion 4U is Teleperformance’s wellness program that promotes health literacy, fitness activities, and happiness at work. The program features a range of initiatives that include health fairs, massage therapy for stress relief, stretching exercises, fitness classes, mini marathons, as well as local sports club benefits. It also involves awareness campaigns that cover health and wellness topics such as healthy eating, good posture, and breast cancer prevention. Teleperformance in the Dominican Republic celebrated their annual Occupational Health Week, a Passion 4U initiative. TP IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 16 In the Pink of Health Teleperformance also runs awareness campaigns to promote such actions as: TP IN MEXICO healthy eating good posture mini marathons massage therapy for stress relief breast cancer prevention physical exercises by health fairs setting up fitness classes TP IN FRANCE TP IN COLOMBIA TP IN CANADA 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 17 Our Passion 4U Highlights UK The Bristol Moon St. office of Teleperformance in from Around the Globe the UK received a visit from the Royal Marines, sparking excitement among employees. The Marines brought a 40-ft climbing wall, and soon enough, everybody had their share of the fun. ROMANIA Teleperformance in Romania offered fruits to its employees on a weekly basis in order to inspire them to adopt a healthy lifestyle and experience the benefits of consuming fresh fruits. USA As part of our wellness and fitness program for our employees, a push-up contest was held at our Fairborn, OH site. ITALY Teleperformance in Italy educated its employees on how to combat breast cancer. As part of this effort, Teleperformance in Italy AUSTRALIA INDIA took part in the Race for the Cure, where Teleperformance in Australia employees had the Pulmonary Function Test (PFT) camps were selected employees participated in a breast opportunity to workout and get fit with free, organized at Teleperformance sites in India. This cancer screening. limited-time gym memberships. The most fit at helped some employees who had undiagnosed the end of the four-week event won a prize. conditions, and they were able to consult with physicians. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE 18 TP UNIVERSITY CLASS OF 2017 Teleperformance University is our MBA-style program Designed to train our future leaders in the key subjects related to managing that transmits our culture and understanding our core business, Teleperformance University (TPU) also while gathering and sharing prepares them to implement major changes in our business, while staying our worldwide best practices totally aligned with our strategic objectives. Our high-potential executives and and innovative projects in leading managers have access to TPU, which is a great honor and an even customer relationship and greater responsibility. experience management. 18 participants representing 16 countries 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR PORTFOLIO 19 The Omnichannel Customer Experience We live in a technology-fueled era where customers expect to receive service on the channel of their choice, be it voice, email, SMS, web, mobile, or social media. They want support anytime, anywhere. Because the customer experience is no longer a simple process with a clear beginning, middle, and end, organizations must now move towards a purposeful omnichannel service strategy where the customer experience is continuous and universal across brands, across formats, and across devices. To help companies address this challenge, we have evolved our services into two business families: customer experience, which encompasses our core services, and high-value specialized services. Some of our products: 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS OUR PORTFOLIO 20 AllianceOne, Teleperformance Analytics, TLScontact, and TLScontact A Teleperformance Company LanguageLine are our specialized solutions that TLScontact is the European leader in visa We offer an outstanding mix of have allowed us to provide process outsourcing with over six million consultancy, predictive and prescriptive services in accounts receivable visa interactions annually. Since joining analytics, data management and management, analytics, visa Teleperformance, TLScontact has grown into a visualization, enterprise feedback processing, and translation service with 140 locations across the world in management, and specific qualitative and interpreting services. Europe, Africa, and Asia, processing visas for and quantitative customer research a number of countries. TLScontact offers its techniques to generate value by clients an end-to-end solution, starting with shaping an effective experience for both information provision across multiple media customers and employees. platforms, to the direct face-to-face contact experience and back-office tasks. Our contact centers are the essential link between LanguageLine Solutions is the US market organizations and their customers. leader in over-the-phone and video AllianceOne is a global leader in the Accounts interpretation solutions to a wide range of Receivable Management industry, offering Our services include: organizations, providing numerous types a complete range of collection services and • Information Provision of translation and interpreting services, contact center solutions designed to meet • Fee Management including: our clients’ diverse needs. The company has • Appointment Booking built an infrastructure of operational sites • Phone Interpreting • Face-to-Face Contact Centers around centers of excellence specializing • InSight Video Interpreting • Document Scrutiny in specific market areas and/or portfolio • On-site Interpreting • Biometric Information Capture segments. This infrastructure allows • Translation and Localization • Back-Office Services AllianceOne to deliver programs ranging from • Testing and Training • Transmission of Applications outbound calling campaigns to inbound • Interview Management Acquired by Teleperformance in 2016 and call answering and fulfillment services. We • Additional Document Requests with more than 35 years of experience, provide both firstand third-party services, • Application Tracking Services LanguageLine Solutions is the trusted incorporating a wide range of cost and • Value-Added Services language services provider for more than service options that take full advantage 27,000 clients across the world. We provide of both domestic and international labor the highest quality phone, video, and onsite markets. In addition, AllianceOne is interpreting, document translation services able to service accounts throughout the and localization, as well as bilingual staff and revenue cycle. interpreter testing and training. We deliver the industry’s fastest and most dependable Teleperformance Analytics is a pioneering access to highly trained and professional provider of customer and employee linguists in more than 258 languages, 24 experience management solutions that hours a day, 7 days a week. helps companies improve P&L through an enhanced experience. LanguageLine Solutions’ latest innovation, an award-winning cloud-based language We focus on journey redesign through big access platform known as Olympus, is data analytics and design thinking using redefining on-demand language service our experience in CX design and delivery delivery. The platform was built to provide to translate information into actionable flexibility for future growth of new insights that positively affect individual product offerings, including LanguageLine customer behavior, increasing loyalty InSight Video Interpreting, the company’s and value. proprietary video interpreting solution. The Olympus platform will enable LanguageLine Solutions to maximize its 9,000+ -strong and on-demand linguist team as modes of interpreting overlap. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS 21 We Treat Your Business Like Our Own We have been improving, learning and creating new processes, methodologies, and tools to deliver the most remarkable experiences across the globe. We are experts in people interactions and promote the best possible experiences worldwide. TP IN CHINA 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 22 Committed to Excellence We maintain the best practices in performance management and make use of the best support tools and systems in the market. These guarantee that our operations worldwide are consistent and that we receive frequent feedback and recommendations for improvement. TP IN EGYPT 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 23 Our operational instruments are built and updated based on tactical and strategic advantages. We then implement our practices consistently across the globe while maintaining deep understanding of local markets. Teleperformance Operational Baseline Enterprise Standards Top Contact Driver Processes & Standards for Teleperformance A detailed daily performance BEST is a group of guidelines One of the main purposes process, TOPS is a world-class that lists standards and of TCD is to identify the coaching, problem-solving best practices based on main reasons that lead approach, and representative our worldwide experience customers to get in touch development methodology to ensure consistency and with Teleperformance. that ensures uniformity and high performance in our With hundreds of contacts every day from quality management in all our operations all over the world. multiple channels and different places, programs around the world. the TCD program is crucial in effectively This manual of standards provides global best practices in operations, guiding performance and working on the TOPS was created to support front line human resources, sales, payroll, most relevant issues. It shows the most management in developing hightechnical support, etc., for all sites, and current subjects of interest of customers. performance agents by managing ensuring high service quality, excellent When we know about them in advance, performance metrics with consistency. performance, and proactive management we are able to better prepare our team TOPS improves performance and quality of new and existing programs. Moreover, to have assertive responses to clear those by enabling leaders to spend 80 percent it sees to it that all the deliverables are interactions. The process is improved, of their time focused on feedback and archived by internal departments, adding the support time is reduced, and more coaching. This result is achieved through value and consistency to all processes quality and agility in every interaction structured processes that provide leaders across the company. is performed. with consistent assessments of agents’ results. By following these processes, the leadership team achieves more efficiency, allowing them to spend more time giving support and feedback to agents based on consistent analysis. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 24 TP IN MEXICO Frontline Process Benefits to our clients We collect large amounts of data in our day-to-day operations Support Areas Improve client(Observations, Monitoring, TCD centric approach analysis, CX Lab). Through TP Frontline, while improving we then put this data to use by knowledge of our clients’ business creating a package that helps our clients’ businesses, focusing on key strategies and objectives. Operations Better understanding of our clients’ challenges Sales Team Opportunity to show off Teleperformance’s high-intel services, increasing loyalty and cross and upselling Client New intelligence services to improve operations and processes 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 25 Main Features: The product also evaluates desktop events and call emotions and initiates recordings Supports all channels and devices automatically if activity falls outside Channel: Voice, Digital (Social Media, Chat, The Teleperformance Contact Center defined thresholds. This data is stored for Email, Mobile Apps, Bots/AI, Video Chat, Management System (CCMS) is an awardreporting with any sensitive information IM/SMS) winning Enterprise Resource Planning fully obfuscated. solution for managing employee Device: smartphones, tablets, computers Observer enhances floor efficiency information, time and attendance, CRM Solution Integrated with all Channels with virtual raised hand and coaching talent acquisition, quality assurance and Mines client data to provide reallab. Virtual raised hand prioritizes and workforce planning, enabling users to time updates across channels without categorizes requests for supervisor perform at their best with specialized redundancies and inconsistencies. Our intervention. Requests which involve a products and modules targeted to solution can be easily integrated with ERP customer on hold are handled in a FIFO the business. and billing solutions. queue. Common categories of request can More than just a program, CCMS is the be addressed more robustly in training. Knowledge Base backbone of Teleperformance. As the root Coaching lab allows supervisor coaching Well-organized data regarding procedures, authority for employee data and all other sessions with agents to be recorded services, and other valuable information for Teleperformance tools, CCMS provides the and reviewed. Call center managers can the representatives to guarantee consistency business with information and resources then provide feedback on coaching to in different channels. needed to manage our employees. the supervisors. Multi-routing Capabilities (Inbound) From agents to executive management, Customizable maps allow end users to No matter what the channel, the customer CCMS offers the business a flexible layout the call floor workspaces. Observer can be routed to the agent with the solution for employees to complete daily users can interact with each workspace right skill. business functions as they relate to each icon to see details about the agent, call, unique respective role. Contact Management (Outbound) computer workstation, security alerts, Contact scheduler tool can be configured by voice alerts, and real-time feeds of voice, CCMS delivers a wealth of information and customer segmentation, behavior, locations, desktop view, and an overhead camera tools that can increase quality, ensure and preferred contact channel in order to view of the agent and workspace. The consistency of operations worldwide, define the right time to contact customer. solution provides a single interface for reveal insights into the bottom line, and floor management as well as historical provide continual improvement based on trend and point-in-time analysis operational indicators. and reporting. Main Features: TP Observer is a call floor management Enhanced Privacy and Security of tool. Observer empowers floor and Customer Data TP Client is our omnichannel CRM tool call center managers with real-time used to construct, pursue, and provide Improved Capacity Planning information about the agent workspace. consistent solutions to customer issues This information includes telephony state, Virtual Raised Hand more efficiently and effectively by desktop state, call emotion, workspace allowing automated workflow processing Coaching Lab video, and workspace security data. that assimilates internal and external Management can use this feedback to Customizable Maps systems. A multichannel platform, it increase the quality of customer care. can implement any kind of contact flow Workspace status, which includes Call Observer creates a real-time view of and customer segmentation (Inbound) state, Desktop activity, and Security status call center activity using data from ACDs or define the right channel and time to (Automatic Call Distribution), desktop event Real-time Desktop, interaction, and contact the customers (Outbound). monitors, and layered voice analysis to Floor Feeds monitor call emotional status. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INFORMATION SECURITY 26 TP IN GREECE THE SECURITY EXPERTS With over four decades of experience in providing the best possible experience for our clients and their customers, we have cemented our position in the industry by becoming experts in security. We know security threats and data breaches are a worldwide concern among businesses, which is why we have tightened our security processes in order to prevent fraud and ensure early detection. Our comprehensive and ever-evolving security strategies adapt to the latest security risks through the support of our methodologies and security campaigns that protect our clients, customers, and employees. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INFORMATION SECURITY 27 TP IN GREECE FRAUD PREVENTION IS KEY Our security solutions continue to and prevent security risks even before TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY create a highly secure environment for they happen. As experts in security, we continuously our clients and customers. We have Cutting-Edge Technology develop tools that help our security long committed to developing new teams enforce a secure workplace on a methodologies and security programs Security programs are developed using daily basis. We consistently enhance our that would further help us provide proprietary tools that incorporate real-time alert tool that monitors agent a safe and seamless omnichannel technology and sensibility. These activities in order for it to adapt to the customer experience for our clients. tools ensure that our teams are latest security trends and updates. well-equipped in monitoring fraud As fraud continues to cripple attempts, tracking security breaches. thousands of businesses worldwide, we continue to focus on making Stringent Policies SECURITY PROCESSES security programs that offer a Our policies aim to enhance our In order for our security teams to conduct comprehensive and proactive clients’ data security. their assessments that determine approach to fraud prevention. Here fraudulent activity or a potential data are the five pillars that serve as Security Management Methodologies breach, internal and external security the backbone in developing and All programs developed and audits are performed throughout executing our security programs: implemented are always aligned with the year. Our security methodology Highly Trained People our best-in-class security practices. continues to map data, processes, and operations—all these working together Our team members are trained to to lessen operational risks throughout continuously establish more ways to the organization. improve our security. Well-Defined Security Processes Consistency is vital in implementing security solutions. Our carefully designed security processes allow our security team to anticipate, identify, 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INFORMATION SECURITY 28 TELEPERFORMANCE AND BENEFITS OF TELEPERFORMANCE’S As a global leader in omnichannel customer THE GDPR GDPR IMPLEMENTATION AND experience management, we always BCRs APPLICATION value the security of our clients. Our GDPR In 2017, we have continued our drive to program can help business’ efforts to protect our clients and their customers’ Teleperformance made a strategic comply as the regulation’s implementation data and information. With the European decision in early 2017 to obtain BCRs date draws near. Partnering with us will not Union’s rollout of the General Data certification from the European only improve the security of your customers’ Protection Regulation (GDPR), we have Commission. Upon implementation information, but will also protect against remained consistent throughout the of the BCRs, our subsidiaries will reputational and financial harm from data year in ensuring our compliance, taking agree to follow them (as both Data misuse and privacy law breaches. the necessary steps in making sure Controllers and Data Processors) which that the new security regulation will be will allow Teleperformance to transfer met before it gets fully implemented in and process data globally. Through the Our security policy 2018. In preparation for the upcoming implementation of our BCR and GDPR regulation, we have rolled out our own programs, Teleperformance can ensure implementation has GDPR Program to establish a new global that the personal data of our clients been recognized by the minimum baseline for privacy and and customers are protected when data protection. transferred internationally. Our program International Association also ensure alignment with European and international data protection of Privacy Professionals requirements, including security and (IAPP) through the Teleperformance rights of individuals. prestigious 2017 global expects to be fully HPE-IAPP Privacy compliant with the We received Binding GDPR before Innovation Award. Corporate Rules (BCRs) May 25, 2018. approval, making us the first company in the BINDING CORPORATE RULES APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION industry to attain this Teleperformance’s GDPR Program critical data protection incorporated an application for both Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) as a data compliance status in controller and as a data processor to the European Union. give its subsidiaries enough flexibility to conduct operations and to transfer personal data worldwide within the Teleperformance Group. BCRs create standards for data protection and IT security for Teleperformance clients and business partners in order to transfer personal data across borders. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 29 Teleperformance Customer Experience Lab (CX Lab) Bridging the gap between customers and companies through intelligent data The Teleperformance Customer “The CX Lab demonstrates Experience Lab (CX Lab) is our one-stop Teleperformance’s investment shop of rich research and insights, using in an integrated omnichannel hard data from end-customers to help strategy, one that is about clients understand their customers’ bringing insights and thought changing behaviors across countries, leadership to clients directly generations, and sectors. from the end consumer With the rise of new communication in a very thoughtful channels and digital transformation, and analytical way. the CX Lab has continuously helped The feel of the commitment businesses adapt and differentiate to research and thought themselves in a competitive leadership at the CX Lab is environment. Ever since its inception, what resonates most from the CX Lab has been integrating their my visit to the center. The kind analysis of customer experience into of collaborative approach our goal of providing exceptional Teleperformance is taking omnichannnel customer experiences. with clients is what is needed to move this industry forward in the face of disruption.” Melissa O’Brien, Research Director at HfS Research 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 30 180,000+ 13 countries in various interviews every year continents 18 key sectors Holistic Customer Experience Overview 11,500 Channel Trends Gives clients important insights on which channels are the most used and desired by customers Consumer Insights Helps clients understand the perception of all experiences during the customer journey 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 31 Lessons from the CX Lab Technology has changed the way we communicate. Mobile devices and social media help us stay in touch whenever and wherever we want. For businesses, this revolution has presented a particular challenge. Now, customers choose how they want to interact with brands and companies. They can select not only the form of communication, but also the time and place. This reality has altered the traditional customer experience, making it nonlinear. More companies are looking toward an omnichannel solution to meet this challenge. An omnichannel strategy is a coordinated operating model where all of a given company’s channels are aligned, offering customers a consistent way of doing business. We are the link between brands and customers. Interacting with people and customers involves careful studies that determine their wants, needs, and channel preferences. Through gathered data, the CX Lab has determined that providing the right mixture of channels matters because the higher the number of channels used, the more willing customers are to recommend your brand. 76% of customers who used eight or more channels were willing to recommend a brand 57% of customers who used four channels were willing to recommend a brand 49% of customers who used one channel were willing to recommend a brand 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE TELEPERFORMANCE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE LAB (CX LAB) 32 Real Connections, as created by the CX Lab. We remain grateful to our clients who chose to entrust their business to our services. Here are their stories: Games Financial Services Communications The new edition of an annual games A major Latin American bank attended A leading communications company sector event had a special presentation a customized workshop designed to leveraged data to support the expansion from the CX Lab analyzing insights improve their understanding of key of their customer service team into and key KPIs. Participants had followplayers’ performance in several Latin new markets. up sessions to better understand American countries. Main indicators findings in order to adjust their were used in the industry in order to operational strategies. incorporate findings into their planning. Pay-TV Energy Technology A leading global communications An energy provider expanding into a A major technology company leveraged conglomerate has participated annually new industry leveraged the CX Lab’s insights and marketing materials to in various workshops regarding customer insights regarding trends and customer better serve their clients globally. behavior and brand perception. In this behavior on their new industry to year’s edition, the company was able to support their expansion strategy. analyze the channel mix as well as its adoption in the industry and its impact on consumers. Consumer Electronics Personal Care A major consumer electronics and A leading global personal care company technology company utilized detailed leveraged insights regarding customer country insights to decide on customer service and its impact on brand loyalty service location strategies for a specific for internal strategy sessions. line of business. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INSPIRING EVENTS 33 In 2017, Teleperformance participated in many events throughout the world. We were honored to have the opportunity to speak with people from a variety of industries to discuss the importance of customer experience and how it can improve loyalty and advocacy. Here are some of the events we participated in: 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INSPIRING EVENTS 34 Leader Insights Summit: Curating the CX Through Omnichannel Strategies The 2017 edition of the Leader Insights and more importantly, to tap into the Summit took place at The Meritage Resort minds of industry thought leaders. and Spa in Napa Valley, California from The Summit featured some of the best May 31 to June 2. Gathering 85 C-level minds in customer experience and clients from 54 brands, the event focused innovation, such as Stefan Tomke, a Harvard on the theme “Curating the CX Through Business School Professor and authority Omnichannel Strategies.” on the management of technology and The Leader Insights Summit is our annual product innovation; Blake Morgan, a proprietary event created to cultivate customer experience futurist and bestdeeper relationships with our clients and selling author; Stan Phelps, a Forbes prospects. Set in a different U.S. city every Contributor, TEDx Speaker, and IBM Futurist; year, the event is targeted at high-level and Master Sommelier, Eddie Osterland. executives, particularly decision makers, The invigorating sessions and discussions offering everyone a wonderful opportunity centered on how we can continue to to network and relax in an inspiring setting, enhance and evolve the omnichannel customer experience. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INSPIRING EVENTS 35 Leader Insights Forum (China): The Opportunities and Challenges of Customer Experience in China From March 29-31, 2017, the Encore and Savio Chan, President and CEO of at Wynn Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada US China Partners Inc., a privately held was the setting for Teleperformance’s business development firm specializing Leader Insights Forum, which focused in Market Entry, Strategic Sourcing, and on the opportunities and challenges Market Development in China for U.S. of customer experience in China. companies. Attended by 15 clients from Working in China since 2007, influential brands, this two-day Teleperformance has been creating event laid out Teleperformance’s strong partnerships in the Chinese capabilities and expertise in the market, serving more multinationals Chinese market, China’s evolving than any other provider. market conditions, including its unique consumer behavior. The discussions were headlined by John Gruetzner, the principal and founder of Intercedent, a Canadian business and investment advisory firm focused on Asia; Eric Fish, Content Producer at Asia Society in New York; 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INSPIRING EVENTS 36 Leader Insights Forum: The Impact of the EU GDPR on the Customer Experience Landscape On October 11, 2017, Teleperformance CEO of Teleperformance CEMEA, hosted a Leader Insights Forum at the among others. Radisson Blue Hotel in Berlin, Germany At Teleperformance, we are deeply to facilitate further understanding of the committed to security and privacy. EU Global Data Privacy Regulation (GDPR), We have invested heavily in a strong the strictest regulation for data privacy security program to protect our clients in the world, and its impact on the against fraud and data breach attempts, customer experience landscape. increasing the safety of data and This three-day event, which was transactions, and helping avoid financial attended by 24 clients from 20 brands, losses and impact on their brand. was a great opportunity to improve networking among all attendees, and to impart valuable insights about this important and complex policy change. Keynote speakers included Giovanni Buttarelli, the European Data Protection Supervisor; Bojana Bellamy, President of the Centre for Information Policy Leadership; and Yannis Tourcomanis, 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS INSPIRING EVENTS 37 Leader Insights AHIP Institute & Expo Roundtable As a Silver Sponsor in the 2017 American (Asia Roadshow) Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) Institute & Expo held in Austin, Texas on June 7-9, 2017, Teleperformance had an exclusive speaking session where we were able to successfully generate 38 leads. Focused on thinking differently and re-imagining healthcare, AHIP Institute & Expo aims to deliver solid answers, insights, and inspiration. It features general sessions, concurrents, breakfast briefings, networking opportunities, and product demos, as well as the smartest thinking and newest ideas available. The event attracted 3,000 attendees, 2017 marked which included health plan decision makers. Teleperformance’s 10th year in China. As such, our Leader Insights Roundtable was the perfect platform to highlight our new operations in China, as well as to interact with prospects and clients operating in the country. A series of half-day events held in September and October, 2017, the roadshow covered seven cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Foshan, Hong Kong, Seoul, Tokyo, and Singapore, reaching out to 116 attendees in total. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 TP IN THE PHILIPPINES We Support the Communities Where We Work and Live We work hard to change the world by aiding those in need. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 TP IN ALBANIA Teleperformance employees in Albania collected food and clothing for two families in Tirana as part of “A Different Weekend.” Creating Change Through Corporate Social Responsibility Our charitable activities have helped the communities we live in to be stronger, and the world to be safer. In 2017, Teleperformance employees volunteered to protect nature, provide help in calamity-stricken areas, save lives, and commit to human rights, including environmental and labor principles. Through our Citizen of the World and Citizen of the Planet initiatives, we continue to strive for a safer space and a safer Earth for everyone. This allows us to make a positive impact on countless lives. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS CITIZENOF THE WORLD 40 Touching Lives Citizen of the World (COTW) is Teleperformance’s way of giving back to the community. Established in 2006, we have remained faithful to our core objectives of uniting under one common cause of aiding communities through helping families and children meet their basic survival needs. TP IN MEXICO In 2017, we were able to collect funding to support charity programs and give donations to impoverished and disasterstricken areas. We also completed a blood drive, sponsored children going to school in developing countries, and provided medical supplies to our communities. Our COTW initiative not only lifts the spirits of our communities, but it also lifts the spirits and the morale of our people. Employees from our Gig Harbor, Washington site volunteered their time to work on this local homeALLIANCE ONE IN USA building project for Habitat for Humanity. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 In its 11th year, COTW continues to help children and communities. This COTW by the Numbers Corporate Social Responsibility program is part of our ongoing effort to support the places where we work and live. US$ 34,623,073 in total donations* to help underprivileged people or victims of natural disasters 435,521 underprivileged infants and children received toys during the holiday season 394,233 infants and children were fed through several monthly feeding programs 18,301 computers were donated to impoverished schools Includes total donations from November 1, 2006 – December 31, 2017. *Total donations includes cash + in-kind + services. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Our Global COTW GREECE Teleperformance in Greece’s annual Books to Highlights Bazaar initiative gathered books donated by employees to give to families in need. ITALY Teleperformance in Italy made contributions that USA helped inaugurate a milk room at a local hospital. In 2017, all Teleperformance locations in the USA The milk room allowed mothers of hospitalized showed support for those affected by Alzheimer’s babies to breastfeed during hospitalization. disease. RUSSIA Teleperformance in Russia’s Vladimir employees visited a shelter for children. They provided games, FRANCE clothes, shoes, books, and sweets. Teleperformance in France held blood drives, which were supported by Teleperformance volunteers. TURKEY Teleperformance in Turkey participated in the Wings for Life World Run. The run was a global charity event for the benefit of Wings for Life Spinal Cord Research Foundation. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 43 Making a Stand for the Environment Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is our global environmental initiative dedicated to minimizing negative environmental impacts from all over the world. TP IN TURKEY Our COTP programs encourage our people to do their share in protecting the planet. This corporate social responsibility initiative helps our environment by creating sustainable sites, promoting recycling, spreading environmental awareness, and improving our local habitats. 2017 Carbon Footprint in Metric Tons In 2017, our total measured footprint per employee (CFE) carbon emissions were of 0.772 tons. % of Total Carbon Footprint per Source 156,919 tons with a carbon 0.772 tons 90.53% Carbon Footprint 142,062 per Employee Electricity 0.34% 9.13% 527 14,330 Paper Air Travel 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Our Global COTP Highlights CHINA ALBANIA Beijing, Xi’an, and Nanning sites organized Teleperformance in Albania, in collaboration with tree-planting activities. More than 155 people Ecovolis (an environmental organization which raises participated in this activity. awareness for environmental protection), created 60 parking spots for bicycles. INDIA Every year on World Environment Day, Teleperformance in India spreads awareness on the environmental abuse causing its deterioration. COLOMBIA Teleperformance volunteers went to a forest COSTA RICA reserve to plant native species of trees and Teleperformance in Costa Rica banded together to contribute to reforestation, and also to learn clean up a local beach. The volunteers collected about the importance of nature and forest garbage bags full of trash. preservation. EGYPT The Earth Hour is a global environmental movement organized by WWF. Every year, Teleperformance in Egypt gathers its teams to support this cause. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 45 TP IN NETHERLANDS Teleperformance’s Commitment to the UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact aligns businesses with efforts to to create a more sustainable world for people. As a member of the Compact, we strongly support human rights, labor, environmental, and anti-corruption principles. With our promise to adhere to high standards of business, we help economies and societies benefit from better markets, fair commerce, quality technology, and finance. We embrace the following principles: Human Rights Principle 4: the elimination of all forms Principle 8: undertake initiatives of forced and compulsory labor; to promote greater environmental Principle 1: Businesses should responsibility; support and respect the protection of Principle 5: the effective internationally proclaimed human rights; abolition of child labor; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 6: the elimination friendly technologies. complicit in human rights abuses. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labor Environment Anti-corruption Principle 3: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work uphold the freedom of association precautionary approach to environmental against corruption in all its forms, and the effective recognition of the challenges; including extortion and bribery. right to collective bargaining; 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 46 Teleperformance in Greece has been running a series of events in order to promote diversity and to bring people from different cultures together. Each month, employees celebrate a different region (Africa, Asia, Europe, and America), inviting people to a journey of traditional taste, music, and dance. Teleperformance in Greece seeks to build cultural awareness by promoting diversity and respect in a multi-cultural environment. TP IN GREECE 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 47 Teleperformance supports and abides by the universal principles of the UN Global Compact. rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or PEOPLE CARE n Lab m o Teleperformance respects and supports human rights throughout its operations and business activities and is committed to avoiding complicity in human rights abuse. To reinforce its commitment, in June 2015 the Group launched a Human Rights Statement addressing Principles 1 and 2 of the UN Global Compact. Teleperformance Human Rights Statement Human Rights Statement is publicly available on our corporate website; it has been translated into nine languages and distributed to all local companies. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on Teleperformance corporate website. In 2017, 81% of our employees were trained on the Group Human Rights Statement as part of their CSR New Hire Training, and 73% acknowledged the policy. Since 2015, Teleperformance has been working to continuously improve its Group Complaints mechanism. Initially put in place as an email address made available to all stakeholders on the corporate website, the system was upgraded in 2016 and integrated into our internal Omnichannel Management Tool to optimize complaints resolution, track customer experiences, and draw statistics. During 2017, regular trainings for local HR teams were organized (one-to-one trainings, tutorials, videos, and webinars), focusing on how to handle requests and Group Grievance complaints according to the Group’s standards (workflow, SLA, etc.). Mechanism On a weekly basis, the Group audits a minimum of 10% of all closed complaints to evaluate compliance with Complaint Process and SLA and provides a feed-back on each audited complaint to the supervisor with areas of improvements. Our Group Grievance Mechanism is assessed by an external party (CSR Europe) against the effectiveness criteria set by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Legitimate, Accessible, Predictable, Equitable, Transparent, Rights-compatible, and a source of continuous learning and based on engagement and dialogue). Teleperformance supports the communities in which we are present and provides disaster relief aid around the world through Citizen of the World (COTW) charitable activities. In 2017, Teleperformance employees donated Community Involvement: $5,749,753 in cash and in kind donations to underprivileged children and families, as well as natural disaster Citizen of the World victims. 89,697 volunteer hours were provided by Teleperformance employees for charitable and environmental causes. For more information, please see page 40-42 of this report. The Teleperformance New Hire orientation is designed to raise awareness around Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) throughout the Group and to involve all employees in CSR-related initiatives right from the outset of their employee experience. This training is mandatory for all new hires and is delivered face-to-face during CSR New Hire Training the Onboarding phase. It explains what CSR is and introduces the Sustainable Development Goals, focuses on the Groups’ main CSR programs and policies and describes how to get involved in Teleperformance’s social responsibility actions. To date, 90% of all Teleperfromance companies have already implemented this training. Teleperformance Code of Ethics reflects the Group’s core values and respect for diversity. All companies in the Group must apply CSR principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, sustainability, Code of Ethics transparency, and basic human decency. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on the Teleperformance corporate website. In 2017, 84% of our employees were trained on the Code of Ethics as part of their CSR New Hire Training, and 84% acknowledged the policy. In its 10th Global Edition, the 2017 E.Sat involved 47 countries and more than 110,000 respondents. Each year, all employees are invited to participate in this global initiative. The survey covers 12 topics, from employees’ training Employee Satisfaction and work environment to leadership and work-life balance. After the survey, each company develops targeted Survey action plans based on the results obtained. Actions are put in place during the following year. Compared to 2016, the overall satisfaction in 2017 increased by 7 percentage points, following a continuous improvement approach. Launched in June 2015, the Teleperformance Supplier Policy aims at setting out a range of rules we expect our suppliers and business partners to abide by in terms of ethics, anti-corruption, and other social responsibility Supply Chain principles. Since its establishment, the policy has been extended to cover over 80% of our suppliers over $5M in 2017. Teleperformance Supplier Policy is available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 48 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or People Care n Lab m o Teleperformance launched operational security and privacy initiatives with its Global Essential Security Policies in February 2015. These policies express Teleperformance’s strong commitment to respect and protect the privacy Data Privacy Policy of every individual, its employees, and clients. In 2016, Teleperformance revised the policies and renamed them Global Essential Compliance and Security Policies to adapt to global privacy changes. Teleperformance’s privacy policy is available on our corporate website. Teleperformance has zero tolerance towards any corrupt and fraudulent behavior. Our Anti-Corruption Policy incorporates the definitions of corrupt behavior and what actions to take to avoid or eliminate the Anti-Corruption Policy risk of corruption in our business. In 2017, 84% of our employees were trained in the policy with an 84% acknowledgement. Teleperformance’s Anti-Corruption policy is available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. Teleperformance has a strong security program to create a balance of both physical and digital security measures for employees and customers alike. Our security program consists of integrated solutions leveraged using indepth industry knowledge tailored to suit our clients’ businesses. Teleperformance´s security program includes Anti-Fraud Program security risk assessments developed with our clients, and a response process to address potential concerns globally. This strategy helps to protect our clients’ data and maintain our customers’ confidentiality while providing a safe and secure workplace for our employees. rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron Ani Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management Teleperformance complies with all national and international laws in terms of labor. To reinforce our commitment, the Group issued a Human Rights Statement in 2015 stating that “Social dialogue takes place at different levels within the organization, and may exist in different forms depending on culture, practices, Labor Framework & and applicable regulations in the various countries.” All our employees throughout our operations and where Social Dialogue applicable have the right to collective bargaining. All employees may freely join or associate with organizations without interference, retaliation, or discrimination. Where employees are represented by a legally recognized union, we are committed to establishing a constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives. In January 2015, Teleperformance launched its Group Equal Opportunity Policy, setting out concrete guidelines to promote equal employment opportunities, non-discrimination, diversity, inclusion, and equality in the career Equal Opportunity Policy path. It covers workplace discrimination in terms of gaining access to employment and in treatment of employees once they are at work. The policy is based on Principle 6 of the UN Global Compact and is publicly available on our corporate website. In 2017, 79% of all employees were trained in the policy, with 74% acknowledgement. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 49 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management Launched in 2013, BEST (Baseline Enterprise Standards for Teleperformance) Recruitment & Selection is a set of processes and tools designed to ensure that all recruitment applications are reviewed consistently across BEST Recruitment & Teleperformance, followed clear criteria to avoid biases, that non-discriminatory rules are also clearly followed Selection and that candidates are the right fit for the job. The level of implementation today is at 87% and 67% of our population is certified in BEST R&S. Impact sourcing (IS) is a service-delivery model within the business process outsourcing (BPO) industry and is defined as employing individuals who would otherwise have limited prospects for employment as workers in BPO centers to provide high-quality, information-based services to domestic and international clients. IS provides quality and cost at parity with traditional BPO services, but with benefits such as lower attrition rates, access to untapped talent pool, opportunities to fulfill CSR and diversity goals, and a competitive advantage in domestic sourcing. Teleperformance has been recruiting socioeconomically disadvantaged individuals for years, providing training to develop the skills necessary to match our clients’ needs and thrive in the company. In 2014, Teleperformance committed to creating 5,000 IS jobs over five years, setting an annual target of 1,000 IS hires annually worldwide. Through 2017, this goal has been surpassed with over 30,000 IS hires, with the majority of these individuals being employed in developing countries like Egypt, India, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, and Tunisia. Highlighting one of the many Teleperformance success stories, this year marked Teleperformance’s third year in partnership with the Education for Employment (EFE) Tunisia. Together, EFE and Teleperformance Impact Sourcing Tunisia have created a pre-employment training program for Tunisian youth which enables the applicants to rapidly increase their skill level in Business French, international soft skills and professionalism in the work place. Additional partners for this program include USAID and the DROSOS Foundation, which provide funding for the business French training, the Institut Robert de Sorbon, which provides the French training and the Middle East Partnership Initiative, which provides funding for the soft skills and professionalism training. Through these partnerships, Teleperformance Tunisia has been able to train 1,100 youth, of which 151 were offered positions with Teleperformance Tunisia. This has provided opportunities for employment to a group whose unemployment rate is estimated by the World Bank to be approximately 37.5%. It has also proven to be an excellent source of previously untapped talent for our company. Teleperformance has been a champion and user of impact sourcing and has openly shared hiring commitments while encouraging competitors to adopt similar strategies. The objectives of the Onboarding process for new employees are: know and understand the organization and the business; become operational and feel confident; and give employees visibility to a potential career path. The benefits of the Onboarding process for new employees are: build confidence and sense of belonging; improve performance and pride; create a feeling of security for their future at Teleperformance. The first onboarding package was created for our advisors, representing 90% of our workforce. The package, covering the first 90 days Onboarding of an advisor’s employment, was launched in December 2013. Onboarding effectiveness is measured via 90-day surveys that provide new starters with the opportunity to provide feedback on: Before Arrival, Upon Arrival, Training, Nesting, Graduation, and Operations. A report is provided to each subsidiary to create action plans should their scores be below 85% and a global quarterly call takes place to discuss best practices. Teleperformance focuses in ensuring consistency in the way we recruit and train people during their first six months in the role. In 2014, we launched Supervisor Foundations, and now also have Trainer Foundations. Our Recruitment Foundations live across the group. In 2018, we will also launch Foundations for QA and WFM. These programs all have the following areas; Job Descriptions, which ensures all these roles are recruited according to the same specification (local requirements can be added); Assessment Center, designed for each role which applicants must pass in order to start in their role; Training, a structured training curriculum developed Foundations Program and for each of these roles. The training curriculum covers the first six months of their tenure and is split into “Basics” (week one), “Essentials” (months one to three), and “Development” (months three to six). Training has been carefully selected for each section, starting initially with some of the core knowledge required for the role, while ending in the development phase with skills-based workshops, allowing them to take into the workshop real examples to discuss and practice. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 50 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management JUMP! is a development program created to identify and prepare high-potential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. The aim is to help employees become leaders by progressing from contact center advisor to supervisor and coordinator to manager. JUMP! is managed locally and is based on a program that offers technical and behavior training, as well as personal development plans. In 2017, 61% of our non-agent JUMP! vacancies were filled through internal promotion. We are aware of 1,554 people across the group who were promoted in 2017 after attending a JUMP! program. We expect this number to rise this year as we develop JUMP! In some of our new companies and look to review the existing career management programs each country has in place. At the central level, the Teleperformance Institute provides all Group management staff (supervisors, platform managers, operational directors, etc.) with e-learning and face-to-face training. In view of its global presence and desire to involve a maximum number of employees, the Group has focused particularly on developing e-learning. For the sake of greater independence, the e-learning platform has been developed in-house since eInstitute late 2011, and is available in the main Group languages. Teleperformance employees have been able to develop their leadership, communication, time management, and project management skills thanks to the e-learning process. 406,639 e-learning training hours were provided in 2017 (compared to 307,505 in 2016), accounting for 1.25% of total 2017 training hours. Every year we have been seeing progression, with a 94% satisfaction rate from our network in 2017. Teleperformance University was created to nurture, develop, empower, and spread globally the unique corporate culture of Teleperformance. The program prepares the next generation of leaders to sustain Teleperformance’s leadership in the industry for years to come. Teleperformance University is an Executive program divided into six modules across six centers of excellence in the world: Innovation, CX Lab, & Atlantic Experience (Lisbon); Marketing, Solutions & Strategy (São Paulo); Business Development & Client Relationships with Final Project (Guadalajara); Operations, IT & Security (Salt Lake City); Finance (Athens), and CSR, NPS, & Six Sigma (Manila). 80% TP University of the curriculum is delivered by Teleperformance leaders. Additionally, we partner with renowned universities to bring more value to the project. Local CEOs/Heads of Global Areas submit candidates they believe have the potential of becoming future senior leaders in Teleperformance. A Selection Committee carefully evaluates all submissions, and based on the competencies and potential of each candidate, plus the Corporation priorities, approves a final list of participants. The current generation of Teleperformance University began classes in Lisbon on September 24, 2017. The graduation is scheduled to take place in Guadalajara on July 20, 2018. To ensure fair and consistent performance management, TOPS (Teleperformance Operational Processes & Standards) describes the Operation Standards and Procedures that must be followed by all Teleperformance Teleperformance companies. TOPS involves the activities needed to effectively manage operations during the shifts, improving Operational Processes & results and increasing employee satisfaction. For each advisor, it ensures consistent support and feedback from first line managers (Supervisors) and it helps highlight each advisor’s improvement points. Compliance to TOPS Standards is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2017, 79% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 80%. The Teleperformance Quality Assurance Process (BEST QA) provides a clear, structured approach to implement and manage quality in all our companies, with the objective of improving the satisfaction of our customers and our BEST Quality Assurance clients, while at the same time developing our people fairly. Compliance to BEST QA is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2017, 83% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 80%. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 51 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or Health & Safety n Lab m o Teleperformance is committed to providing its employees and contractors with safe conditions of work on a continuous basis by minimizing ill health and injury risks. We manage Health and Safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. The Group continues its efforts in assessing and analyzing potential risks in the workplace through a continuous improvement of our Safety Management System. All Teleperformance companies have appointed a local Health & Safety Subject Matter Expert (SMEs) who Health & Safety Policy is enrolled in a Global Health & Safety learning path with monthly tests and an annual exam. Furthermore, all companies are required to provide clear evidence of the H&S prevention and risk management, from H&S New Hire training to monthly site inspections, accident/incident reporting, and evacuation drills, etc. In 2017, 86% of all employees were trained in our Group Health & Safety Policy with 81% acknowledgement. The policy is publicly available on our corporate website. Moving forward, in addition to providing evidence of critical H&S controls, the Group will perform H&S on-sites inspections in all Teleperformance sites during 2018 & 2019. Closely linked to the Group’s health and safety policy, Passion 4U is our global initiative promoting well-being and better quality of life at work. By increasing awareness around the benefits of healthy habits and stress Passion 4U Program reduction, this global program encourages the sharing of best practices across all Teleperformance companies. All Passion 4U initiatives are rolled out locally. A best practice sharing hub is available for Teleperformance Subject Matter Experts and employees to promote dialogue, network, and exchange great ideas around wellness. Regular worldwide webinars also gather teams from across the Group to discuss innovative projects around nutrition, fitness, work-life balance, and partnerships with NGOs, clients, and local authorities. Among its numerous health-related initiatives, Teleperformance promotes global awareness campaigns such as World Health Day, No Tobacco Day, and World AIDS Day. Previous activities have brought together employees and external partners at locally organized health fairs, and featured massage therapy for stress relief, stretching exercises, and posture advice to address musculoskeletal disorders. Teleperformance also promotes regular physical exercise by setting up fitness classes or negotiating discounted fares for its employees in local sports clubs, running healthy eating campaigns and offering free fruits, and setting up family initiatives such as holiday camps and back-to-school programs for its employees’ kids to support work-life balance. Besides all local initiatives, two major Group campaigns were run in 2017. The Teleperformance Global Ergonomics Campaign focused on the generalization of workplace gymnastics and stretching to prevent muscoskeletal disorders. All companies were provided with guidelines on how to integrate “active breaks” as a regular practice during the work day, involving all relevant actors across functions (operations, marketing, HR, company doctors and nurses, etc.) information on workplace ergonomics (including a train the trainer module and monitoring/ follow up process) were also provided. The second Group campaign organized promoted the importance of leading a healthy lifestyle, with a particular focus on the integration of healthy nutrition, regular exercise, correct water intake, quality of sleep, and mindfulness in our employees’ daily lives through a 30-day challenge which was boosted on social media and involved all employees. For more information, please see page 15 of this report. For Fun Festival Teleperformance’s For Fun Festival is a global annual initiative that recognizes the most talented people in our company. The aim of this competition is to create a sense of fun and to entertain via an international art, dance, music, photography, and a short film competition that is intended to instill pride and a sense of belonging among employees and to promote our cultural diversity. In 2017, the 9th Annual For Fun Festival produced 4,999 video submissions. For more information, please see page 11 of this report. Teleperformance Sport Club is a worldwide program that promotes sports as a tool for physical well-being and higher quality of life, and motivates our people to play, have fun, and share good moments with their Sport Club teammates. In 2017, 580 sports teams were active across the world with 342 soccer teams, close to 100 bowling teams, and more than 100 teams in basketball, badminton, baseball, golf, and rugby. For more information, please see page 13 of this report. The work of employed staff is organized in strict compliance with work time legislation, which varies from country to country. The weekly working hours range from 35 to a maximum of 48. Teleperformance has developed BEST Workforce a BEST WFM User Guide describing the general Workforce Management standards and procedures that must Management be followed by all countries. Teleperformance BEST WFM involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law requirements, as well as accommodating individual needs for preferred working hours, days, and shifts. BEST WFM has been designed to be aligned with the requirements from the COPC-2000 CSP Standard Release 5.0. Compliance to Best WFM is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2017, 95% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 80%. Teleperformance Premises Standard provides companies with key information to select the best sites when Premises Standard opening a new center and essential guidelines covering topics such as Lighting, Acoustics, Hands-onManagement, Sustainable Development, and Well-being in all areas of our centers. The Standard presents blueprints and guidelines to be implemented in each new location and to inspire any major refurbishment. The Standard is reviewed by internal and external experts on a yearly basis to ensure that it is in line with market evolutions and business needs. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS TELEPERFORMANCE EACH INTERACTION MATTERS THE GLOBAL COMPACT 52 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Caring for the Hu iron An i ma t-C or n Lab m o Environment In December 2013, Teleperformance released its Environmental Policy, which defines the actions, behaviors, and relationships that Teleperformance’s employees shall adopt in order to act in an environmentally responsible way Environmental Policy inside and outside the workplace. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. Since the last report, 80% of our employees were trained with 71% acknowledgement. Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is a global Teleperformance corporate initiative launched in 2008, aimed at ensuring Teleperformance operates in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner. Since that time, Citizen of the Planet Teleperformance has acted to improve facilities to create sustainable sites, striven for paperless environments, improved recycling, and incentivized energy and atmosphere improvements. Teleperformance is aware of its duty to protect nature and lessen its impact on the environment. Our goal is to lower our carbon footprint despite the increase in size and number of employees. In 2017, the company’s total measure of CO2 emissions was 156,919 tons with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.772 tons versus 142,719 tons in 2016 with a CFE of 0.7655 tons in 2016. This increase was mainly due to a rise in air travel. Electricity consumption in 2017 amounted to 316,567,896 kWh versus 291,943,798 kWh in 2016. This increment was mainly due to a 9% increase in our employee population across the world. However, electricity consumption per employee decreased by 0.5%, from 1,566 kWh in 2016 to 1,558 kWh in 2017. Water consumption in 2017 was 1,286 thousand m³ versus 1,170 thousand m³ in 2016. Nevertheless, water consumption per employee remained stable: Sustainable Use of 6.33 m³ in 2017 versus 6.28 in 2016 (+ 0.8%). Paper consumption in 2017 was 1,285 tons versus 1,224 tons in 2016; Resources paper consumption per employee decreased by 3.7% (6.32 kg per employee in 2017 versus 6.56 in 2016). Air travel in 2017 reached 79,611,371 km versus 66,141,150 km in 2016, 392 km per employee 2017 versus 355 in 2016 (+10.4 %). This increase was mainly due to an important reorganization in the LATAM region that needed the physical presence of senior managers from across the region on the ground. TP IN CHINA Occupational Health and Safety Leadership in Energy and Building Research Establishment EcoVadis (CSR management system Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001): Environmental Design (LEED) Environmental Assessment Method quality) Teleperformance in Italy Teleperformance in Colombia (America, (BREEAM) Teleperformance in France (Gold medal) Teleperformance in UK Africa, and Europa sites) Teleperformance in UK (Glasgow) Teleperformance in Nordic (Silver medal) Teleperformance in Colombia Teleperformance in the Philippines Teleperformance in France (Paris HQ) Teleperformance in Turkey (Cebu IT Park site) Teleperformance in China (Beijing and Foshan sites) ISO 14001 (Environmental Haute Qualité Environnementale, Social Responsibility Label (Label Management): High Environmental Quality (HQE) Responsabilité sociale) Teleperformance in Turkey (Istanbul site) Teleperformance in France (Asnières) Teleperformance in France Teleperformance in UK (Ashby-de-laTeleperformance in Tunisia Zouch site) Teleperformance Continues to be the Worldwide Leader in Outsourced Omnichannel Customer Experience Management Our goal is to provide the highest level of service to our clients and their customers by delivering customer care, accounts receivable management, technical support, customer acquisition, digital solutions, analytics, back-office, and other specialized services. The Teleperformance family is responsible for all of the success we have had over the past year. We are thankful to them, and to our clients and investors who have always believed that we are valuable partners. We are sure that 2018 will be another exceptional year. TP IN TURKEY USA Teleperformance SE. European Company (Societas Europaea) with a share capital of €144,450,000 RCS number 301 292 702, Paris 21/25 rue Balzac 75008 Paris France Tel.: +33 1 53 83 59 00 For more information: teleperformance.com Follow us: /teleperformanceglobal @teleperformance /teleperformance blog.teleperformance.com /company/teleperformance
