GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) Limited [A Packages Group company] Period: Jan 2017 to Dec 2017 1 Table of content 1 Human Rights 3 1.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 3 1.2 Implementation 3 1.3 Measurement of outcomes 4 2 Labour 5 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 5 2.2 Implementation 5 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 6 3 Environment 7 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 7 3.2 Implementation 7 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 7 4 Anti-corruption 8 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals 8 4.2 Implementation 8 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 2 1 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Bulleh Shah Packing (BSP) is committed to educate its employees, suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders to acknowledge and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Code of Conduct (CoC) is built on our core values in which human rights are essential. To further steer our human rights work we have policies on anti-discrimination, gender, human resources and whistleblowing. We have also incorporated basic human rights in our Suppliers Sustainability Requirements (SSR). BSP is active in a challenging human rights environment and we strive to set a good example of how to protect human rights in this environment. We will continue to asses and improve our work on human rights. 1.2 Implementation The responsibility for human rights lies with the Sustainability Department and the Human Resources Department. BSP has certain procedures to implement human rights within its area of influence, these include: • All employees and workers must commit to the company Code of Conduct (CoC) by signing a ”Responsibility Pledge” in order to maintain employment at BSP. • A comprehensive CoC document is shared on BSP’s internal intranet portal. • A summary of the CoC (printed as a pocket guide) is handed over to each employee as a part of BSP’s commitment to make sure its CoC is communicated to the workforce. • BSPs hosts awareness sessions and trainings to raise awareness on human rights, environment, fair business practices, and compliances with the law. • Stakeholder engagement activities are conducted with the local community as well as supply chain communities to follow up on the risks and impacts of BSPs operations. 3 • BSP has established internal as well as external whistleblowing procedures and grievance mechanisms to make sure BSP is informed of misconduct. • BSP has a well devised vendors training and assessment system with dedicated team to promote that our supply chain follows the same Human Rights Standards as Bulleh Shah Packaging. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes Human rights are continually audited by the internal audit team, supply chain auditors and external auditors and researchers. • BSP conducted more than 100 supply chain audits during 2017. • BSP has also engaged third party, which has conducted 19 audits in 2017. • BSP hosted more than 20 awareness sessions on its CoC which include human rights. • BSP also hosted number of awareness sessions on human rights and provided free of cost health facilities to the communities nearby. • BSP runs six schools in supply chain communities to guarantee the right to education. • BSP supports schools in its proximity to guarantee the right to education. • BSP runs a Mother and Child Health Center to support the right to healthcare for local communities. • BSP also conducted trial run of its Mobile medical unit to provide primary healthcare facilities at the door step of the under privilaged ares. This program will be fully operational in 2018. 4 2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour and; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals BSP respects and supports to ILO core conventions and UNGC principles on labour standard and incorporates them in policies and guidelines. BSPs HR policy includes rights of workers and equal rights. BSP’s Code of Conduct and Suppliers Sustainability Requirements do not allow the company to practice any illegal or unethical labour practices including child labour, forced or compulsory labour. We demand that our suppliers also respect the core ILO conventions in the SSR. BSP comply with the labour laws of Pakistan and the related international laws and standards and do not tolerate any form of discrimination at the workplace. 2.2 Implementation The responsibility for labour rights lies with the Human Resources Department and the Sustainability Department. BSP has certain procedures to implement labour rights within its area of influence, these include: • All employees and workers must commit to the CoC by signing a ”Responsibility Pledge” in order to maintain employment at BSP. • BSPs hosts awareness sessions and trainings to raise awareness on labour rights, environment, fair business practices, and compliances with the applicable laws. • BSP respects the unions and are in constant dialogue with them the improve working conditions • Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) management systems establish and maintain a working environment free of health risks 5 • BSP has a whistle blowing mechanism to help identify behavior that’s not in accordance with the CoC and other policies. • BSP has been verified by SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) for continual improvements in its ethical and responsible business practices. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes Labour rights are continually audited by the internal audit team, supply chain auditors and external auditors and researchers. • BSP conducted more than 100 supply chain audits during 2017. • BSP hosted more than 20 awareness sessions on its CoC which include labour rights. • BSP in cooperation with ILO conducted a decent work deficit research program in the paper and board supply chain. • BSP created a forum for women, ACTS (Actively Caring Through Sharing) platforum to educate and groom its employees through mentorship. 6 3 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Caring for the environment is part of the BSP CoC and an integrated part in our operation. Impact assessments has been done as part of the EIA. At BSP we recognize our impact on the environment and mitigate environmental risks and impacts. We work closely with our suppliers and demand environmental responsibility from them in the SSR. 3.2 Implementation BSP is implementing its environmental goals using a broad spectrum of activities and policies. • Caring for the environment is integrated in BSPs CoC • BSP hosted 21 awareness sessions on its CoC which include environmental awareness. • BSP runs an Environmental Management Systems (EMS) to minimize waste, optimize the use of energy and materials, and ensure eco-friendly waste processing. • BSP conducted trainings of ISO 50001 Energy Management System and intends to take its processes a step further towards conservation of resources. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Certifications and compliances: • ISO:14001certified • ISO 50001 Trainings • FSC COC Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody 7 4 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals BSP has zero tolerance policy on corruption and bribery and always act in accordance with Pakistani law. BSP has identified potential risk areas and made SOPs on how to deal the with government, private individuals and corporations in an anticorruption context. In the SSR we also demand a zero corruption policy from our suppliers. 4.2 Implementation BSP is implementing its anti-corruption through a number of activities. These include: • BSP hosted more than 20 awareness sessions on its CoC which include anti-corruption awareness. • BSP has a whistle blowing procedure in place with the ability to be anonymous. • BSP has established an ethics compliance committee to support corruption investigations 4.3 Measurement of outcomes Anti-corruption and Bribery Policy compliance is verified through internal audits by the compliance investigation team and dealt with in accordance with the severity of the case. Records are kept on whistle blowing cases to measure effectiveness over time. 8
