Sustainable Business Report 2017 The value we create i Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Contents Our ambition We play a vital role in the Overview Our operations 1 2017 in numbers 28 Working today with tomorrow in mind 2 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 29 People 31 Sustainable operations food chain to safely feed The future of food 4 Doing more with less 33 Business integrity the world and take care – and doing it faster Our business model Corporate information 36 Board of Directors of our planet. 38 Executive Team We will be the most 10 C reating value now and for the long term Non-financial performance Our offer 12 Innovating for growers 40 Non-financial information 41 Non-financial performance summary collaborative and trusted – and for society 13 Crop Protection 45 Independent Assurance Report on the Syngenta Non-financial Reporting 2017 team in agriculture, 16 Seeds providing leading seeds The Good Growth Plan 18 Measuring our contribution and crop protection 19 Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals innovations to enhance 20 Make crops more efficient 21 Rescue more farmland Syngenta’s Sustainable Business Report the prosperity of farmers, 22 Help biodiversity flourish 24 Empower smallholders includes quantitative and qualitative information on policies and actions taken regarding our business and corporate wherever they are. responsibility goals. 25 Help people stay safe It also serves as our annual Communication 26 Look after every worker on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact. For further information and a section with answers to many “Questions about Syngenta”, visit our corporate website: www.syngenta.com Syngenta 1 Sustainable Business Report 2017 2017 in numbers Group sales 90+ $12.65bn Countries Crop Protection sales1 $9.2bn 27,669 Employees5 North Europe, Africa America and Middle East Seeds2 $2.8bn Asia Pacific 111 Research and Development sites People trained on safe use 8.2m Latin 100 America Production and Suppliers included Supply sites7 in fair labor programs 86% Recordable injury and illness rate3 0.37 1 Excluding Controls, including sales to Seeds 2 Excluding Flowers North Latin Europe, Africa Asia 3 Per 200,000 hours, according America America and Middle East Pacific to US OSHA definition 4 Excluding Controls and Flowers Sales4 $m 3,361 Sales4 $m 2,884 Sales4 $m 3,870 Sales4 $m 1,853 5 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) as of September 30, 2017 Employees5 4,092 Employees5 4,907 Employees5,6 12,372 Employees5 6,298 6 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 7 Including 4 multi-functional Research and Development sites 30 Research and Development sites 12 Research and Development sites 44 Research and Development sites 25 production sites Production and Supply sites 31 Production and Supply sites 14 Production and Supply sites 35 Production and Supply sites 20 2 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Chief Executive Officer’s statement Helping farmers In a challenging landscape, the world’s In 2017, our reference farms showed population depends on farmers sustainably substantial improvements in yield, while increasing their production, ensuring the the efficiency with which these farms use to sustainably supply of safe and affordable food while resources, including pesticides, has also minimizing agriculture’s impact on the improved substantially. These strong results environment. Syngenta is well placed have been achieved while delivering a feed the world to help farmers meet this challenge. significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which shows that productivity Over the last year – as I traveled to and efficiency – the key components of a many parts of the world and met with sustainable system can go hand in hand. our customers, farmers and our people – it was clear that 2017 was extremely Transparency and partnerships challenging with yet another year of low drive accountability “I have great confidence commodity prices. But despite tough We are committed to transparency and so market conditions, we have continued to that we can continue build on the foundations we laid in 2016, for the results of The Good Growth Plan, which have been independently audited are to grow our business a more sustainable business which makes available to anyone through our website a significant contribution to safely feeding and make a lasting the world while taking care of the planet. www.data.syngenta.com. contribution to safely The passion that our people have for this Along with The Good Growth Plan, the appointment of the Chief Sustainability feeding the world while challenge is tangible, and it makes me extremely proud to be part of the Syngenta Officer, Alexandra Brand, will also bring taking care of the planet.” team. With the closing of the ChemChina a sharper focus to our work and support transaction, we now also have an owner who our commitment to work more closely understands the importance of taking the and transparently with governments, long view in support of this direction. NGOs and society to find the solutions we collectively need. The Good Growth Plan delivering real impact for sustainability We continue to build new partnerships We made great progress in 2017 towards with key partners – including academics, our Good Growth Plan commitments. entrepreneurs, policymakers, associations, The Plan – now in its fifth year – puts NGOs and other private-sector partners – to sustainability center stage in the way we build programs that will help farmers to upskill do business and aligns closely with the UN themselves and make their businesses more Sustainable Development Goals. In the last resilient. As these partnerships develop, they year, we have seen it deliver real, measurable will improve food value chains, provide food value both for growers and society at large. security for local populations and support farmer livelihoods. Syngenta 3 Chief Executive Officer’s statement Sustainable Business Report 2017 Investing for the future Our work matters In addition to the acquisition of Nidera Seeds, A key element of our ambition is to be the we strengthened the leadership of our Seeds most collaborative and trusted team in business, recruiting key talent from across the agriculture. To support this ambition, we industry to provide the leadership necessary have continued to invest in our people with to capture opportunities in the sector. new training and development programs We were also pleased to obtain Chinese for all employees and extensive leadership import approval for AGRISURE DURACADE®, programs for managers. Almost one in three ensuring that US farmers can use this classpeople participated in some form of training, leading technology for the control of corn leadership or development programs. rootworm without incurring export restrictions. In 2017, I was also delighted to lead the In 2017, we also saw continued success in renewal of our ambition and values, known North America with new crop protection internally as our “Backbone”. Our Backbone products including TRIVAPRO™, the first goes to the core of who we are as a three-mode-of-action foliar fungicide; company, setting out the cultural values that TALINOR™, a post-emergence herbicide guide our behavior as individuals and as an developed to control broadleaf weeds in organization, as well as the qualities and wheat and barley; MINECTO® PRO, a new commitments we expect from our leaders. insecticide for vegetable and specialty crops; and BESIEGE™, a broad-spectrum Looking ahead foliar insecticide. I would like to thank everyone in Syngenta for their ongoing energy and enthusiasm. The Argentine registration of MIRAVIS™ DUO Their dedication to helping our customers and for peanuts and MIRAVIS™ TOP for tomatoes, farmers succeed gives me great confidence peppers and squash marked the launch of that we can continue to grow our business a new brand with broad market potential for and make a lasting contribution to safely this broad-spectrum fungicide. Growers in feeding the world while taking care of the Record free cash flow despite Total sales were down 1 percent. Brazil and Argentina have also benefitted from planet. Achieving these two objectives challenging market conditions Crop Protection sales fell 3 percent to the first full-year sales of our leading seed goes to the heart of our commitment to In 2017, we achieved record free cash flow $9.2 billion – and measures to resolve treatment, FORTENZA®. sustainability and performance over the despite a challenging year in which we channel inventory issues in Brazil more than long term. We began the European roll out of saw continuing pressure on grower and offset growth in other parts of the world. VIBRANCE™ DUO, which controls a range of supplier profitability. Unfortunately, we were Driven by strong sales of corn and soybean soil-borne cereal diseases, and we saw the not able to overcome these challenges to in North America, our Seeds business grew successful introduction of ELATUS™ in France, revenue and Crop Protection sales declined. sales by 6 percent to $2.8 billion for the year. Germany and the UK to help farmers fight Addressing this challenge in 2018 will require We continue to strengthen the business, fungal disease in cereals. us to drive short-term performance while announcing the purchase of Nidera Seeds J. Erik Fyrwald focusing on longer-term direction. from COFCO International in December 2017. Chief Executive Officer Flowers and Controls sales were 3 percent higher at $0.7 billion. 4 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The future of food Doing more with less – and doing it faster Once, the task for farmers was simply to grow enough food. Today, it’s more complex. The world expects its farmers to feed a growing – and increasingly demanding – population, while also taking good care of the planet. Achieving either of those goals is hard, and increasingly so. Achieving both at once will require the entire food supply chain to rethink the way it works, in order to drive faster innovation and change. Syngenta 5 The future of food Sustainable Business Report 2017 But as well as delivering more calories, NOT JUST MORE BUT BETTER, MORE EFFICIENT, the food system must also adjust to meet changing consumer aspirations and GROWING AFFLUENCE, preferences. Worldwide, rising prosperity LOWER IMPACT drives demand for higher quality, wider choice, bigger meals and a dietary shift towards eating more meat. There’s also growing demand for organic produce – GROWING The challenges are well known and understood. The fundamental drivers spurred largely by societal concerns around the perceived impacts of modern agriculture. APPETITES are population growth, pressure on land In 1995, there were an estimated resources – from soil degradation, urban 200 million obese adults worldwide.3 sprawl and the need to conserve earth’s So the challenge is not just to grow more, By 2016, there were over 650 million.4 remaining unfarmed land – and pressure but to grow it differently: with fewer inputs, The average US restaurant meal on other resources such as water. lower impacts and higher quality. If humanity is four times bigger than it was is to be sustainable, its food supply has to be in the 1950s.5 But those “need to grow more with less” sustainable too. challenges are just the start. These are some But the idea of “sustainable food” is itself of the many complicating factors: complicated. Do we mean economic sustainability, ensuring the financial returns Climate change is adding to the pressure. are sufficient to sustain rural livelihoods? As well as adapting to growing conditions that Or environmental sustainability, avoiding are often becoming more difficult and volatile, depletion of scarce resources and minimizing farmers themselves must help to mitigate their impacts on wildlife habitats, biodiversity and own contribution to global warming. the environment? Or social sustainability, producing food in ways that consumers find acceptable? The reality is that the food “The disproportionate system must address all these issues. Societal concerns may limit farmers’ options. impact of climate change Potential solutions may be resisted by people concerned about the impacts of on the world’s poorest Efficiency improvements can pay multiple people means that there dividends. The “Green Revolution” that has new technology – particularly the possibility boosted crop yields since the 1960s didn’t of residues in food or adverse effects on is a more urgent need than only help to feed the planet. By reducing the biodiversity and the environment. ever to help the poorest need to clear forest and grassland for farming, farmers improve their scientists calculate that it avoided 590 billion Further improvement in crop yields is vital productivity in the increasingly tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions. – especially for smallholders, who play tough conditions that they That’s equivalent to a third of all global emissions since the Industrial Revolution a crucial role in feeding the world but lack continue to face.” began in the 1850s.2 the productivity of larger farms. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation1 6 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The future of food THE FUTURE DEPENDS ON INNOVATION Today, another efficiency step change is needed. If farmers are to successfully and sustainably feed the world, they need access to new solutions, delivered at pace and scale. Traditional farming and distribution methods won’t be enough – the whole industry needs to change and come up with new ideas. Innovation is needed across the board, because there are no simple answers. “Modern technologies, by Farmers face multi-faceted challenges that need multi-faceted solutions, tailored to using natural ecosystem flows and services more local needs and opportunities. There will be many different perspectives to reconcile and contributions to incorporate. In agrochemicals, R&D teams are looking efficiently, offer a real beyond efficacy – developing tightly targeted molecules that are safer for the environment chance of reducing the and effective against evolving pests and diseases. Advanced breeding techniques are totality of human impacts on the biosphere.” producing seeds that are more resilient to climate change and pests. Advances in other branches of science and An Ecomodernist Manifesto, 20156 technology are helping to enhance farm productivity and sustainability. More pests and diseases can be controlled through effective use of natural predators and other biological solutions. The combination of big data with precision agriculture technology is enabling farmers to better understand and manage the land, field by field. And by combining digital and biological techniques, breeders are accelerating the development of new crop varieties with desirable characteristics. Syngenta 7 The future of food Sustainable Business Report 2017 Technological advances like these are enhancing food quality as well as input productivity: the world needs not only more calories, but also foods that deliver better nutrition. This is especially important for children in developing countries. LAND UNDER Better nutrition makes them not only healthier, but also more attentive in school – THREAT contributing to communities’ future prosperity. Changing social attitudes to food can Urban sprawl threatens land make big differences, for better or worse. resources: over 60 percent of the For example, the impact of resource‑intensive world’s cropland lies on the edges animal farming could be reduced by new of cities.7 And over 60 percent lab‑grown cultured meat products, increased of farmland is affected consumption of insect protein, or by a shift by soil degradation.8 to lower-meat, vegetarian or vegan diets. In some of the wealthiest nations, there is evidence that meat consumption may already have peaked.10 Conversely, rising demand for organic crops, with their inherently lower “Satisfying the world’s yields, could increase pressure on resources such as land.11 Innovation is needed here to increasing demand make organic farming more productive. for food will require A third of all food production is lost or wasted MEAT IS A innovative, cross-sector along the supply chain.12 So innovation to global partnerships. reduce these losses could be as valuable as big uplifts in crop yields. THIRSTY FOOD We believe it is possible Significant improvements could come from Liters of water required to produce one gram of protein15: to meet the needs of bringing production closer to consumption, which also reduces the environmental Beef people and nature by driving improvements impacts of excessive “food miles”. Over half the global population now lives in cities, and that proportion is expected to reach 112 in soil health, habitat two-thirds by 2050.13 Urban sprawl eats Vegetables conservation and up existing farmland – but technologies for urban farming are beginning to offset this 26 resource efficiency.” impact: production from “vertical farms” Cereals in buildings is forecast to grow by 25 percent The Nature Conservancy9 a year to 2022.14 21 8 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The future of food All participants in food production and distribution need to take a more holistic “Shifting the food system towards a INNOVATION DEPENDS view – to think in terms of “food systems” more sustainable future requires a better ON COLLABORATION where they work in synergy, rather than seeing themselves in separate silos such as understanding of the interdependencies of “farming” or “manufacturing” or “distribution”. the system and a deeper recognition that the The scope for improvement in agricultural production is significant, and there’s no The future of food – safe, sustainable, food system is not the exclusive domain of any shortage of opportunities for innovation. plentiful, nourishing, satisfying food – depends on unprecedented cooperation that given sector or public agency.” But the challenge to produce more with less is an urgent one. While demand growth brings together all the players with relevant knowledge and resources. Global Alliance for the Future of Food16 continues to outpace improvements in production, humanity is consuming So for suppliers of agricultural products renewable resources 50 percent faster and services like Syngenta – and equally than nature can replace them.17 for academia, governments and NGOs, The pace of change needs to accelerate. agricultural equipment companies, farmers’ customers in the value chain, and That’s not just a matter of developing providers of finance and insurance – the new techniques and technologies faster. challenge is a shared one. The pace of They don’t start making a difference until innovation depends ultimately on how they’re widely applied. And putting innovation successfully we all work together. into practice in the field isn’t always a quick The future of food depends on us all. or easy process – especially when so much of the world’s food is produced by some 500 million18 smallholders, many in isolated rural areas. Traditionally, advances in agriculture have been fragmented and piecemeal. That has to change. No one company or organization can make enough difference on its own. But they can take positive steps to be part of a bigger picture, in which many organizations make many different contributions – both individually and in collaboration with others. 1 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (December 12, 2017). Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Commits $300M (€255M) to Help Farmers in Africa 7 Brent d’Amour et al. (2016). Future urban land expansion and implications for global croplands. Proceedings of the National and Asia Cope with Climate Change Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 114 no. 34, p. 1 2 Louis Bergeron (June 14, 2010). High-yielding agriculture slows pace of global warming, say Stanford researchers. Stanford News 8 UNCCD (n.d.). Desertification Land Degradation and Drought – Some Global Facts and Figures. Retrieved January 31, 2018 3 WHO (n.d.). Nutrition: Controlling the global obesity epidemic. Retrieved January 31, 2018 9 The Nature Conservancy (n.d.). Global Agriculture: The Global Agricultural Toolkit. Retrieved March 15, 2018 4 WHO (October 2017). Obesity and overweight/Fact sheet 10 Ecomodernist Manifesto, 2015, p. 14 5 American Heart Association (March 9, 2016). Understanding the American Obesity Epidemic 11 Lynas, M. (July 7, 2017). The Ecomodernist argument for modern agriculture. Successful Farming at Agriculture.com 6 Ecomodernist Manifesto, 2015, p. 17 12 Food and Agriculture Organization (n.d.). Food loss and waste reduction/Key facts. Retrieved January 31, 2018 13 UN DESA (July 10, 2014). World’s population increasingly urban with more than half living in urban areas Syngenta 9 The future of food Sustainable Business Report 2017 “Family farms are also the custodians of about SYNGENTA’S ROLE IN THE FUTURE: 75 percent of all agricultural resources in the world, COLLABORATIVE AND INNOVATIVE and are therefore key to improved ecological and resource sustainability.” Over recent years, Syngenta’s vision of The Syngenta Foundation for Food and Agriculture Organization19 the future has placed increasing emphasis Sustainable Agriculture builds and on collaboration with organizations in the supports partnerships to improve public, private and nonprofit sectors. their production and livelihoods through services, technology and Partnerships and collaborations amplify links to markets. For more on this, visit the value of the assets we have, leveraging www.syngentafoundation.org our innovation, capabilities and networks. By sharing information and data openly, Successful collaboration, whether we leverage what we know and enable internal or external, depends on trust. others to progress agriculture. Openness, transparency and a willingness to debate your position honestly are This philosophy informs our relationships essential. These attributes are at the with farmers, our customers. Increasingly, heart of our culture and values – for we see them as our partners in driving more on this, see page 29. Our principal innovation and promoting adoption of new relationships and interactions are set out solutions. We’ve made this explicit in in the business model on pages 10-11. The Good Growth Plan – for more on this, see pages 18-27. We see the developing world’s hundreds of millions of smallholders as crucial to meeting the world’s growing food needs. “We are passionate about helping farmers around the world, and we will continue to work with others and invest our resources to make 14 Market Research Engine (January 2017). Vertical Farming Market by Growth Mechanism, Functional Mechanism and by Geography – Global Forecast to 2022/Description 15 Water Footprint Network (n.d.). Water footprint of crop and animal products: a comparison. Retrieved January 31, 2018 agriculture ever more sustainable.” 16 Global Alliance for the Future of Food (2017). The Future of Food in a Climate Changing World. 2nd International Dialogue J. Erik Fyrwald Summary Report. p. iii 17 WWF (n.d.). The Human Footprint. Retrieved January 31, 2018 CEO, Syngenta 18 IFAD (February 2011). viewpoint: Smallholders can feed the world. p. 2 19 Food and Agriculture Organization (October 16, 2014). Putting family farmers first to eradicate hunger 10 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our business model Creating value now That’s why our Good Growth Plan commitments are integral to our business strategy. They put sustainability center stage The resources and for the long term in the way we do business and align closely with the UN’s Sustainable Development we depend on Goals – see page 19 for details. Financial capital If we succeed, we will achieve not only growth Syngenta plays a vital role in enabling the food chain to feed the world for our business but also growth for all – People and the intellectual creating value that benefits our employees, property they create safely and take care of our planet. Our ambition is to be the most customers, communities and food chain collaborative and trusted team in agriculture, providing leading seeds partners. But in a sector as challenging as Chemical, biological, genetic and crop protection innovations to enhance the prosperity of farmers, agriculture, success is not a given. It will and computational sciences wherever they are. require determined execution. We will Natural resources need to collaborate with many partners to Our strategy is to grow through customerAll this innovation has one focus: a passion achieve better outcomes and to earn trust Facilities and services focused innovation – not just in product for our customers, the farmers who grow by delivering on our commitments. research and development, but in every the world’s food. To make our business work, Local communities aspect of our business model. We seek we have to understand their needs and deliver That trust depends not just on what we do: new and better ways to use resources, to products and services that they value. And the “how” matters, too. So transparency, Laws and regulations develop and deliver products and services, to make our business sustainable, we have ethics, safety and compliance are core and to create value for our many stakeholders to take the long view: ensuring that what to the way we work. In operating our – including employees, the communities we do today strengthens Syngenta and the business model, we’re determined to live where they live and society at large. food chain for tomorrow – economically, by the values we have set ourselves – the environmentally and socially. words in bold above. Syngenta 11 Our business model Sustainable Business Report 2017 What What The value we do we create we provide Research and development Commercial Products, services and solutions Return on investments for growers What we do What we do Food, feed, fuel and fiber 3 Crop protection 3 Crop protection discovery and innovation 3 Product management 3 Advanced seed breeding 3M  arketing and sales – Herbicides Sustainable agriculture solutions 3 Addressing insect, disease, weed and 3 Distribution – Insecticides environmental stress on crops for smallto large-scale farms Who we work with – Fungicides Who we work with 3 Growers 3 Research institutions and universities – Seed treatment Grower and customer satisfaction 3 Distributors 3 Farmers and suppliers 3 Demonstration farms – Biologicals 3 Agricultural extension services Sustainable production 3 Processors and the food chain – Crop enhancement 3 NGOs 3 Agronomists 3 Seeds Development of our people and 3 Agricultural extension services Production 3 Technology providers – Seeds partners along the value chain What we do – Traits Supporting activities 3 Grower programs Economic value shared with 3 Production of active ingredients and intermediate chemicals production employees, suppliers, governments 3 Formulation, fill and packaging What we do 3 Digital agriculture and communities 3 Safe and sustainable use of our products 3 Production of seeds 3 Product registration 3 Production of flowers Collective well-being of communities 3 Health, safety and environment Who we work with 3 Multi-stakeholder engagement 3 Suppliers Stimulating research, sharing data Who we work with 3 Toll manufacturers 3 Industry associations and knowledge 3 Government and regulatory authorities 3 NGOs and IGOs 3 Communities 12 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our offer Innovating for growers – and for society Our strategy for both crop protection and seeds is “Growth through customer-focused innovation”. Farmers want us to help them work profitably, safely and sustainably. They face constantly evolving climatic, agronomic and commercial challenges while meeting the expectations of their own customers: food processors, retailers, consumers and society as a whole. These demands are constantly evolving, too. So our customer-focused innovation has to be continuous, multilayered and responsive to local conditions wherever we operate. Syngenta 13 Our offer Sustainable Business Report 2017 concerns over issues such as potential to establish strategic partnerships and against risks including climate change and Crop Protection residues in food, as regulation becomes more restrictive – and politicized. alliances with organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable increasingly volatile weather. In 2017, we saw continued success in North America with new Syngenta is the world market leader in Development, the International Rice Research products including TRIVAPRO™, the first threeOne example is our Fruit Quality Contract Institute, The Nature Conservancy, USAID mode-of-action foliar fungicide; TALINOR™, crop protection products, with broad in Europe, the US and Latin America. coverage of an extremely diverse market. and value chain companies and organizations a post-emergence herbicide developed to This grower program is designed to help such as IDH – The Sustainable Trade Initiative. control broadleaf weeds in wheat and barley; We develop and produce herbicides, farmers meet stringent food chain standards, insecticides, fungicides and seed And we share good agronomy practices, MINECTO® PRO, a new insecticide for difficult with a unique combination of products combined with safe-use and environmental to control pests in vegetable and specialty treatments that promote strong and and services enabling them to achieve healthy plant growth. stewardship, through initiatives such as crops; and BESIEGE™, a broad-spectrum and document compliance in critical areas locally-tailored Syngenta Learning Centers foliar insecticide. In addition to protecting plants from such as residue levels. Another example is on demonstration farms. pests and diseases, we provide crop the introduction of digital track-and-trace The Argentine registration of MIRAVIS™ DUO enhancement products that help them technology for all our products to provide full Delivering the products and services for peanuts and MIRAVIS™ TOP for tomatoes, tolerate environmental stresses such as documentation and traceability for the food customers need peppers and squash marked the launch of heat, cold and drought. We also offer value chain, with easy access to application Growing populations and changing diets a new brand with broad market potential. products that boost nutrient uptake in and safe-use information. create new opportunities for growers. MIRAVIS™ features our ADEPIDYN™ broadcrops – helping growers to use fertilizers Demand for grain has increased by almost spectrum fungicide, which is highly effective We accept our responsibility to develop against damaging and hard-to-control more efficiently, increasing yields while safe and sustainable products and steward 90 percent since 1980 and will continue improving sustainability. to increase at an average rate of around diseases such as fusarium head blight, them carefully, investing approximately botrytis, sclerotinia and corynespora. 30 percent of the cost of a new active 1.4 percent per year. In 2020, one hectare While our principal customers are will need to feed more than five people farmers, our Controls business adapts our ingredient on product safety. We’ve also Further MIRAVIS™ launches will follow globally made the commitment to train 20 million farm compared to 1960 when it had to feed two in 2018 as work continues on products for agricultural technologies to meet the needs people. These changing demands lead to of professionals in turf, tree and landscape workers on labor safety by 2020. For more on canola, cereals, corn, soybean, specialty this – see “Help people stay safe” on page 25. intensification, a primary driver for the global crops, vegetables and the Controls markets. care, residential and commercial pest market for crop protection products. management, disease vector control, Latin America also saw the launch of our We continue to promote the case for realistic, FORTENZA® insecticide seed treatment commercial flower production and science-based regulation – and transnational As farmers pursue higher crop yields and consumer garden care. productivity levels, a second driver is pest for corn. consistency on standards such as maximum residue levels (MRLs), so that crops meeting and disease resistance. We give farmers We continued the European roll out of Meeting society’s expectations regulatory requirements in the country where advice and training on the best ways to inhibit ELATUS™ fungicides for treating the most they are grown are not barred from sale in resistance; but over time new modes of action important and damaging cereal diseases, Across the world, consumers want access to will always be needed, as pests evolve to a wide variety of healthy and affordable food another. At the same time, we work to develop including septoria and rust. In 2017, we solutions like our MIRAVIS™ DUO fungicide resist existing solutions. Both intensification launched ELATUS™ products for cereal crops choices while being increasingly interested and resistance demand a steady stream of in the safety and sustainability of food that meet the strictest MRL regulations, so in France, Germany and the UK. The key that treated crops can be exported anywhere. innovation through investment in research active ingredient, SOLATENOL™, is already production. We see an opportunity for dialog and development (R&D). in addressing societal concerns about the role And we have now committed to make our used on soybean in Latin America and on of agricultural technology in food production. safety data publically accessible. In developing and marketing our products a wide range of crops in the US and Canada. Working with all players in the highly regulated and services, we have a strong focus on We also began the European roll out of We strive to build constructive and open VIBRANCE™ DUO, which controls a range crop protection industry – regulators, growers’ return on investment, helping relationships with governments, regulators, of soil-borne cereal diseases. policymakers and the value chain, particularly them to maximize yields and build resilience NGOs and food processors. We continue retailers – we seek to allay consumer 14 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our offer We also launched PLENARIS™ seed treatment Increasingly, we are also supplementing our Stepping up the pace of innovation We also invest in smaller innovation fungicide for controlling downy mildew in products with agronomic advice and services Over the next decade, we will be bringing companies through Syngenta Ventures. sunflower and other crops. It incorporates that help to enhance farm performance, forward new crop protection approaches that Current investments include Agbiome, novel a novel chemistry that now gives us four mitigate risks and improve access to markets. help growers address many of their agronomic crop protection biocontrols; Phytech, decision different modes of action to combat this key Our presence in local farming communities challenges. Innovative formulation technology support based on plant monitoring; and seedling disease. The first sales were in the ensures that we can meet growers’ needs that includes how we combine chemistries Asilomar Bio, products to enhance crops’ US, with Argentina to follow in 2018. with greater agility, local knowledge will also have a role to play. We are working drought resilience. and insight. on ways to optimize the performance of our Extending the grower’s toolbox Biocontrols Our grower programs combine best-in-class products in conventional agriculture systems Insects, weeds and diseases are constantly and with precision application, which allows Biocontrols are expected to record doubleevolving threats. To provide the best available Syngenta products with agronomic protocols, digit growth: by 2030, they could represent data and other services, accurately tailored for us to target specific areas on a plant, therefore solutions and tools, we apply our world-class reducing the amount of product applied. up to 10 percent of the global crop protection science and facilities to develop new active local needs and conditions. Exceptionally high market. We have been complementing our customer loyalty rates testify to their success. To help us increase the pace of innovation over ingredients (AIs), formulations and biocontrols. the next few years, we will make increasing use chemistry portfolio with biocontrol products We add value by sharing our agronomic In the US corn market, for example, for many years to add modes of action AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR® brings together of partnerships, biocontrols and digitalization. expertise, providing advice and support with that enhance resistance management. use protocols, precision application and other selected seeds, seed treatment, crop Partnerships We continually scout for new early-stage technologies – and by developing holistic protection and post-harvest products with risk biocontrol technologies, where we can Partnerships and collaborations have been solutions such as our grower program offers. mitigation measures and farm management apply our crop knowledge and product key to our innovation model for many years. services, to address yield-limiting factors development capabilities to bring new Product life cycle management ensures we Through partnerships we can gain access to throughout the year. For barley growers in commercial solutions to market. make the best possible use of our broad existing technologies or jointly develop entirely Germany, France and the UK, the HYVIDO® portfolio of around 70 AIs to deliver new new classes of chemistry. In 2012, we acquired Pasteuria Bioscience Cashback Yield Guarantee offers a similar products to market. Every year, label and approach, with insurance that guarantees In the public health field, our partnership which enabled us to develop CLARIVA™, formulation extensions enable us to bring return on investment. AGRICLIME™ protects with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation a breakthrough seed treatment to combat farmers hundreds of new applications for Australian farmers by combining best-in-class and Innovative Vector Control Consortium soybean cyst nematodes, and to scale our AIs. Many of these are tailored for minor inputs with a financial guarantee against (IVCC) to develop insecticides with a novel up cost-effective production. In 2017, we crops, greatly enhancing the viability of pre-agreed heat or drought conditions. mode of action for controlling resistant launched a combination of CLARIVA™ with growers whose options are often limited. We continue to develop programs like these, mosquitoes, is currently progressing several CRUISERMAXX® VIBRANCE™ as CLARIVA™ to offer more growers an optimized, locallyhighly promising leads. Collaborating with Elite Beans. This next-generation seed Not all solutions are chemical-based. treatment is uniquely able to provide seasontailored toolbox of solutions. the IVCC, we developed ACTELLIC® 300CS, Syngenta is extending the grower’s toolbox long activity against soybean cyst nematodes, with products that use naturally occurring which is highly effective against resistant Grower programs not only help growers which today cause annual losses for growers organisms – bacteria, fungi or viruses – to mosquitoes. In 2017, it was used in 32 increase yield and profitability, they contribute of around $1.5 billion in the US alone. protect or stimulate crops. These biocontrols countries across sub-Saharan Africa, and is greatly to the sustainability of farming as offer new modes of action to combat estimated to have protected around 34 million well. For example, our soybean fungicide resistance, address previously unresolved people from malaria. Its use has seen malaria program in Brazil has products with four challenges, complement traditional chemical transmission reduced by almost 40 percent different modes of action to help growers methods or provide more sustainable in Eastern Zimbabwe and up to 60 percent in manage soybean rust resistance, which can alternatives. They will play a growing role Northern Ghana. In Central-West Senegal, the devastate yields. as the regulatory landscape changes. risk of malaria transmission was 14 times lower following applications of ACTELLIC® 300CS. Syngenta 15 Our offer Sustainable Business Report 2017 Digitalization Robust biocontrols that can replace Digital technologies are rapidly transforming chemicals are in increasing demand, to agriculture. Farmers are gathering increasing broaden growers’ crop protection options. amounts of data about their land, soil and To meet the needs of European fruit and crops from monitoring devices, drones vegetable farmers seeking to enhance the and satellite imaging. In combination with marketability of their products, we have predictive software and artificial intelligence, scheduled the European launch of TAEGRO® this will aid decisions that save time in 2018. This broad-spectrum biofungicide and money, and enable unprecedented protects against diseases such as powdery precision and efficiency in applying our mildew and botrytis. Its biological origin and products – increasing both sustainability low application rates have strong appeal to and effectiveness. the food chain, and it has an important future as a key building block in fruit and vegetable We are developing a growing portfolio of grower programs worldwide. digital solutions and capabilities to support our customers, improve their experience with us, In the coming years, farmers must continue to optimize results from our products, document meet the evolving expectations of society and sustainability and compliance for food their food-chain customers while sustainably processors, and increase the effectiveness of meeting the challenges posed by climate Healthy wheat Wheat infected with septoria our stewardship and loyalty programs. change and pests. We are well positioned to help, by offering them a holistic – and Innovating for the future expanding – toolbox of solutions to address With resistance proving a challenge for Better control, higher yield many fungicides currently on the market, Over the next few years, we will be bringing their challenges and maximize the potential of their businesses. finding new solutions for septoria control an exciting pipeline of chemical and biological When a fungus strikes a grower’s crop, has been at the forefront of our research. crop protection products to market. the consequences can be very severe. We are committed to meeting growers’ Thanks to our focused team of experts, One of the most damaging fungal In 2018, this will include the launch of new and consumers’ needs in increasingly Syngenta has found an innovative solution diseases in Europe is septoria, which can MIRAVIS™ products for potatoes and canola challenging and dynamic environments. with a series of fungicides based on the cause yield losses as high as 40 percent. in Australia, and potatoes and grapes in We deliver sustainable innovation and will active ingredient SOLATENOL™. A field infected with septoria is visible to New Zealand. SOLVIGO®, a best-in-class continue to collaborate through global and even the casual observer. SOLATENOL™ is an active ingredient in the insecticide, will launch for bananas in our local partnerships. We are strengthening our focus on delivering safer products with ELATUS™ family of products. They provide Latin America North territory. In wheat, the fungus appears as brown a smaller environmental footprint, and most long-lasting control of the most important spots on the leaves that over time expand Our ORONDIS® fungicide is scheduled for importantly we actively encourage dialogue and damaging diseases of cereals, including to consume the healthy green leaf 2018 launch in Australia, Guatemala, Mexico with stakeholders, customers and the septoria and rust. The range of mixtures and area. Warm, damp conditions provide and North-East Asia. Applied on vegetables communities in which we operate. co-packs available for ELATUS™ makes it a the perfect environment for septoria to and specialty crops, ORONDIS® offers a new flexible and adaptable option for growers in develop. Once present, it can rapidly level of control over diseases such as downy their disease control program. spread and destroy fields of healthy crop. mildew and late blight. It can be used at Treating septoria early with an effective significantly lower rates than other fungicides, fungicide is critical to maintaining a healthy and its new mode of action expands our crop and ensuring a good yield for growers. market-leading fungicide portfolio. 16 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our offer A market with complex customer needs Delivering what our customers need on standards so that crops meeting Seeds Choosing what seed to plant, and where to plant it, is a complex decision. It is Given the complexity of our customers’ needs, we need to deliver constant innovation regulatory requirements in one country are not prevented from sale in another. Syngenta is one of the world’s three largest further complicated by the weather and and performance improvement, and we apply At the end of 2017, we concluded a developers and producers of seed for pest pressures that arise after the seed is our breeding and biotechnology skills to find deal with Dow AgroSciences LLC and farmers and commercial growers. We offer planted. Farmers need products that will the best genetic opportunities and present M.S. Technologies, L.L.C to license its a broad portfolio of crops, with particular reduce the risk of their investment and them in seed form. We have to produce those Enlist™ and Conkesta™ traits. This further strengths in soybean, corn, vegetables, provide a predictable outcome. They look seeds efficiently and get them to customers strengthened our soybean trait portfolios in sunflower, barley, wheat, oilseed rape for the assurance of higher yields from lower in the right quality and quantities at the herbicide resistance for the US and insect and rice. inputs as they strive to control their costs in right time. And, importantly, we also have resistance for Latin America. It gives us the markets where commodity prices have been to support our customers with agronomic most trait options in the market, enabling Our Vegetables business alone offers depressed for some years. In more developed advice and expertise to ensure that they plant us to respond to customer preferences and around 2,500 varieties across more than markets, farmers are also increasingly the right seed for their soil type and weather needs in these key territories. 30 crop species. And Syngenta Flowers – focused on sustainability, and their ability conditions, and provide the right care to one of the few global players – is a market to demonstrate this to their customers in maximize performance and yield. In all these A major milestone for the Seeds business leader in mass-market and value-added the value chain. areas, our ability to be the best possible was the signing of a deal in November to plants, ranking in the top two in most key partner depends on putting our customers acquire Nidera Seeds, a market leader in market segments. In the vegetables market, growers must at the center of our strategy, and working Latin America. The deal, which completed respond to the increasingly stringent closely with them to understand and meet in February 2018, significantly strengthens demands of processors, retailers and endtheir needs. our business in this region. With over 1,000 A dynamic and growing market consumers. Processors want characteristics employees at 18 sites and annual sales of The global seed market is worth some that simplify and maximize processing For corn growers in the US – our largest about $330 million, Nidera is a major force $40 billion a year and has doubled over the outcomes – for example, seedless peppers single market and growth opportunity – the in soybean with strong offers in corn and last decade. At present, the commercial or lettuce that doesn’t brown when cut. most important development of 2017 was sunflower. Its products, germplasm pool and seed market is dominated by relatively few Key considerations for retailers include China’s import approval for AGRISURE R&D complement Syngenta’s, and will enable countries and crops. Over half its value uniformity, shelf life, product safety and DURACADE®, our trait for effective control us together to bring more innovation and comes from corn and soybean alone, and year-round supply, while consumers are of corn rootworm. This enables us to offer value to Latin American growers. 57 percent of all sales are made in just three particularly concerned with aspects such growers more choice with new hybrids that markets: North America, Brazil and China. as flavor, color, shape, convenience and combine top-quality genetics with the most Innovating to meet emerging needs In the coming years, the market is expected less food waste. advanced rootworm control technology. Investment in research and development to grow substantially, particularly in Brazil, This destructive pest currently costs US The demands of the flowers market are (R&D) and new technologies is essential – not China and India. growers more than $1 billion annually in yield similar, as growers have to address the only to maintain improvement in crop yields losses and control costs. and input productivity, but also because We have ambitious plans to grow Syngenta’s practical requirements of the retail channel share of the global seed market. In 2017, we while meeting consumer demands for AGRISURE DURACADE® has been fully market needs are constantly changing. strengthened the leadership of our Seeds innovation and aesthetic performance. approved in the US since 2013, but growers’ Farmers have to address evolving challenges business, recruiting key talent from other Ease of care is also important, as markets access to export markets depends on local such as climate change, pests and emerging leading seeds companies, and significantly are increasingly driven by consumers buying import approvals. In a global economy, resistance to existing forms of control; they restructured the organization to ensure we plants in retail outlets to immediately decorate asynchronous registrations across different must also respond to the changing demands have the focus and capabilities to execute their homes, rather than experienced countries can increase complexity for of the food value chain from food processors our growth strategy. gardeners shopping in garden centers. farmers. We promote realistic, science-based to retailers and consumers. regulation and transnational consistency Syngenta 17 Our offer Sustainable Business Report 2017 To help them meet these challenges, we We will continue to put forward scienceinvested more than $0.5 billion in breeding based views on these issues, to be and R&D in 2017. We have been working to transparent in demonstrating the safety accelerate our rate of innovation, applying and efficacy of our innovations, and to new technologies, data, analytics and digital publish data that supports open dialogue tools to bring better products to market faster. with stakeholders. Techniques such as molecular markers and molecular breeding are transforming the way As we develop a deeper understanding we work, and we continue to invest heavily of growers’ needs, we see the increasing in data and digital technology to extend our need for new technologies that will bring IMAGE TO COME game-changing innovation for growers. capability and shorten development timelines. Past examples include a novel range of The technification of China’s seed market is different cauliflower colors that delight a major growth opportunity for us. So while consumers, and ENOGEN® corn enzyme we maintain our R&D effort in existing areas technology that enhances ethanol production of strength, we will invest additional resources from corn. Our scientists are now deploying in areas important to the Chinese market. new breeding technologies such as genome Technological innovation is at the heart of editing and mathematical modeling to bring China’s agriculture modernization agenda, plant potential to life with unprecedented and we are strengthening our capabilities at speed and precision. Syngenta’s Beijing Innovation Center (SBIC). Syngenta celebrated its 150th anniversary as a leader in vegetable seeds. Launched in 2017, Lullaby delights The SBIC is at the forefront of biotechnology On the horizon is an accelerated pipeline consumers with its bright red cherry tomatoes on fishbone-shaped clusters. adoption in the country and is leading our for resistance against insects and diseases, global genome editing program. The center For example, a significant development in fruit supply chain and marketing teams resulted in breakthrough yield improvements, better is also driving important collaborations with and vegetable retailing has been the rapid a complete product and branding package, climate-change adaptation and tolerance Chinese institutes. growth of fresh-cut fruit as a convenient and which was designed to add value along the against abiotic stresses and differentiating healthy snack. In response, we developed whole chain: from plug producers to brokers, product quality. By working with partners An important strategic priority for the the Crisp Fresh line of seedless watermelon growers, retailers and consumers. in academia, start-ups, and institutes, we Seeds business is to focus on crops and varieties, featuring crisp flesh that reduces are poised to translate the newest scientific markets where we have the greatest growth post-processing liquid loss and extends shelf Innovating for the future achievements into winning products opportunity, where we can get to scale life. Since the successful launch in the US of We now have the tools and opportunity to for growers. and invest in sustainable innovation. As a Crisp Delight – the first variety in this line – we address far-reaching social concerns: to feed consequence, in 2017, we sold our global have rapidly scaled up production and rolled growing populations and nourish them better, sugar beet seeds business to a more out in markets across the world. to enable crops to withstand climate change, specialized operator. and to do so sustainably, with less reliance Our flowers business scored an immediate on chemical pesticides. The key issues will Our vegetables business – which celebrated hit with its award-winning new SUNFINITY™ 150 years in 2017 and introduced 160 new be timely regulatory approval, enabling new sunflower, launched in 2017. It took almost products to be grown and marketed, and the varieties that year – has built a strong track a decade to develop this innovative variety, record in innovation at its 36 R&D centers. adequate protection of intellectual property designed to extend the retail sales season of new plant varieties, enabling investment in Innovation that adds value depends on working as a premium product for gardens and patio closely with customers to understand emerging innovation to earn fair returns. pots. Close collaboration between R&D, needs and deliver new products in response. 18 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan Measuring our contribution Sustainability is at the heart of our drive to help farmers feed a fast-growing world population. Humanity now depends on farmers increasing their production substantially, rapidly and sustainably. And we can only play our part if our business, too, is sustainable. The Good Growth Plan is informing the way our products and services contribute to a sustainable agricultural system. Syngenta 19 The Good Growth Plan Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan is central to our strategies for both our Crop Protection Supporting the UN Sustainable The Good Growth Plan UN Sustainable Development Goals and Seeds businesses to ensure their Development Goals success and long-term viability. It defines six In 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 Our six commitments help Zero hunger farmers meet the challenge of End hunger, achieve food security and improved commitments in areas that are material to our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture feeding a fast-growing world business, where improvement is essential to that define its development agenda up to population sustainably. secure the future of agriculture and our world. 2030. These are a universal call to action to Partnerships for the goals Each commitment sets hard, stretch targets end poverty, protect the planet and secure Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for to be achieved by 2020. We are measuring peace and prosperity for all. sustainable development and reporting our progress against these targets each year, and we provide detailed We welcome and support the SDGs, data and definitions in accordance with the which are helping to mobilize the action Responsible consumption and production Make crops Ensure sustainable consumption and Open Data Institute best data practices at and innovation necessary to make a better, more efficient production patterns www.data.syngenta.com. more sustainable world. This will need new ways of thinking and working, fresh The Plan’s principles and priorities are now approaches that create new opportunities Climate action deeply embedded in the way we do business. – and a massive step-up in collaboration Rescue more Take urgent action to combat climate change As it has continued, we have begun to assess among governments, NGOs, businesses, farmland and its impacts not only our progress but also the nature financial and donor institutions, schools and Life on land and quality of the value we are adding: the universities. The shared goal should be a Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of impact on people, communities and the future where economic growth goes hand terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, environment. As we build what we learn into in hand with a healthy environment and combat desertification, and halt and reverse land our commercial offer, we are also compiling respect for human rights. degradation and halt biodiversity loss the evidence that it delivers real, measurable value for growers and society at large. The SDGs underscore the relevance and Life on land significance of our Good Growth Plan. Help biodiversity Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of The data and insights that we are gaining and Collectively, the Plan’s six commitments flourish terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, sharing have provided the basis for a growing contribute towards delivering the SDGs: all combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss number of partnerships – with governments, six commitments contribute directly to Goal 2 academia, NGOs and businesses. These add (zero hunger) and Goal 17 (partnerships for No poverty further value to our efforts and guide the sustainability), as well as individually towards Empower End poverty in all its forms everywhere continuing evolution and development of a number of other goals. smallholders The Good Growth Plan itself. Good health and well-being Help people Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being stay safe for all at all ages Decent work and economic growth Look after Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable every worker economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 20 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan Progress and key achievements Average input efficiency in 2017 2 % The UN Food and Agriculture Organization Make crops 3 Greenhouse gas emission efficiency 14.2 recognizes that sustainable intensification strategies, which conserve and restore improved by 14 percent 14.0 13.9 more efficient 3 Significant productivity uplift resources, are important in addressing 10.9 climate change. More efficient resource use on reference farms supports both adaptation to and mitigation Increase the average productivity of the 7.3 of the effects of climate change by improving world’s major crops by 20 percent 3 Smallholders yields up 21.6 percent without using more land, water or inputs 4.8 farm productivity and incomes while reducing 3 Pesticide field application efficiency emissions per unit of product. We’re cutting greenhouse gas up 14.2 percent on reference farms This year, we analyzed greenhouse gas emissions and showing strong The world needs a step change in crop (GHG) footprints from our farm network. Land Pesticide field Greenhouse advances in yield, while using productivity to “grow more with less” and meet productivity application gas emission We have partnered with two organizations, resources more efficiently the needs of its growing population. We are efficiency efficiency Field to Market and the Cool Farm Alliance, targeting a 20 percent increase across the on reference farms to bring our growers online tools that calculate UN Sustainable Development Goals world’s most important crops, in partnership on benchmark farms GHG footprints from data they are already with growers who use our products and 2 Compared to 2014 baseline collecting. This enables them to support agronomic advice. We are focusing particular their customers’ GHG accounting, with effort on smallholders, who have the greatest Smallholder reference farms are showing evidence that their footprints are reducing Average land productivity increase1 % potential to increase productivity. particularly encouraging increases in land as they use inputs more efficiently. Since the productivity – up 21.6 percent compared with 10.9% Measuring the difference we make launch of The Good Growth Plan, we have 5.1 percent for their benchmark counterparts. seen a 14 percent efficiency increase in GHG To test and measure what’s possible, farmers This reflects the benefit of optimized products, emissions across our reference farm network. 2020 20.0 are working with our field experts to share appropriate training and services – including know-how and trial new solutions on over 1,400 knowledge-sharing networks – to spread Collaborating to increase sustainability 2017 10.9 reference farms across 22 crops in 41 countries. good practice. Sharing what we learn is an essential part 2016 1.2 Over 2,600 additional benchmark farms, many of our Good Growth Plan commitments. also using Syngenta products, deepen our By improving crop yields per hectare, the 2015 1.9 majority of reference and benchmark farms Our experience of partnering with value chain understanding of what drives productivity and companies and organizations provides mutual 1 On reference farms compared to 2014 baseline efficiency, and help us track progress over time. used pesticides, fertilizers and other inputs more efficiently in 2017. Detailed analysis support in making agricultural production and With data gathered on a consistent basis over of smallholder data found a positive food supply chains more sustainable. Farm network 2017 2016 2015 four successive years, we can now see relationship between input use and yields. Under our Sustainable Solutions initiative No. of reference farms 1,459 1,039 1,062 meaningful trends emerging. Across all our By judiciously increasing their use of inputs, in the US, we develop and monitor No. of benchmark farms 2,630 2,694 2,586 reference farms in 2017, the average land farmers who used few inputs in 2014 have appropriate metrics, give growers tools productivity increase over the 2014 baseline improved not only their productivity but also to generate relevant data and provide was 10.9 percent. The uplift on benchmark their input efficiency. When speaking of insight that helps drive improvement on the farms was 7.3 percent. The 2017 results input efficiency, we mean, for example, the ground. Our sustainability engagement has compare favorably with those of the previous amount of pesticide applied per kilogram contributed to the commercial success of our two years when harvests – and therefore the of crop produced. AGRIEDGE EXCELSIOR® farm management relative efficiency of inputs such as fertilizers and program, which combines Syngenta products pesticides – were impacted by adverse weather with computer-aided management. conditions, particularly in Asia and Latin America. Syngenta 21 The Good Growth Plan Sustainable Business Report 2017 The UN Convention to Combat Desertification Rescue (UNCCD) estimates that over 50 percent of farmland is affected by soil degradation. more farmland By working to change farming practices that expose soil to wind and rain erosion, we also Improve the fertility of 10 million hectares help farmers reduce their carbon footprint of farmland on the brink of degradation and adapt to climate change. This work includes raising awareness of We’ve sharply increased the pace the importance of soil conservation among of progress as we integrate soil value chain partners, government institutions conservation into our commercial and academics, as well as farmers. products and services We are actively promoting the message UN Sustainable Development Goals that conservation agriculture – based on minimum soil disturbance, crop rotation and permanent ground cover – is a viable element of climate-smart agriculture. It helps reduce emissions, prevents land degradation, Benefited farmland1 m ha improves food security and increases farm 7.5m and community resilience. We are targeting a 20 percent increase in productivity across the world’s most important crops by 2020, Measuring the difference we make and by working together with farmers to maximize their input efficiency. 2020 10.0 Four years into the soil commitment, we have We also publish detailed Good Growth Plan What’s next? 2017 3.1 7.5 implemented 157 projects in 41 countries, progress data on www.data.syngenta.com In the year ahead, we will analyze drivers benefiting a total of 7.5 million hectares. – our open data website. By visualizing and 2016 4.3 In 2017, we increased the pace significantly, of GHG emissions to better understand offering data in a wider range of formats, we how we can help climate-change adaptation 2015 2.4 adding 3.1 million hectares as we optimize aim to increase accessibility and help nonand mitigation through innovation in seeds 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur our programs around the globe and introduce specialists to engage with what we are doing. and crop protection. An additional year of due to rounding new programs such as the digital agriculture We continued to refine the way we present data will also help us improve our statistical solutions we have developed with SmartBio data to individual growers, to show more Progress and key achievements in Brazil, described overleaf. analysis to identify important trends and clearly the impacts of particular protocols. 3 Increased benefited hectares drivers. And we’ll continue to share our The integration of soil conservation practices by over 70 percent data and insights openly, helping companies into our crop protocols and training is gaining and organizations to deliver climate-smart 3 Expanded partnerships and multimomentum, helping us to differentiate agriculture solutions around the world, stakeholder platforms that offer a compelling our commercial offer as well as our seed tailored to local grower needs. conservation agriculture proposition multiplication. Over 70 percent of benefited hectares are making use of our currently 3 Brought a business perspective on land available commercial products and services. degradation and conservation issues to policymakers through the Soil Leadership Academy, in partnership with the UNCCD 22 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan Driving positive change Building collaborations has been crucial, Help biodiversity particularly as our strategy is increasingly linked to digitalization of agriculture. To bring flourish farmers really compelling soil conservation propositions, we have been creating multiEnhance biodiversity on stakeholder platforms with partners who 5 million hectares of farmland provide equipment and machinery, financial solutions and educational support. We’ve hit our 2020 target three years early – and we’ll go on investing to In Brazil, for example, our biggest project benefit an even wider area involves a convergence of satellite imaging, weather data and training – exemplifying UN Sustainable Development Goals the way digital agriculture is transforming farming practices. It uses a digital integrated pest management platform developed by SmartBio with Syngenta, enabling sugar Benefited farmland2 m ha cane mills to map areas susceptible to different stress factors and then optimize crop management and treatment accordingly. 5.6m We actively promote conservation agriculture techniques – such as those used on this farm – to promote 2020 5.0 Close collaboration with farmers is essential. healthy soils as part of more resilient, lower-emission, climate-smart agriculture. We rely on their local knowledge to help 2017 0.7 5.6 identify optimal solutions that build climateWe’re aided in this by commercial What’s next? 2016 4.9 change adaptation and resilience into crop collaborations, which in 2017 included We continue to work with farmers to protocols. And, by tailoring solutions to partnering with Premier Crop Systems to help understand their needs and make our 2015 1.6 local conditions, we ensure that they offer reference farmers in the US experiment with solutions more compelling, with value chain 2 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur due to rounding benefits that motivate adoption by farmers. precision nitrogen applications. The facility partners to further build on current sustainable For example, in Indonesia, our GROMORE™ – built into Land.db®1, using Premier Crop sourcing experience, and with our commercial solution is helping rice smallholders to Systems software to communicate with farm Progress and key achievements teams to build good practices into our product implement conservation practices in machinery – is expected to further improve and service offer. We are encouraging value 3 Already well past our 2020 target preparing paddy fields. Locally-tailored fertilizer efficiency. chain partners in cereals, corn, grapes, for benefited acreage protocols enable fast and effective land potatoes, rice and soybean to consider soil preparation, restore soil organic matter Our Sustainable Solutions team in the US 3 229 projects now implemented was honored to receive – jointly with Kellogg management in their sustainable purchasing in 37 countries and help to improve resource efficiency. criteria. And we will continue working with Company and the Nature Conservancy – the When sharing what works best, we’re working partners – including the Global Alliance for 3 Broadened the range of solutions 2017 Collaboration of the Year award from to show the value of adopting practices such Climate-Smart Agriculture, the World Business available to farmers Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable as conservation tillage, cover crops, crop Agriculture. The award recognizes Council for Sustainable Development and the World Economic Forum – to stimulate debate 3 Launched Landscape Connectivity: rotations and biodiversity habitats. outstanding partnership in advancing a Call to Action, published in collaboration the sustainability of US agriculture. on climate-smart agriculture and encourage national and regional authorities to make their with the WBCSD, the UNCCD and soil policies more effective. Bioversity International 1 Land.db is a trademark of Ag Connections ® Syngenta 23 The Good Growth Plan Sustainable Business Report 2017 The sustainability of agriculture relies on case more compelling. For example, we biodiversity – for plant breeding, pollination are encouraging value chain companies and food diversity. But biodiversity is declining to consider biodiversity conservation as fast as species habitats are lost, and climate a standard in their sustainable sourcing. change increases the risks. We are promoting and enabling action to reverse this trend. Integrating proven biodiversity solutions A key strategy is managing less-productive into our product protocols and training, and farmland alongside fields and waterways to tailoring to local needs and opportunities, reintroduce local species, provide buffers for is boosting uptake. We partner with many soil and water, and connect wildlife habitats. stakeholders to promote best practices, This enables sustainable intensification on and over 80 percent of our initiatives more productive land. include one or more local organizations as implementation partners. Measuring the difference we make In China’s Zhejiang province, for example, After four years, we have already met our smallholders have planted GROMORE™ rice target for 2020, and we will keep on investing paddies that reduce fertilizer inputs while to further improve biodiversity in agriculture. using field margins for cash crops such as We have now implemented 229 projects in sesame and soybean. These crops attract 37 countries, benefiting a total of 5.6 million pollinators and sell well in local markets. hectares. Benefits for farmers include reduced soil erosion and better soil nutrient We have been working with Arcadis, Wildflowers and trees in field margins provide connected habitats for wildlife, protecting biodiversity and cycling, crop pollination, pest control and a natural assets consultancy, to quantify enabling sustainable intensification on the cultivated areas. water quality regulation. Wider social gains biodiversity’s commercial, socio-economic include enhanced genetic diversity, carbon and environmental value in agricultural What’s next? We plan to make increasing use of satellite sequestration, flood attenuation and landscapes. The evidence from the majority The Nature Conservancy has been a key imaging for evaluating the ecological recreation opportunities. of our biodiversity projects shows that every collaborator on several projects, including infrastructures in our network of reference hectare of managed field margin can deliver restoring rainforest in the Brazilian Cerrado farms. We continue to work with the Driving positive change combined natural and social capital benefits and riparian strips in the lower Mississippi conservation community, farmers, value Our research shows not only high farmer to farmers and society at large. River to enhance nutrient cycling while chain companies and our commercial teams awareness of these benefits, but also improving wildlife habitat. We are looking to to promote biodiversity practices. And we’ll a disconnect between awareness and In collaboration with the World Business build on this work to improve our programs continue to leverage our commercial outreach implementation. Farmers can still be reluctant Council for Sustainable Development with farmers and increase our positive by building biodiversity solutions into our crop to invest in biodiversity conservation if (WBCSD), the UN Convention to Combat impact on biodiversity and soil. We are also protocols, commercial value proposition and market incentives are missing or difficult Desertification (UNCCD) and Bioversity partnering with Humanitas Global to create loyalty programs. to understand. So we aim to foster an International, we have published a paper, a multi-stakeholder platform addressing ecosystem of partnerships and commercial Landscape Connectivity – a Call to Action, pollination issues in Africa. relationships that makes the investment to raise awareness about conservation and encourage adoption of simple, workable solutions to promote it. 24 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan Progress and key achievements Empower 3 Land productivity on smallholder reference farms increased by 21.6 percent smallholders 3 Maintained growth in ASEAN Reach 20 million smallholders and and South Asia enable them to increase productivity 3 Completed further social impact by 50 percent assessments in Brazil, Guatemala, Strong productivity advances on Indonesia and Mexico smallholder reference farms – more Over half our sales are made in developing than 4 times the increase on countries dominated by smallholder farmers. benchmark farms As our contact with smallholders is largely UN Sustainable Development Goals through vendors of our products, we use sales volume data to estimate the number of smallholders reached. Measuring the difference we make Smallholders reached1 m Smallholders have a vital role to play in 13.9m both food security and poverty reduction. They produce more than half the world’s calories and over 80 percent of the food Smallholders matter. They produce half the world’s calories and most of the developing world’s food. We’re finding better ways to interact with them to help raise productivity and income. 2020 20.0 consumed in much of the developing world. It was therefore disappointing to see a fall in drove strong uptake of fungicides among rice 2017 13.9 There is considerable scope to improve the number of smallholders reached through smallholders in Vietnam. Along with China their productivity – which, in turn, would sales – down by 2.7 million to 13.9 million in and ASEAN, South Asia is our other principal 2016 16.6 significantly reduce poverty. It’s estimated 2017. The main factor was a sharp drop in smallholder market – and there, too, we 2015 17.2 that increasing farm yields by just 10 percent corn acreage in China, where the government extended our sales and reach in 2017. 1 Through sales could reduce populations living in poverty by has been encouraging alternative crops to 7 percent in Africa and over 5 percent in Asia. reduce historic corn stockpiles. Over 40 Driving positive change Average smallholder land percent of our smallholder customers are The social impact assessments we have been productivity increase2 % Our network of smallholder reference farms is in China, where corn is our principal crop, undertaking are deepening our understanding making strong progress in yield improvement: 21.6% and the impact was only partially softened of our interactions with smallholders, its 2017 land productivity was 21.6 percent by increased sales in other crops such helping us to refine go-to-market models to above the 2014 baseline. This is more than as soybean. increase the benefits we bring to farmers and four times the increase achieved by our 2020 50.0 communities. From 10 studies completed benchmark smallholders and almost double Elsewhere in Asia, we continued to extend 2017 21.6 in 8 countries up to the end of 2017, it is the 10.9 percent achieved by our reference our reach. In ASEAN, we achieved significant clear that every country and crop presents 2016 8.0 farms overall. growth by offering smallholders new its own unique combination of challenges 2 On smallholder reference farms compared to baseline 2014 alternatives including better seed varieties and opportunities: our strategies need to be for optimum productivity. In addition, disease tailored accordingly. pressures following El Niño-related droughts Syngenta 25 The Good Growth Plan Sustainable Business Report 2017 It is also evident that we cannot address all the challenges identified by our impact assessments in isolation. We are actively Help people seeking collaborations to drive and enable stay safe broader change. Train 20 million farm workers on labor In Kenya, for example, potato and tomato safety, especially in developing countries growers are hampered by poor productivity and weak market structures. In partnership We’re already well past our with agricultural business specialists 2020 target as train-the-trainer TechnoServe, we are helping to improve programs drive rapid increase productivity and markets by providing quality in training capacity crop inputs and training, improving access to finance and enhancing the capacity of UN Sustainable Development Goals local market service centers. Since 2016, the partnership has helped over 8,800 farmers to increase their earnings by a total of nearly $5 million. People trained on safe use1 m 25.5m In Indonesia, we have helped to build a network of partnerships with banks, insurers, retailers, traders and an NGO. Using products safely and responsibly also means using no more than is necessary – which minimizes 2020 20.0 environmental impacts and maximizes farmers’ return on investment. We provide products, protocols and training, while our partners add financial literacy 2017 8.2 25.5 We share a responsibility to help improve Enhancing our training capability training, micro-loans, crop insurance and occupational safety and health in agriculture. 2016 17.2 The key to enhancing our training resource buyback guarantees, market access and This applies particularly to smallholders, has been our train-the-trainer programs: digital payments. 2015 10.4 especially in developing countries, who in addition to training delivered by the What’s next? 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Differences in totals may occur often lack access to guidance on using crop stewardship teams, we introduced Master due to rounding protection efficiently, responsibly and safely. Trainers equipped to deliver high-quality We are continuing our program of impact assessments, and in 2018 will have the Progress and key achievements Measuring the difference we make training themselves as an integral part of findings from our first studies in Africa. our commercial teams. They are greatly 3 Exceeded our 2020 target by In 2017, we reached 8.2 million people with increasing our capacity to ensure that As our strong portfolio of products and over 25 percent safety training and safe-use awarenessfarmers and farm workers understand our services earns increasing recognition, raising initiatives linked to commercial recommendations and why they matter. 3 Particularly strong progress in Bangladesh, we expect this to generate valuable new activities. This brought the cumulative total The value for customers comes not only India, Philippines and Vietnam collaborations and opportunities for us since 2014 to 25.5 million, taking us well from using our products safely, but also from and the farming communities we support, 3 Adapting award-winning Argentine past the 20 million target we set for 2020. using only as much as is necessary, so that particularly in Asia. collaboration for Chile and Paraguay Smallholders make up some 70 percent they minimize environmental impacts and of the people we train on safe use as part maximize their return on investment. of a broader education on using our products to best effect. 26 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 The Good Growth Plan We made significant progress across Asia during 2017. We increased numbers in Bangladesh and had a good response Look after to campaigns targeted to engage more every worker farmers in India. In Vietnam, we benefited from intensified commercial collaboration Strive for fair labor conditions throughout with distributors, particularly on our entire supply chain network in-field demonstrations. All high-risk countries with seed And in the Philippines, a strong push to supply farms now covered by our introduce rice growers to the benefits of hybrid Fair Labor Program – and we can varieties gave us substantially increased access see the benefits to smallholders and opportunities to train them. UN Sustainable Development Goals In Latin America, the picture was mixed. Training in Brazil was slowed by restructuring of the business there, while in Venezuela we reached more farmers through partnerships with local universities. Collaborations are adding Suppliers included in considerable impetus to our efforts. In Argentina, fair labor programs % 86% for example, we work in partnership with INTA, In countries such as Turkey (shown here), we benefit from an increasingly experienced seasonal workforce the national institute for agricultural technology, as our fair labor programs attract workers back year after year. and another local organization, FEDIA, to run a training program in agrotechnical high schools. 2020 100 We are committed to ensuring fair labor independently audits a further 2 to 5 percent. Known as Sembrando Conciencia (Sowing 2017 86 conditions across our supply chain, and Its findings – together with all remediation Awareness), this program won a national award we recognize our responsibility to ensure plans and reports on progress against these – in 2017. We are now adapting it for introduction 2016 82 suppliers meet the highest ethical standards, are published on the FLA website2. in Chile and Paraguay to reach more than 2015 841 especially in developing countries. Measuring the difference we make 800 students annually. 1 This figure only covers seed supply farms in our Fair Labor Program, as full data for other suppliers is not available This poses particular challenges in our In 2017, the Fair Labor Program covered 86 What’s next? seed supply chain of about 30,000 farms. percent of our seed supply farms (2016: 82 Having achieved our 2020 target ahead of Progress and key achievements Since 2004, we have partnered with the percent). We brought nine more countries schedule, we will continue striving to train Fair Labor Association (FLA) to develop into the program: Germany, Israel, Italy, 3 Nine new countries added to our Fair more farmers, especially smallholders, and and roll out our Fair Labor Program, Kenya, Morocco, South Africa, Spain, the Labor Program in our seed supply chain to broaden our capacity‑building activity. requiring suppliers to meet labor rights UK and Zambia. In addition, we included We’ll continue to extend local partnerships 3 90 percent of flower farms now have standards in areas such as job contracts new suppliers contracted to meet increasing wherever we can, to better understand farmers’ GLOBALG.A.P. certification, 32 percent and compensation, safe and just working demand in India, where the total rose from behaviors and needs. This will help us to drive with G.R.A.S.P. assessments conditions, and dignity and respect. 11,000 farms in 2016 to 14,000 in 2017. wider training adoption, and develop programs Each year, we aim to audit compliance on 3 90 percent of chemical suppliers covered The program brings benefits for Syngenta, that most effectively promote positive behavior 20 percent of farms in each country and by our Supplier Sustainability Program as well as for workers. This is particularly change towards safer, more responsible use require suppliers to make corrective action evident in countries – such as Argentina, of agrochemicals. where necessary. In higher-risk areas, the FLA 2 www.fairlabor.org/affiliate/syngenta Brazil and Turkey – where we hire farm Syngenta 27 The Good Growth Plan Sustainable Business Report 2017 workforces either directly or through local Building on learnings from the program labor brokers. The program fosters loyalty, to date, we are now refining it to focus with workers returning year after year – assessment resources where they are most particularly important where farms rely on relevant. Where we identify material risks, we migrant labor. A more experienced workforce will conduct deeper, more tailored audits in brings efficiency and quality benefits. And, areas such as process safety to maximize as workers experience repeated training protection for employees and neighbors. cycles, we see lower lost-time injury We are broadening our use of the chemical rates, an improved speak-up culture and industry’s Together for Sustainability (TfS) deepening trust between field workers and initiative, which covers a range of areas Syngenta supervisors. including labor rights and pools participating companies’ resources to optimize audit In India, there are well-documented problems efficiency and frequency. And for all suppliers, in ensuring that farms meet minimum wage we are requiring EcoVardis self-assessments standards and that payments actually reach covering health, safety and labor conditions. their workers. We have been promoting action on this across the seeds industry and, What’s next? in 2017, we launched two pilot projects that By the end of 2017, the Fair Labor Program have successfully maintained full compliance. covered 23 of the 34 countries where we We are now seeking to scale up this work and have seed supply farms, including all those rally the rest of the industry to join us, as it will that we consider high risk. In 2018, the take concerted effort to drive real change. continuing roll out will add the US, the last remaining large country. The final countries Across Europe and North Africa, we set up In our flower business, we are aiming for Seeing is believing: how we are all mature economies where risks of the INTERRA® Farm Network of commercial all our own and third-party flower farms to share what we’re learning noncompliance are relatively low, but we farms. These function as demonstration and have GLOBALG.A.P. certification, covering recognize that even in these countries factors training centers, keeping farmers – as well worker well-being and production quality, Through The Good Growth Plan, we’re such as reliance on migrant workers can pose as policymakers and researchers – up to with larger farms also meeting the G.R.A.S.P. learning valuable lessons on how to particular risks. By 2020, all countries will be speed on sustainable agricultural practices standard for labor conditions. In 2017, we farm productively and profitably while included in the program. and product stewardship. extended GLOBALG.A.P. certification to protecting the natural resources on which 90 percent of flower farms, with 32 percent In our flower business, it has become clear productivity depends. But the full value In the USA and in Canada, our GROW also undergoing G.R.A.S.P. assessment that G.R.A.S.P. assessment is inappropriate of what we learn depends on how widely MORE™ Experience sites play a similar role, (2016: 73/24 percent, respectively). or too costly for smaller farms. For these, we can spread that knowledge. each highlighting products and techniques we are now planning to introduce our own most relevant to its local area. We have been auditing chemicals suppliers’ compliance with health, safety and quality assessments, using the monitoring protocols We share knowledge with organizations that that we use in our Fair Labor Program for can use and disseminate it: research bodies, In Asia, we tailored our approach to reach standards for many years. Having analyzed more smallholders – by training individual the sustainability risk for each supplier, we seed farms. universities and training colleges. And we take it out into the field: advising farmers Lead Farmers, who transfer knowledge to are working to bring all those in material risk neighboring growers. These Lead Farmer categories into our Supplier Sustainability through our agronomists and commercial teams, and showing best practice at work. Networks have proved so effective that Program. In 2017, we increased program we’re now extending the approach across coverage to 90 percent of suppliers in these Africa and the Middle East. categories (2016: 67 percent). 28 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our operations Working today with tomorrow in mind Agriculture is an inherently long-term business, not least in the challenges it faces and the solutions it must create. So taking the long view is central to the way we operate. To play our part in safely feeding the world and taking care of the planet, we need to operate sustainably in every sense. Syngenta 29 Our operations Sustainable Business Report 2017 In all our operations, our explicit aim is to Our ambition to be the most collaborative One in five employees attended classroom ensure that what we do today strengthens both Syngenta and the food chain for and trusted team in agriculture depends on the actions and attitudes of every one of us. People courses through our relaunched e-learning platform, and 32 percent of employees tomorrow – economically, environmentally We are working to build and sustain a culture Our company can only excel if our completed at least one online course in 2017. and socially. We invest and innovate for where leaders and employees live by our In addition, over 1,000 employees participated people excel. Our culture, leadership the long term. And we build long-lasting values, and we hold one another accountable in functional development programs. partnerships – with suppliers, channel for keeping our commitments to growers and quality, organizational effectiveness partners, farmers and with organizations the planet. We believe it’s not just what we do and employee engagement are all Engaging and rewarding our people that can help us achieve shared goals. that matters, but the way we do it. crucial drivers of business success. We refreshed our cultural framework – called And in 2017, we made significant the Backbone – to reflect the evolution To ensure we have the necessary skills and We strive for transparency, not only doing advances in all these areas. of the business, including our ambition. leadership, we have renewed our ambition the right thing but also being seen to do it. This framework defines who we are, where and values, stepped up our investment in And this applies to our relationships with our we are heading and our strategies for getting Recordable illness and injury rate training and developing our people, and neighbors, as well. By actively engaging with per 200,000 hours there; it also sets out the cultural values that introduced a new reward and incentive local communities, we aim to build mutual guide our behavior as individuals and as an structure. And as well as providing a safe understanding, protect our reputation and be 2017 0.37 organization, as well as the qualities and and stimulating working environment for our recognized as a welcome and trusted partner. 2016 0.39 commitments we expect from our leaders. people, we also aim to protect the security We have been communicating it through 2015 0.38 of all our operational assets – facilities, data face-to-face engagement workshops for and products. employees at all levels, which are continuing Securing the long-term viability of our Developing our people and capabilities into 2018. business means using resources with Our people are our competitive advantage. The delisting of Syngenta shares following ever greater efficiency in all our operations. Making their development a priority is one the ChemChina acquisition brought an end We have been focusing effort on the of the commitments we set for our leaders. to the Employee Share Purchase Plan, for areas where we see greatest scope for which 72 percent of employees were eligible. Quality of leadership is also more important improvement; and as our operating model So we reviewed our compensation framework than ever as we embark on the next stages in puts growing emphasis on partnerships and and introduced a competitive new reward Syngenta’s journey – so we are stepping up collaboration, we’re taking an increasingly and incentive structure open to all Syngenta our investment in our leadership and talent holistic view that includes our full supply chain. employees. This has three elements: development programs. In 2017, we launched a renewed leadership and talent development short‑term incentive plan, profit-sharing plan, program to build the right capabilities for and Val-You – a peer-to-peer recognition the future. This represents an investment of program enabling people to celebrate $30 million over five years – of which we spent and reward the great work of colleagues. $4.2 million in 2017. Facilitated by a global online platform, Val-You enables employees to express their thanks to colleagues across the organization – and award them points exchangeable for a variety of rewards. 30 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our operations To ensure we listen to our people and act on Integration of fleet management under a what we learn, we carry out regular employee single global service team has enabled us pulse surveys. In 2017, we implemented to introduce wider driver safety measures action plans resulting from a major survey covering vehicle technology, driver training at the end of 2016, and we carried out an and risk management. Our 2017 incident rate interim survey following the announcement per million kilometers driven was 1.3 – down of the ChemChina acquisition. This research slightly from 1.5 in 2016. shows global average scores for employee engagement continuing at consistently Our Goal Zero initiative targets zero harm high levels. to people and zero safety incidents. It is deepening our understanding of risks and Staff attrition maintained its downward how to mitigate them, and sharing this trend. The proportion of voluntary leavers knowledge globally has underpinned the – excluding retirement and restructuring – strong safety performance of our sites. reduced to 5.2 percent in 2017 from 6.0 percent in 2016. In 2017, 42 of our production, research and development sites across all regions reported We continue working to bring more women five years without a recordable incident. into leadership roles. In 2017, the proportion Sites receiving external recognition for their of women in senior management increased safety performance included our Crop to 17 percent from 16 percent in 2016. Protection finished product processing sites The percentage of female employees overall By engaging our employees in workshops about our company culture, we ensure that everyone knows in APAC, which won an International Safety what we expect from our colleagues and leaders. remained unchanged at 30 percent. Award from the British Safety Council, and Sadly, there were two fatalities, in Bangladesh Driving-related risks today represent our our Cartagena plant in Colombia, one of Our employment policies and performance only two sites to receive the country’s Safety consistently earn external recognition in and India. Both involved contractors directly principal employee risk category. Our efforts supervised by Syngenta. One died when his to reduce them include on-road and online Excellence Award. Science magazine’s annual Top 20 employers list: Syngenta was included for the eighth year motorcycle was struck by a heavy commercial training programs, and the introduction of running in 2017, with our ranking rising from vehicle; the other was fatally injured when his satellite tracking and telematics for fleet 14th to 12th. motorcycle collided with a truck. In response, vehicles. This solution is enabling proactive we issued comprehensive additional safety assessment of risks and causes to support Keeping our people safe guidance for all APAC countries where we preventive and remedial action. In LATAM, We invest continuously to maintain top-tier use motorcycles. we now have full coverage in Brazil, Colombia health and safety standards with an Injury and and Paraguay, with roll-outs continuing in Illness Rate (IIR) below 0.5. The rate remained Argentina, Chile and Mexico. The tracking low in 2017, at 0.37 recordable incidents per is already live in 11 countries in EAME and 200,000 hours (2016: 0.39). APAC, prioritizing higher-risk countries such as Bangladesh, India and Kenya. In 2017, we began US implementation, ahead of forthcoming legislation on electronic logging devices. Syngenta 31 Our operations Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our strategy for reducing our environmental Using resources more efficiently Water Sustainable impacts is to focus effort where there is greatest opportunity for improvement. On the next page, we summarize our 2017 performance in each of the focus areas. In 2017, our water use was down 3 percent in absolute terms and unchanged in intensity. operations We concentrate on the five focus areas set out in the table “Making our operations For more detailed performance data, see pages 43-44. We report our performance These figures do not currently include third-party seeds production sites, but the more sustainable” on the next page. both in absolute terms and as intensity, reduction in overall volume was primarily While working to make agriculture more sustainable, we also need to Three of these areas concern the way we expressed per dollar of sales. The reduced due to the sale of two of our own Seeds level of sales in 2017 impacted on our production sites in Hawaii, USA, which secure the long-term viability of our use resources: energy, water and waste. After focusing attention on them in 2015, performance in two ways. Lower production reduced our consumption for irrigation. own business. That means using levels reduced operational efficiency, resources with ever greater efficiency we concentrated initially on the implications We have completed analysis of our overall for our own sites. But as our operating adversely affecting some of the absolute in all our operations – including our figures. And this, as well as the reduced sales water consumption footprint, including data model evolves, with greater emphasis on from our own sites and questionnaire-based supply chain. value, adversely affected the intensity figures. partnerships and collaboration, a large and computation from third-party field sites. growing part of our environmental footprint Energy Drawing on work at all our own sites to CO2e emissions intensity g/$ sales is now attributable to external suppliers. understand water stress, we have identified In 2017, our absolute energy consumption 2017 120 We estimate that they now account for the the most critical sites in water-scarce areas. increased by 2 percent to 8,484 TJ, primarily 2016 121 majority of our overall impacts in energy, We are now working on conservation reflecting reduced operational efficiency due water, waste and CO2 emissions. It therefore programs to reduce consumption both on our 2015 124 to lower production volumes. Together with makes increasing sense to take a holistic view own sites and in co-operation with third-party the reduction in dollar sales, this resulted in that includes the full supply chain. Hence, seeds producers. Water usage intensity liters/$ sales a 3 percent increase in energy intensity. our two other focus areas: supplier impacts 2017 2.5 generally and the CO2 emissions generated However, we made positive changes in We reduced industrial wastewater discharges specifically by our distribution logistics. our energy sourcing. Oil use was down in both absolute volume and intensity in 2017. 2016 2.5 15 percent as we shifted in favor of A 15 percent reduction in suspended solids 2015 2.6 In 2017, we have been building a clearer was due mainly to wastewater treatment gas (up 6 percent) and wood/biomass picture of our total impacts including plant improvements at our Monthey site (up 14 percent). We are procuring our Hazardous waste intensity g/$ sales suppliers. Working through our whole in Switzerland. electricity supplies from renewable sources procurement database, we are calculating 2017 14.3 where practicable, and all electricity for Waste our footprint in each of the focus areas and our Huddersfield site in the UK is now 2016 15.2 determining baseline levels for our current As well as working to reduce waste renewably sourced. 2015 14.4 impacts. Having identified the areas where generation, we also aim to convert or reuse there is greatest scope for improvement, we We have energy efficiency programs at all our more of what we do produce. In 2017, we can then set targets for our full footprint and sites. These are continuous and permanent: reduced hazardous waste generation by measure our progress. We aim to complete when targets are met, we will set more 7 percent to 181,000 tonnes – of which this work by the end of 2018. demanding ones. We continue to focus 47 percent was recycled and reused. on the top 10 sites, which account for 80 In addition, Syngenta is a signatory to the percent of our direct energy use, but are now World Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO extending increased attention to the others. Climate Leaders – this global network believes that the private sector has a responsibility to cut emissions and help lead the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. 32 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our operations We are currently undertaking risk Making our operations more sustainable assessments of all our waste contractors and auditing their processes. We continue These are the principal activities currently underway to ensure sustainable operations and monitor our progress. to fine-tune our own processes to minimize waste and to make waste optimization a Action by focus area Progress in 2017 critical consideration when we introduce new products. Energy Air emissions Develop energy management plans for all key sites Plan implementation has begun at sites with the largest energy A 2 percent reduction in CO2e emissions consumption, while plan development continues at others resulted in slightly lower CO2e emissions Water intensity. Although higher use of natural gas led to CO2e emissions increases at Develop water-use optimization plans for high-risk areas Developed water scarcity assessments for all catchment areas St. Gabriel in the US and Huddersfield in supplying Syngenta-managed facilities the UK, this was offset by a 7 percent reduction in emissions from purchased Completed analysis of water consumption footprint including energy as we increased our use of electricity third‑party sites. Started to develop strategies for water from renewable sources. Our Paulínia site in minimization and developed reporting tools for tracking Brazil switched from heavy fuel oil to gas for and management its boilers, reducing our total SO2 emissions Waste by 24 percent. Rank all current waste management contractors Completed assessments and identified focus areas Supplier impacts to establish sustainability risks In our drive to secure sustainable Supported key waste contractors with audits procurement, we have so far focused on our Supplier impacts chemicals suppliers. We are now making extensive use of Together for Sustainability Support key Crop Protection suppliers and providers with audits Audit program ongoing at key suppliers and expanding the scope (TfS), the chemical industry’s pooled and drive continuous improvement to focus on process safety assessment and audit initiative, which we joined in 2015. Initially our involvement Planning underway to expand scope of supplier audits to seeds focused on health and safety assessments, suppliers and tollers as discussed in “Look after every worker” CO2 from distribution on page 26. But TfS also covers other sustainability criteria, and we will make See Annual Report 2016. Working on opportunities identified in the baselines set for fuller use of it to deepen our sustainability sea logistics and overland in North America – including using reporting and to collect supply chain data Establish baselines for fourth-party logistics (4PL) to cover our optimized route planning systems, which have begun to reduce that supports better management of our global operations in Crop Protection and field crops CO2 generation environmental footprint. Currently establishing baselines and 4PL operations in LATAM Syngenta 33 Our operations Sustainable Business Report 2017 Building our industry’s most Business trusted team Farmers, research bodies, governments and integrity other organizations want to collaborate with companies whose leaders and employees Integrity is crucial to growing a have a reputation for working ethically. sustainably successful business. Our ambition to be the most collaborative By fostering a culture of doing the and trusted team in agriculture depends on right thing, we aim to manage risk each and every one of us. Trust helps us and be seen as a trustworthy and build the long-term partnerships we need to collaborative partner. We strive to achieve our goals. We build trust when our preserve the security and integrity leaders and employees live by our values, of our organization, operations and work transparently and hold one another products, and to engage actively accountable to keep our commitments to growers and the planet. with the communities in which we operate, building mutual Our Code of Conduct sets out clear ethical, understanding and benefit. environmental and social responsibilities for all employees, and “We live by our Over 80 percent of our sunflower seed suppliers in Russia are using data from soil moisture probes like this Compliance cases reported Code of Conduct” is one of our Leadership one to reduce water use and optimize irrigation. Commitments. But a Code of Conduct can 2017 215 only go so far. To meet society’s constantly We plan to extend supplier sustainability We had intended this approach to cover over 2016 214 evolving expectations, we need a culture audits to broaden our successful Fair 50 percent of our logistics footprint by the end 2015 196 of doing the right thing – where everyone Labor Program on seeds farms and of 2017, with a focus on North America and can be the best version of themselves and seed processing and treatment plants. Europe. While we completed the program in Corporate community investment $m feel safe speaking up to flag and address Preparations for this began in 2017, and North America, work on overland distribution ethical concerns. 2017 23 implementation will begin in 2018. in Europe is continuing into 2018. 2016 24 To foster this culture, we hold annual leaderCO2 from distribution In the meantime, better logistics coled compliance sessions throughout the ordination, route planning, tracking and 2015 24 organization, in which managers discuss We are committed to long-term CO2 intensity reduction for all our distribution logistics – monitoring have begun to reduce both relevant compliance topics with their by air, sea and overland. We are currently operating costs and CO2 emissions. In 2017, teams. In 2017, we increased the number working to improve energyand costour CO2 emissions from distribution reduced of participating team leaders by 30 percent efficiency, while reducing CO2 emissions by by 1 percent, and a shared online platform to 2,263. The 2017 sessions focused on standardizing and optimizing processes and linking suppliers’ systems with ours is avoiding conflicts of interest, understanding gaining economies of scale. This is supported allowing much greater transparency and and tackling cybercrime, and overcoming by a global program of outsourcing that closer cooperation. barriers that could prevent us from making creates synergies with “fourth-party logistics” the right decisions. Teams discussed partners who integrate and coordinate all relevant real-life scenarios from around the logistics operations across supply chains. organization and, to focus attention on how 34 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Our operations business integrity issues relate to their Protecting our critical assets Counterfeits of our products can harm Fostering open and constructive dialogue working lives, many teams drew up their own Our security team works across the users and the public, and compromise our with local communities is part of every commitment to compliance for colleagues organization to protect people, assets, reputation in the marketplace. Our “big fish” site manager’s job. It’s in our interests to to sign. information and products. protection strategy – targeting higher-value understand the communities’ needs, protect cases and criminals further up the distribution our common environment and play our part Regular discussions like these encourage As part of our duty of care, we respond to chain to maximize disruption of possible in enhancing their safety and prosperity. employees to raise concerns. They can do employees’ security exposures 24/7 when criminal activities – delivered encouraging We also support our employees’ direct this through their managers or through our they are traveling on Syngenta business. results in 2017. While the number of cases engagement by matching their humanitarian confidential compliance helpline, which we A specialist contractor responds to security pursued fell slightly to 723, seizures of fake relief fundraising – which in 2017 focused promote regularly to maintain high awareness. incidents worldwide, locating travelers and illegal chemicals rose sharply to 541 on combating poverty and providing natural In 2017, the total number of cases raised was who may be at risk to ensure their safety. tonnes (2016: 326 tonnes). Counterfeit seed disaster relief in Africa, Asia and the US. 215 (2016: 214). The frequency of alerts is increasing, to seizures totaled 93 tonnes – marginally above around one a week in 2017, and we are the 2015 level – following an exceptional Each year we report our total “corporate One of our values is a belief that “How community investment”. This was $23 million matters” – it’s not just what we do that’s currently reviewing the scope for extending haul in 2016 resulting from one major case. the program to cover employees where they We continue to develop countermeasures, in 2017 – down from $24 million in 2016. important, but the way we do it. To enable The investment figure understates the value greater transparency, we have developed live and work. such as making packaging harder to forge and easier to authenticate, and to we bring to communities because it does a compliance dashboard to share data Our Security 360° program assesses all not include the non-cash contributions we across Syngenta, so that colleagues can collaborate with relevant authorities and our locations, ensuring we take appropriate make by sharing our practical skills and see the state of compliance throughout the enforcement agencies. measures to protect people and sites. expertise – for example in improving farming organization. This will be published regularly We evaluated 129 sites under this program Earning the support of our neighbors practices, keeping communities and schools within the business from 2018 onwards. in 2017 (2016: 122), reflecting a further free from disease-spreading insects, and To achieve our corporate goals, we’ve We expect our suppliers to meet the increase in sites classified as risk-relevant. declared an ambition to be “the most managing waste. standards set out in our Code of Conduct Cybercrime is a growing threat as its collaborative and trusted team in agriculture”. – as well as relevant external regulations prevalence increases and our business This includes our relationships with our on issues such as health and safety, the becomes more reliant on the digital sphere. neighbors. By actively engaging with local environment, fair labor practices and animal We have strengthened our security capability communities, we build mutual understanding, welfare – and we monitor their compliance. to make it harder for criminals to disrupt our protect our reputation and become a As part of the appointment process, we are operations or access our digital assets: under welcome and trusted partner. planning to phase-in a new process to screen our new anti-cybercrime team, a security third-party service providers for compliance center managed by the IT department risks during 2018. monitors all our systems to detect anomalies. Syngenta 35 Our operations Sustainable Business Report 2017 He’s talking about the new block of This involves listening, sharing value, Community-driven projects like these It’s working together that classrooms at Chainda Primary School, protecting the environment, promoting reflect a long-term view of community makes the difference attended by children of employees at our health and improving quality of life. engagement, where we join with our At our Seeds site in Zambia, we’ve been Seeds site. The school had been struggling to neighbors in achieving positive and lasting teach over 1,000 pupils in just 12 classrooms. The community also tapped into our expertise social impacts while also reducing risk to piloting a new approach to community to address the challenge of waste disposal. engagement for the region. It’s about Parents were buying bricks for an extension farm operations. “We’re very fortunate to be block – so we matched their donations and Due to lack of infrastructure and local waste able to do this,” says Bryan Pinkney, Head working in a more strategic, joined-up companies, together with a surfeit of plastic way: listening to local communities and the community built the block. “And everyone of Farming Operations. “This is something takes ownership,” says Andrew. bags, waste was often dealt with by burning – I really appreciate about working for understanding their concerns, then creating pollution and a risk of crop fires working together on long-term solutions Syngenta – that we care.” The school is 25km from our farm, and most in the dry season. where everyone has a sense of ownership. children had to walk there. So we bought a community bus to transport them – school We formed a partnership with a South African “We didn’t want to give the impression that attendance is up, and the bus is much safer recycling company that now collects the Syngenta will bring out the checkbook that taking a ride in the back of a truck. plastic waste and is also helping to educate and all problems would be solved,” says the community on better ways Andrew Chanda, our local Health Safety Syngenta believes it is important to engage to dispose of other waste. Environment Security Manager. “It’s local communities and work with them. important that this is a joint effort between We respond to concerns, contribute to Syngenta, the school and the community.” local needs and look to partner with them. 36 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Board of Directors at December 31, 2017 Jianxin Ren Michel Demaré Hongbo Chen Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre Chairman of the Board, non-executive Director Vice-Chairman of the Board, non-executive Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairperson of the Governance & Director and Lead Independent Director Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Nomination Committee Member of the Governance & Born: 1973 and the Corporate Responsibility Committee Born: 1958 Nomination Committee and Corporate Nationality: Chinese Born: 1951 Nationality: Chinese Responsibility Committee Initial appointment: 2017 Nationality: French Initial appointment: 2017 He is also Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation Professional background Initial appointment: 2017 Professional background for Sustainable Agriculture. Professional background Hongbo Chen is Executive Director of China National Jianxin Ren is Chairman of China National Chemical Born: 1956 Agrochemical Company Limited (CNAC) since 2017. Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre is Chief Strategy and Corporation (ChemChina) since 2014. Previously, Nationality: Belgian/Swiss Corporate Development Officer at China National Initial appointment: 2012 After joining CNAC in 2005, he held various senior he served as President of ChemChina (2004–2014). positions, including Deputy Secretary of Communist Bluestar (Bluestar), a subsidiary of China National Before ChemChina was founded, he was President Professional background Party of China, Assistant President and Chief Strategy Chemical Corporation (ChemChina). Previously, he was of China Bluestar Group (1989–2004). During this Michel Demaré was Chief Financial Officer and Officer (2014–2017), Assistant President and Chief Chief Executive Officer of Bluestar Silicones from 2007 time, he assumed other parallel positions such as Executive Vice President of ABB from 2005 to February Strategy Officer (2011–2014) and Assistant President to 2011. Before joining Bluestar, he was (2001–2007) Vice President of China Haohua Group (1995–1998) 2013, serving in addition, between late 2008 and March and Director of the Planning Department (2008–2011), a member of the Rhodia Executive Committee and and Vice President of China Chemical Equipment 2011, as the company’s President of Global Markets. Director of the Planning Department (2005–2008). CEO of Rhodia Silcea grouping three Rhodia Company (1993–1995). From 1982 to 1989, he worked Between February and September 2008, he was ABB’s From 2000 to 2005 he was Senior Engineer and Project Enterprises (Silicones, Silica and Rare-Earth). Most of as Youth League President in the Chemical Machinery acting Chief Executive Officer. Previously he had been Manager at the China National Petroleum and Chemical his early professional experience has been in the Institute affiliated to the Chinese Ministry of Chemical Chief Financial Officer Europe for Baxter International Planning Institute. From 1998 to 2000 he worked at Rhône-Poulenc Group, based in France or in the USA, Industries and also as President of the Chemical Inc. He joined Baxter in 2002 after 18 years at the Dow the Planning Department of China National Petroleum among others as CEO Surfactant and Specialties, Cleaning Company. Apart from his functions in Chemical Company, where he held various treasury and Administration Authority. From 1994 to 1998, he CEO Food Additives and member of the Rhône-Poulenc Syngenta, Jianxin Ren is currently holding the following division CFO positions in Europe (including Switzerland) worked at the Chinese Ministry of Chemical Industries, Inc. Operational and M&A Committees. Apart from his Board memberships: and the USA. He joined the Board of Directors of holding positions in the Planning Department and the functions in Syngenta, Olivier T. de Clermont-Tonnerre − Listed companies: Chairman of Pirelli. Syngenta in 2012, and was appointed Chairman in 2013 Planning Institute. currently holds the following Board memberships: He holds a Master Degree in Economics for Business until the sale of the company. Apart from his functions in He holds a Bachelor Degree in Fine Chemicals and ––Non-listed companies: Member of the Board of and Management from Lanzhou University in China. Syngenta, Michel Demaré currently holds the following Engineering Management from Tianjin University and Directors of Bluestar and its two subsidiaries Elkem Board memberships: an MBA from Tsinghua University in China. and REC Solar (ChemChina Group). ––Listed companies: Vice Chairman of UBS Group AG He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the ––Non-listed companies: Member of the Supervisory Nouvel Institut Franco-Chinois de Lyon. Board of Louis Dreyfus Company Holdings B.V. He holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from In addition, he is Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Toulouse University, a License in Economics from Board of IMD Business School in Lausanne and Paris-Nanterre University and an MBA from INSEAD a member of the Advisory Board at the Institute of in Fontainebleau. Banking and Finance at the University of Zurich. Michel Demaré holds a License in Applied Economics from the Université Catholique de Louvain (UCL) and an MBA from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KUL) in Belgium. Syngenta 37 Board of Directors Sustainable Business Report 2017 Dieter Gericke Jürg Witmer Gunnar Brock Eveline Saupper Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director and Independent Director Non-executive Director and Independent Director Member of the Governance & Nomination Lead Independent Director Chairperson of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Committee, Audit Committee and Member of the Compensation Committee Born: 1950 Born: 1958 Compensation Committee and Nomination & Governance Committee Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swiss Born: 1965 Born: 1948 Initial appointment: 2012 Initial appointment: 2013 Nationality: Swiss Nationality: Swiss Professional background Professional background Initial appointment: 2017 Initial appointment: 2006 Gunnar Brock worked for the Tetra Pak Group for Eveline Saupper was a partner at the commercial Professional background Professional background many years, with spells in Asia, Australia and Europe, law firm Homburger AG in Zurich until June 2014 and Dieter Gericke is a partner at the law firm Homburger Jürg Witmer joined Hoffmann-La Roche in Basel in returning – after a period as President and Chief thereafter Of Counsel at this law firm until March 2017. AG in Zurich since 2004, where he heads the 1978 and subsequently held a number of positions Executive Officer of Alfa Laval – to become President Before joining Homburger in 1985, she worked as a Corporate/M&A practice team as well as the China including Legal Counsel, Assistant to the CEO, and Chief Executive Officer of the Tetra Pak Group, tax specialist with Peat Marwick Mitchell (today KPMG) Focus Group. Before joining Homburger in 2000, he General Manager and China Project Manager of Roche headquartered in Switzerland. From 2002 to 2009, in Zurich (1983–1985). Apart from her functions in worked as a foreign associate with Hale and Dorr Far East based in Hong Kong, Head of Corporate he served as President and Chief Executive Officer Syngenta, Eveline Saupper currently holds the following LLP in Boston. Previously, he held positions as a law Communications and Public Affairs at of the Atlas Copco Group. Apart from his functions in Board memberships: clerk at the district court of Meilen (Zurich) and in Roche headquarters in Basel, Switzerland, and Syngenta, Gunnar Brock currently holds the following ––Listed companies: Non-executive Director of another Zurich law firm. Apart from his functions in General Manager of Roche Austria. From 1999 to 2005, Board memberships: Flughafen Zürich AG, Georg Fischer AG Syngenta, Dieter Gericke currently holds the following he acted as Chief Executive Officer of the Givaudan ––Listed companies: Non-executive Director and Clariant AG Board memberships: Group in Vernier/Geneva. From 2008 to 2012, he was of Investor AB also Chairman of Clariant AG, Basel. Apart from his ––Non-listed companies: Chairman of Mentex Holding ––Non-listed companies: Member of the Board of ––Non-listed companies: Chairman of Mölnlycke Health AG, non-executive Director of Stäubli Holding AG Directors of Homburger AG and Gericke Holding AG. functions in Syngenta, Jürg Witmer currently holds the following Board memberships: Care and non-executive Director of Patricia Industries and Hoval Group. He is a member of the International Bar Association’s (both 100 percent affiliates of Investor AB), and Eveline Saupper holds a degree and PhD in Law from Corporate/M&A and Securities Law Committees. ––Listed companies: Chairman of Givaudan Group Chairman of Stena AB. the University of St. Gallen. She is admitted to the Bar He obtained a law degree and a doctorate degree from ––Non-listed companies: Non-executive Director Gunnar Brock holds an MBA from the Stockholm of Grison and is a certified tax expert. the University of Zurich and an LL.M. from Harvard Law of A. Menarini IFR Florence. School of Economics. School. He is an attorney-at-law admitted to all courts Jürg Witmer has a doctorate in Law from the University of Switzerland. of Zurich, as well as a degree in International Studies from the Graduate Institute of the University of Geneva. 38 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Executive Team at December 31, 2017 J. Erik Fyrwald Christoph Mäder Jonathan Parr Chief Executive Officer Head Legal & Taxes and Company Secretary President Global Crop Protection and EAME, Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Born: 1959 LATAM and APAC Born: 1959 Nationality: Swiss Born: 1961 Nationality: American Appointment: 2000 Nationality: British Appointment: 2016 Professional background Appointment: 2015 Professional background Christoph Mäder was Head of Legal & Public Affairs Professional background J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Chief for Novartis Crop Protection (1999–2000) and Senior Prior to his current function as President Global Crop Executive Officer of Univar, a leading distributor of Corporate Counsel for Novartis International AG Protection and EAME, LATAM and APAC, Jonathan chemistry and related products and services (2012– (1992–1998). He is Vice Chairman of economiesuisse, Parr was Chief Operating Officer (COO) EAME & Latin 2016); President of Ecolab, a cleaning and sanitation, the main umbrella organization representing Swiss America (2015–2016). Before that, he was Head of water treatment, and oil and gas products and services economy. He is also a non-executive Director of Global Crops & Assets for Syngenta (2014), Regional provider (2011–2012); and Chairman, President and Lonza AG (listed company), a member of the Board of Director for EAME (2009–2013), Head of Syngenta Chief Executive Officer of Nalco, a water treatment and scienceindustries, the association of Swiss chemical, Flowers (2007–2008), Head of Marketing and Strategy oil and gas products and services company (2008– pharmaceutical and biotech industries, and a member (2004–2007) and European Manufacturing Manager 2011). He was Group Vice President of the Agriculture of the Board of the Basel Chamber of Commerce. (2000–2003). Before joining Syngenta, he worked and Nutrition Division of the E. I. du Pont de Nemours He graduated from Basel University Law School, for AstraZeneca as a Factory Manager (1998–2000), and Company – DuPont (2003–2008). Apart from his and is admitted to the Bar in Switzerland. Global Product Manager Fungicides (1996–1998) functions in Syngenta, J. Erik Fyrwald serves on the and Supply Chain Project Manager (1994–1996). Board of Directors for Eli Lilly and Company (including From 1987 to 1994, he held Project and Engineering their Science and Technology Committee), CropLife Management functions at Imperial Chemical Industries International and the Swiss-American Chamber (ICI). Apart from his function in Syngenta, Jonathan of Commerce. Parr holds no other mandates in the supreme executive He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering bodies of listed or non-listed companies. from the University of Delaware and completed Jonathan Parr is a Chartered Engineer and also holds the Advanced Management Program at Harvard an honors Bachelor degree in Civil Engineering from Business School. the University of Southampton as well as a Master in Management from the University of McGill, Canada, and a diploma in International Management from the INSEAD Institute. Syngenta 39 Executive Team Sustainable Business Report 2017 Mark Patrick Laure Roberts Jeff Rowe Chief Financial Officer Head Human Resources President Global Seeds and North America Born: 1969 Born: 1963 Born: 1973 Nationality: British Nationality: French Nationality: American Appointment: 2016 Initial appointment: 2016 Appointment: 2016 Professional background Professional background Professional background Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mark Prior to her appointment as Head Human Resources, Prior to his current function as President Seeds, North Patrick was Head Commercial Finance at Syngenta Laure Roberts was Head Global HR Business Partners America and China, Jeff Rowe was Vice President, (2011–2016). Prior to that, he was Head Crop Protection (2013–2016) and Head Human Resources for the region Strategic Services and Planning at DuPont Pioneer Finance (2008–2011 and 2005–2006), Head Finance EAME (2011–2013). Before joining Syngenta, she held (2015–2016) and also sat on the company’s Leadership North America Crop Protection (2006–2008), Head a number of different HR leadership functions at Team (DPLT). Before, he was Regional Director for Business Reporting (2003–2005) and APAC Regional Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a worldwide DuPont Pioneer Europe (2011–2015), Vice President Supply Finance Head Syngenta in Hong Kong. industrial gases company where her last role was Biotech Affairs and Regulatory (2008–2011) and He joined AstraZeneca in 1993. Mark Patrick holds Vice President, Human Resources, Europe and Corporate Counsel (2001–2008). Jeff Rowe started no other mandates in the supreme executive bodies Middle East (2004–2010). Laure Roberts started his career with Pioneer in 1995 in Supply Management. of listed or non-listed companies. her career in 1988 with Valeo, a leading automotive Apart from his function in Syngenta, he has been a He is a Chartered Management Accountant and also supplier. She holds no other mandates in the supreme member of the U.S.-Ukraine Business Council (USUBC) holds an honors degree in Quantity Surveying and a executive bodies of listed or non-listed companies. Executive Committee since 2003. Jeff Rowe holds no Post Graduate degree in Economics. Laure Roberts holds a Master from the Ecole other mandates in the supreme executive bodies of Supérieure de Commerce de Paris and an MBA listed or non-listed companies. from the University of Aston in Birmingham. He has a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Economics from the Iowa State University, a Juris Doctorate from Drake Law School, and a Global Executive MBA from the NYU Stern School of Business and the London School of Economics. 40 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Non-financial information At Syngenta, non-financial Our non-financial reporting covers the financial reporting were designed to provide Syngenta is a signatory to the United Nations information refers to quantitative operations of Syngenta Group, including assurance to Syngenta’s Board of Directors Global Compact. Syngenta’s Sustainable and qualitative information on material interactions with selected third parties and management regarding the reliability of Business Report serves as our strategies, policies or activities as reported in the Non-financial performance non-financial reporting and the preparation Communication on Progress (COP) summary. It is guided by the Global Reporting and fair presentation of the information in implementing these principles. pursued towards our business, Initiative principles and is externally assured published in the Non-financial performance environmental and social goals. (see page 45). The non-financial reporting summary. All internal controls, no matter Read more on: period is October 1 to September 30. how well designed, have inherent limitations www.cr.syngenta.com www.gri.syngenta.com We regularly assess stakeholder concerns and therefore may not prevent or detect www.questions.syngenta.com and expectations, as well as the issues that The information in the Non-financial misstatements. In designing internal controls we believe present the greatest risks and performance summary was approved by over non-financial reporting, Syngenta used opportunities for our business. Our materiality the Board of Directors on February 6, 2018. the criteria established in COSO’s Internal matrix helps us identify where we can provide Syngenta’s internal controls over nonControl – Integrated Framework (2013). the most value, drive our strategy, allocate effort and resources, and direct our external communication and reporting. Materiality matrix The Non-financial performance summary on pages 41 to 44 presents data on our progress Focus areas Monitored activities Positions towards four goals: Focus We share our views, we measure We share our views, and We share our views on the issues Importance to stakeholders areas and evaluate performance, we measure and evaluate that engage public interest and 3 The Good Growth Plan and we have set or plan to set performance on these issues to have a bearing on our business. Help shape the future sustainability of goals or quantitative targets on sustain the trust and confidence 3 Access to technology Monitored agriculture, and deliver solutions that are activities the most important issues, in of our stakeholders, and for us to 3 Biofuels better, more productive and more beneficial particular our contribution to be a responsible business. 3 ChemChina ownership to rural economies food security. 3 Animals in research 3 Chemicals of concern 3 Community relations and stakeholder 3 Consolidation in the industry 3 People 3 Biodiversity in agriculture Positions 3 Climate change and greenhouse engagement 3 Diminishing crop diversity and monoculture practices Attract and retain talent while creating an Importance to Syngenta gas emissions 3 Corporate conduct 3 Corporate governance 3 Food availability, affordability and waste environment that stimulates innovation and 3 Employee well-being 3 Food safety 3 Energy, hazardous waste and water use 3 Economic value shared personal performance and development 3 Foreign investments in farmland We have three levels of 3 Health and safety 3 Environmental compliance and liabilities Marketing practices 3 Sustainable operations 3 Human rights and fair labor practices 3 Other air emissions 3 disclosure based on the 3 Product registration Manage our environmental footprint 3 Innovation in agriculture 3 Product compliance importance of the issues 3 Land productivity 3 Security practices 3 Public policy and advocacy and maintain the highest standards in to our stakeholders and 3 Rural development 3 Pollinators and pesticide use our operations 3 Tax transparency to Syngenta. 3 Safe and sustainable use of our Trade products 3 3 Business integrity 3 Smallholder empowerment Maintain the highest standards across our 3 Soil conservation entire business and go beyond regulatory 3 Supply chain sustainability compliance, while benefiting the 3 Sustainable agriculture practices communities and economies wherever 3 Talent attraction and retention we operate 3 Water in agriculture Syngenta 41 Sustainable Business Report 2017 Non-financial performance summary The Good Growth Plan Cumulative since Cumulative since Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2017 2016 2015 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2017 2016 2015 Make crops more efficient1 Help people stay safe Total number of reference farms 1,459 1,039 1,062 People trained on safe use (m) 25.5 8.2 6.8 5.7 Total number of benchmark farms 2,630 2,694 2,586 Of which: % of smallholders 70% 68% 68% 71% Average increase on reference farms 2: Countries with established Syngenta Land productivity 10.9% 1.2% 1.9% product toxicovigilance programs 100 100 100 Land productivity of smallholders 21.6% 8.0% – Crop Protection sales represented 94% 94% 93% Nutrient efficiency 20.3% 1.5% – Pesticide field application efficiency 14.2% -16.2% – Look after every worker Greenhouse gas emission efficiency 3 14.0% 7.0% 1.1% Suppliers included in fair labor programs 5 86% 82% – Average increase on benchmark farms 2: Syngenta seed producing countries included in Land productivity 7.3% -2.6% – Syngenta Fair Labor Program 68% 41% 33% Land productivity of smallholders 5.1% 1.6% – Seed supply farms included in Syngenta Fair Labor Program 86% 82% 84% Nutrient efficiency 28.1% 5.3% – Of which: farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s Pesticide field application efficiency 4.8% -19.3% – audit scope 67% 62% 69% Greenhouse gas emission efficiency 3 13.9% 3.9% 0.2% Of which: seed supply farms monitored 6 20% 18% – Chemical suppliers included in Supplier Rescue more farmland Sustainability Program 6, 7 90% 67% – Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 7.5 3.1 1.9 1.6 HSE audits at chemical suppliers 8 46 67 84 HSE audits at formulation, fill and packaging Help biodiversity flourish suppliers and seed toll manufacturing 8 31 48 34 Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 5.6 0.7 3.3 0.9 HSE audits at warehouse/logistics service providers 117 137 118 Commercial flowers farms with valid GlobalG.A.P. Empower smallholders certification 6 90% 73% – Smallholders reached (m) 4 13.9 16.6 17.2 Commercial flowers farms with valid G.R.A.S.P. assessment 6 32% 24% – 1 Reference farms were selected by Syngenta and are recommended to use Syngenta products and follow optimized protocols. Benchmark farms were randomly selected by a third-party research agency and represent grower practice. Reference and benchmark 5 New KPI introduced in 2016 to capture overall participation of seed supply farms, chemical suppliers and commercial flowers farms farms are grouped in clusters. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/or benchmark in fair labor programs farms with similar grower characteristics 6 New KPI introduced in 2016 2 Policy on land productivity and efficiency reporting was revised in 2017. Starting 2017, the aggregation of the farm data is aligned with 7 Includes only chemical suppliers categorized as posing a high or medium sustainability risk harvest seasons to ensure more timely reporting of results. The latest available progress data is 2016 for clusters located in the Northern 8 Policy on HSE audit reporting was revised in 2016. Starting 2016, HSE screening assessments are excluded hemisphere and 2017 for clusters located in the Southern hemisphere. Evolutions are reported for clusters with an established baseline and at least one year of progress data. Details on aggregation, calculation of evolutions and other adjustments can be found on www.data.syngenta.com 3 New KPI introduced in 2017. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated consistent with Cool Farm Tool methodology using available farm data and proxies where farm data was not available. For USA farm data, calculation methodology is consistent with Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. Details on data inputs, methodology, assumptions and limitations can be found on www.data.syngenta.com 4 Number of smallholders reached through sales per year Read more about how we are measuring The Good Growth Plan on www.data.syngenta.com 42 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Non-financial performance summary People Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Employment Employee development Employees1 27,669 27,810 28,704 Leadership and talent development investment ($m) 4.2 3.7 4.1 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 12,372 12,429 13,047 North America 4,092 4,176 4,335 Health, safety and well-being Latin America 4,907 5,161 4,962 Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours 5 0.37 0.39 0.38 Asia Pacific 6,298 6,044 6,360 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours 5 0.34 0.33 0.35 Part-time employees 927 919 984 Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 0.43 0.47 0.48 Turnover rate 3 11.3% 12.2% 12.5% North America 0.64 0.72 0.69 of which: <35 years 42% 38% 41% Latin America 0.30 0.23 0.24 35–50 years 43% 44% 43% Asia Pacific 0.16 0.10 0.11 >50 years 15% 18% 16% Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours 5 0.03 0.06 0.03 Attrition rate 4 5.2% 6.0% 6.1% Europe, Africa and Middle East 2 0.02 0.03 0.04 Senior managers 339 334 332 North America 0.08 0.16 0.04 Headquarters 43% 42% 44% Latin America 0.04 0.10 0.06 Europe, Africa and Middle East 19% 19% 16% Asia Pacific 0.00 0.04 0.01 North America 17% 18% 18% First aid cases 382 387 413 Latin America 11% 11% 12% Recordable injuries 151 152 154 Asia Pacific 10% 10% 10% Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 36% 39% 39% Cut and abrasion 25% 20% 31% Diversity Bone fracture 15% 20% 13% Nationalities in senior management 33 34 33 Concussion and internal injury 3% 4% 3% Female employees 30% 30% 30% Multiple injuries 6% 1% 1% Female employees in management roles 23% 23% 22% Other 15% 16% 13% Female employees in senior management 17% 16% 14% Cases of recordable occupational illness 12 28 14 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) Cases of work-related stress 7 9 26 2 Including headquarters (Switzerland) 3 Includes voluntary and involuntary leavers and restructuring 4 Includes only voluntary leavers 5 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness Syngenta 43 Non-financial performance summary Sustainable Business Report 2017 Sustainable operations Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Energy Water Energy intensity (MJ/$sales) 0.67 0.65 0.69 Water usage intensity (liters/$sales) 2.5 2.5 2.6 Energy (TJ) 8,484 8,341 9,222 Water usage (million cubic meters) 31.7 32.6 35.0 Gas (TJ) 3,405 3,207 3,840 Cooling (million cubic meters) 19.1 19.0 20.8 Electricity (TJ) 2,387 2,400 2,349 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 4.9 6.5 6.8 Steam (TJ) 1,450 1,503 1,547 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 5.8 5.2 5.3 Oil (TJ) 287 336 536 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other (TJ) 955 895 950 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 1.0 0.9 1.1 Other (million cubic meters) 0.7 0.8 0.8 Greenhouse gases Origin of water: Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales) 120 121 124 Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 21.3 22.6 24.4 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,515 1,551 1,660 Underground water (million cubic meters) 7.5 7.2 7.8 Within direct control: Drinking water from municipal network CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 443 445 574 (million cubic meters) 2.8 2.7 2.7 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 70 71 70 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Within indirect control: CO2e emissions from purchased energy Wastewater effluents (000s tonnes) 353 381 400 Industrial wastewater discharge intensity CO2 emissions from business trips (000s tonnes) 46 43 36 (liters/$sales) 0.72 0.79 0.70 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 603 611 580 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 9.1 10.1 9.4 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 499 504 649 Other air emissions Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 1,522 1,556 1,953 Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales) 0.070 0.071 0.088 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 154 165 189 Other air emissions (tonnes) 884 914 1,176 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 252 295 294 NOx (tonnes) 410 402 462 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 122 118 125 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 322 354 384 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 17 17 26 (million cubic meters) 19.1 19.0 20.5 Particulates (tonnes) 88 84 79 SO2 (tonnes) 32 42 210 NH3 (tonnes) 5 5 6 HCl (tonnes) 10 10 9 44 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2017 Non-financial performance summary Sustainable operations continued Business integrity Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2017 2016 2015 Waste Corporate conduct Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 14.3 15.2 14.4 Compliance cases reported 215 214 196 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 181 195 193 Leaders engaged in Leader-Led Compliance Sessions 2 2,263 1,741 – Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 85 88 95 Completion rate 2 95% 95% – Incinerated (000s tonnes) 81 83 83 Landfill (000s tonnes) 1 10 1 Security management Other (000s tonnes) 14 14 14 Sites included in Syngenta Security 360º Program 129 122 117 Hazardous waste by type: Product Security cases 723 761 677 Chemical 58% 56% 55% Suspect counterfeit Crop Protection product seized by Solvents 36% 36% 36% authorities (tonnes) 541 326 323 Other 6% 8% 9% Suspect counterfeit Seed product seized by authorities (tonnes) 93 615 91 Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales) 9.4 9.1 9.7 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 119 117 130 Animal testing compliance Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 87 87 96 Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 17 14 13 Incinerated (000s tonnes) 4 5 3 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 0 Landfill (000s tonnes) 19 17 21 Other (000s tonnes) 9 8 10 Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Non-hazardous waste by type: Employees completing trial regulatory compliance training 1,426 1,378 1,627 Plant and seed waste from seed sites 63% 58% 58% Field trial locations planted under country regulatory Inerts 5% 9% 8% compliance programs 3 299 307 375 Packaging materials 5% 5% 6% Household 5% 5% 4% Economic value shared Other 22% 23% 24% Economic value shared ($m) 12,095 12,350 13,440 Payments to suppliers 7,508 7,301 8,453 Environmental compliance Employee wages and benefits 4 3,099 2,801 2,725 Significant unplanned releases1 0 0 3 Payments to governments (taxes) 5 241 400 432 Payments to providers of capital 6 593 1,263 1,223 1 Releases that escape beyond the site boundary and cause either environmental impact and/or concern from neighbors and regulators Capital expenditure 631 561 583 2 New KPI introduced in 2016 to capture compliance training 3 Policy on biotechnology and regulatory compliance reporting was revised in 2017. New KPI represents all trail locations covered Corporate community investment 7 23 24 24 by country specific regulatory compliance programs whether they require a permit or not 4 Increase in Employee wages and benefits mainly reflects payments to settle share incentive plans in accordance with the terms of the ChemChina takeover transaction 5 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and benefits). The decrease in Payments to governments mainly reflects lower income tax payments during the period 6 Consists of expenditures for dividends, share repurchases (excluding those for employee share plans) and interest on debt. The reduction in Payments to providers of capital mainly reflects lower dividends payments. The dividend paid in the current period was a special dividend as a result of the ChemChina Tender Offer being declared successful 7 The PwC Independent Assurance Report includes in its scope only the Corporate community investment figure used in the calculation of Economic value shared Syngenta 45 Sustainable Business Report 2017 Independent Assurance Report on the Syngenta Non-financial Reporting 2017 To the Board of Directors of Syngenta AG, Basel These define those procedures based on the assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, timing We have not conducted any work on data other We have been engaged to perform assurance Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient than outlined in the subject matter as defined procedures to provide assurance on the published in 2016, by which the non-financial appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative above. We believe that the evidence we have Non-financial performance summary of performance data are internally gathered, collated to a reasonable assurance engagement and obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Syngenta AG (‘Syngenta’) included in the and aggregated. therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited a basis for our assurance conclusions. Sustainable Business Report 2017 (‘Report’). Inherent Limitations assurance engagement than for a reasonable Reasonable assurance conclusion assurance engagement. The procedures selected Scope and Subject matter The accuracy and completeness of non-financial depend on the assurance practitioner’s judgment. In our opinion, Our assurance engagement and the related levels performance indicators are subject to inherent 3 The Good Growth Plan guidelines as published limitations given their nature and methods for Our Independence and Quality Control of assurance focused on the data and information on The Good Growth Plan Progress Data disclosed in the aggregated non-financial reporting determining, calculating and estimating such data. We have complied with the independence and website are applied, in all material aspects; and of Syngenta for the financial year ended Accordingly, our assurance report should therefore other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics be read together with the related reporting criteria. for Professional Accountants issued by the 3 The internal reporting systems to collect December 31, 2017. and aggregate The Good Growth Plan data Syngenta’s Responsibilities International Ethics Standards Board for Reasonable Assurance Accountants, which is founded on fundamental are functioning as designed and provide an The following subject matter contained The Board of Directors of Syngenta AG is principles of integrity, objectivity, professional appropriate basis for the reporting on page 41; in the Report is within the scope of the responsible for both the subject matter and the competence and due care, confidentiality and and reasonable assurance: reporting criteria as well as for the entire reporting professional behavior. 3 The data and information disclosed in the process of the selected information in accordance Non-financial performance summary in 3 The application of the Syngenta reporting with the criteria. This responsibility includes the Our firm applies International Standard on guidelines for the non-financial reporting Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains the Report on page 41 give a fair picture of design, implementation and maintenance of related Syngenta’s non-financial performance. published on The Good Growth Plan internal control relevant to this reporting process a comprehensive system of quality control Progress Data website; and that is free from material misstatement, whether including documented policies and procedures Limited assurance conclusion due to fraud or error. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Based on our work performed on the related 3 The internal reporting system and procedures to professional standards and applicable legal and Non-financial performance summary nothing collect and aggregate the non-financial data for Our Responsibility regulatory requirements. has come to our attention causing us to believe the six Good Growth Plan commitments on page 41; and Our responsibility is to perform a limited or Summary of work performed that the disclosed data and information in the reasonable assurance engagement to express related Non-financial performance summary in 3 The data and information in the Non-financial an opinion on positions in the related Non-financial Our assurance procedures included the following performance summary, in all material aspects, work but are not limited to: the Report on pages 42 to 44 does not give a fair performance summary on pages 41 to 44. picture of Syngenta’s non-financial performance, on page 41, of the Report. 3 Evaluation of the application of group guidelines; We planned and conducted our engagement in all material aspects, in accordance with the Limited Assurance in accordance with International Standard on 3 Visits of different sites and offices for various reporting criteria. The related Non-financial performance summary Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) (revised) areas in India, South Korea and Switzerland disclosed, in all material aspects, on pages 42 ‘Assurance engagements other than audits selected based on quantitative and qualitative to 44 of the Report is within the scope of the or reviews of historical financial information’. criteria; limited assurance. This standard requires that we plan and 3 Testing the specified performance indicators Our assurance procedures do not cover the perform the assurance engagement to obtain on a sample basis for evidence supporting the indicators on payments to suppliers, employee reasonable or limited assurance on the identified Non-financial performance summary relative wages and benefits, payments to governments sustainability information prepared, in all material to completeness, accuracy, adequacy and aspects, in accordance with Syngenta’s internal consistency; and providers of capital, and capital expenditure PricewaterhouseCoopers AG policies and procedures. presented in the related Non-financial performance 3 Reviewing the documentation supporting Zurich, 16 April 2018 summary on page 44 of the Report. A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 relevant data on a sample basis, including Gerd Tritschler (revised) is substantially less in scope than management and reporting structures and Konstantin Meier Criteria a reasonable assurance engagement in relation documentation; The reporting criteria used by Syngenta are to both the risk assessment procedures, described and disclosed on The Good Growth including an understanding of internal control, 3 Reviewing the management and reporting Plan Progress Data website and in the internal and the procedures performed in response to the processes. Assessing the consolidation non-financial reporting guidelines. process of data at the group level. Syngenta AG For the business year 2017, Syngenta has published Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking Syngenta supports the 10 P.O. Box the Sustainable Business Report 2017 which statements: This document contains forwardprinciples of the United Nations CH-4002 Basel includes information about our non-financial looking statements, which can be identified by Global Compact through an Switzerland performance. terminology such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, established commitment to “potential”, “plans”, “prospects”, “estimated”, Corporate Responsibility and The Sustainable Business Report was originally Corporate Responsibility “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. ongoing implementation of published in English. E csr@syngenta.com Such statements may be subject to risks and policies on human rights, fair This publication is available on the Internet: uncertainties that could cause the actual results labor, environmental protection Media Relations www.syngenta.com to differ materially from these statements. and anti-corruption. T +41 61 323 2323 © 2018 Syngenta AG, Basel, Switzerland. F +41 61 323 2424 All rights reserved. E media.relations@syngenta.com Editorial completion: March 2018 Investor Relations T +41 61 323 2323 Copywriting: KainesLang, Berwick-upon-Tweed, UK F +41 61 323 2424 Design and production: Radley Yeldar, London, UK E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company Syngenta switchboard T +41 61 323 1111 ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company F +41 61 323 1212 The SYNGENTA Wordmark and BRINGING PLANT POTENTIAL TO LIFE are registered trademarks www.syngenta.com of a Syngenta Group Company.
