COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) From: ​April 2018 To: ​April 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER March, 2018 Dear stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that NUR S.r.l. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Daniele Gotti CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Our company has adopted several measures relating to the commitment undertaken by signing the universal principles of the Global Compact. We list below some of this measures: • Providing support to entities and associations promoting the Protection of Human Rights, such as: 1. Ethics Expo (Universal Declaration of Emotional Sustainability Rights signed with authorities such as ActionAid, Amnesty International, Emergency and so on) 2. Valter Baldaccini Foundation (The Foundation promotes the improvement of the social fabric locally, nationally and internationally by sharing resources, experience and technical skills and by providing humanitarian aid in emergencies) 3. L’Età Verde​ voluntary association (for supporting older people) 4. SOHO ​Sparks of happiness Onlus (non-profit association for orphaned children) 5. Mondovisioni ​(an international festival of films and documentaries dealing with human rights it focuses especially on topics such as racism, corruption, exploitation of migrant workers, etc.) • The company has established, as a shared and declared corporate policy, the enforcement of equal rights between men and women, the protection of women workers and the promotion of equal opportunities. • The company has implemented, during the past years, the promotion of its policies on respect for human rights not only inside but by promoting the values with customers and externals partners. Labour NUR has adopted several measures relating to the commitment undertaken by signing the universal principles of the Global Compact. We list below some of this measures: • Ethic Code defining any new employment contract: alcoholics consumption, gambling, use of weapons, pornography and tobacco dependence are prohibited. • NUR doesn’t allow ‘Black Hat’ techniques for promoting its services (“Black Hat” search engine optimization is customarily defined as techniques that are used to get higher search rankings in an unethical manner). • Every employee has regular work contract and is remunerated on the basis of his skills and background • Every company decision is shared with all the employees • Providing workers with an healthy and safe work environment by the following measures: 1. ENBIL Fund (financial support for workers healthcare specialist visits in private healthcare centres agreed upon with this Fund) 2. Emf protection (cover for devices in order to absorb electromagnetic waves) 3. Company rule prohibiting personal mobile phones use during working time (airplane mode helps to radiation protection) 4. Mother-in-law’s-tongue plantation (they absorb radioactive agents and -in additiondecorate the surrounding) 5. Internal code of conduct (regulating relations between workers) 6. Kitchen and relax area for workers Environment NUR has adopted several measures relating the commitment undertaken by signing the universal principles of the Global Compact. We list below some of this measures: 1. Energy policy using 100% renewable energy 2. Use of stationery products coming from recycled material 3. Use of 100% biodegradable & compostable tableware (cutlery, glasses, napkins, etc in cellulose pulp) They’re products ​100% ​PEFC Certified​; the PEFC forest certification guarantees the correct environmental management of the forests where pulp for the manufacturing of this product come from. 4. Sound-absorbent panels dividing walls 5. Awareness raising about waste recycling among employees 6. Use of ecological printing paper: ​100% PEFC Certified This products are from sustainably managed forests and controlled sources ​Green Range The Green Range product family by Mondy consists entirely of FSC​® ​and PEFC™ certified paper from well-managed forests, or TFC paper or 100% recycled paper. EU Ecolabel Products with the EU Ecolabel are less harmful in their impact on the environment than others. The EU Ecolabel is managed by the European Union. 7. Use of copy machines and printers which don’t release harmful or toxic substances 8. Use of solar panel for the elevator driving 9. Use of biogas for heating system Anti-Corruption NUR has adopted several measures relating to the commitment undertaken by signing the universal principles of the Global Compact. We list below some of this measures: 1. NUR emits regular invoices for each sold product/service and claims invoices related to any purchased product/service 2. Our company fights against any case of internal corruption 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES NUR has adopted several measures relating to the commitment undertaken by signing the universal principles of the Global Compact. We list below some of this measures: • Reduction of polluting emissions • For 100% of meetings with customers we use support materials (chancery, plates, glasses, etc.) coming from recycled material or biodegradable and compostable • Awareness raising about respect of UN Global Compact principles • During the 30% of the meetings with external customers we endorse the values for the protection of human rights
