United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 About NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary engineering consultancy company. We cover a broad spectrum both professionally and geographically. We have close to 2,200 employees in 51 offices in 27 countries around Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. And we implement projects in 108 countries. We work with everything from building, energy, utilities, environment and infrastructure to development projects, process industry and urban planning. Our DNA ties us together across national borders, sectors and professional expertise. A close and trusting customer relationship is central to us. Our values are: Listen, learn and deliver. We want to understand our customers’ needs, over and above those set out in tender documents and contracts. Our unique trademark is an interdisciplinary and innovative approach to projects, and we take pride in transforming clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. We are not affiliated with contractors, manufacturers or suppliers, and we are a member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 Statement of continued support Carsten Toft Boesen At NIRAS we are committed to excellence in improving social and environmental CEO issues for our clients, while we support the sustainable development of the society and balanced life for our employees. We consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. Also, NIRAS has now integrated the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals in our forward strategy within all our services. Thus, in every sector, we ask ourselves how to introduce new services, where we together with our clients can contribute to the development goals. The issue on human rights and the importance of compliance pervade all NIRAS’ activities, which in 2017 comprised development projects in more than 80 countries. Before entering into contracts and agreements, we screen projects for issues related to human rights. Also in 2017 NIRAS issued a statement on “Modern Slavery and Human trafficking”. NIRAS continuously improves easy access to management support and information and guidelines for employees. In 2017 NIRAS implemented internal policies and guiding principles governing Sexual Harassment and Bullying to strengthen NIRAS’ positive working environment. With a total of 400 environmental specialists, NIRAS in 2017 provided consultancy on a large number of environment and energy project. To further emphasise our strict corruption zero tolerance, in 2017 NIRAS developed an online training course and conducted face-to-face training with participants from various developing countries. Consequently, we will continue to improve and commit ourselves to further sustainable development. Carsten T. Boesen, Chief Executive Officer 3 Human Rights Principles 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Actions and outcome Full subscription to charters and conventions on human rights is reflected internally in the organisation as well as in our external projects. NIRAS considers UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights as the international proclaimed rights and subscribes hereto. In 2017 NIRAS carried out development projects in more than 80 countries. NIRAS promotes and encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all people regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, language and religion. In cooperation with development partners we design our projects and programmes using a “human rights lens” and with it a set of intricate rights-based tools. We ensure that we mainstream rights issues into the design and implementation of our programmes as a means to promote rights-based outcomes. In 2017, NIRAS issued a statement on “Modern Slavery and Human trafficking”: In particular in regards to Article 3: Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person, Article 4: No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms and Article 5: No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. We have met the performance and targets for 2017 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS fully subscribes to all charters and international conventions on Human Rights. This encompasses Rights of the Child, Rights of Indigenous People, genderrelated issues including Elimination of All Forms of Decimation of Women as well as the Rights of LGBT. NIRAS ensures all present and future employees equal opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. And a working environment free of harassment, including discrimination. NIRAS considers diversity to ensure clients a better quality of service and promotes inspiration in-house. The culture and values in NIRAS are based on respect for the individual and this also implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and clients. 4 Labour Principles 1. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 2. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 3. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Actions and outcome NIRAS continuously improves easy access to management support and information and guidelines for employees. In 2017, NIRAS implemented internal policies and guiding principles governing Sexual Harassment and Bullying to strengthen NIRAS’ positive psychological working environment. NIRAS does not employ children who are underage. We have met the performance and targets for 2017 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, making space for “the whole person”. Our aim is to be reflected in the way in which we relate to and act towards one another. NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into associations and enter into collective bargaining with management. All NIRAS employees have individual contracts, and the employment conditions comply with current national legislation and requirements. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where employees are satisfied with their jobs and can potentially develop, and where employees who travel abroad get comprehensive security assistance. NIRAS does not accept sexual harassment or bullying. Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and in-house operations must be performed such that to the highest possible extent we secure the health, safety and welfare of the human beings affected. 5 Environment Principles 1. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 2. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Actions and outcome NIRAS develops sustainable solutions for our clients and our organisation. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of client projects concerning buildings, industry and construction as well as water, energy and wastewater systems. With a total of 400 environmental specialists, NIRAS provides consultancy on any environment or energy sector project. In 2017, NIRAS performed environmental projects within environmental impact and strategic assessment, nature and aquatic environment, soil and groundwater contamination, environmentally harmful substances in indoor climate, acoustics, noise etc. Furthermore, NIRAS performed energy projects within strategic energy planning, energy production, wind energy, solar energy, bioenergy, resources and symbiosis, energy savings and efficiency improvements, environmental footprints, CO2reduction, climate policies etc. Every year, NIRAS prepares a climate account for our activities. We have met the performance and targets for 2017 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS takes our responsibility towards climate change, environment and society seriously in our approach to our services and operation of our business. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions that are compatible with the principles of sustainable development. NIRAS supports the International Federation of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommendations on the environment and sustainable development. 6 Anti-corruption Principle 1. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Actions and outcome In 2017, NIRAS has further updated the Integrity Management System (IMS), and we have put additional emphasis on training our personnel and partners in complying with our strict corruption zero tolerance. We have conducted face-to-face training in Ethiopia, also including participants from Tanzania, Mozambique, Zambia and Kenya. We held further training in Benin, Helsinki, Poland, Serbia, Vietnam, Thailand, Taiwan and in Denmark, where we also trained staff from Australia and United Kingdom. We have developed an online training course, giving employees and partners a more profound knowledge, understanding and training in NIRAS’ integrity and ethics policies. We have met the performance and targets for 2017 satisfactorily. Reference to policies NIRAS has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption and fraud, and NIRAS will actively contribute to combating corruption and fraud in all of its forms. NIRAS has developed an Integrity Management System, including Business Integrity and Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. The system and policies are in compliance with the international anti-corruption instruments, defined by OECD, FIDIC, Transparency International and United Nations. 7 Sustainable Development Goals NIRAS’ mission is to deliver sustainable solutions to our customers. We have integrated the SDG’s in our forward strategy within all our services. Thus, in every sector, we ask ourselves how to introduce new services, where we together with our clients can contribute to the development goals. The 17 SDG’s set an ambitious agenda for the whole world. The goals can only be achieved if governments, NGO’s and the private sector work closely together. “Been there, done that”. In many ways, most of the 8000 ongoing projects, NIRAS runs, mirror one or more of the 17 SDG’s set by UN in 2015. A few recent examples are:  SDG 3, Good Health and Well-being Aarhus University Hospital has a build in flexibility in order to continuously maximizing specialized treatment of patients, research, education and development  SDG 6, Clean Water and Sanitation The waterwork in Esbjerg with Denmark’s largest clean water tanks, using state-of-the-art-technoloy and securing supply and high quality drinking water  SDG 7, Affordable and Clean Energy 3000 solar collectors at Dronninglund in Denmark ensure sustainable, reliable and affordable district heating.  SDG 11, Sustainable Cities and Communities Light Rail in Odense ensures sustainable transportation of one million people through the city every month  SDG 13, Climate Action NIRAS develop solutions that both prevent flooding and at the same time ensure better quality of environment, in 2017 e.g. by designing Denmark’s largest cloudburst tunnel in Copenhagen and Denmark’s longest climate road in Aalborg.  SDG 14, Life below water Environmental Impact assessments of large offshore wind turbine parks. 8
