2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | Chapter Name 1 Introduction Table of Contents Corporate Mind Introduction Page 3 Planet Aware Page 29 People Care (cont.) Overview 3 Responding to Climate Providing Personal 32 Change Development and Growth 51 Letter from the CEO 4 for Employees Minimizing Electricity Usage Corporate Mind Page 5 33 and Emissions Building Relationships and 52 Connections Purpose, Vision and Values 9 Conserving Natural Gas 34 Product Reach Prioritizing Employee Health Investments in the Future 11 Building for a 55 35 and Well-Being Sustainable Future Conscious Leadership 13 Resources and Benefits to Tracking and Reducing 57 Support Employee Wellness A Broader Sense of Place 15 Impacts from Product 37 Distribution Community Touch Page 59 Aligning Values Throughout 16 the Supply Chain Minimizing Impacts from Planet Aware 39 Supporting the Charitable Business Travel Instincts and Efforts of Our 61 Our Economic Benefit 16 Employees Preserving Natural Capital 40 Product Reach Page 17 Local Response to Local Need 63 Minimizing Waste 41 Forensics and Paternity Promega in Action 65 19 Conserving Water 42 Laboratories People Care Long-Term Commitment to Connecting with Customers 66 Government and Academic 43 Cornerstone Organizations 21 without Paper Research Laboratories Engagement and Support in Pharmaceutical and Reducing Packaging Materials 43 Education, Science and 67 22 Creativity Biotechnology Industries People Care Page 45 Clinical and Molecular Additional Information Page 75 Community Touch 23 Nurturing Employee Creativity, Diagnostics Laboratories 47 Growth and Self-Actualization 2018 Report Parameters 76 Applied Biotechnology and 25 Creating Workspaces Key Indicators 77 Agriculture 48 to Inspire Investment in Innovation 26 GRI Index 78 Cultivating Emotional & Social 49 Quality Process and Product 27 Intelligence (ESI) Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Cover Art: Original watercolor by David Goodsell for Promega inspired by the Central Dogma of biology, the flow of genetic information, playing out in a portion of a human cell. “I have always hoped that my illustrations spark excitement about the Community Touch subcellular world, and help us understand the unfamiliar structures and processes that bring our cells to life.” David Goodsell All chapter images also by David Goodsell, the Scripps Research Institute. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 2 Introduction Overview Corporate Mind Ten years ago Promega formalized a long standing philosophy of good corporate citizenship with the release of our first sustainability report. Using the highly regarded Global Reporting Initiative, we began to fully capture and measure our commitments to Product Reach people, planet and the communities in which we work. Looking back, we realize the value of this transparency in elevating awareness and catalyzing improvement efforts. This increased sensibility has been embraced in all Planet Aware aspects of our business today and at all our global locations as illuminated in the following pages. As we look to the future, we continue to view corporate responsibility as a People Care holistic measurement of success and a source of inspiration. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 3 Introduction Letter from the CEO Corporate Mind This year, Promega celebrates its first 40 years. And while we’ve landed In all these cases, these initiatives started with an individual who had in places unimagined four decades ago, there’s been a common theme an idea that he or she was passionate about. Usually the ideas were in our work that revolves around relationship. In the following pages, unconventional and some might say costly. And yet, we let go of we highlight the significance we place on building relationships in conventional approaches and support the enthusiasm of these all areas – with our customers and suppliers, in our communities, individuals. Interestingly, an ironic thing starts to happen…It seems our environment, through collaborative innovation and services. the more we open up to our individual passions and let go of a singular Product Reach Whether it is preserving what we have, energizing what’s endangered approach, the more connected we become to something that brings or fostering a vibrant future, it starts with an understanding and a meaning to all of us. connection to something outside ourselves. So more than any product, technology, or market in guiding our At Promega the connection starts with employees. They value what path, we continue to look toward relationship as our North Star to it means and what it takes to make meaningful connections. They a fulfilling future. have the curiosity to take a unique path that responds to a unique Planet Aware need. It’s why our HR team took their leadership training program to a customer in Italy when asked to work with young scientists. It’s why our internal programs for emotional and social intelligence can’t William A. Linton, keep up with employee interest. And it’s why we started a Caregiver Chairman and CEO program that allows employees to take a leave of absence to care for the life-changing events that happen in all our families. Honoring People Care these relationship to our customers, our employees and our families bring unimagined vibrancy into the workplace. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 4 Corporate Mind 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind Corporate Mind Product Reach It seems the more we open up to our individual passions and let go of a singular approach, the more connected we become to something that brings meaning to all of us. Bill Linton, Chairman and CEO Planet Aware People Care As Promega celebrates 40 years of supporting science, At Promega, our business is life science, but our lives we reflect on how we can continue contributing are fueled by curiosity and life-long learning. We to the advancement of science for improving see this curiosity appear in countless forms across life around the globe. In a rapidly changing our global organization. Founded in 1978, our world, we look for qualities that stand the test company is headquartered in Madison, WI, Community Touch of time—the sense that we can seek and create USA, with sales branches in 16 countries, more purpose and meaning for ourselves as than 50 global distributors, and three global individuals, as an organization and in the larger manufacturing locations. Promega is governed community of customers, suppliers and by a Board of Directors, while daily operations stakeholders. are led by the Corporate Leadership Team and global Branch Managers. This diverse group brings wide-ranging expertise and unique cultural experience Additional Info to management decisions. We use an image of an animal cell to represent corporate organization because the cell represents non-hierarchical, interdependent structure. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 6 Introduction 4,000 Corporate Mind over products Product Reach Sales branches in Planet Aware countries People Care square feet of facilities $42 million Community Touch Additional Info invested in research & development Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 7 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Promega Branch Office Distributor Headquarters Manufacturing Facilities Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 8 Introduction Purpose, Vision and Values Corporate Mind Purpose Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where the values of science, business and human well-being intersect. Acknowledging these interdependencies, Promega cultivates its environment to allow employees to flourish, develop deep and enduring relationships with all constituencies and create intelligent life-science solutions. Product Reach Vision Promega Corporation grows from a vision where success is measured in meaning generated for people and in relationships sustained by both value and purpose. With an eye toward a changing future, Promega continues to evolve: Planet Aware • Our life sciences tools to accelerate discovery and make possible increasingly innovative and practical applications of advanced technology. • Our commitment to improving human health. • Our work environments, which support and perpetuate curiosity, People Care self-awareness and community integration. • Our capacity as a stable resource for the growth and transformation of the people and communities we touch. In essence, our vision includes all life and moves us to act on the Community Touch knowledge that we are all interdependent. Additional Info Developing innovative small molecules at Promega Biosciences in California Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 9 Introduction Values Promega continues to reflect a set of living values that include: As a business focused on the long-term, we appreciate the importance Corporate Mind of maintaining meaningful dialogue with all our stakeholders– • Contributing to the advancement of science for improving life customers, employees, suppliers, community and shareholders. In in the global community. 2017, we initiated a self-reflective pilot project to better understand • Appreciating that we operate as an adaptable living organism in the importance of material issues to our stakeholders and their which each element and human contribution are a vital part of organizations. Consistent with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), a whole, capable of responding to the emerging complexities of the Promega 360 Pilot Project has provided valuable input and our time. Product Reach perspective on how our organization impacts and aligns in key areas • Encouraging personal development through inner and outer of importance. We will continue to seek this type of reflective feedback exploration and self-awareness practices. and dialogue in the year ahead. • Recognizing that both work and home are places to cultivate wholeness and wholeheartedness through learning, offering the best of ourselves, integrating new insights and developing inner Planet Aware and outer qualities that allow each individual to be present and engaged. • Rewarding and acknowledging achievement through creativity, risk taking, process improvements and innovation. • Promoting adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. People Care Community Touch Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where the values of science, business and human well-being intersect. Acknowledging these interdependencies, Promega cultivates its environment to allow employees to flourish, develop deep and enduring relationships with all constituencies and create intelligent life-science solutions. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 10 Introduction Investment in the Future Effects of Products and Innovation Corporate Mind We at Promega believe that a sustainable organization must evolve We provide innovative solutions and technical support to researchers, as the world and customer needs change. As a result, we look at technicians and analysts in life sciences, industry and government. human needs in an effort to anticipate our customers’ needs while Over 4,000 catalog and additional custom products enable customers providing an inspiring place for employees to work and supporting worldwide to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, the communities in which we live. We are committed to building a cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, human identification and long-term sustainable future through investments in innovation, applied biotechnology. In 2017, product revenue reached roughly people, products and services, infrastructure and community outreach. $400 million. The Product Reach section of this report expands on Product Reach how our products benefit human health and advance the scientific This commitment is evidenced by our investment in scientific community. innovation, expansion of global facilities and developing our technical and leadership capabilities. The focus in these areas allows us to Our growing investment in innovative research resulted in 61 new continue to meet customer needs and generate increased value. patent filings in 2017, bringing our intellectual property library to over 370 granted patents and nearly 225 pending patents. In addition, Planet Aware 22 new products were launched fulfilling customer needs by: • Aiding development of antibody-based treatments. • Advancing forensic DNA testing. • Improving methods for study cellular changes. People Care • Optimizing research in clinical labs. • Expediting food safety testing. Community Touch ‘The Scientist’ named HiBiT Protein Tagging System as a 2017 Top 10 Innovation. Learn more about this technology and how our customers are applying other Promega technologies to develop vaccines and predict reactions to immunotherapy in the Product Reach section. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 11 Introduction Investments in People and Place In 2017, Promega global facilities exceeded 1.1 million square feet Corporate Mind or 110,000 square meters. Exciting branch expansion in the UK and Germany is well underway. Using sustainable design approaches, these new facilities will provide creative workplaces and healthy spaces for our employees, customers and community outreach. In addition, two new significant projects commenced: a state-of-the-art organic chemistry research & manufacturing facility in San Luis Obispo, CA, Product Reach and a world-class research building in Madison, WI. Currently in design phase, these buildings will likely add 300,000 ft2 or 28,000 m2 to the Promega footprint when completed in the next few years. For details on the expansion and environmental effect and reduction in carbon emissions, see the Planet Aware section of this report. Planet Aware Promega reduced carbon emissions by 6% as indexed to revenue in the last year. Learn more about our commitments to energy efficiency, sustainable design, resource conservation and much more in the Planet Aware section. People Care Community Touch Additional Info The Feynman Center has a living wall to bring the outdoors inside and provides a stimulating workspace for employees. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 12 Introduction Conscious Leadership Corporate Mind At the heart of science is the understanding of the interdependent, complex and dynamic nature of systems. With a headcount nearing 1,500 individuals worldwide, this complexity is increasingly true at Promega as well. In rapidly changing environments, our leadership must have the latent capacities of mind and heart to flourish. We are actively and continuously developing an organizational environment that fosters the formation of deep personal connections, creates trust Product Reach in the face of ambiguity to encourage conscientious and courageous action, and supports the simultaneous use of intuition and intelligence in developing vision and outlook. Ultimately we also want to provide space in which everyone has an opportunity for self-awareness, personal transformation and professional development. The People Care section of this report expands on ways that Promega invests in Planet Aware our people and focuses on strengthening relationships. An active and continuously developing Emotional and Social Intelligence (ESI) initiative emphasizes connection and encourages People Care employees to become their best self. Shanghai Promega is one location that educated employees on ESI in 2017. Learn more about all the ways Promega supports employees in the People Care section. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 13 Introduction Valuing Diversity Respecting Human Rights Promega believes in and practices equal opportunity and affirmative As a member to the UN Global Compact, Promega follows all Corporate Mind action. As a global company, we acknowledge and honor the fundamental regulations regarding employment and has zero tolerance for violations value and dignity of all individuals and pledge ourselves to creating of human rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing The and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, Universal Declaration of Human Rights in how our business develops heritages, experiences and perspectives. With offices in 16 culturally productive relationships around the world to continue working diverse locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures cooperatively among different customs and cultures. Issues that we and experiences of all employees. Women represent approximately take very seriously include: Product Reach 48% of employees worldwide and occupy 43% of management • Protecting children from exploitation. positions. • Protecting all workers from compulsory labor. • Paying at least minimum wages. • Providing safe working conditions. Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and ensures Planet Aware that our employees and community members are treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that uphold international human rights and labor standards. Prioritizing Anti-Corruption People Care Promega aims to operate with the greatest integrity and has zero tolerance for corruption or bribery. This commitment to anti-corruption is communicated to all employees in a Code of Conduct and training is provided to managers and employees in purchasing or sales. Community Touch Promega general managers at the Leadership Forum. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 14 Introduction A Broader Sense of Place Corporate Mind At Promega, we think of place as the integration of work, home and community. In addition to supporting employee community engagement, we focus on outreach in education, science and creativity. Stories showing our commitment to the communities in which we work are shared in the Community Touch section of this report. “The Promega in Action program greatly benefits employees by Product Reach providing time for them to connect with communities and fulfill roles outside of the scope of their everyday lives. I volunteered with a nonprofit afterschool center in Nairobi, Kenya, to provide handsPlanet Aware on science workshops for youth, exploring topics such as pH, heat exchange and aerodynamics. My Promega in Action experience left me feeling grateful, connected creatively inspired and reenergized.” Learn more about the ways we give back in the Community Touch section. People Care Community Touch Additional Info 15 | Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 15 Introduction Aligning Values Throughout the Our Economic Benefit Supply Chain Corporate Mind Growth and success of any business, especially one the size and scope Promega recognizes the effect and importance that suppliers have in of Promega, has a positive ripple effect on the communities in which the scope of our Corporate Responsibility, and forms partnerships it operates. In the state of Wisconsin alone, a third party economist with companies who have similar commitments. Our Supplier Code has estimated our multiplied annual economic impact at more than of Conduct outlines our expectations relating to business ethics, $600 million. This analysis accounts for direct, indirect and induced labor, health and safety and environmental responsibility. This Promega effect from job creation to expense of goods and services. document is shared with new and existing suppliers to encourage Product Reach Mindful focus on building a long-term sustainable organization, collaboration in these areas. A focus on sourcing from local suppliers along with continued investment in infrastructure, will enable Promega also supports local communities and reduces environmental effects to meet the rapidly changing needs of the scientific community. from shipping. Planet Aware in Wisconsin $600 million $30 nearly in annual multiplied economic effect People Care million Community Touch 2,840 jobs Promega operations are estimated to support an additional in expenditures on goods and services Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 16 Product Reach 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Product Reach The culture of Promega fosters scientific curiosity, creativity and collaboration to create innovative tools that enable scientists to continue to expand our understanding of the world. Our people are passionate about their work because they know what they do matters; whether it is developing a new technology, answering a product question, or making sure product is always available when needed. Planet Aware Sharon Sheridan, Director, Genetic Identity People Care Science is always evolving, so the needs of our customers are always changing. Developing the innovative solutions customers need begins Human Clinical with one crucial skill: listening. The solid relationships we build with Identification Research our customers, taking the time to truly understand their work, allows us to anticipate their needs and problem solve together. Scientists, Academic Community Touch Research technicians and analysts use our products and technical expertise Biobanking In Vitro every day in laboratory and industrial settings around the world. Our Diagnostics alliance with them, coupled with determined scientific exploration and flexible manufacturing capabilities, enable us to support our Drug Discovery, customers in their important work to improve the world in profound Core Lab Development & Manufacturing Applied and ways using science. Services Environmental With high-quality, reliable tool kits at their disposal, researchers have Testing Additional Info more freedom to focus on specific questions at the forefront of Markets Serviced scientific discovery or clinical practice. The end result is better science, using better tools, for faster answers. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 18 Introduction Customer Focus Corporate Mind Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with tremendous caseloads Launching soon, the Spectrum CE System, built with input from and tight turnaround times. Dependable results, throughput and analysts throughout the field, will enable more efficient STR analysis reliable product supply are critical in this setting. These labs use and enhanced workflow flexibility. More than ever before, labs will limited, and often challenging samples, to develop law enforcement be able to receive more information from challenging sample types, leads from crime scenes. Sexual assault evidence kit backlogs and save time with increased sample processing capacity, and experience Product Reach property crime samples are some of the more challenging samples the flexibility to add samples during runs. All of this will be available for labs to process. Promega offers a menu of tools for forensic and with the same high level of service and support that customers have paternity labs for each step in the forensic workflow, from precome to expect from Promega. processing and differential extraction to quantification, STR We have worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more amplification and analysis. The new Promega custom Casework Direct than 30 years and support their challenging workflow by providing Kit is designed for rapid processing of swabs from casework samples, products for efficient DNA extraction through discriminating STR cuttings of sexual assault swabs or stained fabric prior to quantifying Planet Aware analysis. human DNA. The streamlined protocol will enable crime labs to more efficiently and effectively address these difficult samples. In addition, forensics and paternity labs help bring closure to families whose loved ones are missing or lost in mass disasters, and even help exonerate those who have been wrongly convicted of a crime. People Care Researchers and analysts need to know that they will get optimal and reliable results from the valuable and often irreplaceable samples. Community Touch The Spectrum CE System will offer more efficient STR analysis and enhanced workflow flexibility. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 19 Introduction DNA Profile of ‘The Beauty Queen Killer’ Christopher Bernard Wilder, known as The Beauty Queen Killer, In 2017, Wilder’s genetic profile was uploaded for the first time into Corporate Mind murdered at least eight women and girls during a cross-country the national CODIS (the Combined DNA Index System) database so crime spree in the mid-1980s. Posing as a photographer, he lured his DNA can now be compared to evidence in cases across the his victims with promises of modeling careers. He was eventually country. To accomplish this, forensic scientists at the Palm Beach shot and killed following a massive manhunt, but his story doesn’t County Sheriff’s Office used two Promega Genetic Identity products, end there. Investigators believe he may be responsible for at least the PowerQuant® System and PowerPlex® Fusion System, to help ten more unsolved murders from New York to Florida, and now they them obtain a DNA profile from evidence in a 1980 rape case to Product Reach are applying the newest technology to old evidence to help them which Wilder had plead guilty and served five years’ probation. prove it. Samples from this evidence were shown to have a high amount of degradation. “We didn’t expect to get anything at all from the DNA profile… We were definitely surprised by the results we obtained,” says scientist Planet Aware Alyse Yacovone-Margetts, who assisted on the case. With Wilder’s DNA profile now in the national database, investigators have one more piece of information to possibly bring closure to loved ones of some of these victims. Credit is due to the determined detectives and skilled forensic scientists, but Brandy Plean, who People Care completed all of the DNA interpretation for the case, also gives a nod to the Promega products for yielding such complete results. “I definitely think both of these products helped with this case because you just have more information in general about your Community Touch sample.” Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 20 Introduction Government and Academic Understanding Appetite Research Laboratories What makes us hungry? What satisfies our hunger? The Corporate Mind Basic researchers in leading academic laboratories and government complex cellular processes controlling appetite begin when research centers are focused on new discoveries in biology. Although hormones such as ghrelin, melanocortin and others interact much of their work can lead to drug development programs, for with cell surface receptors in the brain, initiating signaling example, by discovering novel protein targets, it takes many years for pathways that stimulate or suppress appetite and prepare this to come to fruition. Researchers in academia and government the body for digestion, resulting in the storage or release of need the best, most sensitive research tools available so that they may energy from food. Product Reach test their hypotheses. The required tools are often the newest available and can be more complex than those used just five to ten years ago. It is in the intricate details of these pathways that some From routine to more focused applications, Promega continues to researchers hope to find solutions to the problems of obesity develop improved technologies for nucleic acid purification and PCR, and diabetes. Dr. Julien Sebag and his lab at the University as well as advanced assays for cellular biology and protein manipulation. of Iowa Carver College of Medicine study cell surface receptors and accessory proteins in the brain that signal hunger, Planet Aware communicate “fullness”, and control energy balance—the processes that tell us when we need to eat, cause us to stop eating when full, and stimulate the body to produce and store energy. With this knowledge, scientists hope to identify drugs for treatment of obesity and diabetes. People Care Dr. Sebag’s lab used the HiBiT Protein Tagging System to investigate the role of the accessory protein MRAP2 in modulating the availability of the ghrelin hormone receptor. Traditionally, they would have used an antibody-based method (ELISA) to monitor this type of interaction, but they have Community Touch found that HiBiT tagging offers a more sensitive, less variable and faster way to detect receptor changes. As a result, Dr. Sebag discovered MRAP2 is essential for sensing starvation and is required for the action of the “hunger hormone” ghrelin “HiBiT really represents a breakthrough in the way we measure protein trafficking or protein secretion” Additional Info HiBiT Protein Tagging System Universe Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 21 Introduction Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Advancing Vaccine Development Scientists developing small molecule drugs within the pharmaceutical Influenza, commonly known as “the flu”, is an infectious Corporate Mind industry need reliable assays and reagents because they can screen disease caused by a virus. Influenza spreads around the >100,000 compounds in a single run. Successful screening demands world in a yearly outbreak, resulting in about three to five minimal intervention (e.g., plate washes, multiple liquid transfers, million cases of severe illness and about 290,000– 650,000 etc.) to avoid experimental variability, offering high reproducibility. respiratory deaths. The influenza vaccine is recommended The in vitro data should predict in vivo results so that expensive for high-risk groups, such as children, the elderly, health care failures such as false positives and off-target effects are avoided–the workers and people with certain chronic illnesses. However, Product Reach fail early model. For many drugs, the targets are not known and the due to the high mutation rate of the virus, the required influenza challenge is identifying the specific target of the small molecule, vaccine composition is reviewed each year and needs to be which produces the desired result. Using the Promega NanoBRET™ reformulated often, based on the strains of virus predicted Target Engagement Assay, researchers can quantitatively measure the to be most prevalent in the following year. The holy grail of interaction between a molecule and a protein in live cells. In some cases, you can measure these interactions in real-time, observing not influenza vaccinology is developing a universal vaccine that only the formation of the interaction but also the dissociation of the protects against a wide range of virus strains and subtypes, Planet Aware partners. Similar technology allows researchers to specifically label thereby eliminating the need for seasonal vaccine reformulation proteins via CRISPR knock-in as well as study protein degradation. and providing an effective defense against viruses with pandemic potential. Scientists in the biopharma industry need the best analytical tools to functionally and structurally characterize large molecule “biologic” Generating antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) therapeutics. Promega has a suite of bioluminescent, cell-based reporter responses appears to be an important mechanism by which People Care bioassays that are used in the discovery and development phases of vaccines confer protective immunity against viruses such biologics. Immuno-oncology has become a hot research area representing as influenza. Working towards the development of a universal a more targeted approach in the fight against cancer. Cancers have flu vaccine, researchers at Janssen Pharmaceutical, Infectious developed multiple ways to evade the human immune system and Diseases and Vaccines use the Promega ADCC Reporter immuno-oncology can beat cancer at its own game. We have a rapidly Community Touch Bioassays to help select vaccine candidates for broad expanding portfolio of reporter bioassays for immune checkpoints, protective immunity. In similar studies, researchers across key nodes in the pathways of multiple cancers. In addition, Promega has generated many proprietary enzymes used in the structural the globe are using the ADCC Reporter Bioassays to develop characterization of biologics by mass spectrometry. vaccines against HIV, herpes simplex virus, zika virus and ebolavirus. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 22 Introduction Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories Molecular diagnostic laboratories rely on access to high-quality, Corporate Mind consistently performing products in their assays. Promega manufactures reagents under a rigorous quality program that contributes to robust and reliably performing molecular assays. Products are manufactured to the highest quality standards through maintenance of ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 certification as well as enhanced capabilities for cGMP manufacturing. The Promega PCR Optimization Kit, launched Product Reach in 2016, allows customers to rapidly define their own unique PCR master mix for a variety of applications in research or clinical use. This is just one example of how we can provide flexible solutions with product customization options to meet clinical laboratory or IVD manufacturers’ needs. Planet Aware Representation of how advances in immunotherapies based on individual needs can clarify treatment plans. People Care As market demands evolve, Promega continually excels at responding to customer needs by adapting our Community Touch highly innovative product platforms. Our reagents in the market today are best in class and are targeted to support diagnostic, therapeutic and forensic workflows globally, which allows for us to have greater impact on human health in novel and unique ways year after year. Heather Tomlinson, Director, Clinical Diagnostics Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 23 Introduction Predicting the Response To Immunotherapy While significant strides in cancer treatments have been made, there This New York Times article, as well as others, highlight fascinating Corporate Mind are still many who are diagnosed with certain types referred to as studies that use a simple test Promega manufactures for identifying ‘death sentences’. Recently though, new studies in these fields are genetic mutations. In 2017, our product made significant strides proving that may not always be the case–results are showing that forward with the FDA, including multiple pre-submission meetings, select cancer groups may have the keys for treatment in their genetic planned analytical and clinical studies, all with the focus towards makeup. Here are some excerpts from one of the breaking news making our commercially available for research use Microsatellite stories in 2017. Instability (MSI) assay an in vitro diagnostic product. Product Reach “The results, published on Thursday in the journal Science, are so striking In research studies and clinical trials, our MSI assay has been useful that the Food and Drug Administration already has approved the drug, in predicting a patient’s response to immunotherapy–a treatment pembrolizumab, brand name Keytruda, for patients whose cancers arise gaining traction for those with certain forms of advanced cancer in from the same genetic abnormality. which chemotherapy is not effective. Previously, treatment for tumors focused on the location within the body while immunotherapy …After taking pembrolizumab, 66 patients (of 86 in the trial) had their Planet Aware effective in MSI tumors works by understanding genetic features tumors shrink substantially and stabilize, instead of continuing to grow. within a tumor. By zeroing in on these genetic features, oncologists Among them were 18 patients whose tumors vanished and have not and pathologists are able to more accurately target immunotherapy. returned. It is the first time a drug has been approved for use against tumors that share a certain genetic profile, whatever their location in the body. Tens People Care of thousands of cancer patients each year could benefit.” -New York Times ‘Cancer Drug Proves to Be Effective Against Multiple Tumors’, June 8, 2017 Who could imagine a NASA-funded effort to develop a tool (MSI Analysis System) for Community Touch monitoring the effects of radiation on astronauts would become a critical tool in understanding cancer right here on planet Earth? Bob Bulleit, Director, Research and Development Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 24 Introduction Applied Biotechnology and Agriculture Supporting Efficient Energy Generation Today, biotechnology tools once used solely by researchers are used The Northern Indiana Power Public Service Company (NIPSCO) Corporate Mind in applications to test food and water. Applications include tests for serves the electric power needs for almost 500,000 residents purity, bacteria and other elements to ensure safe products and of northern Indiana. NIPSCO had been searching for an authenticate quality claims. effective method for monitoring the biological quality of the For plant and food analysis, we provide sample preparation tools that water they use for cooling at an electricity generation plant. can be used to extract DNA for use in pathogen and GMO testing They had been using other tools, but were not getting effective for nearly all food matrices. Promega DNA purification chemistry is or timely results. NIPSCO needed the monitoring because the Product Reach considered to be a reference standard in authenticity determination cooling water comes from a local river, which empties into of meat products, and has been used by the European Union Reference Lake Michigan. The water quality varies significantly, including Laboratory for Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs (EURL) to develop microbial load, due to seasonal effects and agricultural runoff, a Standard Operating Procedure for the extraction of DNA for leading to use of biocides and other chemicals to treat water. downstream PCR-based detection methods for food testing. In Proper water control means there is reduced or controlled addition, the Maxwell® RSC PureFood Kit was recently selected by corrosion within their systems, and that problematic pathogens, Planet Aware the European Reference Laboratory on GMO Food and Feed Testing such as Legionella, are unable to proliferate and infect people for developing new SOPs for food DNA extraction. who are downwind of the aerosolized cooling tower water. In water and hygiene analysis, our ATP bioluminescence expertise is NIPSCO achieved more control of water quality by adopting already very well adopted. Several groups have published methods on-line measurement of ATP (AppliTek EZ-ATP using Promega using the BacTiter-Glo™ luminescent ATP-based assay for assessing Water-Glo™ reagents) that provides People Care water quality and biofilm formation. The Water-Glo™ luminescent ATP-based assay builds on this with new applications to detect effective and continuous monitoring. microbes in seawater desalination, drinking water and other industrial Using the on-line EZ-ATP analyzer process applications to reduce energy consumption and improve led to development of more effective plant operational efficiency. biocide dosing. Looking forward, Community Touch NIPSCO can now respond to changing The tools offered by Promega make microbial contamination detection water conditions more quickly, as in crude oil and heavy fuels possible, thus reducing the use of the online analyzer can continuously bactericidal chemicals in those processes. The number and variety of projects is expanding significantly in areas such as minerals, microtox monitor the cooling water and or dairy product testing, and continues to grow as the quality of become proactive in controlling the Promega products gains more and more visibility. efficiency of electrical power generation. Additional Info AppliTek EZ ATP analyzer Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 25 Introduction Investment in Innovation Corporate Mind To sustain our contributions to scientific exploration and application, we will continue to invest in the development and discovery of new technologies. In 2017, we invested over $42 million (US) in research and development, and filed 61 new patent applications. Promega has an extensive intellectual property portfolio because of our sustained global investment in research and development. Product Reach We also work with academic institutions and other entities to license and develop promising technologies. new patent applications Planet Aware granted patents People Care Community Touch million invested in research & development new products Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 26 Introduction Quality Process and Product Corporate Mind Promega Corporation has a long history of supporting our customers to our business, and to all those who rely on and benefit from the with high-quality products, services and information. Promega use of our products. Currently, 16 Promega locations around the Madison, WI, USA, was first certified to international standards for world are certified to meet the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485 quality management systems in 1998, and our commitment continues or both. with our current ISO 13485 and ISO 9001 certifications. The ISO In February 2016, ISO 18385:2016 was published as the first series of quality management system standards are developed and international standard specific to the forensic manufacturing community. maintained by the International Organization for Standardization. Product Reach In 2017, Promega became the first major forensic manufacturer to An organization achieving ISO certification has demonstrated to a achieve third-party certification of the published ISO 18385 standard third party that the organization meets all requirements of the standard to minimize the risk of human DNA contamination in products used and has implemented a quality system capable of developing, to collect, store and analyze biological material for forensic purposes. manufacturing, testing and delivering high quality products around Promega products manufactured in alignment with the ISO 18385 the world. ISO certification assures our global customers that Promega standard include a “Forensic Grade” certification logo. is committed to quality and has established reliable and effective Planet Aware processes. ISO certification exemplifies commitments to our customers, People Care In 2017, Promega became the first major forensic manufacturer to achieve third-party certification Community Touch of the published ISO 18385 standard to minimize the risk of human DNA contamination in products used to collect, store and analyze biological material for forensic purposes. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 27 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 28 | Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 28 Planet Aware 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind Planet Aware Product Reach It is inspiring to me and our global team to feel the cohesive culture of driving continuous improvement initiatives that focus on our customers, environment and people. We consciously invest in building our global collaboration platform between our internal teams, customers and vendors as we know the synergies gained will have Planet Aware long lasting benefits that focus on the sustainability for our business and environment. Brady Musson, Director, Logistics We live in an era where humanity faces a myriad of environmental Our focus on the future has resulted in infrastructure investment People Care risks that challenge some of the most basic needs for life. At the same that will enable sustainable growth for many years to come. Since time, unprecedented technological and scientific breakthroughs are founding our corporate responsibility program in 2009, our building helping to address these challenges. As we evaluate what it will take footprint has nearly doubled with 90% of the growth in energyCommunity Touch for Promega to thrive in our 100th year and beyond, our natural intensive spaces. Even with this change, we have seen a 10% decrease environment is an integral part of this process. With this in mind, in carbon footprint as indexed to building footprint. While this we are focused on evaluating and reducing our ecological footprint growth has been challenging, it has also provided a unique opportunity across all aspects of our business, including the way we design and to incorporate more efficient and sustainable technologies across new operate facilities, ship products and engage with customers. This and existing facilities. A key component of our growth is the people effort relies on all Promega employees worldwide to make conscious that have helped us arrive where we are and will guide us in the future. decisions on a daily basis to leave a legacy rather than a mark. Significant investment has been made in full-time individuals, Additional Info consultants and advisors with expertise in sustainability. The effect of this focus was recognized in the last year as our carbon footprint reduced by 6% as indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 30 Introduction We remain committed to upholding the principles of the United natural gas, water, outgoing product distribution emissions and waste. Nations Global Compact and are focused on our 2020 environmental We are pleased to make such progress, but recognize that the journey reduction goals in the areas of greenhouse gas emissions, electricity, toward sustainability is just beginning. Corporate Mind Status Toward 2020 Goals Goals and reductions are indexed to revenue over 2015 levels. Electricity Carbon Footprint Natural Gas Product Reach 2% goal Planet Aware Ahead On Below of Target Target Target People Care Community Touch Distribution Water Waste 5% goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 31 Introduction Responding to Climate Change Corporate Mind Climate change is one of the most significant threats facing society electricity (scope 2), and indirect emissions from business travel, and Promega supports limiting anthropogenic greenhouse gas outgoing distribution, water and paper usage (scope 3). Thanks to emissions. We actively track and work to reduce greenhouse gas efforts to conserve energy and efficiently ship our products, we are emissions from all operations globally. We take into account direct currently on target to achieve our carbon emissions goal for 2020. emissions from fuel combustion (scope 1), emissions from purchased Product Reach Global Carbon Footprint Global Carbon Footprint Composition Tons of C02 per Million USD Planet Aware SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 20% 51% Electrical Usage 18 Natural Gas 19 17 23 20 21 15 20 2% Air Travel 17 12 Auto Travel Rail Travel 52 46 42 7% People Care 48 43 Water 38 51 54 55 51 SCOPE 3 Paper 20% Distribution 42 36 38 37 33 33 31 31 31 28 2008 2017 2020 Goal Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 32 Introduction Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions Several full-time specialists trained in energy efficiency that were added in recent years have identified and implemented additional In the last year, we saw gross energy usage decrease by 2.7% even projects around energy efficiency including: Corporate Mind with increases in building footprint, headcount and revenue. This reduction had a significant effect on our carbon footprint as electricity • Over 400,000 kWh have been saved at our R&D facility in use makes up over half our total emissions. To minimize the effects Madison, WI, by connecting this building to a more efficient of electricity usage, we invest in energy efficiency, generate electricity central chiller plant. Anticipated ongoing savings from this project from photovoltaic panels and purchase electricity from renewable are expected to exceed half a million kWh. sources. Product Reach Global Electricity Usage Thousands kWh per Million USD 80.6 77.3 78.3 76.8 70.9 73.5 73.6 Planet Aware 63.4 61.9 60.3 55.5 People Care Connecting our R&D facility to a central chiller plant saved 400,000 kWh of electricity last year. 2008 2017 2020 Goal • Retrofits at the Biopharmaceutical Technology Center in Wisconsin started in 2017 and included more cooling towers, LED lighting Community Touch and controls for efficient scheduling of air handling units. • Electricity usage has decreased by 21% at our daVinci facility in In the last year, we saw gross energy usage Madison, WI, due to programming changes in the air handling units. decrease by 2.7% even with increases in • In fall 2017, Promega France was renovated with building footprint, headcount and revenue energy conservation measures including a more efficient cooling system and LED lighting. Benefits Additional Info from these efforts are expected in 2018. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 33 Introduction Our use of renewable energy has increased 15-fold since 2008. Conserving Natural Gas Facilities that use 100% renewable energy sources include: Natural gas is our largest source of direct air emissions and third in Corporate Mind • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo. overall emissions for Promega. Natural gas is used primarily at • Promega Italia in Milan. manufacturing sites for heating and production-related processes. Geothermal wells, solar water heaters and heat capture technology • Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain. in many facilities minimize heating requirements and related emissions. • Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden. In the last year, natural gas usage was reduced by 2% as indexed to revenue with the following conservation efforts: • Promega GmbH and Promega Euro Hub in Product Reach Mannheim, Germany. • Natural gas usage reduced by 38% at our daVinci facility in • The Aviation Operations building in Madison, WI, Madison, WI, due to programming changes in the air handling our largest renewable energy producer with over 250 solar panels units and geothermal wells for heating and cooling. • Renovations at Promega France in 2017 included a In addition, The da Vinci facility in Madison, WI, generates some new and more efficient heating system that will reduce future usage. Planet Aware of the energy needed on-site with 48 photovoltaic panels on the roof. Natural Gas Usage Therms per Million USD 3.514 3,385 3,363 3,306 People Care 3,128 3,046 2,888 2.664 2,554 2,283 1,884 Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Use of photovoltaic panels helps minimize environmental effects from energy usage. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 34 Introduction Building for a Sustainable Future Environmental sustainability remains a core value for how Promega • Construction of a new Promega UK facility is just Corporate Mind designs and builds our facilities. In 2017 we continued to work on beginning. The facility will be a 1,700 m2 ( 18,000ft2) several new facilities with aggressive sustainability goals and strategies facility to support our sales, logistics and customer being used in the design and planning phases of each. support staff. The design team and Promega Corporate Facilities Staff developed a sustainability features decision matrix • Promega Germany (GmbH) is constructing a flagship and tracking system that has been applied to all new or substantially green building that represents Promega in Europe. remodeled Promega facilities worldwide. Sustainability priorities This 14,000 m2 (150,000 ft2) facility will house our Product Reach for the UK site include energy performance, employee health largest overseas branch, the European Distribution and well-being, ecology and landscaping, and community Center (Euro Hub) and Terso Europe. This facility will comply engagement. This facility will substantially exceed UK code with or exceed the strenuous energy performance and green requirements by meeting British green building (BREEAM building standards of the German Building Code. Advanced ‘Excellent’) requirements for energy, carbon emissions and water energy features include active slab heating and cooling, night conservation. Notable features include a green roof, combined time mass cooling, ground source energy wells and advanced mechanical ventilation and operable windows, a landscape that Planet Aware heat recovery. Other key sustainability elements include a green substantially improves the ecological value of the site, and use of roof with integrated photovoltaics, combined mechanical ventilation environmentally certified materials. with operable windows and advanced daylight design. • In 2017, we commenced work on expansion of the manufacturing capability in San Luis Obispo, CA, as well as the new research and development sub-campus in Madison, WI. Sustainable design People Care will have a significant presence in both facilities. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 35 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Rendering of the interior of the Promega GmbH facility. Rendering of the Promega UK facility currently under construction. Community Touch Promega is on a trajectory toward making its facilities on 4 continents best practice examples of sustainability, beginning with new developments and major remodels, and then moving into retrofits. David Rousseau, Consulting Architect for Promega Facilities Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 36 Introduction Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution Corporate Mind Promega invests significant effort to ensure that our products get to One specific focus of our logistics team is to minimize customers quickly and safely. We are focused on reducing air emissions the weight of dry and gel ice used in temperature-sensitive from outgoing distribution by decreasing the size and weight of shipments. In the last year, our Promega logistics packaging materials and using efficient modes of transportation. As headquarters in Madison, WI, reduced dry ice consumption a result of this ongoing focus, we have seen emissions from distribution by 11%, saving over 50 tons. Our European distribution center in consistently decrease with a 29% reduction as indexed to revenue Mannheim, Germany, reduced dry ice consumption by 3%, saving nearly 10 tons. These reductions happened even as revenue grew Product Reach since we launched our sustainability program in 2009. This is a result of multiple projects, including a transition to smaller shipping boxes globally. To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, and packaging improvements that minimize weight, optimize dry data were collected from Promega-owned global distribution hubs and gel ice requirements and use more sustainable materials. on weight, distance and mode of transportation. Global Distribution Emissions Planet Aware Tons of CO2 per Million USD 24.9 24.8 24.8 22.4 20.9 20.7 20.7 19.4 20.1 19.7 19.2 People Care 2008 2017 2020 Community Touch Goal Additional Info In the last year our logistics teams reduced dry ice consumption by 50 tons in Madison, WI, and by nearly 10 tons in Mannheim, Germany. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 37 Introduction Minimizing Air Emissions in China Net Zero Emissions from our Helix® On-Site Stocking System With the world’s largest population of over 1.4 billion Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory management system called Corporate Mind people dispersed over a wide geographical area, reaching Helix® reduces emissions through consolidated restocking shipments. customers across China is a challenge. Our Promega The Helix® program uses RFID technology that tracks product use distribution center in Beijing sought an efficient way to in real time, and results in more efficient shipping practices. This service customers across this vast landscape in fast manner while automated inventory management system ensures that customers minimizing air emissions. The answer was using the world’s largest have uninterrupted access to supplies while reducing the effect on high speed railway network. Transporting product via rail instead of our planet. air has helped to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by over 40-fold. Product Reach In addition, Promega purchases carbon credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions from energy use of the Helix® System from shipment to distribution to stocking. In 2017, Helix® offset 995 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the following projects: • Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley Project in the United States. Planet Aware • Improved Water Infrastructure in Sub-Saharan Africa. Since 2010, the Helix program has offset over 5,500 tons of carbon dioxide. To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit www.promega.com/helix. People Care Boreholes constructed in Uganda to improve water infrastructure. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 38 Introduction Minimizing Impacts from Business Travel Efficient Travel. We place an emphasis on building relationships with customers, For several years, Promega has actively sought out fuel-efficient vehicles Corporate Mind collaborators and colleagues. While much of this can be done remotely, for our use. Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega face-to-face interactions are often needed. We are committed to AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more minimizing impacts from travel by using fuel-efficient vehicles and efficient and ecologically sound fleet, leading to improved fuel efficiency environmentally sensitive modes of transportation. Business travel of vehicles globally. In the United States, we have continued participation via air, automobile and rail comprise approximately 10% of our in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program, which has enabled our employees current carbon footprint. In the last year, we saw a 2% reduction in to select high-efficiency vehicles, and all fleet emissions are offset through the planting of trees. Since our enrollment in 2009, we have Product Reach emission indexed to revenue from business travel. offset 2,800 tons of CO2 exclusively through this effort. Many locations Business Travel Carbon Footprint also encourage the use of high-speed rail as a more efficient alternative Tons of CO2 per Million USD to air and automobile travel. Our newest branch, Promega Biotech India, uses Metro Rail as the primary source of transportation to 10.12 eliminate fuel usage and air emissions. 9.46 9.14 9.08 9.04 8.71 8.92 Planet Aware 8.47 We also encourage the use of electric vehicles by employees to minimize 8.14 7.23 greenhouse gas emission from transportation. Electric vehicle charging stations are available on our Promega Madison campus, as well as Promega Benelux, Promega AG and Promega Biosciences in California. These placements cover two-thirds of our employees globally, and we are looking to expand this at other locations. 2008 2017 People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 39 Introduction Alternative Transportation. Preserving Natural Capital Alternate transportation programs have been implemented in a Corporate Mind number of locations worldwide to reduce environmental effects. Minimizing Waste Employees are encouraged to use public transportation, ridesharing To reduce waste generation, Promega locations globally focus on or biking to work. All buildings at Promega Madison and Promega improving recycling programs and increasing employee awareness Biosciences in California offer bicycles for employees to use, as well about minimizing waste. This has included segregating materials for as resources to support cyclists, including access to pumps and bike recycling, composting and encouraging reuse by providing permanent repair kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in ware in cafeterias and kitchenettes. Employees embrace the mantra place. Product Reach “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed this effort. NonHazardous Waste Cubic Yards per Million USD Recycled/Landfilled/Incinerated 0.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 0.6 Planet Aware 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.5 14.7 14.9 13.2 15.5 14.8 12.9 12.1 14.9 14 13.8 13.9 14.6 12.7 13.1 15.6 15.1 14.4 14.3 14.4 16.2 19.9 People Care 2008 2017 2020 Goal In 2017, we saw recycling increase by 30% due to segregating new materials for recycling in Madison, WI. Recent efforts to reduce waste include: Community Touch • Segregating plastic shrink wrap, banding and bottles for recycling from our shipping and dispensing areas across the Promega campus. In just 6 months, these efforts have diverted over 5 tons of material. This is especially impressive considering how lightweight the materials are. Employees at Promega Biosciences in California participate in National Bike-to-Work Day. • Last year we expanded the recycling of nitrile gloves and protective garments through the RIGHTCYCLE program in Madison, WI, Additional Info and San Luis Obispo, CA. This diverted over 3 tons of waste from landfills. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 40 Introduction • Promega has been successfully segregating and recycling pipette Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes tip boxes since 2010 and diverts more than 2 tons of plastic from In the biotech industry, manufacturing processes can require use of landfills each year. Corporate Mind potentially hazardous substances, along with the obligation to minimize • We implemented a recycling program for instrumentation and waste and ensure its proper disposal. To further reduce emissions electronics at the end of their use in North America. This effort associated with hazardous waste, we have partnered with handlers was an expansion of the programs in Europe we already have in that specialize in solvent recycling or reuse it as fuel to minimize place to comply with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment environmental effects. (WEEE) directive. Product Reach • In Madison, WI, our Rosalind Franklin Center started an employee-managed composting program to divert organic waste, Hazardous Waste Cubic Yards per Million USD supporting our employee passions for gardening. Recycled/Treated/Incinerated • An annual electronics recycling drive at our Promega Madison 15.4 Earth Day celebration collected over 15 pallets worth of materials, 14.1 making it the most successful employee recycling drive to date. 16.8 15.3 Planet Aware 16.7 10.6 105.2 82.4 100.9 188.1 68.9 168.3 123.3 122.8 243.5 261.2 223.9 People Care 117.8 58.1 66.8 45.5 100.1 81.5 93.9 158.6 158.9 114.3 0.2 2.9 2008 2017 Community Touch Additional Info The annual electronics recycling drive at Promega Madison collected over 15 pallets worth of materials. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 41 Introduction Conserving Water Promega evaluates initiatives to conserve water in manufacturing, Corporate Mind landscaping and other everyday needs. In the last year, water usage decreased by 7% as indexed to revenue. Notable reductions were seen at the Promega R&D facility in Madison, WI, and Promega Biosciences in California. Water Usage Product Reach Tens of Thousands of Liters per Million USD 37.0 33.6 33.1 30.6 28.6 24.7 26.3 25.4 23.7 24.7 24.4 Planet Aware 2008 2017 2020 People Care Goal Many global locations incorporate design features to conserve and ensure proper disposal of water. Offices in Sydney, Australia, collect rain water for cleaning, flushing toilets and irrigating plants. Similarly, the Madison-based global headquarters uses rainwater collection and Community Touch rain gardens for natural filtration. Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, has a long history of water conservation projects from automatic and low flow faucets to a custom water recirculating system for distilled water. Since 2009, gross water usage has decreased by over 50% at our San Luis Obispo facility despite a significant increase in headcount and manufacturing levels. In 2018, we will implement a system in the Feynman Center in Madison, WI, to capture and reuse wastewater generated from our water purification system for Additional Info Promega emphasis the use of native and drought tolerant use in the cooling tower. This project has the potential to reduce landscapes to minimize water consumption. water needs by several million liters annually. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 42 Introduction Connecting with Customers without Paper Reducing Packaging Materials Nearly 10 years ago Promega made significant efforts to transition Many Promega products are temperature sensitive, creating unique Corporate Mind away from printed corporate communications such as catalogs, requirements in packaging that involve use of dry ice, gel ice and instruction manuals and marketing materials. Adopting electronic foam coolers. We continually evaluate the effect of packaging on the communications reduced total paper usage by over 80% in the next environment, and search for innovative ways to reduce packaging, year. Reduction in paper usage has continued with an additional 50% use environmentally friendly materials, and design for recycling or decrease since 2014. reuse. Environmental sustainability, product protection and quality are all key priorities. Product Reach Paper Usage To reduce environmental effects of packaging, Promega has: Reams per Million USD 584 • Switched to smaller shipping boxes to use less packaging materials. • Incorporated new materials that provide better insulation and reduce the amount of dry ice needed. • Implemented packaging designs that minimize air space that also Planet Aware reduce dry ice usage and weight of shipments. • Changed to unbleached shipping boxes that contain sustainably 99 108 64 88 48 69 harvested materials. 35 39 30 • Used biodegradable and recyclable air pouches that protect our 2008 2017 products with fewer environmental effects. People Care • In 2018, we will be implementing changes to our kit boxes to Expanded use of modern technologies and emerging media channels allow for greater use of sustainably forested materials. in recent years has enhanced communication with customers and further reduced the need for printed materials. When printed paper is needed, we use recycled paper and duplex printing to minimize Community Touch paper consumption. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 43 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 44 People Care 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind People Care Product Reach At Promega there is a deep-rooted sense of appreciation and support for all employees and their value as human beings. Beyond the technical expertise and innovation that undoubtedly makes us outstanding, what’s truly impressive is the importance placed on cultivating authentic and positive relationships. Just take a walk around, and you’ll be Planet Aware sure to notice the pride, compassion and connection, and it will make your heart smile. Jaime Dwight, EHS & HR Manager, Promega Biosciences People Care Promega understands that it is our people who enable the company Promega culture emphasizes self-actualization, nurtures creativity, Community Touch to move forward. Investing in our employees on a professional and and prioritizes health and well-being. Employees are given flexibility personal level allows them to flourish, and in turn continue to drive in how they work that acknowledges the individual differences of our progress. Employee growth comes first from a personal passion each employee. Our 19 worldwide locations provide support in ways to learn and is fueled by individual developments plans and the ability that meet the specific needs of each region and encourage employees to explore interests outside of day-to-day responsibilities. to achieve a balance of work-home integration. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 46 Introduction Nurturing Employee Creativity, Growth and Self-Actualization Corporate Mind Fulfillment is a crucial component of our development as humans, c. Physical work environments, including design, lighting, and realizing our personal potential allows us to grow and truly strive communication systems and access to information. to become all that we are capable of. As a company, Promega provides d. Focus on the resources employees need to do their best work. a work environment and culture that offers each employee the opportunity to develop himor herself and build meaningful e. A financial structure that supports organizational goals and relationships with one another. values for personal development. Economic metrics provide Product Reach guidance on sustainable business practices, but are not the The Promega Culture only drivers for business decisions. The psychology of the organization–the “cultural DNA”–provides a f. Selection and support of employees entering the organization foundation through which company principles and operations are who reflect our values. shaped. For Promega, these principles include: 4. The nature of our work is based on the premise that life science Planet Aware 1. The culture nurtures creativity, self-discovery and individual research and related discoveries have been and will continue to growth, creating an environment where the unique contributions be important to society and human development. Our contribution of each employee are embraced. to this field is to design and supply products, systems and services that simplify this research and give more reliable and accurate 2. A belief that both people and companies can self-actualize, and results. that growth at either level lifts the other into greater realization of their potential. Employee feedback from surveys and monthly employee sessions People Care indicate that their greatest satisfaction comes from working with 3. The underlying structures reinforce a culture where all great people, having managers/leaders with high integrity and being constituencies (customers, employees, community and a part of a great organization. Our employees are proud to say they shareholders) can find growth and transformation through: work at Promega. a. Organizational reporting that provides for easy collaborative Community Touch communication across and at all levels of the organization b. Decision making that allows matrixed groups to collectively determine next steps. Decision making is shared, not controlled, and the organization remains nimble because people in key nodes are empowered to act, having considered all voices. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 47 Introduction Creating Workspaces to Inspire As a business based on creative output and employee satisfaction, Corporate Mind Promega pays attention to environmental quality and stimulating experiences in the workplace. Invigorating spaces come both in the components of the space and the variety of space offerings. Key components of work spaces include abundant light (natural light whenever possible), a variety of art and comfortable, warm furniture. The variety of spaces gives employees the opportunity to work in a Product Reach creative “third space”, exercise, meditate or grab a bite to eat. Throughout Promega, there are opportunities to discover stories, history and whimsy. Employees are engaged in design of new space and the renovation of existing workspaces to improve functionality, ergonomics and foster group collaboration. This process considers all aspects of a space from Planet Aware types and quality of lighting, sound levels and air flow. Additionally, customizable work spaces for employees encourage collaboration. Architecture and design that “brings the outdoors in” encourages an appreciation of natural beauty. This is being achieved at our new German facility by incorporating an extensive array of indoor plants People Care and trees to add life and warmth. Locations globally incorporate local resources, art and culture to provide comfortable, functional and Considerable attention is placed on providing creative and unique workplaces. unique work environments. The priority is to create environments with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. Community Touch Employees are engaged in design of new space and the renovation of existing workspaces to improve functionality, ergonomics and foster group collaboration. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 48 Introduction Cultivating Emotional & Social Intelligence (ESI) Educating the Emotions in 40 DaysAn Experience in To foster a supportive and dynamic work environment, Promega Spain Corporate Mind embraces the principles of emotional and social intelligence (ESI). “Our philosophy of life and the way we deal with ESI helps employees improve relationships, manage stress and our emotions does not change from one day to strengthen the emotional infrastructure at Promega to support a the next. Just like our physical condition, this strong future. The ProMindful program, offered to employees interested requires training to make progress. It has been in the practice of mindfulness, is comprised of 15-minute community scientifically proven that to bring about a lasting change in sessions including traditional silent and guided meditation, mindful our emotional perceptions, we need at least 40 days. More Product Reach movement, sound meditation and monthly sessions for people new than half of our colleagues in Spain participated in a project to mindfulness. A 3-week ProMindful Parenting course has taught last year where we opened an envelope with a new reading employees ESI-imbued parenting practices and included a forum to during 40 consecutive days. Sometimes this was nothing share challenges and successes. Such forums offer many different more than a reflection, but more often, it was a sincere tastes of mindfulness while cultivating self-awareness and otherdescription of different emotional situations for which we awareness, the building blocks for ESI. We have received positive feedback, with employees sharing stories of improved patience and were invited to critically analyze ourselves and to note how Planet Aware communication skills, creative problem-solving, more effective team we reacted in similar situations in the past (like watching functioning, improved customer interactions, compassion for self yourself in a mirror) and what effect this had on the people and others, and even physical changes like reduced headaches and around us, both in our business environment and in our private improved blood pressure. Most of all, ESI brings us together to share life. Every day we started with our ‘programming for the day’ our practice and see ourselves in new ways. and in the evenings we wrote down our evaluation of how the People Care day had ended and what we had learned along the way (learning Our ESI teachings expanded to 3 “bootcamps” in 2017 designed as an immersive experience to teach ESI skills and enrich the Promega of the day). culture of well-being. Participants took a deep dive into ESI through The program has helped me to deal more efficiently with introspection, dialogue and group process, and awakened areas of meetings, by imagining in advance the desired outcome. I am potential in themselves. Employees of all three sessions reported now much more satisfied with what I achieve, because I am Community Touch personal growth, new understandings about difficult life circumstances, working towards an ‘ideal’ outcome of the discussions with enlivened relationships, greater happiness and enthusiasm to share my colleagues. Another important experience was to realize what they learned. that despite all the planning beforehand, things never go To embed these learnings, Promega employees also created the ESI exactly the way you want which can lead to frustrations. Core Principles, a set of six practical in-the-moment behaviors to However, even within the negativity, there are always positive guide and encourage ESI across the company. ‘Climate catalyst’ teams aspects that you can learn from and that will help lift your are taking up the challenge to develop ESI “micro-experiments” to mood if you’re able to recognize them.” Additional Info test ways they might contribute to a vibrant and healthy culture as well as improve how Promega does business. –Promega Leader Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 49 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Sound meditation is offered regularly at Promega headquarters as a way to foster mindfulness and ESI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 50 Introduction Providing Personal Development Scientific Training and Growth for Employees The Scientific Training team designs, develops and implements product Corporate Mind Since growth starts from the inside, Promega is shifting from the and sales trainings for employees around the globe, which are delivered more standard manager-driven review process to one that starts within in live and virtual classrooms. While live courses are available in the employee. More and more departments use a conversational Madison, WI; Lyon, France; and Singapore also offer a multitude of approach that facilitates individual development plans, personalized additional opportunities that address the training needs of employees growth goals and a listening session to understand the needs and globally. These facilities also incorporate video conferencing equipment threats to retaining the talent in the company. for scientists and trainers to participate from off-site locations. Product Reach In addition to the new review process that we are rolling out, a number of classroom training modules are offered to build various skills. English Classes for Employees. Our branches in Korea, Japan, and Germany offer employees English lessons to improve communication Planet Aware across the company and with clientele as well. Our efforts are intended to help employees access the resources they need to advance their career. People Care Community Touch Product training for employees in Brazil. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 51 Introduction Leadership Training Building Relationships and Connections Professional development courses such as Coaching for Leaders, People commonly talk about their coworkers as their “second family” Corporate Mind Management Essentials, Leadership Forum, 7 Conversations for and with good reason–we spend a significant portion of our time at Exceptional Leaders and Manager Roundtable programs support work with colleagues. At Promega, we work to cultivate an environment managers. Customized training for departments is available, as well of connection among employees so strong bonds can be nurtured as organizational development services that include talent management and extend through the company to our families and community. resources, personality/leadership assessments, coaching and consulting. From team-building activities to employees joining together to share Furthermore, individually-targeted leadership development is available in hobbies, strong connections are the foundation of what we do. on site at work, or with external academic or training partners. In Product Reach Here are some examples from 2017: previous years, these trainings were limited to North America but our teams in Switzerland and the United Kingdom did pilot programs • Promega Biosciences Combines Ziplining with Mindfulness for “7 Conversations for Exceptional Leaders” in 2017. Training. Our team at Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, had a day of team building centered on Mindfulness. Beginning with an introduction to mindfulness and ESI, the group then embarked on a zipline and ropes course that encouraged Planet Aware everyone to check-in with themselves, stay actively present, and partake in thought-provoking conversation with one another about their experiences. This unique and fun team building aimed to lay the foundation for new bonds with coworkers and to help everyone leave with some mindful tools to use in their every day lives. People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 52 Introduction • United by Love of Music at Madison, WI. For those at Promega • Connecting with Each Other and Nature. The team at Promega headquarters who are musically-inclined have joined forces to responsible for our instruments took time to learn more about create the band “Lead Generation.” For over a decade, employees each other and appreciate beauty of nature with a hike and day Corporate Mind ranging from scientists, marketers, IT specialists and administrators at the zoo. have come together to share their talents and spend time making • Bonding with Visiting Colleagues in Japan. As a music. The 35 active participants perform at functions throughout way to celebrate and promote Japanese culture, the the year like all-company meetings and employee recognition Promega KK team has begun to entertain Promega breakfasts. visitors with a lighthearted presentation that illustrates • Celebrating 25 years with Friendly Competition traditions, trends and cultural norms in their country. This Product Reach in France. To celebrate their 25th anniversary, welcoming display has been very well received and created a Promega France was joined by members of the unique connection and appreciation between colleagues and Promega Corporate team, who were touring the visitors alike. European branches, and participated in a team-building game using classic French Citroen 2CV cars. Teams of four used maps to find checkpoints throughout the city to answer a series of Planet Aware questions and explore the area together. The team in France also traveled to Prague to celebrate their 25th anniversary with a guided tour of the city. • Connecting Over Culinary Delights in Switzerland. Our Promega AG branch spent time together by People Care enjoying some treats during a visit to Gruyere, Switzerland, and learn the history of making the famous cheese. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 53 Introduction • Building Relationships in Dubai. As the newest • Celebrating Maxwell® RSC 48 in Korea. To celebrate branch, Promega India wanted to spend time getting the launch of Maxwell® RSC 48 System in November to know each other better by taking a trip Dubai in 2017, employees of Promega Korea and Korea Corporate Mind 2017. On this trip the team bonded by sharing their Biosystems all made their own beer and shared it backgrounds and exploring their cultural norms. Using the group over a Thanksgiving-style dinner with Promega CEO, Bill Linton. messaging application Whatsapp, a group chat was created during this trip that they continue to use to help the team continue to connect in a meaningful and effective way. Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 54 Introduction Prioritizing Employee Health and Well-Being Promega Annual Fun Run/Walk 5k Promega takes a multifaceted approach towards employee well-being. The Field Application Specialists participated in the 8th Annual Corporate Mind Physical health and wellness start with safety but expand to include Promega Madison 5k Run/Walk remotely during a conference fitness and health care facilities, wellness programs and benefits Moving For a Cause. packages. These offerings each serve a unique purpose to ensure The Berbee Derby is a combination 5k/10k which offers the Fitchburg, employees feel empowered to take care of their health at work. WI community an opportunity to get out and stay healthy on Employee Safety. Thanksgiving Day each year. Promega employees got together to Environmental Health and Safety programs are committed to create their own team to help raise funds which went towards the Product Reach establishing, maintaining, and improving work environments for the Technology and Education Fund. safety and well-being of our employees as well as the communities Promoting Employee Wellness in Germany in which we operate. Efforts in 2017 at Promega GmbH included weekly yoga Encouraging Active Lifestyles. sessions lead by a Promega employee, a Nordic walking A multitude of options continue to be made available to all employees course, a brain fit workshop and fitness assessments using Planet Aware so that they may develop healthy and active lifestyles supported by fitness trackers. Promega at our headquarters and across the globe. Many of our “Although I’ve always enjoyed being athletic, running was never the branches offer onsite fitness facilities, and some offer yoga classes and sport for me. For years I told everyone that I will never run and will group fitness instructions. Many locations also offer reimbursement never compete in a race. As my 40th birthday approached, I decided for health club memberships and support for participation in sports or competitive events like marathons or triathlons. to try running a 5k as a new goal and challenge for myself, so I People Care participated in the Promega Couch to 5k program. Support staff at Promega C25k. the Wellness Center gave me very useful tips on how to improve my Each year Promega challenges employees to train for the annual running as I began down this new path. My initial goal was to complete Couch to 5K program, which provides new runners the education the race in under 30 minutes which I did! I decided to continue with and training support to complete a 5k race. my training and the following year shaved another minute off my Community Touch We Run Seoul, We Run PROMEGA final race time. Without the advice I had received from the Wellness In April 2017 nearly 20 employees in Korea and their center I don’t think I would have enjoyed my running as much. I families joined together to participated in a 5km run on continue to see the benefits of this new practice across my other the Hang-gan River to raise awareness of the importance athletic pursuits – even rock-climbing. The Couch to 5k program of conserving electricity. has really helped challenge me in ways I never thought possible!” – Promega Employee Additional Info Next Page (top to bottom, left to right): Field Application Specialists participating in the 8th Annual Promega 5k. Promega Korea employees at We Run Seoul, We Run Promega. Employees in Madison run the Berbee Derbee. Employees in Singapore run a 5k. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 55 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 56 Introduction Resources and Benefits to Support Employee Wellness Eating Well, Living Well. Corporate Mind Promega employees are offered comprehensive benefit packages based Employees have access to fresh and local produce at our on-site on country standards. These programs may include medical, dental, community garden at the Madison Campus. Thousands of pounds and vision coverage as well as a competitive 401(k) plan and flexible of produce are harvested annually from the garden and in conjunction spending accounts for healthcare. Shortand long-term disability with over three dozen local farms, healthy and organic menus are insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time off are also available across the facility. Employees may also select their own plots provided in an effort to ensure the well-being of our employees and within the community garden which they may utilize to exercise their Product Reach their families. Promega branches in Australia and Germany have a own green thumbs. Many international branches provide fresh fruit wellness library with books covering topics such as mindfulness, and other healthy snacks for employees. interpersonal skills, diet and exercise. Supporting Employees During Times of Need Wellness Center Offerings As of 2018, Caregiver Leave was made available to Promega employees The Wellness Center located at our Madison, WI headquarters in the US which employees can utilize to care for aging parents, ill provides all employees on site health consultations and counseling spouses, children with medical needs, or time off to bond with a new Planet Aware which is available 5 days a week. Services include routine blood draws, born/newly adopted child without sacrificing their own paid sick routine immunizations, consultation for general health concerns, leave or vacation. physical examinations, and physical therapy. “In 2016 my 79 year old father came from Russia to visit my sister Health Assessments with ‘Know Your Numbers’ and me for the holidays and ended up permanently staying. Recently, Each year Promega employees are encouraged to participate in the People Care he had been diagnosed with three different kinds of cancer which Know Your Numbers program, which provides a free basic health led to four surgeries, one round of immunotherapy, dozens of screening for those interested in participating. Employees in North procedures, clinic visits and hospital stays. Because my father America get a blood panel drawn covered by Promega and then meet with our Nurse Practitioner to review their results. This program is doesn’t speak English or drive, I needed to help him to and from each offered every year and aims to help employees understand a complete appointment and stay to interpret. As a Senior R&D Scientist my Community Touch picture of what health risks they might face. These diagnostic indicators schedule is very flexible but understandably has limits, and I quickly can help employees formulate a plan around lifestyle changes they began to run out of paid sick leave. Last year Promega announced can make to prevent or delay the onset of certain diseases such as its new caregiver leave program which granted me significant peace diabetes and heart disease. Many global locations have similar programs of mind by allowing me to tend to my father’s health without sacrificing to help employees understand their health risk. In Germany employees paid leave I may need for my own. Promega continues to support had the opportunity to test a fitness tracker for a month to monitor employees by allowing us a balance with their professional and activity, energy levels and other health indicators. personal lives, and I continue to be grateful for these efforts and Additional Info initiatives. Thank you, Promega!” –Promega Employee Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 57 Introduction Corporate Mind Astrid Lindgren made Pippi Longstocking say “I have never tried that before, so I think I should definitely be able to do that”. This describes perfectly the Promega spirit as we are encouraged and empowered to try new and innovative things, to think out of the box and leave the beaten track, even sometimes go out of our own comfort zone in order to discover new and better solutions for scientists. Successes are being amplified and mistakes are considered as learning curves for future Product Reach success. This makes working for Promega so inspiring and creative! Hans Pennings, Marketing Manager, Promega Sweden Planet Aware Know Your Numbers Participants People Care Wellness Center Visits Community Touch Fun Run Participants Acupuncture Fitness Appointments Classes/ Additional Info Week Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 58 Community Touch 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind Community Touch Product Reach We will never feel truly satisfied by Work until we are satisfied by other aspects of our Life. That’s exactly where Promega’s environment enables each of us to think and follow a purpose which is beyond delivering our routine deliverables. Planet Aware Rajnish Bharti, General Manager, Promega India People Care Cultivating authentic relationships worldwide at a local level takes We also see long-term commitment as essential, and we seek many forms as we seek opportunities that make a sustained commitment opportunities for deep engagement over time. From the relationships while also discovering common purpose. We begin by tapping into Promega Japan has built over the last 15 years in its support of local the wisdom of our employees. After all, they are the most familiar undergraduate students competing in the international iGEM synthetic with the greatest needs of their own communities, and they are biology competition, to the thousands of children served at two Community Touch passionate about helping to address those needs in the most significant cornerstone nonprofit organizations established by Promega Madison way. Promega catalyzes employee action through volunteer time-off twenty years ago, we see the unlimited potential of sustained engagement. policies, matching gifts and opportunities to engage in the community. Finally, to best leverage our unique strengths as a company and also On a global scale, each branch and manufacturing location has the benefit our particular communities, we focus on involvement and autonomy to focus on the unique needs of its community thorough support in the areas of education, science and creativity. an integrative and authentic approach to provide meaningful support at a local level around the world. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 60 Introduction Supporting the Charitable Instincts and Efforts of Our Employees Corporate Mind Promega celebrates employee volunteerism and encourages each distinctive ways that match their unique talents and enrich their lives. employee to pursue his or her own individual interests and passions. Throughout the world, Promega employees have heeded the call to Building a culture that encourages employees to find balance includes serve in a myriad of ways. Here are just a few: supporting them as they seek to better their communities in the Product Reach Making a difference for… By… … volunteering as coaches for Girls on the Run, a nonprofit that encourages pre-teen girls to develop … girls in the local community self-respect and healthy lifestyles through interactive lessons and running games, culminating in a celebratory 5K run. … organizing a book drive for the 750 children being cared for by the SizaBantwana Center in South Africa. … orphaned children The organization supports children made vulnerable as a result of HIV/AIDS. Planet Aware … giving long-term support as a volunteer with ASTREE Association in France. The group … people who are feeling isolated serves people who are fragile due to illness, stress, age, etc. … children living in poverty or ... c  ommitting to regular donations to charities such as Compassion International, the World Wildlife Fund, vulnerable/endangered animals and various other local organizations around the world. … hospice workers and children who People Care ... volunteering to teach yoga and pranayama for groups at Agrace Hospice in Madison. have lost loved ones … families going through tough times … serving as a host at the St. Vincent de Paul Food Pantry, helping clients feel welcomed and respected. … delivering pet supplies to Texas and bringing dogs from Houston shelters back to Wisconsin through … pets affected by Hurricane Harvey Lola’s Lucky Day pet rescue, making room for dogs displaced by the disaster. Next Page (top to bottom, left to right): Community Touch Children at the SizaBantwana Center in South Africa. Promega Madison employee works with Lola’s Lucky Day Pet Rescue. Promega employees gathering books for SizaBantwana. Additional Info A Promega employee leads yoga for workers at Agrace Hospice in Madison. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 61 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 62 Introduction Local Response to Local Need Building for the Less Fortunate Helping Families in Need Corporate Mind For the last three years, Promega Madison has teamed with Terso Employees from Promega Cell West location in Madison, WI, shopped Solutions to host a panel-build day for Habitat for Humanity of together during the holiday season to buy items for The Road Home Dane County in Wisconsin. In 2017, more than 150 employees in Dane County that helps families experiencing homelessness. Staff framed the interior and exterior walls of a home being built for a at Terso Solutions also collected funds and necessities for these families. Madison-area family. They also built picnic tables for Habitat families Supporting Local Food Banks to enjoy in their new yards. Team members from the Promega Madison Quality Assurance Product Reach Community Action Team (CAT) department donated time at the Second Harvest Food Bank that This team at Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, regularly equated to 843 meals. Promega Biosystems in Sunnyvale, CA, also organizes engaging fundraising events for employees and their families collected food and raised funds for families in need in the Silicon to support the needs of local charitable organizations. In 2017, the Valley area. CAT team gave funds to 17 different organizations including local Employee Giving Campaign elementary schools, Woods Humane Society and the Prado Day Planet Aware Center homeless shelter. A holiday cookie exchange raised funds for For 21 years, Promega Madison has matched dollar for dollar the victims of the Thomas Fire in Ventura, CA. Employees are also actively charitable donations the employees make during the company’s annual involved in their community, hosting blood drives, picking up trash Giving Campaign. Employees can direct contributions to Community along an adopted local stretch of highway and preparing lunches at Shares of Wisconsin, United Way of Dane County, or another charity two local homeless shelters. Last year, they served more than 100 hot of their choice. Following a devastating hurricane season, the 2017 Employee Giving Campaign expanded to include an option to give People Care meals. to the United Way Hurricane Relief Fund. Over the last 21 years, Cleaning Up Our Communities the Employee Giving Campaign has generated $1.8M USD for Employees in Madison, WI, and California have adopted highways philanthropic causes. and regularly volunteer time to clean stretches of highway. Community Touch Next Page (top to bottom, left to right): Promega Madison and Terso employees volunteer with Habitat Humanity. Employees from Promega Biosciences participate in a road cleanup. Additional Info Employees from Promega Madison participate in road cleanup. Promega employees shopping for families struggling with homelessness. A food drive to support needy families in California. Our quality assurance team volunteering at the Second Harvest Food Bank. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 63 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report Promega Corporate 2018Report Responsibility | 642018 | Chapter Name 64 Introduction Promega in Action Supporting a culture dedicated to service, Promega headquarters in I volunteered with a nonprofit afterschool center in Nairobi, Kenya, Corporate Mind Madison, WI, offers employees the opportunity to apply for up to to provide hands-on science workshops for youth, exploring topics five business days (40 hours) of paid time to volunteer for the charity such as pH, heat exchange and aerodynamics. The Promega in or organization of their choice as part of the Promega in Action Action program greatly benefits employees by providing time for initiative. The employee is asked to journal his or her interactions them to connect with communities and fulfill roles outside of the through writing, videos and photographs and then come back to scope of their everyday lives. My Promega in Action experience left present and share these insights with colleagues. Here are a few recent me feeling grateful, connected creatively inspired and reenergized. Product Reach Promega in Action experiences: –Promega Employee In 2017, I volunteered at the 24-hour “Goosebumps” Race, sponsored by the Local Lupus Alliance in La Crosse, WI. This organization is a nonprofit that provides financial, emotional and educational support to people suffering from Lupus and their caregivers. I felt honored that Promega would grant me the paid time off to help with setting Planet Aware up, organizing the event, and participating in the run. The “Promega in Action” program provides us opportunities to share our talents within our communities and to gain a deeper understanding of the various challenges that others live with day-to-day. People Care –Promega Employee As part of the ‘Promega in Action’ program, a Promega employee provided Community Touch science workshops for youth in Nairobi, Kenya. All our locations globally look for ways to support employees and Additional Info encourage them to be active in their community. Promega Biosciences is one example of this where all full-time employees are offered four hours of paid time each month to give back. A Promega employee volunteered at the 24-hour “Goosebumps” Race. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 65 Introduction Long-Term Commitment to Cornerstone Organizations Corporate Mind The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute Annually, the BTC Institute hosts the International Forum on (BTC Institute) Consciousness, bringing together the worlds of natural and social This not-for-profit organization founded by Promega in 1993 provides sciences, and the Wisconsin Stem Cell Symposium in partnership educational, scientific and cultural enrichment experiences. Educational with the UW-Madison Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center. programs focus on the life sciences for a wide range of learners Today’s Learners, Tomorrow’s Leaders including upper elementary students, career scientists in academia Product Reach For 25-years, Promega has been a substantial supporter of Woods and industry, and the general public. Often this learning is offered Hollow Children’s Center. This nonprofit child care center is located in partnership with other community organizations such as the Dane on the main corporate campus and is open to Promega employees as County School Consortium, Madison College and University of well as families in the surrounding community. Woods Hollow Wisconsin–Madison (UW-Madison). For instance, middle and high provides early childhood education and care for children 6 weeks to school teachers are served through several stipend-supported summer 10 years old, and is fully accredited by the National Association for courses designed to help them effectively incorporate biotechnology Planet Aware the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). The center promotes into their curricula. Six graduate level courses for UW-Madison, parent involvement in all center activities and appropriate teacher including all three Molecular Technologies courses for the Masters compensation. Thanks to the dedication and expertise of a committed in Biotechnology Program, are offered through the BTC Institute. staff, Woods Hollow operates within NAEYC guidelines, the highest During the 2016–2017 academic year, approximately 3,250 middle accreditation standards in the U.S. and high school students from Wisconsin and Illinois visited BTC People Care Institute labs for hands-on, molecular biology-based field trips. An Learn more at: woodshollow.org “on the road” program that brings BTC Institute teachers and lab activities directly to classrooms reached 510 students in 2016–2017. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 66 Introduction Engagement and Support in Education, Science and Creativity Corporate Mind Education Supporting Young Researchers Scientists in the Schools Promega France opened its branch office, as well as the Promega Technical Services Scientists from Promega Madison regularly visit Europe Training and Application Lab (PETAL) in Lyon, to the local elementary and middle school classrooms to provide students BioDocs biotechnology student association for a day. with hands-on experience in molecular biology. In 2017, Promega Product Reach Young researchers had opportunities to learn more about scientists visited 73 classes in 22 schools where they helped 1,700 the industry and ask Promega scientists questions about students extract DNA from strawberries during engaging lessons in their careers and educational backgrounds. genetics. Encouraging Literacy in China Madison Area Technical College Advanced Promega Beijing has stepped up to support areas in China Manufacturing Scholarships where life can be difficult and schools are short on Promega provides funds for training in advanced manufacturing Planet Aware supplies. The branch has given hundreds of books and technology and processes–skills vital to our future success and donated computer classrooms to elementary schools in remote areas. innovation as a biotech manufacturer. Additionally, Shanghai Promega has made donations annually to the Gateway Technical College Foundation Hometown Education Foundation to support students with exceptional academic performance in impoverished areas of China. A 2017 donation to this foundation supports youth camps that focus People Care on careers in the health care field. Camps are held at Gateway’s Inspire Center, home to a state-of-the-art human patient simulation lab. The Smith Family This Australian children’s charity works to help disadvantaged children get the most out of their education. Community Touch Promega Australia supported the organization’s Learning for Life program, which offers these children the extra help they need to stay in school. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 67 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 68 Organizations Supported ov er Introduction Promega Training Support Program Science Instructors at the high school, undergraduate and graduate levels Empowering Young Scientists Competing in iGEM Corporate Mind who teach courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cell-based techniques The International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) competition have the opportunity to receive discounts of up to $2,000 in Promega is dedicated to the advancement of synthetic biology, education and products to supplement their classes. For more information, visit: collaboration. Multidisciplinary teams of high school promega.com/products/pm/na/training-support-program and university students work together to design, build, ESI Education for Post Docs test and measure a system of their own design using For the last several years, Promega has been defining and interchangeable biological parts and standard molecular Product Reach refining workplace best practices based on the principles biology techniques. Promega Japan collaborated with of emotional and social intelligence (ESI) to foster a teams since the competition began in 2003, providing free products, supportive and dynamic environment across the entire technical support and feedback when teams present their research to company. In 2017, Promega Italy experimented with an Promega Japan scientists. Promega GmbH has supported innovative new way to connect with customers by facilitating a iGEM since 2011. Last year, the branch sponsored six two-day course to share these ESI insights with post-doctoral students teams, donating more than 10,000 Euros in products, Planet Aware at the Molecular Oncology Institute in Milan. Two Human Resources as well as sponsoring and presenting at the Meetup for facilitators from Promega Madison led the management training all German iGEM teams. sessions that focused on leadership conversations, as well as identifying Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) strengths, motivators and challenges in oneself and team members, As one of the largest nonprofit biological laboratories in the world, then recognizing how to take full advantage of those attributes. The MBL attracts leading life scientists and students from around the experience was a unique and meaningful connection that exceeded People Care globe to its facility in Woods Hole, MA. The Promega Discovery expectations for everyone involved. Feedback from the young scientists Fund, established in 2013, supports the MBL Education Department was overwhelmingly positive, and Promega leaders discovered novel in offering highly competitive, discovery-based courses and research ways for branches and departments to collaborate. programs, as well as tools and technologies. A Promega scientist also Space for Community Events works on-site to assist students during summer courses. Promega provides additional monetary support for the MBL Director’s Vision Community Touch Facilities on the Madison campus are made available for use by local organizations for educational, scientific and business purposes. The Implementation Fund to ensure the institute’s future growth. BioPharmaceutical Technology Center (BTC) meeting rooms, the 300-person auditorium, and even the building’s rooftop terrace are Next Page: available for rental at tiered rates for nonprofit and for-profit Top: The International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition is a organizations. premier student competition in synthetic biology. Bottom: The Promega Discovery Fund supports the Marine Biological Laboratory Education Department to offer courses, research programs and tools. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 69 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 70 Introduction Promega Award for Biochemistry International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) In recognition of important collaborations in the study of stem cells This annual collaborative meeting, sponsored by Promega since 1998, Corporate Mind from innovative researchers in China, Promega partners with the has grown into the world’s largest conference focused on technologies, Chinese Society of Cell Biology to grant The Promega policies and innovations in forensic DNA analysis for human Innovation Award. In 2017, Dr. Lingling Chen from identification. Some 1,000 scientists, DNA analysts, law enforcement the Chinese Academy of Science and Dr. Dawang Zhou professionals, and legal and ethical experts from 40+ countries come from Xiamen University received the award. together to share knowledge through interactive workshops, presentations, case studies and scientific poster sessions. Many labs Scientific Journalism Workshops and industry agencies count hours attended towards continuing Product Reach Promega GmbH organizes annual workshops for reporters education requirements. ISHI is an inclusive forum open to all from national and regional media to discuss new practitioners and suppliers of DNA analysis for human identification. information and current trends in bioscience, as well as to promote transparency in the bioscience field between Courir Pour Elles (Run for Them) researchers and the general public. Promega France raised funds and awareness for research into cancers that affect women through corporate Supporting Cancer Patients and Research in Amsterdam Planet Aware sponsorship of this annual event. A team of Promega Promega Benelux participated in the Stronger Than Ever ¼ triathlon France employees also took part in the race. to use sport to provide support for cancer patients, their friends and relatives. Funds raised from this event to Supporting Cardiovascular Research in Spain cancer research and organizations supporting cancer Promega Biotech Ibérica organized a 10km walk in patients. collaboration with Spain’s National Center for People Care Cardiovascular Research (CNIC) to benefit educational 3MT (Three Minute Thesis) Madison programs. Hosted by the University of Wisconsin–Madison chapter of Graduate Women in Science, Promega sponsored this contest that challenges university students to explain their scientific research to a diverse audience in three minutes. Community Touch Next Page (top to bottom, left to right) Promega Benelux participated in the Stronger Than Ever ¼ triathlon to use sport to provide support for cancer patients. Promega Biotech Ibérica organized a 10km walk in collaboration with Spain’s Additional Info National Center for Cardiovascular Research (CNIC) to benefit educational programs. Promega France employees raised funds for women’s cancer research by sponsoring and participating in the Courir Pour Elles. The Promega Innovation Award is provided to the Chinese scientist who makes the most significant advances in the study of stem cells. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 71 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report Promega Corporate 2018Report Responsibility | 722018 | Chapter Name 72 Introduction Capital Science & Engineering Fair Creativity Promega sponsored the 2nd Runner-Up award for this annual event Recycled Artistry Corporate Mind that provides high school students from South Central Wisconsin Discarded Promega pipette boxes and tip holders inspired Madison, the opportunity to showcase their research. WI, artist Victor Castro to zip-tie these plastic grids and boxes together to build installations of large, colorful wall hanging sculptures. His most recent work is on display at NYU Langone Medical Center in New York. Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Pittarosso (Pink Parade) Community Touch Employees from Promega Italia volunteered as organizers at this annual race to raise funds for breast cancer research. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 73 Introduction Promega Art Showcase Hosted on the Promega Madison campus for more than 20 years, Corporate Mind the Art Showcase is a quarterly exhibit featuring the work of local and international painters, photographers, sculptors and artists in many other media. Professionally curated exhibitions, which are free and open to the public, offer both well-established and up-and-coming artists a venue for their work, and provide an opportunity for the surrounding community to explore diverse perspectives. Showcase opening symposiums consistently attract hundreds of art enthusiasts. Product Reach An annual Promega employee art show supports a corporate culture that encourages creative expression. Learn more at: promega-artshow.com Cool Science Image Contest Is it science? Is it art? Yes. Images from microscopes, satellites, telescopes Planet Aware and other technologies are informative, but they can also be true works of art. The annual Cool Science Image Contest, sponsored by Promega, challenges students, staff and faculty at the University of Wisconsin–Madison to capture and share compelling science images. Winning images are showcased at Promega headquarters and at the People Care Wisconsin Science Festival, and are also featured on UW-Madison web sites and other communications. Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 74 Additional Info 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Corporate Mind Additional Information 2018 Report Parameters Product Reach Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is completed the new methodology for emissions for air freight that include radiative on a calendar year basis with information in this report sharing results forcing. Lastly, the Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator and actions from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. This is the has been used for calculating the life cycle impacts of our paper usage. tenth Promega report in this area following the initial report released Current and previous years’ carbon footprints have been calculated in July of 2009. This process of reporting will continue annually in using the most updated information and emission factors from the the future. Corporate Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on resources above. the environmental and social impacts of Promega operations worldwide Planet Aware Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be using the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative addressed below. In 2017 we had no incidents or issues in the following Guidelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. areas: Information for this report has been gathered from all 19 Promega • Environmental fines or sanctions (G4-EN29) branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. Engagement with internal stakeholders has been focused on areas identified as key impacts or • Incidents of discrimination and action taken (G4-HR3) People Care opportunities. Our current process captures information on a wide • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and range of indicators but we recognize that there is still room for growth actions taken. (G4-HR 8) in the information we capture. In rare instances, additional or adjusted • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and information for prior periods was captured resulting in slight variations monopoly practices. (G4-SO 7) from previously reported indicators. Community Touch • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws Carbon footprint calculations have been made using emission factors and regulations. (G4-SO 8) provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. Reported emissions from distribution were calculated with the conversion factors provided by DEFRA’s Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions on 2017 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors and have incorporated the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 76 Introduction Key Indicators Economic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Corporate Mind Number of Employees 958 972 1,117 1,197 1,223 1,285 1,327 1,381 1,440 1,483 Building Footprint (Square Meters) 56,757 56,757 63,892 64,039 66,991 81,623 96,392 101,605 104,601 110,373 Number of Global Locations 16 17 17 17 18 18 19 19 19 19 Environmental Product Reach Greenhouse Gas Emissions 22,397 21,822 23,819 24,401 24,401 29,161 34,928 37,021 38,983 39,149 (Tons of CO2) Emissions Per Million in Revenue 111.1 102.6 100.2 94.0 84.3 92.9 104.6 106.2 106.1 98.6 (Tons of CO2/Million Dollars) Emissions Per Building Footprint Planet Aware 394.6 384.5 372.8 381.0 364.2 357.3 362.4 364.4 372.7 354.7 (Tons of CO2/Thousand Sq. Meters) Energy Consumption: Electricity (kWh) 16,880,814 16,393,560 16,363,009 17,592,001 17,785,445 21,284,680 26,692,713 27,784,046 29,902,153 29,233,413 Natural Gas (Therms) 683,201 667,819 658,883 664,891 603,132 916,119 1,275,922 1,200,345 1,246,352 1,313,131 People Care Water Consumption (Liters) 53,909,442 54,792,714 67,762,529 72,043,407 78,156,757 87,518,687 134,390,427 119,265,434 122,648,487 121,627,418 Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 16,488 24,972 12,360 14,378 11,748 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 6,670 6,288 7,182 9,123 9,249 9,710 9,784 10,622 11,912 13,947 (Cubic Meters) Community Touch Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 249 183 204 207 211 274 189 214 163 162 Land filled (Cubic Feet) 3,242 3,179 3,603 4,365 4,224 4,465 4,402 5,297 5,752 5,854 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 3,179 2,926 3,375 4,551 4,814 4,971 5,193 5,111 5,996 7,932 Chemical Waste (Kilograms) 65,950 65,521 80,394 75,151 84,626 69,775 76,106 83,949 92,444 104,104 Infectious Waste (Kilograms) 4,226 4,278 4,201 4,157 5,796 6,236 6,569 7,475 9,527 10,446 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 77 Introduction GRI Index Corporate Mind We are committed to transparent reporting on our environmental, social and economic performance. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Introduction 3 Product Reach CEO Letter G4-1 4 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-3, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-9, G4-10, G4-34, G4-EC1, G4-LA1, G4-SO4 6 Purpose, Vision and Values G4-56 9 Planet Aware Investment in the Future G4-13, G4-EC7 11 Conscious Leadership 13 Valuing Diversity 14 People Care Respecting Human Rights G4-15, G4-LA12 14 Prioritizing Anti-Corruption. G4-SO4 14 Aligning Values Throughout the Supply Chain G4-12, G4-EC9 16 Our Economic Benefit G4-EC8 16 Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 78 Introduction Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind Overview 18 Customer Focus G4-4, G4-8 19 Investment in Innovation 26 Quality Process and Product G4-PR1,G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR7 27 Product Reach Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-14 30 Responding to Climate Change G4-EN 15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19 32 Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 33 Planet Aware Conserving Natural Gas G4-EN3, G4-EN21 34 Building for a Sustainable Future 35 Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution G4EN7, G4-EN17, G4-EN30 37 Minimizing Impacts from Business Travel G4-EN17, G4-EN30 39 People Care Preserving Natural Capital 40 Minimizing Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN25 40 Conserving Water G4-EN8, G4-EN13 42 Community Touch Connecting with Customers without Paper 43 Reducing Packaging Materials 43 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 79 Introduction People Care GRI Section # Page # Corporate Mind Overview 46 Nurturing Employee Creativity, Growth and Self-Actualization 47 The Promega Culture 47 Creating Workspaces to Inspire 48 Product Reach Cultivating Emotional & Social Intelligence (ESI) 49 Providing Personal Development and Growth for Employees G4-LA 10, G4-LA11 51 Building Relationships and Connections 52 Prioritizing Employee Health & Well-Being G4-LA2 55 Planet Aware Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-EC8 60 Supporting the Charitable Instincts and Efforts of Our G4-SO1 61 Employees People Care Local Response to Local Need G4-SO1 63 Long-Term Commitment to Cornerstone Organizations G4-SO1 66 Engagement and support in education, science and creativity G4-SO1 67 Community Touch Additional Information GRI Section # Page # Report Parameters G4-15, G4-17 to G4-23, G4-28 to G4-34 76 Key Indicators 77 GRI Index G4-32 78 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 80 Introduction Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint Tons of C02 per Million USD Product Reach SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 18 19 17 23 20 21 Planet Aware 15 17 20 12 52 46 42 48 People Care 38 43 51 54 55 51 SCOPE 3 42 36 38 37 33 33 31 31 31 28 Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 81 Introduction Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint Composition Product Reach 20% 51% Electrical Usage Planet Aware Natural Gas 2% Air Travel Auto Travel People Care Rail Travel 7% Water Paper 20% Community Touch Distribution Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 82 Introduction Corporate Mind Global Electricity Usage Thousands kWh per Million USD Product Reach 80.6 77.3 78.3 76.8 70.9 73.5 73.6 63.4 61.9 60.3 55.5 Planet Aware People Care Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 83 Introduction Corporate Mind Natural Gas Usage Therms per Million USD Product Reach 3.514 3,385 3,363 3,306 3,128 3,046 2,888 2.664 2,554 Planet Aware 2,283 1,884 People Care Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 84 Introduction Global Distribution Emissions Corporate Mind Tons of CO2 per Million USD Product Reach 24.9 24.8 24.8 22.4 20.9 20.7 20.7 19.4 20.1 19.7 19.2 Planet Aware People Care Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 85 Introduction Business Travel Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Tons of CO2 per Million USD Product Reach 10.12 9.46 9.14 9.08 9.04 8.71 8.92 8.47 8.14 Planet Aware 7.23 People Care 2008 2017 Community Touch Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 86 Introduction Corporate Mind NonHazardous Waste Cubic Yards per Million USD Product Reach Recycled/Landfilled/Incinerated 0.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 0.6 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.5 14.7 Planet Aware 14.9 13.2 15.5 14.8 12.9 12.1 14.9 14 13.8 13.9 People Care 14.6 12.7 13.1 15.6 15.1 14.4 14.3 14.4 16.2 19.9 Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 87 Introduction Corporate Mind Hazardous Waste Cubic Yards per Million USD Recycled/Treated/Incinerated 15.4 Product Reach 14.1 15.3 16.8 Planet Aware 16.7 10.6 105.2 82.4 100.9 People Care 188.1 68.9 168.3 123.3 122.8 243.5 261.2 223.9 Community Touch 117.8 58.1 66.8 45.5 100.1 81.5 93.9 158.6 158.9 114.3 0.2 2.9 2008 2017 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 88 Introduction Corporate Mind Water Usage Tens of Thousands of Liters per Million USD Product Reach 37.0 33.6 33.1 30.6 28.6 24.7 26.3 25.4 24.7 24.4 Planet Aware 23.7 People Care Community Touch 2008 2017 2020 Goal Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 89 Introduction Corporate Mind Paper Usage Reams per Million USD Product Reach 584 Planet Aware 99 108 People Care 64 88 69 48 35 39 30 Community Touch 2008 2017 Additional Info Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 | 90 PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2018 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • PRINTED IN USA 06/2018 • 43084275
