Henning Larsen United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2018 Statutory statement in accordance with section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Contents CEO Statement 5 Henning Larsen 7 Status on Support 7 Human Rights 9 Labor 13 Environment 16 Anti-Corruption 23 Charter for Social Responsibility in the Building Sector 24 Nordic Built Charter 25 Nordea Ørestad Copenhagen, Denmark CEO Statement Declaration of Continued Support Henning Larsen is commmitted to work actively On behalf of Henning Larsen Architects A/S, with United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development member of United Nations Global Compact since Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable De2008, we are happy to reaffirm our continued velopment. These will assist in guiding our efforts support of the Ten Principles of the United Natiwithin CSR. ons Global Compact within the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. While maintaining and constantly strengthening our focus on sustainability, we are also aware of In this 2018 Communication on Progress, we the challenges that present themselves when describe initiatives and actions taken to integrate operating a global organization. We work in more the principles into our business strategy, managethan 20 different countries and encounter many ment, organizational values and culture, and daily different cultures, traditions and political sysoperations. Henning Larsen is committed to tems. As architects, we thrive in a variety of conuphold the high standards set by Global Compact texts, and we continue to work in countries and and to share this commitment across our organicultures in which our architecture and design can zation and with external stakeholders. make a difference and contribute to shape future modern life. As a company, we are commited to Since joining United Nations Global Compact, we reacting if we experience any violation of human have placed particular emphasis on promoting rights, labor rights or harmful acts towards our sustainable architecture, urban spaces, and inteenvironment. rior design. Through a knowledge-based approach to design, research has grown to become a inherent part of our business strategy and an On behalf of Henning Larsen Architects A/S, invariable principle of our practice as architects and designers. Mette Kynne Frandsen CEO, Partner Henning Larsen Copenhagen, Denmark Communication on Progress 2017/18 Henning Larsen Originating from the Scandinavian architectural tradition, we aim to create vibrant, sustainable buildings that transcend their physical bounds and provide lasting value to the user, culture and society of which they are part. Henning Larsen provides design solutions and consultancy Copenhagen is our base, but our projects are born in harmoservices within architecture, city planning, landscaping, ny with the world around us. With offices in Munich, Hong space planning and interiors, and sustainability engineering. Kong, Oslo, New York and the Faroe Islands, we work globally, but always with a local presence. Born from the Scandinavian architectural tradition of aesthetically, socially and intellectually driven design, we aim to We challenge, shape and change the physical environment, create vibrant, sustainable buildings that transcend their from architecture to planning and design – creating good physical bounds and provide lasting value to the user, culsocial spaces for human connection and activity. Our experture and society of which they are part. tise lies in identity-creating cultural buildings, educational institutions, headquarters and cities. Our approach is scienWe were founded in 1959 by Danish architect, Henning tific and evidence-based. We master all aspects of complex Larsen, whose name we proudly carry today. We create construction processes with resolute professionalism. We architecture with curiosity and artistic audacity that rests on take responsibility and never compromise on quality. a foundation of knowledge and attention to detail. Our projects are generous and give people the opportunity to experience the unexpected. We work together in a non-hierarchical community. Status on Support This report is our eighth Communication on Progress (CoP) a holistic approach to sustainability and always strive to add in which we address and renew our commitment to United lasting value to users while making important contributions Nations Global Compact's ten principles. to the surrounding culture and society. Henning Larsen joined the United Nations Global Compact in Henning Larsen is committed to work actively with United 2008 to participate in the international partnership between Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 UN and the corporate world with the objective to promote Agenda for Sustainable Development with primary emphasis the committment for companies to operate in ways that on, but not limited to, goals no. 11 and 12. meet fundamental responsibilites in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. This report will be publicly accesible for external partners 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production and collaborators through our website and will be published patterns. globally to all employees on our intranet. This way we communicate our ethical standards and values transparently. We are committed to integrate the premises of the goals within our business strategy, operations, stakeholder relatiAs Architects we are able to make the greatest difference in ons, and not least our projects in which we will employ the the world and for its inhabitants through the built environSustainable Development Goals as design drivers in our ment. Our projects reflect this premise as they are based on methodology. 7 Eystur City Hall Norðragøta Faroe Islands Communication on Progress 2017/18 Human Rights People are at the center of everything we do. It is what drives our design towards solutions that stimulate human interaction and enable us to shape future life. Henning Larsen supports and respects the protection of are able to promote human rights and the concept of freeinternationally proclaimed human rights and will, to the dom and thus, we believe it is our obligation as architects to extent our capacity allows, prevent any violation of human be involved in regions and projects where we can have a and fundamental rights. We will not take active part in positive impact. intentional abuse of human rights. We systematically screen all incoming projects and will Henning Larsen complies with the provisions of Danish decline any project that could lead to any kind of violation of legislation which is fully aligned with international convenUnited Nations' universal declaration on human rights. tions on human rights. In addition to our commitment to Henning Larsen adhere to the guidelines provided by the prevent any violation or negative impact on human rights, Danish Assocation of Architectural Companies (Danske Ark). we actively support and promote the enjoyment of human These provide guidelines to exercise due dilligence in conrights by the projects we choose to engage in, by our nection to all phases of design and construction. approach to architecture, and by our recruitment process, employment policy, and intern program. Henning Larsen deliberately declines invitations to engage in projects or collaborations when our assesment of a Actively seeking opportunities to make a change country, region, or organization proves that our involvement An important issue to address when operating an internatiowill potentially contribute to supporting violation of internanal organization, is the encounters with local legislation and tionally proclaimed human rights. traditions which do not comply sufficiently with international conventions on human rights. At Henning Larsen, we When our screenings do not provide sufficient information strive to support local improvement of human rights and we to make a decision on whether to engage in a project or not, wish to actively engage in current developments towards we will consult with the Danish General Consulates around improving quality of life. the world. During 2017/18, we did this once. We choose to actively take part in societal change by engaIn 2017/18, we declined to engage in projects in Iran. ging in dialogue and collaboration. Through our design we 9 UN Global Compact Promoting Gender Equality Finally, the Board of Directors of Henning Larsen Architects Henning Larsen is led by female CEO Mette Kynne Frandsen, A/S is made up of three females and two males. and according to statistics*, Henning Larsen is a leading example within the field of architecture, promoting both All employees at Henning Larsen are employed because of female leadership and ownership. their talent and skills, not their gender. We believe that gender balance in the workplace is about more than just In average, 20% of the partners of Danish architecture numbers – it is about creating an open culture where emplocompanies are women (as per October 2017*). At Henning yees feel comfortable and empowered. Our ambition for Larsen, 37% of the partners are women. Henning Larsen globally is to achieve equal gender distribution. In October 2017, Mette Kynne was asked about this particular matter* and said about the future: Goals for 2018/19 Henning Larsen's goal for the next year is to further strengtI think this [gender split] will change. Young women are hen our procedures across all offices for screening potential ambitious. And there are just as many talented female projects, clients and collaborators. We will update practices architects graduating, as there are male. in order to increasingly act proactively and globally aligned, as well as develop procedures which outline a course of The partner group of Henning Larsen consists of 15 indiviaction in the unfortunate case that Henning Larsen should duals 19 globally including local partners. In total, Henning discover that any stakeholder does not respect or work to Larsen has 7 female partners and 12 male partners. protect human rights proclaimed by the United Nations. As per June 2018, Henning Larsen employs a total of 288 people in 7 different offices. 48% are female and 52% are male. Gender Split in Henning Larsen Executive Partner Female Total Management Group Male *http://bias.nu/kvinder-i-arkitektbranchen-rammer-glasloftet/ Communication on Progress 2017/18 Henning Larsen Copenhagen, Denmark 11 Communication on Progress 2017/18 Labor Henning Larsen has offices in Copenhagen, Hong Kong, Munich, New York, Oslo, Riyadh and on the Faroe Islands, and in total employs 288 people. These people are our greatest assets. The company culture of Henning Larsen is rooted in a Creating Job Satisfaction Scandinavian cultural tradition that emphasizes curiosity, In 2016/17, Henning Larsen conducted an annual workplace delegation of responsiblity and an inclusive decision-making assesment as prescribed by Danish law. Among other things, structure. Employee development takes place through the assesment suggested that the physical working environcontinuous further training, professional challenges and a ment presented some challenges and was due for improvefocus on results, collaborations, and a well-functioning social ments in order to enhance employees' ability to work creatiwork environment. vely, efficiently and ergonomically. At the company’s core is an organizational structure in Supported by the Board of Henning Larsen, it was decided to which work is performed in project teams and where indiviinitiate and invest in a refurbishment of the office facilities dual employees are given both mandate and responsibility. in Copenhagen. This refurbishment was initiated during the Spring of 2018 and is designed, planned and executed by our All employees at Henning Larsen are treated equally and all architects and specialists within interior design, space employment contracts comply with international conventiplanning and consultancy. Furthermore we have involved ons and local legislation. Through a law-abiding contract our Ph.D. fellow, Drew Thilmany in the project, providing the with all employees, we ensure and govern employees' health, project an anthropological perspective and encouraging safety, working conditions and rights. interdisciplinary collaboration. Henning Larsen constantly monitors employees' well-being The refurbishment aims to: and works to eliminate all forms of forced and cumpolsory • improve the indoor climate of our office space; labor, abolish child labor, and eliminate any kind of discrimi• ensure that our workplace accomodates different modes nation. of working; • increase visibility of our projects and work to strengthDenmark en the organizational culture and values. The danish labor market, in which Henning Larsen employs the majority of its workforce, is largely self-regulated by All staff at our office in Copenhagen have been interviewed collective agreements concluded between trade unions and and invited to take part in co-creative excerises through employers' organizations and is to some extent statutorily which the final solution has been identified. The project will regulated by the Danish state and EU bodies. be finalized during the beginning of 2018/19. Henning Larsen participates in, respects, and supports this International system thorugh our membership in the Danish Association All employees are secured through a contract. All contracts of Architectural Firms which collaborates with the Danish within Henning Larsen comply with national legislation and Union of Salaried Architects and the Danish Architects' all employees are provided with a staff handbook. The staff Association. handbook for all offices is accesible through our intranet and describes any individual's rights as an employee at Henning These organizations safeguard and balance individual and Larsen as well as procedures and policies for good behavior. commercial interests as regards collective bargaining, legisThe staff handbook guides the employee in regards to e.g. lation concerning salaried employees, labor market, indumaternity/paternity leave, illness, mobility, confidentiality strial and educational policies etc. Through collaborative etc. efforts, Henning Larsen upholds the freedom of association and effects recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Each office is associated with a staff handbook that is adjusted to comply with national legislation and respect for the local culture in question. 13 UN Global Compact Henning Larsen Dialogues 2017 part of the organizational culture at Henning Larsen has Every second year all of Henning Larsen Group gathers to always been to embrace and encourage diversity believing share knowledge and strengthen the bonds with colleagues that exposure to various cultures and backgrounds contriacross borders and timezones. butes to our development as human beings and enables a greater understanding of the world we build in and the Almost 300 people gathered in Copenhagen in September people we build for. As per the end of 2017/18, Henning 2017 for two days focusing on both social activities and Larsen employs people of 36 different nationalities. architecture. The event was very succesful and the program was well-received amongst employees who gained a stronAll employees are perceived and treated as equal indviduals ger connection to eachother and the organization. of equal value regardsless of their gender, cultural background, position or seniority. At Henning Larsen, the best Stress idea wins regardless of authorship. Stress is something Henning Larsen takes very seriously, and by monitoring employees' workload, we work Each year, we employ more than 40 interns on a short-term proactivey to prevent that our employees suffer from the basis. All interns are paid a fair wage for their contribution illness. and their professional development is closely followed by management. Henning Larsen assists with accommodation, In the unfortunate case that an employees become ill due to visa processes etc. Furthermore, Henning Larsen has investress, we offer support and assistsnce during the process sted in an apartment in close proximity to the office in of recovery. Skilled personel and a written course of action Copenhagen. The apartment accomodates six interns. ensures that employees with stress are offered the sufficent help and support. Henning Larsen defines a personal plan Henning Larsen Culture Club according to individual needs in order to achieve the best Culture Club is a staff organization, run by the staff for the recovery and return to work. staff in Copenhagen, with the purpose of strengthening the social relationships amongst employees. Through events Further Training and Development such as friday bars, excursions, study trips etc. all employees At Henning Larsen, education and further training is paraare welcomed and encouraged to particiapate in social mount. As the world changes around us, we must ensure gatherings both inside and outside normal working hours. that we as architects, designers, engineers, constructing architects, project managers and leaders also develop and Goals for 2018/19 improve our skills and acquire new knowledge. Focus for the next year is to sustain a strong focus on educating our staff. Furthermore, we wish to offer our employees Furthermore, Henning Larsen encourages employees to a better working environment. For us, this naturally entails share knowledge internally and across offices. The new team an office space that is based on sustainable and healthy structure in Copenhagen and the global forums will strengtsolutions to the extent our current space allows. The hen the internal communication by allowing employees to planned refurbishment will be completed by the end of share knowledge in a formalized setup. 2018. Finally, Henning Larsen hosts a series of internal lectures Furthermore, we want to increase our focus on digitalization, which zoom in on different topics as well as facilitating both within internal processes and within projects. In workshops where olleagues teach and share knowledge 2018/19, we will optimize our digital setup in regards to within different specialized fields. digital tools, programs and an intelligent workspace design. Digitalization will also be on the agenda in regards to further Embracing Diversity training and our internal series of lectures. Finally, we will Henning Larsen condemns all kinds of discrimination and continue to develop our Virtual Reality Lab which has been activily pursues elimination of all prejudices. An inherent under development during 2017/18. Henning Larsen Dialogues Copenhagen, 2017 UN Global Compact Environment At Henning Larsen, research and innovation are a natural part of the design process. We develop the most sustainable solutions through our knowledge-based approach. Good architecture is sustainable architecture. Our EngineerRainwater is the main focus of the project, as effective ing team works with knowledge and research to solve key management will minimize damages caused by future challenges in the built and unbuilt environment to create downpours. The innovative design reduces grid water shared value for people, communities and the climate. consumption of the properties by 27%. In addition to handling rainwater on the property and consequently preventWe approach all projects holistically, believing that the ing flooding, the renovation will reduce heat-island effects, scientific crossroads of architecture, engineering, academia lower the buildings’ CO2 emissions by 16,800 tons and offer and technology is where novel ideas flourish and solutions recreational value to residents. that create better living conditions across an environmental, social, aesthetic and financial spectrum exist. Applied Research Knowledge and innovation are key drivers in Henning With the vision to transform knowledge into value for Larsen's overall business strategy. By actively deploying people and their communities, Henning Larsen has in-house research from Henning Larsen’s in-house PhD-program in resources committed to research. Our team of architects, the early phases of the design process, we continuously engineers, landscape designers and in-house Ph.Ds. conduct increase the quality of our projects. Our goal is to transform research on daylight and artificial lighting, sustainable evidence-based knowledge into applicable tools to use in materials, facade design, acoustics, and sustainable urban practice in order to add social and commercial value to all of development. Our goal is to create solutions that move our projects. architecture into a more sustainable future. In collaboration with Danish and International Universities Two Projects in Top 100 of Best Danish Climate Solutions and Research Institutions such as the MIT, The University of Two projects, Middelfart City Hall and the Copenhagen Sheffield, the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, School of Climate Resilient Block were selected for the 2018 Klima100 Architecture, the Technical University of Denmark and the (Climate100) publication: a collection of the best climate University of Copenhagen, Henning Larsen is currently projects from municipalities across the Denmark. The aim of sponsoring five Industrial PhDs specializing in urban design the publication is to share knowledge for implementing and big data, artificial lighting, intelligent facades, acoustics sustainable transition on a municipal level and thus inspire and human behavior science. other cities towards building more sustainably. In 2017, our Industrial PhD fellow, Imke Wies van Mil finisThe new city hall building in Middelfart sets a new standard hed her research project on the benefits of using focused in Denmark for sustainable public buildings. The municipalartificial lighting in school buildings. She tested this through ity has not only integrated the previously dispersed adminisinstalled pendant lamps in four classrooms at the Frederikstration departments into one location, but also turned the bjerg public school in Aarhus, Denmark. At Frederiksbjerg City Hall into a local cultural center open to the public even School, the pendants formed zones with concentrated lights after office hours. The City Hall is built according to the compared to the more homogenous industrial ceiling lights, Danish BR-2020 standard and is expected to cut CO2 emisand after 8 months, we have measured a significant impact sions by 34% with more sustainable construction materials on the children’s ability to focus and concentrate. In 75 % of and energy-efficient installations, compared to the 2015 the learning situations measured by Imke, the noise is standard. reduced by 1-6 decibel. As part of the Copenhagen Municipality Climate Strategy, the In the beginning of 2018, Henning Larsen engaged in a new Resilient Block in Østerbro, Copenhagen demonstrates how PhD project, “Mapping micro-contexts: informing architectuan old building can be climate proofed and simultaneously ral urban design and development” in collaboration with the enhance residents’ quality of life. The buildings, facades, Danish Technical University and Massachusetts Institute of courtyards and sidewalks have all been fully renovated. Technology. Researcher Krister Jens aims to motivate increMiddelfart Civic Centre Middelfart, Denmark Partner, Jacob Kurek World Architecture Festival, Berlin Partner, Signe Kongebro Trends & Traditions, Copenhagen Communication on Progress 2017/18 ased private investment into the public good. Clients are tool available to employees to evaluate materials, their calling for evidence-based architectural concepts that can be qualities, toxicity and ethics, and Life Cycle Assessment converted into a value-added proposition for the local (LCA). community and economy. Krister is working with the University of Cincinnati on our design of the Carl H. Lindner LCA evaluates the products from cradle to grave; from College of Business. He has set up sensors that measure the extraction of raw materials and natural resources, through flow and occupancy throughout the building for a better production and use of the product. This includes mainteunderstanding of how the building is used. This data will nance and repairs, and furthermore considers the final also be combined with statistics on comfort and wellbeing, disposal and possible reuse of the discarded product. The including sick days, drop-out rates, and depression among less strain on the environment, the longer the lifespan of the students. With better understanding of people’s use of product. spaces and the connection between our spaces and our health, we can design buildings to improve people’s wellHenning Larsen continuously add to and develops the being. materials library, thus enabling the design of sustainable and healthy buildings. Research and interdisciplinary collaboration are pivotal to the success of Henning Larsen. Our aim is to develop solutiThought Leadership ons that prepare the urban and built environment for the We believe it is our responsibility to share knowledge future and improve quality of life. Therefore, Henning publicly in order to support and promote a sustainable Larsen will continue to invest in research and knowledge to agenda. Through publications, debates and public involvegenerate measurable value for users, communities and the ment, we communicate transparently how architecture environment. One way to validate the performance of builaffects our carbon footprint. Our ambition is to inspire dings and urban solutions is to certify them. fellow colleagues in the construction industry and spark new collaborations across different disciplinary fields. Certifications A Henning Larsen, we supervise and conduct documentation We encourage employees to participate in e.g. advisory within LEED, DGNB, WELL and BREEAM. The audits can be boards, councils, interviews and accept invitations to teach performed for existing projects, proposed concepts or and research. We engage in public debates and share knowldesign strategies. edge through our communication channels, social media and publications. Furthermore, we assist our employees in In 2018, the new Nordea Headquarters set the tone for a sharing knowledge and material related to activities within new openness and focus on sustainability within the finanHenning Larsen. In September 2018 we launched a new cial sector. Our building for the bank headquarters received website featuring an ‘Insights’ section to share our knowla LEED platinum certification. As of June 30, 2018, the new edge and research publicly. Middelfart City Hall is in the process of obtaining DGNB Platinum. For both projects, one of the key design drivers Sustainable Through all Phases of a Project has been to work as sustainably as possible with building We believe it is important to give back to the cities we build materials. and work in. That is why we invest in the environment of the areas we work in. Many European cities are in the process of Database of Sustainable Materials regenerating old industrial areas into thriving, modern When working with sustainable design, it is imperative to cityscapes. With our projects in Gdansk and Belfast, both focus on the sourcing and production of materials and won in early 2018, we want to bring new life to these areas construction components. Information in materials has been and their environments –before construction begins. collected and organized in an internal database; a powerful 19 UN Global Compact In Gdansk, we are bringing new life to the area by estabThe main goal with these projects is to create sustainable lishing a field of sunflowers in the area. Sunflower fields can buildings and cities that last, but in the meantime we are – besides being an attraction and identity mark – cleanse the working proactively to use the empty sites to prepare for polluted industrial soil on site, preparing it for construction. construction and give back to the communities we build in. We also want to make sure the water in the canals can be used recreationally before construction begins by cleansing Goals for 2018/19 it in large basins comprising mussels and plants. Our goal for the coming year is to further develop tools for measuring the effects of our building projects and designs Our design for the new Belfast Waterside will not only and more effectively evaluate and improve our skills and revitalize the River Lagan for recreational use and commuknowledge within the area of sustainability. nity building, but will extend the outdoor season as well. By positioning the lower buildings towards the waterfront in We believe that good architecture is sustainable architecture. the development guides winds over buildings instead of 2018 marks the 10th anniversary of our sustainability dethrough the streets. In the harsh temperate oceanic climate partment and we will continue to develop new methods, zone of Belfast, this approach reduces wind speed. We tools, and research to further push architecture into a more estimate that we can prolong the number of weeks per year sustainable future. it is comfortable to spend time outside from the current 9 weeks to an impressive 25 weeks. The historic Imperial Shipyards Gdansk, Poland Klaksvík City Centre Faroe Islands Communication on Progress 2017/18 Anti-corruption Henning Larsen works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Henning Larsen has not directly nor indirectly been involved Goals for 2018/19 in or supported any kind of corruption. Our ambition for the next year is to further formalize our procedures which regard prevention of anti-corruption and As a professional, international organization, Henning to develop policies, suplementary to our staff handbooks, Larsen supports the United Nations' Convention Aagainst that directly address how to prevent and react towards Corruption and fully comply with Danish and international corruption, both internally and within our supply chains. legislation. A respectful and open relationship with our clients, collaborators, organizational affiliations and emploDuring 2017/18, we have formulated an anti-corruption yees is an essential part of all our projects and operations. policy that is to be implemented and distributed to employees during 2018/19. Henning Larsen is commited to fight corruption and will engage in collaborations and relations that share the same We wish to further train relevant employees to act responsimission. bly, proactively and to enable them to react in case they experience any violation of good business behaviour. 23 UN Global Compact Charter for Social Responsibility in the Building Sector The association for Social Resposibility in the Building 1. We will systematically assess to what extent the prinSector was founded in November 2014 by 42 Danish compaciples of the charter are followed on projects in which nies including Henning Larsen. The initiative aims to develwe are involved. op and strengthen collaboration across the building sector 2. We will assess our collaborators' and suppliers' work to raise th standards for labor conditions, sustainability and with social responsibility. stakeholder dialogue. The association is supported by the 3. We will enter into dialogue with collaborators and Realdania Foundation. stakeholders. 4. We aim for sustainble solutions. The platform for the association is a charter comprising six 5. We have good conditions of employment and work. principles, which Henning Larsen is committed to uphold. 6. We demonstrate independent and anti-corrupt practice. Communication on Progress 2017/18 Nordic Built Charter Henning Larsen supports the Nordic Built Charter. The 1. is made for people and promote quality of life: charter is an initiative aimed at accelerating the develop2. pushes the limits of sustainable performance, as a result ment of sustainable building concepts. The program comof our innovative mind-set and high level of knowledge; bines key Nordic strengths, provides attactive and effective 3. merges urban living with the qualities of nature; arenas for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that 4. achieves zero emissions over its lifecycle; demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. 5. is functional, smart and aesthetically appealing, building on the best of the Nordic design tradition; The ten principles of the Nordic Built Charter include focus 6. is robust, durable, flexible and timeless built to last; on aesthetically appealing design while maintaining the 7. utilises local resources and is adapted to local condihighest possible standards for sustainability, which is centions; tral to all of Henning Larsen's projects and practices. 8. is produced and maintained through partnerships founded on transparent collaboration across borders The ten principles entails that Henning Larsen supports a and disciplines; built environment that: 9. employs in concepts that are scalable and used globally; 10. profits people, business and the environment; 25
