FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE A N N U A L I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2017 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS 03 Figure highlights 04 Grupo Rotoplas in short 09 Letter from the Chairman 11 Highlights of the year 12 Economic results 2017 15 Agua 17x Sustainable Bond Review 26 Strategy on stream 42 Innovation that flows 54 Every drop matters 63 Source of Change 70 Transparent governance 77 Paths towards the future 79 About this report 81 Audited Financial Statements (Notes from Management) 83 Table of GRI contents of the Annual Integrated Report 2017 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 3 FIGURE HIGHLIGHTS (102-7) 2,898 COLLABORATORS 21 PLANTS AND 4 DISTRIBUTION CENTERS $6,660 BILLION MEXICAN PESOS IN REVENUES 27 PRODUCT CATEGORIES +510 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS (WWTP) 6,496,416 $533 M3 OF TREATED WASTEWATER MILLION MEXICAN PESOS OF NET PROFIT +23,260 POINTS OF SALE $48.9 MILLION MEXICAN PESOS INVESTED IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) +10,330 7,000 14 DIRECT CUSTOMERS (DISTRIBUTORS) POINTS OF SERVICE (DIRECT USERS) COUNTRIES WITH ROTOPLAS OPERATIONS Rotoplas plants also operate as distribution centers. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 4 GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT (102-2, 102-4, 102-6, 102-16, 102-26) With nearly 4 decades of experience and a culture of innovation and sustainability, at Grupo Rotoplas, we participate in every stage of the water cycle offering individual and integrated storage, waterflow, and improvement solutions. Driven by our mission and committed with meeting our customers’ and users’ needs, we continue to trigger and develop innovative solutions that help to improve the population’s standard of living. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 5 In 2017, we worked on updating our 2018-2020 Strategy, aiming to integrate sustainability into the business processes, as well as to have a greater focus on the needs of our customers and users through our solutions and services; this Strategy was backed by our Board of Directors. Throughout the year, we confirmed our mission and restated our vision to bring coherence to the evolution that we expect for the business, standing as follows: Mission: FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE MORE AND BETTER WATER Vision: To offer non-centralized and sustainable water solutions, with relevant benefits to our customers, within the Rotoplas Way. Our values: Collaboration Service-oriented Social and Humility Passion for Business Integrity Attitude Environmental We have a committed Responsibility We display an attitude We share the conviction, We act with honesty, attitude, which enables We identify the needs of that enables us to accept enthusiasm, and fairness, and ethics, being us to align our efforts our internal and external We are committed to other points of view, commitment to do our consistent in what we and work with joint clients and focus our generating actions that valuing the contributions best and make things think, say, and do. responsibility to achieve a efforts on achieving and will foster the wellbeing, that others make and happen. common goal. surpassing the level of standard of living, and care encouraging constructive service they expect. for the environment in all feedback. the communities where we are present. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 6 ARGENTINA BELIZE BRAZIL CANADA CHILE COSTA RICA ECUADOR UNITED STATES OF AMERICA EL SALVADOR GUATEMALA HONDURAS MEXICO NICARAGUA OUR PRESENCE PERU Raw material Injection / Extrusion WWTPs Through the acquisition of a Canadian innovation R&D Center center Sanzfield in 2017, we expanded our presence Roto-molding Heaters in the American continent, now reaching 14 Distribution centers countries. With a focus on service, innovation, and quality, we have consolidated our individual and integrated solutions portfolio to meet our customers’ and users’ water and sanitation needs. 3 innovation centers enable us 4th consecutive year receiving 12 new solutions launched to generate state-of-the-art the Superbrands seal, and in 2017 solutions with the highest the Greenbrands award for technology and quality. the first time. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 7 INDIVIDUAL SOLUTIONS The individual solutions in its storage, waterflow, and improvement categories offer a range of solutions to improve water management in both urbanized and rural environments, destinated mainly to home improvement stores, construction companies, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). STORAGE WATERFLOW IMPROVEMENT Storage ·· Water tanks, Cistern, Pipes ·· Hydraulic Tuboplus pipe Sanitation ·· On-Sink Purifier Specialized storage and Accessories Valves ·· Tuboplus Fortech-CT® Purification ·· Under-sink Purifier Water Harvesting ·· Urban Rainwater Connectors pipe Filtering ·· Reverse Osmosis Purifier Harvesting System ·· Valves Accessories Pressurization Treatment ·· Water purifier and ·· Tanks for Water and ·· Plastic Bolts and alkalinizer Chemicals Heating Connectors ·· Standard Filter ·· Inductor tanks Irrigation ·· Hydropneumatic ·· Jumbo Filter ·· Horizontal tanks Systems ·· Refrigerator Water Filter ·· Feeders ·· Centrifugal Pump ·· Tap Water Filter ·· Peripheral Pump ·· Water Filter Jug ·· Submersible Pump ·· Self-Cleaning biodigestor ·· Circulation Pump ·· Water Heaters (Arg.) ·· Heaters (Peru) ·· Family-Orchard-Type Agricultural Irrigation System FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 8 INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS Integrated solutions cover more complex water and sanitation needs and/or those with a greater scope, including value-added services, such as engineering, installation, training site development, operation, and maintenance. These solutions are designed for individuals, industrial, or commercial customers who seek an efficient use of water for their operations, as well as for government entities and NGOs that develop water and sanitation projects. SELF-SUSTAINING WITH MAINTENANCE SERVICE ·· Rural Rainwater ·· Drinking water fountains Harvesting System ·· Water purifying plant ·· Outdoor toilet with ·· Wastewater treatment biodigestor and recycling plants ·· Purified Drinking Water Service FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 9 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN (102-14, 102-15) In 2017, Rotoplas consolidated its This year, we launched 12 new solutions developed in our R&D center in Leon, Guanajuato, and acquired a Canadian innovation center Sanzfield, which specializes in the development of wastewater treatment and position as a leading company in recycling systems. It is also worth noting the strategic acquisition of the leading e-commerce platform for water storage solutions in the US, which will enable us to strengthen our presence in that important market the development and sale of water and leverage the synergies obtained throughout our other operations. Moreover, we successfully completed the integration of Sytesa in Mexico, and Talsar in Argentina. solutions focused on innovation Thanks to all this, total revenues amounted to $6.66 billion Mexican pesos and EBITDA to $1.004 billion and sustainability. Throughout this Mexican pesos, which translates into 24.4% and 36.1% increases, respectively. EBITDA margin settled at 15.1%, 130 basis points higher than in 2016, while our net profit grew 18.7%. year, we completed the integration I would also like to note that, as a result of our efforts and commitment to our Sustainability Model, we of our most recent acquisitions and issued the first Sustainable Bond in Latin America, worth $2 billion Mexican pesos. This issuance, which capitalized on new opportunities adheres to international standards, will enable us to finance and refinance projects with environmental and social benefits, as well as to contribute to the achievement of various Sustainable Development Goals. Our to enhace our research and performance in sustainability was recognized through our entry into the Dow Jones Sustainability MILA Pacific Alliance index and the Greenbrand award, which acknowledges us as one of the most prestigious brands in the development department and market. increase our market share in the On the other hand, we should also mention the response of our company and collaborators to the tragedy of the earthquakes that hit Mexico in 2017. To show our solidarity with the victims, we launched the Water for US. Likewise, we obtained several Affected Areas Program, which benefited over 600 thousand victims through water purifying plants, outdoor toilets with biodigester at shelters, and water storage tanks. international awards to our performance in sustainability. Lastly, I would like to reiterate Grupo Rotoplas’ commitment with its mission, sustainability, and the 10 principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact regarding human rights, employment and environmental issues, and anticorruption. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 10 I wish to thank our board members and collaborators who, through their effort and commitment, make it possible for us to meet our goals and serve our clients, suppliers, shareholders, and users who, by giving us their trust, enable us to realize our mission for people to have more and better water. Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco CEO and Chairman of the Board FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 11 Grupo Rotoplas acquires HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR JANUARY MARCH a majority stake in innovation laboratory Sanzfield Cash capital Rotoplas successfully payback of issued the first MXN$0.37 for APRIL Sustainable Bond in each of the shares JUNE Latin America outstanding Standard & Poor’s raises Fitch rated Rotoplas’ Rotoplas’ outlook to long-term Stock positive and confirms its Certificates ‘AA(mex)’ JULY SEPTEMBER ‘mxAA-‘ credit rating on a national scale Grupo Rotoplas acquired a majority stake in Fitch confirms its Plasticwatertanks.com Inc, long-term ‘AA(mex)’ P-M.com Inc, and Nautical OCTOBER rating with a stable Outfitters Corp, a leading DECEMBER outlook platform in e-commerce of water storage tanks in the US. Entered the Dow Jones Sustainability MILA Pacific Alliance Index FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 12 ECONOMIC RESULTS (103-2, 103-3) In order to ensure organic growth, We concluded the integration of Sytesa and Talsar, given a lower capacity to absorb fixed costs in some acquired in 2016 and this year, we continued to make countries where we operate, as well as extraordinary we have reconfigured our portfolio strategic acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio expenses and higher resin costs towards yearend, due adding new platforms and favoring innovation, as to the natural disasters that took place. to emphasize solutions with more in the case of the US e-commerce platform and Canadian innovation center Sanzfield, respectively. Operating expenses decreased by 280 basis points profitable services that have greater as a percentage of sales, given a greater absorption In 2017, the reconfiguration of our portfolio and the capacity and expense-control discipline, mitigating the growth potential. This reconfiguration successful integration of the acquisitions made last effects of the decrease in gross margin and despite year had a positive impact on both sales and EBITDA, the effect of extraordinary donations resulting from also enables us to establish higher proving the strength of our brand and our leadership the implementation of the Water for Affected Areas position in the markets where we participate, as Program (PAZA for its Spanish acronym) following the recurring revenues, thus reducing the well as our bet on more profitable solutions. Our net earthquakes in Mexico; this kept operating margin in volatility of our financial results. revenues totaled $6.660 billion Mexican pesos—a line with the previous year’s level. Along the same line, 24.4% increase from last year-mainly explained by EBITDA margin grew by 130 basis points compared to the strong demand for our individual solutions in the previous year. Mexico, Argentina, and Peru, and by the integration of the results of the acquisition of Sytesa and the Net profit increased by 18.7% year over year, with a 40 e-commerce platform. basis-point decrease as a result of the extraordinary $6,660 expenses mentioned above. In 2017, we implemented a strict cost and expense control, keeping a base zero Budget, and we surveyed the quality of our revenues, thus achieving a positive BILLION MEXICAN PESOS IN impact on the profitability of our operations. The REVENUES gross profit margin decreased by 270 basis points, FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 13 MAIN ECONOMIC FIGURES (in millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2016 2017 ∆ 17-16 (%) Net revenues 5,700 5,353 6,660 24.4% Costs 3,397 3,097 4,032 30.2% Gross Profit 2,304 2,257 2,628 16.5% Gross Profit margin (%) 40.4% 42.2% 39.5% (270)pb Expenses 1,641 1,677 1,899 13.2% Operating Profit 662 580 730 25.9% Operating Profit margin 11.6% 10.8% 11.0% 20bp EBITDA 771 738 1,004 36.1% EBITDA Margin (%) 13.5% 13.8% 15.1% 130bp Net Profit 402 449 533 18.7% Net Profit margin (%) 7.1% 8.4% 8.0% (40)pb Earnings per Share (in Mexican Pesos) 0.83 0.93 1.10 19% Number of shares outstanding (in millions) 486 486 486 0% CAPITALIZATION (in millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2016 2017 ∆ 17-16 (%) Total Debt 1,217 1,243 1,976 59.0% Total Shareholders’ Equity 6,054 7,221 7,295 1.0% Total Capitalization 7,270 8,568 9,271 9.5% FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 14 in 2017, we strengthened our long-term financial solutions for water and wastewater. Likewise, it is structure with the issuance of the first Sustainable in line with, and contributes to the achievement Bond in Latin America, for a total of $2 billion of various Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), Mexican pesos. The placement was made in two particularly guaranteeing water availability and tranches, the first with a variable rate and 3-year sustainable management, as well as sanitation for all maturity, and the second, with a fixed rate and 10(SDG N°6). year maturity, under a program worth $3 billion Mexican pesos. We should note that the Sustainable Bond adhered to international benchmarks, Green Bond Principles, and In order to finance and refinance projects with the Social Bond Guidance, and was assessed by a third environmental and social benefits, we destined the party who acknowledged the clarity in our processes resources of the Bond mainly to existing and future and the transparency in our resource management, projects that will foster an affordable basic water and defined our Sustainable Bond as “sound, reliable, and sanitation infrastructure, mainly for marginalized and transparent”. populations, that will improve an efficient use of water in various categories, such as: drinking water, storage, sanitation & treatment, and purification The first Sustainable Bond in Latin America, for a total of $2 billion Mexican pesos. The clarity in our processes and the transparency in our resource management, defined our Sustainable Bond as “sound, reliable, and transparent”. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 15 AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW Rotoplas operates in markets where clean water Mexico, has been ranked by the World Resources Institute as one of the most water-stressed countries in the world. Areas in northern Mexico, northeast is scarce due to droughts, water pollution, Brazil, and countries in Central America show a consistent drying trend that is expected to persist with climate change. About 20 million people residing in as well as limited and unreliable water rural communities still lack access to improved drinking water. Furthermore, the quality of the “improved water” is often inadequate and may pose significant infrastructure and supply that make it difficult risks for public health. A pilot water testing study carried out in Nicaragua found that 16% of water points posed high to extremely high sanitary risk. Moreover, for local populations, especially those living in the supply of water is unreliable in many areas, with 13% of the population reporting they do not have continuous daily service. (Sustainalitycs) remote or rural areas, meet their water needs. In the region, urban wastewater discharges are increasing due to: population growth (urban population has risen from 314 million in 1990 to nearly 496 million today, and is projected to reach 674 million in 2050) (UNDESA, 2014); and expansion of water supply and sanitation services. In 2015, 88% of the urban population had access to improved sanitation facilities (UNICEF/ WHO, 2015), of which probably less than 60% were connected to sewerage systems (UNICEF/WHO, 2000). Given that there was no parallel expansion of wastewater treatment in most of the region, urban sewage is a key concern for governments. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 16 Nearly all urban wastewater, including all but the most toxic industrial wastes, was discharged into the nearest water bodies without any treatment. Many rivers, lakes and coastal waters, particularly those located downstream of large cities, were, and still are, heavily contaminated. (UN WWDR 2017) Investments in urban wastewater treatment are justified not only in terms of health and environmental benefits, but also due to their positive impacts on socio-economic development. (UN WWDR 2017) Mexico is also 2nd country in the world with the most child obesity, which is why Rotoplas is pushing the water fountain project in schools and public areas, we have installed 2,800 solutions, that have a direct, positive impact on the health and wellbeing of the consumers, as well as reduction PET and other plastic usage. (OECD Health at a Glance 2017) In North America, the U.S Census reports that more that 60 million people depend on septic systems, which are approximately 26 million homes (1/4 of the total) meaning there is a huge market to attain. One in every ten systems has stopped working, making failed septic systems the 3rd most common source of contamination. (National Association of Home Builders) FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 17 Use of Proceeds Agua 17X As established in the Rotoplas Sustainability Bond Framework, the proceeds of this issuance have been used to finance and refinance projects that tend to solve water related problems; as of today, 91.9% of the bond proceeds have been allocated. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 18 Project Evaluation and Selection Process Rotoplas’ Corporate Practices & Strategy Committee will evaluate and select Eligible projects for each Rotoplas Sustainability Bond. This Committee is comprised of 3 board members, as the framework stipulates the Committee will: i. Assess and determine project eligibility in accordance with SDG 6 and SDG 9 targets, Eligibility Criteria defined above and alignment with Rotoplas corporate strategy and Sustainability Model; and, ii. Determine the allocation of proceeds to eligible past, current and future projects on an annual basis Any project that Rotoplas may decide to invest in with Agua 17X proceeds must qualify in at least one of the categories established in the framework. The main projects that we invested in fell under categories 1 and 4 (drinking water solutions, and water and wastewater treatment, respectively), which have a direct impact on applicable SDG targets 6.1, 6.3, 6.5, 6.a, 9.1, 9.5. Category 4 projects were re financed on 2016 and 2017, category 1 projects started on 2016 and all are still ongoing to the date of this publication. The totality of the used proceeds to this date, were used to refinance Rotoplas for the investment on the projects. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 19 Project Categories Category 1: Provide access to clean water for individuals in areas that lack KPI´s for category one: water supply or where tap water is unsafe to drink, for example drinking water fountains, water filters and water purifiers. KPI 1.1 Water Purified (liters of water purified for human consumption) KPI 1.2 Children benefited (school enrollment) Category 4: Improve water quality and increase wateruse efficiency through water recycling and reuse, for example: wastewater treatment and recycling plants, acquisition of technology for water treatment, recycling and purification. KPI´s for category four: KPI 4.1 Water Treated (Liters) (Average treatment capacity*average 78.1% of the proceeds were used in water and wastewater treatment (category number of plants*time since acquisition, on compliment to 4) projects, 13.7% were invested in drinking water solutions (category1), such as SEMARNAT water treatment norms: 001, 002 and 003) water fountains. As mentioned before, the rest of the proceeds hasn´t been used yet. KPI 4.2 Water reused (Water treated*average rate of reuse) KPI´s are based on the current operation capacity in each of the categories, we expect to continue getting results in a similar rate for each of the current and new projects. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 20 SUSTAINABLE BOND CERTIFICATION LETTER Grupo Rotoplas SAB Type of engagement: Annual Review Date: April 4, 2018 Engagement Leader: Marion Oliver, marion.oliver@sustainalytics.com, (+1) 647 317 3644 Introduction In 2017, Grupo Rotoplas SAB (“Rotoplas”) issued a sustainability bond aimed at financing and refinancing environmentally and socially beneficial projects. In March 2018, Rotoplas engaged Sustainalytics to review the projects funded through the issued sustainability bond and provide an assessment as to whether the projects met the Use of Proceeds criteria and the Reporting commitments outlined in the Rotoplas Sustainability Bond Framework. Evaluation Criteria Sustainalytics evaluated the projects and assets funded in 2017 based on whether the projects and programmes: 1. Met the Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework; and 2. Reported on at least one of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for each Use of Proceeds criterion outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. Table 1 lists the Use of Proceeds, Eligibility Criteria, and associated KPIs. Table 1: Use of Proceeds and Eligibility Criteria Use of Proceeds Eligibility Criteria Potential Impact Indicators 1. Drinking Water Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the clean water for individuals in areas Solutions need for such infrastructure in various that lack water supply or where tap water is unsafe to drink; communities • Number of water fountains installed • Number of schools benefitted • Volume of water (m3) purified 2. Water Storage Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the water for households or need for such infrastructure various commercial facilities in watercommunities scarce areas or areas lacking • Volume of water (m3) captured/stored reliable water supply; 3. Sanitation and Projects that provide access to • Descriptions of projects including the Sewage adequate sanitation facilities in need for such infrastructure various Treatment areas with underdeveloped sewage communities infrastructure; • Number of sustainable bathrooms installed by region • Number of self-clean biodigesters installed by region • Number of households benefitted 4. Water and Projects that improve water quality • Descriptions of projects including the Wastewater and increase water-use efficiency need for such infrastructure various Treatment through water recycling and reuse; communities • Volume of water (m3) treated/recycled © Sustainalytics 2018 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 21 Annual Review Annual Review Rotoplas Rotoplas • Metrics on improvements in water quality e.g. Biochemical Oxygen Appendix 1: Impact Reporting by Eligibility Criteria Demand (BOD) Issuing Entity’s Responsibility Use of Proceeds and Environmental Impact Reported by Eligibility Criteria Eligibility Criteria Rotoplas is responsible for providing accurate information and documentation relating to the details of the Category projects that have been funded, including description of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, and project impact. 1. Drinking water • 47,921,710 litres of water purified; solutions • 652,959 children benefited through the installation of water fountains. Independence and Quality Control Sustainalytics, a leading provider of ESG and corporate governance research and ratings to investors, conducted the verification of Rotoplas’ Sustainability Bond Use of Proceeds. The work undertaken as part of 4. Water and Wastewater • 9,296,640,000 litres of water were treated; this engagement included collection of documentation from Rotoplas’ employees and review of Treatment • 3,253,824,000 litres of water were reused. documentation to confirm adherence to the Sustainability Bond Framework. Sustainalytics made all efforts to ensure the highest quality and rigor during its assessment process and enlisted its Sustainability Bonds Review Committee to oversee the process. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures conducted,1 nothing has come to Sustainalytics’ attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the reviewed bond projects, funded through proceeds of Rotoplas’ Sustainability Bond, are not in conformance with the Use of Proceeds and Reporting Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. Rotoplas has disclosed to Sustainalytics that 91.9% of the proceeds of the sustainability bond were allocated as of March 2018. Detailed Findings Table 2: Detailed Findings Eligibility Criteria Procedure Performed Factual Findings Error or Exceptions Identified Use of Proceeds Verification of the projects funded All projects reviewed None Criteria by the sustainability bond in 2017 to complied with the Use of determine if projects aligned with Proceeds criteria. the Use of Proceeds Criteria outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework and above in Table 1. Reporting Criteria Verification of the projects funded All projects reviewed None by the sustainability bond in 2017 to reported on at least one determine if impact of projects was KPI per Use of Proceeds reported in line with the KPIs criteria. outlined in the Sustainability Bond Framework and above in Table 1. For a list of KPIs reported please refer to Appendix 1. 1 Sustainalytics limited assurance process includes reviewing the documentation relating to the details of the projects that have been funded, including description of projects, estimated and realized costs of projects, and project impact, which were provided by the Issuer. The Issuer is responsible for providing accurate information. Sustainalytics has not conducted on-site visits to projects. 2 3 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AGUA 17X SUSTAINABLE BOND REVIEW ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 22 Annual Review Annual Review Rotoplas Rotoplas Disclaimer Sustainalytics © Sustainalytics 2018. All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be Sustainalytics is a leading independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analytics firm reproduced, transmitted or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of that support investors around the world with the development and implementation of responsible investment Sustainalytics. strategies. With 13 offices globally, the firm partners with institutional investors who integrate ESG information and assessments into their investment processes. Spanning 30 countries, the world’s leading The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and issuers, from multinational corporations to financial institutions to governments, turn to Sustainalytics for responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept second-party opinions on green and sustainable bond frameworks. Sustainalytics has been certified by the any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of Climate Bonds Standard Board as a verifier organization, and supports various stakeholders in the this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. development and verification of their frameworks. Global Capital named Sustainalytics the “Most Impressive Second Party Opinion Provider in 2017. In 2018, the firm was recognized as the “Largest External Reviewer” by the Climate Bonds Initiative as well as Environmental Finance. In addition, Sustainalytics received a Special As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that the Mention Sustainable Finance Award in 2018 from The Research Institute for Environmental Finance Japan for information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. its contribution to the growth of the Japanese Green Bond Market. Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ Or contact us info@sustainalytics.com use of proceeds. The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation and monitoring. 4 5 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 23 DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC VALUE (201-1, 201-4) Aside from economic value, at Grupo Rotoplas Throughout this report, we reflect how we create and share value among our stakeholders, while this specific section focuses on the creation and distribution we understand value as a concept encompassing of economic value. Below, we present the value generated, understood as our revenues, and the breakdown of their distribution, including the delivery of social and environmental aspects. Together with compensation and benefits to our collaborators, the acquisition of products within the supply chain, the payment of taxes to the revenue service, and returns to our mission, our business and sustainability models shareholders, among others. also seek to create and distribute value among our The whole pertains to the distributed economic value which, after being subtracted from revenues, reflects the sum that remains as retained value year over year in various stakeholders. the company; therefore, this year, we had a lack of said value. This is because of our bet on reinvesting the value generated in elements that will ensure improved results in the long term, such as R&D, acquisitions, and our collaborators. Given the integration of our annual report, this year we have decided to hone the definition of the various segments of economic value distributed and align the data with the information contained in our consolidated financial statements. Likewise, we have restated 2016 data to offer readers a better understanding of 2017 results. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 24 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (EVG AND EVD) (millions of Mexican pesos) 2016 2017 ∆ 2017-16 (%) Revenues (Economic Value Generated, EVG) 5,353.3 6,660.5 24.4 Costs and Expenses (Economic Value Distributed, EVD) 7,730.4 7,280.5 -5.8 Operating Costs and Expenses 3,844.9 4,768.9 24.0 Salaries and benefits 815.5 959.8 17.7 Payment to Shareholders1 263.2 365.2 38.8 Payments to government (taxes and contributions) 194.2 196.3 1.1 Investment in Research and Development (R&D) 2 33.1 48.9 47.7 Acquisitions 3 2,205.0 581.3 -73.6 Infrastructure investments 370.8 327.6 -11.6 Donations (community) 3.8 32.5 755.3 Retained (EVG-EVD) -2,377.1 -620.0 73.9 1 Not considering the purchase or sale of stocks 2 Not considering salaries, nor depreciation and amortization. 3 In 2016: Talsar, Sytesa, and AIC, in 2017: Sanzfield and e-commerce platform. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / GRUPO ROTOPLAS IN SHORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 25 In 2017, the reconfiguration of our portfolio and hand, in 2017, we invested $581.3 million Mexican the integration of our acquisitions, linked to client pesos in the acquisition of Canadian innovation center openings and reactivations and a better price Sanzfield, and the US e-commerce platform. management, enabled us to expand our revenues by 24.4% vs. 2016. As for the total sum distributed To fulfill the obligations incurred to finance our throughout the year, it decreased by 5.2%, largely operations, we delivered a total of $365.2 million explained by a 73.6% contraction in acquisitions. Mexican pesos throughout the year—a significant 38.8% increase that ensures, in the context of the issuance However, the other distributed value line items of our Sustainable Bond, our commitment to generate increased, with R&D investment standing out economic value for our shareholders. Contrary to 2016, particularly at $48.9 million Mexican pesos; that we received no type of financial aid from the National is, 47.7% higher than in 2016. With $959.8 million Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT for its Mexican pesos, we invested another 17.7% in salaries Spanish acronym). and benefits for our collaborators, mainly due to the integration of the new operations. In turn, with As for donations, while we maintained our donation a minimal increase, we maintained our operating schemes with non-governmental and civil society infrastructure investment, amounting to $327.6 organizations, as well as other specific donations, million Mexican pesos. Those segments reflect our the significant increase was due to the activation of wish to continue to create, produce, market, and our Water for Affected Areas Program (PAZA for its operate water and sanitation solutions that will best Spanish acronym) in response to the earthquakes serve our customers’ and users’ needs. that Mexico suffered in September. This totaled the equivalent to 32.5 million Mexican pesos in donated The existence of the acquisitions segment reveals our solutions. commitment to incorporate existing technologies and solutions, which allows us to constantly improve the way we serve the needs of the water market and thus fulfill our mission “for people to have more and better water”. In 2016, we acquired Talsar in Argentina and Sytesa in Mexico, as well as a stake in AIC in Chile for a total of $2.205 billion Mexican pesos. On the other $32.5 MILLION MEXICAN PESOS IN DONATED SOLUTIONS ANNUAL INFORMEINTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 26 ANUAL INTEGRADO 01 STRATEGY ON STREAM ADHERING TO THE PREMISE “FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE MORE AND BETTER WATER”, WE STRIVE TO GENERATE A POSITIVE IMPACT THAT WILL TRANSCEND OUR OPERATIONS AND CONTRIBUTE TO FOSTER A MORE SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY, FROM A SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND ECONOMIC POINT OF VIEW. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 27 CONTEXT OF THE WATER ISSUE ON A WORLDWIDE LEVEL, WATER IN LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES, THERE IS AN UNEVEN SCARCITY IS ALREADY ONLY 20% OF DISTRIBUTION OF WATER. AFFECTING 4 OUT OF ONLY 10 COUNTRIES CONCENTRATE 60%, WHILE EVERY 10 PEOPLE THE MUNICIPAL THE REST OF THE WORLD REPRESENTS 40% AND INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER 60% GENERATED IS TREATED 40% 10 185 vs BY THE YEAR 2030, WORLD WATER DEMAND IS EXPECTED TO INCREASE countries BY 50%. THIS INCREASE WILL TAKE PLACE MAINLY IN THE CITIES. Sources: Water Facts and Trends, United Nations World Water Development Report, 2017 and ONU-Habitat, 2016. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 28 CONSOLIDATED OUR PARTICIPATION IN EVERY STAGE OF THE WATER CYCLE Now, more than ever, the ongoing increase in demand for freshwater, as Likewise, the 2017 edition of the United Nations World Water Development Thanks to the integration of Sytesa and the acquisition well as the scarcity in water resources, Report notes a significant challenge of Sanzfield, with their corresponding services and present an opportunity to strengthen in managing wastewater sustainably, water handling and management. While as this water is an undervalued source technologies for wastewater treatment, we have the Latin America and Caribbean regions of water, energy, nutrients, and other have significant water resources, the recoverable byproducts. In addition, the consolidated our participation in every stage of Water accelerated population growth in urban report indicates that the improvement areas and the high dependence on of wastewater management generates cycle, and adopted an integrated approach to our hydroelectric energy, which furnishes essential social, environmental, and 60% of the energy, has led these regions economic benefits for sustainable efforts to guarantee that water management and to further pollute most of the rivers development. year after year (UNESCO, 2017)4, with sanitation can ensure the future availability of this economic repercussions, and still more resource. importantly, affecting the inhabitants’ quality of living. 4 United Nations World Water Development Report, “Wastewater: the untapped resource”, 2017. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 29 BUSINESS MODEL AND CORPORATE STRATEGY (103-2, 103-3) Distributors: points of sale devoted to selling At Grupo Rotoplas, the implementation of our products for all-purpose construction, including hardware stores, plumbing, finishes, materials, sustainability model has led to a close link between retailers, and specialized sellers (Government and the needs for water and sanitation in the various builders) (B2I) markets where we participate and the structure of our portfolio. In 2017, through the integration of Direct: including hardware, plumbing, finishes, innovative solutions and new business models, we materials, and retail stores (B2D / B2B). reconfigured our offer of individual and integrated solutions. Organized Sales: including home centers, selfservice stores, department stores, price clubs, and Strengthening the long-term view of our corporate strategy, we began a reflection convenience stores (B2l) about our own purpose, linking our existence to the need to transform living standards through a better use of water. This is why we have updated our 20182020 Strategy to reflect the profound transformation of our company. In 2017, the integration of our recent acquisitions, together with our dual approach to innovation and operating efficiency, resulted in a dynamic portfolio that covers e-commerce: focused on selling our products and critical needs through a range of distribution channels, including e-commerce. services through direct sales and marketplaces (B2B / B2C) Retail: including hardware, plumbing, finishes, materials, and retail stores (B2D / B2B). FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 30 Attending the various water and sanitation needs of the markets throughout Likewise, our portfolio includes segmented Integrated Solutions with installation, the American continent, our portfolio comprises Individual Solutions for water operation, maintenance, and training services, based on the needs of the rural storage, waterflow, and improvement. and urban areas. Individual solutions Integrated solutions Storage Waterflow Improvement Including service Self-sustainable and maintenance Urbanization Low pressure Sanitation and Access to purified Access to health drinking water water Water scarcity Water leaks Pollution of discharges Drinking water Access to scarcity sanitation Intermittent Intermittent Hydration supply supply and health Economic and Obsolete Obsolete environmental costs of Availability of Pollution of infrastructure infrastructure bottled water water discharges Underutilization of wastewater FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 31 6,496,416 We continue to strengthen our position in water In 2017, together with our collaborators, we continued treatment and recycling; on a commercial level, to evolve in the way we do business, focusing on water we treat over 6,496,416 m3 through Sytesa, which as a service. In order to better serve our customers’ specializes in the construction of wastewater and users’ needs, our solutions integrate installation, M3 OF TREATED WASTEWATER treatment plants, as well as in their operation and maintenance, and training services. Some examples maintenance. In turn, Sanzfield complements our of this are the Purified Water Service platform, the business growth strategy at the residential level. e-commerce platform, and the wastewater treatment Specializing in the development of water treatment and recycling service that Sytesa offers, all of which and recycling systems, it uses technologies to remove are explained in the chapter on Applied Innovation. organic matter from wastewater, without generating solid waste. In addition, this year we are expanding our This acquisition drives forth our commitment to contribution throughout the water cycle, generating trigger the development of technologies to improve value through the three aspects of sustainability the population’s access to water and sanitation, as (economic, environmental, and social). Proof of we have been doing with the Plasma Water Sanitation this is our acknowledgement as Greenbrand, which System (PWSS) developed by AIC. is awarded by Superbrands for the launch of new On a Group level, we manage these and other products, such as the Urban Rainwater Harvesting projects through three platforms based on the PMI5 System, and for our commitment to sustainability. methodology: ·· Optimiza: to manage projects that seek an Our performance in sustainability, was acknowledged improvement in our traditional business processes with our entry into the Dow Jones Sustainability and the development of our capabilities, to boost MILA Pacific Alliance6 index as one of the 12 Mexican what we currently do. companies included in it, is also remarkable. ·· Project Management Office (PMO): manages high impact, investment-intensive projects with strategic relevance that are key to the Company’s evolution, to boost its growth. ·· Rotoplas Labs: manages project development using exponential organization practices, to generate disruptive innovations. ·· 5 Project Management Institute 6 Also known as the MILA sustainability index. This index belongs to the Dow Jones sustainability índices and comprises the 40 “best in class” companies in the region. The MILA comprises the stock exchanges of the countries that integrate the Pacific Alliance: Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 32 GRUPO ROTOPLAS INDIVIDUAL AND INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS IN THE WATER CYCLE Rotoplas Presence Municipal Water Shallow Agriculture WPP WWTP Residential Industrial Recreational Desalinisation waters Comercial Institutional Ground Water In the context of the Company’s transformation and the integration of our recent Way Month” for the second consecutive year, this time including operating acquisitions, the Rotoplas Way and its four pillars (Strategy, Culture, Processes, personnel. and Corporate Governance) have bolstered the way we work, playing a key role in our evolution. This corporate identity model is supported by the contributions This macro-activity comprises on-site talks, and videoconferences by internal from our collaborators. Thus, the Managing Committee decided to evolve it, experts and Top Management, as well as various recreational activities on focusing on four main topics: our three platforms to manage projects (Optimiza, Strategy, Culture, Processes, and Corporate Governance issues. PMO, and Labs), the management of the talent cycle, the Service Model, and the Sustainability Model. For this purpose, in addition to incorporating key messages, Throughout the month, the overall participation averaged 85% of the holding quarterly informational meetings, and carrying out communication collaborators, in turn 85% of whom declared that they learned and are now well campaigns on the various strategic topics, we decided to carry out the “Rotoplas acquainted with what the Rotoplas Way is. Source: United Nations World Water Development Report FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 33 SUSTAINABILITY MODEL AND PROGRESS ACHIEVED (102-13, 102-16, 102-18, 102-21) At Grupo Rotoplas, we define Social Responsibility as the direct and indirect effects on society and the environment resulting from the Company’s economic activity, and which lead to activities and programs to bolster the positive impacts and reduce the negative ones to contribute to sustainable development. Likewise, we understand sustainability as the result of executing the organizational strategy to create and distribute economic, social, and environmental value for the company and its stakeholders, ensuring the present benefits without compromising our capacity to generate and distribute results for future generations. Aware of the existence of a wide range of initiatives that foster sustainability, we have identified those which are aligned with our corporate strategy and mission to add to the achievement of their corresponding goals. A clear example is the United Nations 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), to which we contribute both directly (SDGs n° 6 and n°9) and indirectly (SDG n°3, n°4, and n°5)7. This understanding led us to design our Sustainability Model and its four focal points. The model is conceived as a flow triggered by innovation and materializing with our team through the business models that we continue to develop, the operations that foster an ongoing improvement of our processes, and the solutions that constantly serve customers’ and user’s water and sanitation needs better. Focal point 1: Corporate Sustainability Governance Focal point 2: Collaborative innovation with purpose Focal point 3: Driving economic and social development Focal point 4: Safeguarding water as a resource for the future 7 Goal n°6: Ensure access to water and sanitation for all; Goal n° 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation; Goal n°3: Ensure a healthy life and to promote wellbeing for all at all ages; Goal n°4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning; Goal n°5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 34 Our focal points enable us to prioritize our initiatives, and from them come a series of lines of Structure of action aimed at the 2020 horizon, where we have the Sustainability already obtained the first results. Committee Corporate Practices and The Sustainability Committee is responsible for Strategy Committee implementing and keeping our Model updated, as well as aligned to the corporate strategy, through monthly monitoring sessions. Chaired by the VicePresident of Institutional Development, and cochaired by a member of the Board of Directors (CFO), the Committee is a representative body of our stakeholders. Its composition is multidisciplinary, as it comprises the Strategy, Human Capital, VP Institutional Bussines CFO Institutional Relations, Government Relations, Legal, Development Investor Relations, Quality, Marketing, and Innovation departments. Likewise, we have incorporated representatives from each of the countries where we have operations to drive the implementation of the Sustainability Model throughout the Group and focus on developing initiatives that are suited to the context of each Country. The Sustainability Committee reports its performance on a quarterly basis to the Corporate Sustainability Practices and Strategy Committee, which in turn Strategy reports to the Board of Directors. Argentina Brazil Central America Mexico Peru Sytesa Human Quality Innovation Legal Strategy Capital Institutional Procurement Marketing Investor Government Relations Relations Relations FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 35 In line with the first focal point defined in our worked on the communication and understanding of Sustainability Model, “Corporate sustainability our Sustainability Model. Through a series of online governance”, we have published a Sustainability policy courses, we sensitized our collaborators and led them and a decalogue to ensure its application throughout to commit, adding a total of 208 participants. our operations. We continue to work on formalizing a management system based on ISO 26000, which With regard to the external communication of our will imply constant monitoring and implementation economic, environmental, social, and corporate of relevant indicators and initiatives. This system will governance performance, we added to our annual enable us to consolidate the sustainability and value Integrated Report a sustainability website, and we generation for our stakeholders, as well as for our own are preparing a release on our contribution to the evolution. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which will be available in the first half of 20188. Convinced that social responsibility is to be equally exercised by everyone at our Company, and that our daily work must focus on sustainability, in 2017, we 8 We continue to work on our contribution to the SDGs; the document will be available at the following address: https://rotoplas.com/sustentabilidad/objetivos-de-desarrollo-sostenible/ FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 36 Below, we present the main results and key initiatives of 2017, divided by focal point. FOCAL POINT 1 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Alignment of the Publication of the Preparation of a Consolidation of our sustainability strategy to sustainability strategy Sustainability Policy and a Sustainabilty Committee’s the 2018-2020 corporate Sustainability decalogue structure strategy Encouraging the internal Creation of a sustainability Adherence to the Global Inclusion of the sustainability culture via website to broadcast our Compact sustainability strategy an internal communication progress and performance in the external strategy on this matter communication strategy Internal communication Including sustainability Nomination to Collaborator sensitization channel on sustainability in introductory course for sustainability indices: DJSI campaign via webinars new collaborators MILA regarding the sustainability model FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 37 FOCAL POINT 2 COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION WITH PURPOSE Measurement of the water Measurement of the carbon Development of our Incorporation of recycled footprint of our products’ footprint of our products’ emissions inventory resins lifecycle according to ISO lifecycle according to ISO according ISO 14064, 14046 14064 scope 1, 2 and 3. Issuance of Sustainability Increase in consumption Hygiene, Safety, and Rotoplas Way Month Bond, first of its kind in of energy from renewable Environmental Policy Latin America sources Extending the Code of Pilot projects with Design of the $48.9 million Mexican pesos Ethics to suppliers Rotoplas solutions Innovation Policy invested in research and development Consolidation of the 3 Acquisition of Canadian Partnership with university Promotion of internal project management innovation center institutions and research innovation culture via platforms that enable us Sanzfield centers through the signing online courses to evolve the Rotoplas of 13 agreements Way 2.0: Optimiza, Project Management Office (PMO), and Rotoplas Labs FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 38 FOCAL POINT 3 DRIVING ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 2,850 Drinking water fountains Alliance with Dow to build Creation of Committee Development of the Social installed throughout sustainable housing in to manage the Water for Value Creation Model the Mexican Republic, the Sierra Tarahumara of Affected Areas Program and measurement of the benefiting over half a Chihuahua (PAZA) in response to the impact of our integrated million children and earthquakes experienced solutions teenagers in Mexico throughout 2017, totaling 24 million Mexican pesos in aid through donations in kind to Mexico City, Chiapas, the State of Mexico, Morelos, Puebla, and Oaxaca FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 39 FOCAL POINT 4 SAFEGUARDING WATER AS A RESOURCE FOR THE FUTURE Collaborative research Creation of the Rotoplas Inclusion, in the On We boosted Sytesa’s with Universidad Volunteer Network and boarding course, of visits operations and offer of Iberoamericana on the of the first volunteer to plants and communities solutions, contributing uses and habits of water activities to lend support where our solutions are to sensitize society consumption in Latin after the September 19 installed, to sensitize regarding the treatment of America earthquake and transform our wastewater and recycle of collaborators into the water ambassadors of a new culture that values water and end users’ experiences Participation in 14 waterrelated forums and events to foster and spread the water awareness FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 40 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) At Grupo Rotoplas, we value and promote collaboration and dialogue as the guiding We are highly convinced that the interaction and participation of our stakeholders axes of our relations with our stakeholders. We are aware that the Company’s is essential to keep generating and distributing value. Likewise, in addition to growth and leadership in the various markets where we participate is the result of our website and the release of our annual Integrated Report, we have a series of a sound network of relations and efforts with our customers, collaborators, and specific channels, platforms, and tools for each group, encouraging dialog and suppliers, as well as with the financial community, authorities, regulators, and the feedback with a focus on openness and on listening. community in general. The definition of these groups is the result of our process to denominate and validate key players. Their prioritization is determined based on their level of involvement and relevance to the Company’s activities and enables us to detect those issues that are relevant to them. Stakeholders Communication channels Relevant topics ·· Satisfaction survey ·· Product quality ·· Distributors ·· CSC (Customer Service ·· Product advertising and promotion Customers ·· Government entities Center) ·· Access to water and sanitation ·· End user ·· Avenues for complaints ·· Training of solution users for better use (telephone and website) ·· Product and service quality ·· Organizational climate survey ·· Corporate social network: ·· Part-time: developing ·· Ethics and anticorruption practices R-Connect professionals and interns ·· Training and career development opportunities Collaborators ·· Full time: workers, ·· Avenues for complaints ·· Safety and health in the work environment (telephone, website, including union members ·· Processes and improvement initiatives intranet) ·· Company’s quarterly results Presentation FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / STRATEGY ON STREAM ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 41 Stakeholders Communication channels Relevant topics ·· Annual assessment ·· Raw materials and ·· External surveys ·· Swiftness and efficiency in the relations with the company Suppliers services suppliers ·· Avenues for complaints ·· Ethics and anticorruption practices (telephone and website) ·· Board of Directors ·· Strategy, growth and consolidation plan ·· Audit committee ·· Innovation model ·· Corporate Practices and ·· Meetings (monthly or ·· Risk assessment, audits, and compliance Board of Directors Strategy Committee quarterly, as may be the ·· Best Corporate Governance practices and its internal bodies ·· Compensations case) ·· Compliance with the guidelines provided for a public company Committee ·· Collaborator attraction, training, and retention ·· Sustainability Committee ·· Proposing and monitoring of sustainability initiatives and indicators. ·· Meetings ·· Investors ·· Conference calls ·· Financial and operating results ·· Financial institutions ·· Annual and quarterly ·· Risks and opportunities Financial community ·· Rating agencies reports ·· Organic and inorganic growth ·· E-mail ·· Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and National Banking and Securities ·· Quarterly and annual ·· Economic results Authorities and Commission (CNBV) reports (BMV and CNBV) ·· Risk management regulatory bodies ·· Tax authorities of each ·· Monthly tax reports (fiscal ·· Compliance with fiscal obligations country authorities) ·· Management of labor obligations and compliance status ·· Ministry of Labor and Social Security (STPS) ·· Product quality ·· Forums in which Rotoplas ·· User training on solutions for better acceptance ·· Non-governmental participates ·· Impact of solutions on beneficiaries (household economics, health, and education) organizations ·· Fan del Agua Digital ·· Collaboration plans ·· University platform www.fandelagua. ·· Focus on the Group’s innovation and investment in this aspect ·· Community in general com ·· Access to water and sanitation, and impact of solutions Community ·· Mass media ·· Social media ·· Practices for rational water consumption and impact ·· Chambers and ·· Website: www.rotoplas. ·· Business performance and evolution (including new solutions, company acquisitions, and associations com collaboration initiatives) ·· Impact of solutions on social and economic development. ANNUAL INFORMEINTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 42 ANUAL INTEGRADO 02 INNOVATION THAT FLOWS WE SEEK TO OFFER HIGH-QUALITY INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS THAT WILL ACHIEVE THE GOAL—FOR PEOPLE TO HAVE MORE AND BETTER WATER—AND WE HAVE A BROAD PORTFOLIO INCLUDING BOTH INDIVIDUAL AND INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 43 CONNECTING INNOVATION WITH PEOPLE (103-2, 103-3) At Grupo Rotoplas we strive constantly to keep In the understanding that innovation implies the creation, collection, and exchange of value, we are formalizing our Innovation Policy, which will be released in 2018. evolving to bolster the connection between In order to offer effective solutions to the issues of water and sanitation, and to tackle capabilities and technologies and the public that new business opportunities on a large scale, we continue to consolidate the structure of our Innovation Department, integrating the qualified talent of 43 collaborators. needs water and sanitation solutions. In 2017, we destined a total of $48.9 million Mexican pesos to our innovation projects—47.7% more than a year earlier9. After investing in 2016 in Chile’s Advanced Innovation flows through our business processes and models, guiding the Innovation Center (AIC) and boosting the Plasma Water Sanitation System (PWSS)10 configuration and expansion of our solutions portfolio. We achieve this through technology, in 2017 we acquired Canadian innovation center Sanzfield. This acquisition work platforms, fostering our collaborators’ creative thinking, technology complements our growth strategy for the water treatment and recycling business and development and acquisition, disruptive solutions, and the adoption of new enables us to work on solutions to the problem of underutilization of wastewater11. business models; this also enables us to bring greater efficiency to our processes Sanzfield develops water treatment and recycling systems, which use technologies that and operations. can remove organic matter from wastewater, without generating solid waste. On a Group level, we manage different types of projects and initiatives and the necessary financial, human, and material resources through our three platforms based on the PMI methodology. 9 In 2017, we matured our classification of the segments of economic value distributed, implying the restatement of the data presented in our Annual Integrated Report 2016. You will find greater details in the section on Economic Value Distribution in the chapter on Economic Results. 10 Plasma Water Sanitation System (PWSS) makes it possible to purify 100% of the water polluted with organic matter and recognized internationally for its potential impact on global public health. 11 The underutilization of wastewater is the challenge stated in the 2017 edition of the United Nations World Water Development Report. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 44 PROJECT MANAGEMENT PLATFORMS (102-13) Platform Goal Main results in 2017 ·· Launch of new solutions, including ·· Tuboplus Fortech-CT® pipe ·· Drinking water fountain Platform to manage projects that seek to improve our traditional ·· Water purifier and alkalinizer Optimiza business processes and the development of our capabilities, to ·· Minimal Cost enhance what we currently do. ·· Go to Market ·· Exploring cross-sale and geographic expansion opportunities for the portfolio ·· Brand positioning and new brand architecture ·· Process optimization and budget models Platform to manage high impact, investment-intensive projects with ·· Integration of acquisitions Project Management strategic relevance that are key to the Company’s evolution, to boost ·· Sustainability strategy Office (PMO) growth ·· Service model ·· Purified Drinking Water Service ·· Sanzfield Platform to manage innovation project development using disruptive ·· AIC Rotoplas Labs practices of exponential organizations, to generate disruptive ·· Drinking fountain 3.1 innovations. ·· Vertical Water Storage System ·· IoT database Convinced that our collaborators play a key role in the process of innovation, we decided to foster an internal culture of creative thinking and exchange of good practices among the various areas and countries where we have operations. We also seek to foster this culture of innovation among our external audiences, participating in innovation forums and events. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 45 MOVING TOWARDS NEW BUSINESS MODELS As a natural evolution, we continue to integrate a service approach in our portfolio, years, ensuring the quality of the water supplied by our drinking water fountains. as well as in our way of doing business. In 2017, we strengthened our integrated Aware of the importance of the adoption and appropriation of our solutions, we solutions platform adding maintenance services. have established dialogues with various institutions to foster post-sales training and beneficiaries’ sensitization. Such is the case with our residential and institutional water purifiers where, in response to the trends observed on the markets, instead of offering a product, In 2017, we confirmed our focus on providing solutions through a mixed business we are proposing a subscription to Purified Drinking Water Services, which include model that streamlines and boosts our product and service mix, keeping the purifier, its installation, and the maintenance service. This innovative solution customers’ needs in the spotlight, to provide innovative water and sanitation contributes to reduce the use of plastic for jugs or bottles, as well as ensuring a solutions. suitable water quality for human consumption. In a context where technology affects customers’ habits, we continue to explore e-commerce opportunities for the whole operation. One of them is the recent acquisition of the leading US platform specializing in the online marketing of water solutions. With it, we seek to benefit from the experience, synergy generation, and good practices to contribute to the development and growth of this and other services in the various markets where we participate. Among other benefits, this platform allows us to make inroads into new sales and distribution channels, aligning to consumers’ new buying habits, which contributes to their loyalty to our brand. This platform comprises companies Plasticwatertanks.com, P-M.com, and Nautical Outfitters, and creates a hybrid business combining online and brick & mortar stores. On the other hand, acquired in 2016, Sytesa drives forth the supply of wastewater treatment and recycling services. In order to strengthen its business model, in 2017, we worked together with the Human Capital Department to develop our collaborators and acquire skills focused on service excellence. We also seek to highlight the added value of the range of services offered, compared to more basic services, or those requiring the client to operate the water treatment and recycling plant themselves. Our drinking water fountain line offers an integrated service comprising installation, water quality analysis, maintenance, and training. Thus, the contracts signed with government agencies consider a monthly maintenance service for 2 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 46 SOLUTIONS FOR NOW AND FOR THE FUTURE (103-2, 103-3, 203-1) Our innovation strategy and the initiatives implemented throughout the various work platforms enable us to have a broad portfolio of solutions that meet key water and sanitation requirements in the countries where we have operations. In 2017, we launched 12 new solutions to complement our individual and integrated solutions portfolio, developed in our R&D center (CID for its Spanish acronym) in Leon, Mexico. Within our waterflow solutions line, we can note Tuboplus FortechCT® pipes, for instance, whereas the 3.0 Drinking Water Fountain enriches our integrated solutions offer. Individual solutions Storage Waterflow Improvement ·· Tri-layer Tank (USA) ·· Tuboplus Threaded ·· Water purifier and ·· Fill valve (MX) Valves alkalinizer ·· Water Tank 1500 (LATAM) ·· Tuboplus Fortech-CT® ·· Family-Orchard-Type ·· Cistern (LATAM) pipe Agricultural Irrigation ·· Slim Line Tank (LATAM) System ·· Water Box (Brazil) ·· Urban Rainwater Harvesting System FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 47 Integrated solutions With maintenance service ·· Drinking fountain 3.1 Aside from the current makeup of our portfolio, innovation encourages us to work on those solutions that could narrow the gap between people who have access to water and sanitation and those who don’t. In addition to the ongoing innovation carried out in the CID, the collaboration with AIC Chile, and the projects that our new innovation center Sanzfield has implemented, we are also working together with universities and research centers to develop, assess, and validate technology (Universities in Columbia, Texas, and Utah), as well as to develop pilot programs (Universities of Marquette, Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Massachusetts, Stanford, and Caltech). All this is reflected in the signing of 13 research and collaboration agreements in 2017, totaling 43 of these in 6 countries. The development of pilot projects for testing and validating the estimated impact of our solutions, as well as to detect improvement opportunities in our products, is essential in the Company’s innovation process. Throughout this year, several prototypes of the Sanzfield research, innovation, and development projects were installed; we will continue monitoring the results of the project to integrate our findings and keep maturing these technologies. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 48 OPERATIONS: QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY (102-9, 103-2, 103-3, 203-2, 204-1, 301-1, 301-2, 416-1, 417-1) The quality of our customer-centered products and The materials used to manufacture our products are mainly polyethylene and polypropylene resins. In 2017, we consumed a total of 51,109 tons of these services is our main commitment. We work with materials, translating into a 6.8% increase compared to the figure for 2016. However, we continue to opt for reusing the plastic that results as waste from our strict adherence to our Quality Policy, offering a roto-molding and injection processes. Its reintegration meets our safety standards, ensuring that our customers and users receive the best quality products, while portfolio that meets the highest standards and reducing our waste generation. In 2017, we used a total of 5,852 tons of recycled materials in our processes, translating into a 40.1% increase compared to 2016. regulations issued by the regulatory authorities of Our focus on quality is complemented by timely and transparent communication the countries where we have operations. with our customers and users. For our overall solutions, we adhere to the corresponding standards for the various countries where we have operations, Our plants have quality management systems designed in line with standard ISO striving to comply with the disclosure requirements of each one. In addition, 9001, and 12 of our plants in Mexico, Guatemala, and Peru are certified. On the we have a communication strategy that defines and unifies the communication other hand, our plants in Argentina and Brazil operate following the requirements messages and tone for our institutional brand and our various business lines, of this standard. In 2017, we worked on implementing updates to said standard to ensuring their effectiveness for the segment to which they are destined. comply with its 2015 version. The evolution of our business model and our focus on service encourage us To monitor compliance with our policies and guidelines, as well as the to outdo our customers’ and users’ expectations by focusing on constant specifications of the rules and standards applied in management and to the improvement. Thus, our Customer Service Center (CSC) carries out a survey products, we carry out internal audits coordinated by the Quality Department, as to monitor the satisfaction levels for the various solutions that we offer on a well as external audits, carried out by specialized third parties. quarterly basis. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 49 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RESULTS 2016 AND 201712 2016 2017 93% 83% NA13 Mexico Argentina Brazil 93% 89% 87% 86% 77% 95% Central OF THE PRODUCT IN MEXICO America Peru 85% 83% 95% OF THE VENDOR SERVICE IN CENTRAL AMERICA 12 Customer satisfaction is assessed on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 is the lowest rating and 10 the highest. Percentages of satisfied customers consider ratings between 7 to 10 for both halves of 2016 and 2017. 13 In 2017, the satisfaction survey was not carried out in Brazil, mainly due to the context of the operations. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 50 On a group level, the indicators with the largest increases were: delivery service, vendor service, and advertising support; another still on an uptrend is the returns indicator. Nonetheless, we must continue to work on the processes that encourage repeat purchases and recommendations of our brand. The emphasis we place on our product quality pervades our whole supply chain. Our raw materials suppliers, and particularly those who provide us with resins, are key in ensuring the safety and quality of the final product. In 2017, we destined $4.278 billion Mexican pesos to suppliers, as a result of an increase in sales, as well as a significant hike in raw material prices and transportation costs compared to 2016. In line with our business model, which favors manufacturing near the destination market to minimize shipping distances, we continue to prefer local supplies. In 2017, 81.5% of spending went to local suppliers, increasing by 16% from the previous year. In order to ensure that our products achieve maximum quality and get delivered in an optimal time, we develop and train our suppliers with a focus on incorporating best practices. This is why, in 2017, we provided a total of 2,152 courses to train and develop 17,894 people including plumbers, vendors, and installers. Moreover, we worked together with the Mexican Ministry of Education (SEP for its Spanish acronym) to train and Spending certify plumbers in the country. The CONOCER certification, which has curricular 39.7% 37.3% value, aims to strengthen the skills and knowledge of the plumber community, Others on suppliers Materials opening doors to new job opportunities. This year, a total of 205 plumbers were 2017 certified as “Water Solutions Consultants”. 2.9% Professional fees 0.5% Equipment 1.6% Technology 18% Services FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 51 OPERATING EFFICIENCY (302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7, 306-2, 306-4) At Grupo Rotoplas, we adhere to processes. Our work methodology is based on We need electricity, liquefied petroleum gas (L.P. gas) and natural gas for our rotoidentifying and mapping these processes to then foster their adoption among molding, milling, extrusion, and injection processes; the roto-molding process our collaborators. Process implementation enables coordination during the consumes 75.5% of the total energy required in our processes. development of activities, provides greater operating efficiency, and allows for operating cost and expense reduction. This approach is strengthened through minimal cost and optimal expense initiatives, based on the Plan-Do-CheckAct methodology (PDCA). This initiative enables us to identify breaches in cost ENERGY CONSUMPTION MAIN PROCESSES (KWh) and expenditure accounts to manage them in matrix form and achieve their Process Source 2016 2017 optimization. The methodology pertains to the Supply, Human Resources, and Financial Planning departments, as well as to the managers of every other Extrusion, ·· Electricity 32,200,953 42,144,28415 injection, and department in the Company. milling Roto-molding ·· Natural gas 113,228,799 129,642,667 16 The ongoing improvement and operating efficiency guide our solutions’ productive ·· LPG processes, from selecting and supplying raw materials to marketing our products. ·· Electricity Proper demand planning is essential; therefore, sales forecasts for the following months and our capacity in terms of machinery and inputs are all taken into account. The next step is to prepare a production plan to distribute the workload among the various plants and set timeframes. As the products are released, their distribution must be coordinated, considering client requirements and available inventory, and coordinating their shipping through third parties. 14% 28% In the various stages, we strive to achieve efficient resource utilization, including L.P. Gas Electricity energy, as well as to reduce emissions and waste generation, opting for forms of recycling. With regard to production, we monitor our various plants to identify good practices and replicate them throughout our operations. ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2017 We should note that we have environmental management systems adhering to MAIN PROCESSES standard ISO 14001, under which three of our plants in Mexico and Peru14 are certified; however, the rest of our plants function in accordance with the guidelines of this standard. 58% Natural Gas 14 We have environmental management systems certified under ISO 14001 at our plants in Lerma, State of Mexico, Leon, Guanajuato, and Lima (Peru). 15 Includes the consumption of electricity at Rotopinsa Lerma, Rotopinsa Leon (90% of the total consumption at the Leon plant) and Compuestos Monterrey. 16 Includes only consumption of natural and L.P. gas for the roto-molding machines FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 52 In 2017, our energy consumption increased by 18.1% compared to 2016, given a Striving to find out the effects of our operations during the distribution stage, we 51.6%17 hike in the amount of processed resin in our plants. As for our energy included the GHG emissions from shipping vehicles used for product distribution, efficiency, the need for 1,623 KWh18 per ton of resin that we processed in 2017 totaling 17,671 tons of CO2e emissions during 2017. translated into a 28.4% decrease compared to the energy required a year earlier. In addition to calculating our GHG emissions, we calculated the emissions of other The decrease in the amount of energy required per ton of processed resin reflects harmful gases into the atmosphere, generated by the combustion of natural and the actions implemented to reduce our electricity, natural gas, and LP gas LP gas in our roto-molding process. As a result of this calculation, we arrived at a consumption as part of the minimal-cost initiative implemented in our plants in total of 30.44 tons of nitric oxide (NOx) and 1.65 tons of particulate matter (PM). Mexico, Peru, Brazil, and Guatemala. In addition to calculating our GHG emissions, we sought to find out the potential impact that a selection of our products could have throughout their lifecycle on We carried out our first Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG) inventory, following the global warming. To find out these effects, we are carrying out a Carbon Footprint guidelines of the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol from the World Business study, based on standard ISO 14067: 2013, whose results will be available in 2018. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI), tallying a total emission of 48,530 tons of CO2e, which translates into an emissions intensity of 0.46 ton of CO2e per ton of processed resin. WASTE GENERATED Tons GHG EMISSIONS (ton CO2e) Category 2016 2017 Process 2016 19 201720 Hazardous 48.70 102.97 Scope 1 emissions 21,954 27,468 Special handling 147.00 267.00 Scope 2 emissions 14,417 21,063 Urban solid waste 662.13 516.80 Scope 3 emissions Not available 17,671 Total 857.82 886.77 82% Moreover, we opt for using clean energy sources, such as electric energy from cogeneration, which is supplied to our extrusion, milling, and injection processes and represents 82.2% of the total electricity destined to production. This technology enabled us to avoid the emission of 6,888 tons of CO2e throughout 2017. OF THE ELECTRICITY COMES FROM CLEAN ENERGY SOURCES 17 For the Rotopinsa Leon and Lerma plants, we consider the quantity of resin purchased and resin processed. 18 Considering energy consumption in extrusion, injection, milling, and roto-molding processes. 19 Considering only energy consumption in extrusion, injection, milling, and roto-molding processes. 20 Considering all sources of emissions at the facilities under Grupo Rotoplas’ operational control. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / INNOVATION THAT FLOWS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 53 We separate waste at our plants, complying with the conditions for storing it, per our internal procedures related to our environmental management system. Next, they are delivered to companies authorized for their transport and management. 8.8% 39.7% Thus, hazardous waste is deposited in regulated secure landfills. For nonhazardous Other Municipal (tank cars) waste, we look for recovery opportunities, destining them to companies that see to their recycling. WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE 2017 48.3% 3.3% DISPOSAL OF WASTE GENERATED IN 2017 TONS Groundwaters Surface Co-processing 59.5 Waters Incineration 10.8 Landfill 462.1 Recycling 270.0 Final disposal 1.7 In addition to calculating the water consumption of our operations, we seek to find Other 82.7 out the potential impact that a selection of our products could have throughout Total 886.77 their lifecycle on the resource that is at the core of our business: water. To find out these effects, we are carrying out a Water Footprint study, based on standard ISO 14046: 2014, whose results will be available in 2018. While our processes are not particularly water-intensive, we work on optimizing our use of it as part of our commitment with a culture of rational use of water resources. In 2017, we required 106,726,000 liters and recycled 22.3%. The increase in water consumption compared to 2016 reflects the variation in sales and production between both periods. WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE (LITERS) Municipal 42,334,000 Surface waters 3,555,000 Groundwater 51,497,000 Other (tank cars) 9,340,000 ANNUAL INFORMEINTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 54 ANUAL INTEGRADO 03 EVERY DROP MATTERS AT GRUPO ROTOPLAS, WE ARE COMMITTED WITH TALENT AND ENCOURAGE A GOOD ENVIRONMENT FOR OPERATION, FOSTERING THE EMPOWERMENT OF OUR TEAMS AND THE GENERATION OF SPACES TO FAVOR COMMUNICATION. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 55 STAFF DESCRIPTION (102-8, 102-41, 103-2, 103-3, 201-3, 401-1, 401-2, 403-2, 405-1) At Grupo Rotoplas we grow hand in hand with our collaborators, focusing our efforts on their empowerment and strengthening critical skills that will enable them, together with the right technological tools, to make effective decisions in line with the corporate strategy. Present in 14 countries, we are enriched by the mindset and cultural diversity of our staff and foster an environment of creativity and innovation to fulfill our mission “For people to have more and better water”. In 2017, as a result of our acquisitions in the US and Canada, we added new talents to our great team, totaling 2,898 collaborators—2.4% more than in the previous year. The integration of Sytesa, Talsar, and AIC in 2016, and of the e-commerce platform and Canadian lab Sanzfield is part of the company’s evolution towards a dual approach to water and sanitation solutions, including products and services. This evolution challenges us, demanding a flexible and streamlined structure, adapted to the needs of each business. 2,849 + 47 Collaborators Collaborators + 2 Collaborators Grupo Rotoplas E-commerce Sanzfield FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 56 Aside from employment generation, we seek to offer our collaborators employment opportunities that will include stability and a growth outlook, with a total of 76.6% of our collaborators on permanent contracts—more than a 6-point increase vs. 2016. Committed with job schemes adapted to our collaborators’ needs, we also offer part-time employment contracts to 1.4% of our staff. Despite a slight increase in women’s share of middle management positions, standing at 24.7%, their overall share decreased so they now stand for 22.2% of the whole staff. This leads us to focus more on maintaining a talent attraction strategy that highlights equal opportunities. Thus, over the next few years, we will continue to work on the integration and development of female talent throughout the job categories. Within the context of our business model’s evolution and of the emphasis placed on the Water as a Service strategy, we are betting on young talent, which comprises 4% of our collaborators aged 30 or under and holding executive positions. In addition to our cultural diversity, we believe that the interaction of various generations encourages innovation, which is a key element behind our leadership position in offering water and sanitation solutions. Committed to the fundamental rights of our collaborators, we respect the right of association, with 38% of collaborators affiliated to one of the 10 unions that represent their interests and with whom we maintain an ongoing communication. 22% OF THE WHOLE STAFF ARE WOMEN FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 57 EMPLOYMENT DEMOGRAPHICS OF GRUPO ROTOPLAS 21 2016 2017 2,851 No. of collaborators 2,241 % of permanent contracts % of women 22.2% 25.8% 76.6% 71.8% COLLABORATORS BY COUNTRY GRUPO ROTOPLAS 2015 2016 2017 2,238 1,684 82 214 289 106 86 102 115 117 39 49 2 Central America Mexico Brazil Argentina Peru USA Canada 1,643 94 253 89 116 46 21 Labor demographics data for 2016, divided into different variables, did not include the Sytesa and AIC operations. The 2017 labor demographics breakdown, divided into different variables, includes Sytesa, as well as Canadian lab Sanzfield, leaving out AIC as Rotoplas is not the majority owner, and also leaving out the US e-commerce platform, given that it is undergoing the integration process. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 58 COLLABORATORS BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER GRUPO ROTOPLAS 164 640 413 1,339 56 239 804 + 1,752 + 295 = 633 2,218 2,851 -30 years old 30 to 50 years old +50 years old WOMEN MEN TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY, GENDER, AND AGE GROUP GRUPO ROTOPLAS 84.0% 16.0% 75.3% 24.7% Men Women Men Women 50 Executives 4.0% 296 Middle 77.8% MEN 22.2% WOMEN 7.1% -30 years old managers -30 years old 78.0% 18.0% 82.1% 10.8% 28.2% 2,851 30 to 50 +50 years old 30 to 50 +50 years old -30 years old years old years old TOTAL 73.7% 26.3% 80.0% 20.0% Men Women Men Women 26.5% 33.4% 801 Individual -30 years old 1,704 -30 years old 61.5% 30 to 50 10.3% +50 years old contributors Operators years old 67.7% 5.9% 54.5% 12.1% 30 to 50 +50 years old 30 to 50 +50 years old years old years old FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 59 Aware of the challenge implied by the sustained growth of our operations, we Aside from having competitive remuneration, we are committed with our strive to attract and retain qualified talent capable of connecting with our mission, collaborators’ safety and health, strengthening the safety culture among our staff supported by our leaders under a joint responsibility approach. In addition, and through sensitization talks focused on joint responsibility. The whole of our plants with an integrated vision, we tackle the issue of retention through training, seeking has an annual training program and the “Do Your Share” campaign. The general to grow our talent and offer them an environment with development opportunities. goal of this campaign is to create awareness among our collaborators, particularly In 2017, we hired 1,210 new collaborators, 364 of them under permanent contracts, operations staff, regarding hygiene, health, safety, and the environment as it which translated into a 50% increase in hiring. Mexico remains the country of seeks, specifically, to reduce the number of incapacitating accidents, following the operation with the most integration of new talent (1,032), followed by Argentina guidelines of the EHS management model. Moreover, the Lerma and Leon plants, (77) and the US (51). The hiring of female and young talent (under 30) also as well as those in the US and Peru, have a management system that follows increased, each standing for 23.6% and 56% of the hirings, respectively. The standard OHSAS 18001. increase in hiring during 2017 is partly due to the completion of the integration of Sytesa in Mexico, as well as to the generation of new positions within this operation. Lastly, we began working on incorporating the staff of our US e-commerce platform. With regard to voluntary severance of our collaborators with SECURITY AND HEALTH INDICATORS GRUPO ROTOPLAS permanent contracts, we noted a slight increase, with turnover22 reaching 17.5% of the staff. 2015 2016 2017 N° of minor injuries 92 70 95 The implementation of a better segmented compensations system that offers N° of occupational illnesses 0 6 1 differentiated benefits based on the various profiles that make up our staff is N° of casualties 0 0 0 further proof of our commitment with both the potential and current talent. As for remuneration, we seek to offer competitive options, considering performance N° of days lost due to injury 1,298 999 1,164 and internal equality criteria. 28.5% of our staff receive variable remuneration, Accident rate 23 6.69 6.72 5.13 from our executives and middle management to division managers, as well as the departments related to commercial activity and strategic decision making (quality, logistics, finance, and new business). We should note that the variable remuneration of our executives and middle management includes sustainability In order to continue to improve year after year and offer safe environments indicators and initiatives, mainly for the Committee members. that favor development, we encourage communication and feedback, providing our collaborators with platforms such as our corporate social media network Likewise, there is no difference between the benefits awarded to our full-time, R-Connect, our Roto-Enlace newsletter, and the intranet. Likewise, we implemented part-time, and temporary collaborators, including those benefits that go beyond the Great Place to Work survey throughout our LATAM operations to learn our the legal requirements of the various countries where we have operations: life staff’s expectations and concerns. In 2017, we achieved certification at 13 locations insurance, savings fund, Christmas bonus, paid vacation, and maternity or and, on a consolidated level, we improved by 1 point compared to the previous year. paternity leave. Likewise, our collaborators in the US benefit from a retirement The three levels where we obtained the best ratings were: Pride in their Work, Pride plan and can decide on the sum of their contribution within the contribution limits in the Company, and Fairness. The results of this survey guide our actions to keep set by the government. ensuring our collaborators’ satisfaction and a healthy work environment. 22 We define turnover as: Voluntary and involuntary severance under permanent contract / average staffing in the year. 23 Accident Rate = (Total incapacitating accidents reported in the year / average number of collaborators in the year) X 100. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 60 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3) Our talent is the key to our operations’ growth and efficiency, and to our competitive advantage in generating innovative solutions aligned to our customers’ and users’ needs. Rather than just training, we seek to empower our collaborators and supply them with the right environment and tools for their development and to acquire or strengthen the critical skills required for the execution of the Company’s strategy. In line with the business’ needs and the trends observed in the markets, our global competencies model is constantly updated. Throughout the year, we placed special emphasis on customer service, leadership, empowerment, strategic adherence, and joint responsibility—issues that we deem essential, both to the Company’s sustainability and to our collaborators’ success. Thus, we implement various onsite courses collaborating with external specialists, to help our leaders to develop and strengthen their leadership skills. Throughout the year, we provided a total of 28,321.8 hours of training, both on-site and online, which translates into a total average of 9.9 hours per collaborator. We provide courses that follow an e-learning format, particularly for new collaborators to whom we wish to provide basic knowledge of the business and strategy through courses on the Rotoplas Way, management processes, strategy fundamentals, the Balanced Scorecard, and the Code of Ethics. 28,321.8 TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING Within the training programs launched throughout this year, we also included innovation, as well as courses focusing on Design Thinking and Storytelling, planting in our collaborators the seeds of a culture of cross-cutting innovation for the company’s operations. Likewise, with the help of the “Learning solutions” platform, we have strengthened our training processes, opening a space so our collaborators can take both compulsory and voluntary courses. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 61 TRAINING BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY GRUPO ROTOPLAS 2016 2017 Total hours Average Total hours Average hours per hours per collaborator collaborator Executives 253.1 4.4 392.4 8.0 Middle Managers 5,292.2 18.6 2,881.4 9.8 Administrative Individual 14,559.2 19.3 3,070.0 3.8 Contributors Operations staff 14,911.1 13.0 13.0 13.0 TOTAL 35,015.5 15.6 28,321.8 9.9 Convinced of the benefits of the gauge to detect areas of opportunity and implement measures for improvement, we monitor our performance through an annual evaluation, which is considered for our collaborators’ growth within the organization. Our SAP Success Factors platform enables us to automate the process, consisting in the following 3 stages: goal-setting, midyear review, and final evaluation. For our coordinators and administrative personnel, the evaluation considers the achievement of the business goals, which derive directly from the Balance Scorecard and each one’s Individual Development Plan (IDP), whereas for our executives and middle managers, it also includes the achievement of goals related to management, 360° evaluations, and Talent Review sessions, which are used to strengthen the message. Our performance evaluation considers all our administrative collaborators, who meet the criteria of seniority, contract type, and duties. All our operations staff are subject to a different assessment process, based on productivity, as well as on the achievement of criteria such as effectiveness of their operation and adherence to safety processes, which determines their variable compensation. RATHER THAN JUST TRAINING, WE SEEK TO EMPOWER OUR COLLABORATORS AND FURNISH THEM WITH THE RIGHT ENVIRONMENT AND TOOLS FOR THEIR DEVELOPMENT FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / EVERY DROP MATTERS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 62 The hours of training that I got from Grupo Rotoplas make me believe in the power of behaving with integrity and paying special attention to respecting human rights, including non-discrimination Tania Martínez Humane Resources ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 63 04 SOURCE OF CHANGE WE ARE COMMITTED WITH THE QUALITY OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, THROUGH WHICH WE AIM TO ACHIEVE FULL CUSTOMER AND USER SATISFACTION. WE WORK ADHERING TO OUR QUALITY POLICY, PROVIDING A PORTFOLIO WITH THE HIGHEST GUARANTEE FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 64 AWARENESS AND COMMITMENT WITH THE ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION (102-12, 201-2, 203-2) +370,000 benefited by our Drinking Water Fountains24 +1,320,000 benefited25 by Rainwater Harvesting Systems Increases water consumption Enables the supply of water in among children and teenagers cases of limited access. +13,600 Benefited by the Purified +770,000 Benefited by Outdoor toilet Water Service with biodigestor Has an impact on Reduces the incidence of hydration and health gastrointestinal and respiratory diseases, particularly among children 24 These beneficiaries are exclusively from the schools under the INIFED National Drinking Water Fountains Program 25 Total beneficiaries in the year 2017 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 65 At Grupo Rotoplas, innovation In the world, one third of the population lives in water-stressed countries, and by the year 2025, takes on different shapes in our this number is expected to increase to two thirds (Global Compact, 2016)26. As for Latin America and collaborators’ hands, including the Caribbean, considered the most urbanized region in the world, with over 80% of the population new solutions and new business concentrated in these cities (ECLAC, 2017), we 80% face a situation of water scarcity and high water models aimed at improving our stress, which has humanitarian, environmental, and economic repercussions. This reality of access customers’ and users’ experience. to water and sanitation will be further affected by factors such as inadequate wastewater treatment, OF THE POPULATION Convinced of our mission, “For population growth, and the effects of global warming. CONCENTRATED IN people to have more and better URBAN AREAS water”, and aware of the challenge that our continent faces in terms of access to water and sanitation, we have deployed actions to boost socioeconomic development and safeguard water as a resource for the future. 26 Global Compact website, network Spain, The private sector and SDG 6, http://www.pactomundial.org/2016/05/sector-privado-y-el-ods-6/ FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 66 The region shows a broad diversity in the distribution In 2017, we continued to identify and classify risks (Consejo Consultivo del Agua), a Federal Government of water resources, simultaneously housing the and opportunities derived from global warming to advisory body, where we share our knowledge on most arid desert in the world, with areas where implement mitigation measures; for instance, to keep water issues in Mexico. In turn, our operations in rainfall is practically nonexistent, and areas facing the intensity of adverse climatic phenomena from Peru, Brazil, and Guatemala participate in various hyperhydricity. Its geography implies a climatic affecting our capacity to produce or distribute our events together with third parties to expand the diversity that, joined to global warming, results solutions. scope of our initiatives and solutions, and foster in a greater occurrence of natural disasters such awareness and water awareness. as hurricanes, floods, and droughts. While in the In response to these scenarios, and based on our southeast and north of South America, in the Sustainability Model, we have implemented a series coastal areas of Peru and Ecuador, there has been a of initiatives for each of its 4 focal points. The gradual increase in rainfall, the effect has been the experience and knowledge acquired through the opposite in most of Chile, the north of Argentina, projects that we carry out with government and the south of Mexico, and part of Central America27. NGO customers make us aware of the impact of As for extreme rainfall, forecasts suggest an increase our solutions in terms of health, education, and in the southeast of South America, in the west of women empowerment 32. We will continue to seek for Amazonia, in the northeast of Brazil, and in the collaboration opportunities with third parties to drive northeast of Peru and Ecuador28. Likewise, semiarid socioeconomic growth and better meet the needs for regions and the tropical Andes are expected to show water and sanitation. greater vulnerability in terms of water supply, given the receding glaciers, the decrease in rainfall, and To achieve this, we have identified the forums the increase in evapotranspiration29. Meanwhile, the and events related to water, innovation, and tropical areas will suffer an intensification of the socioeconomic development where we can participate El Niño and La Niña phenomena, which are related and contribute our knowledge and experience. to the increase in the frequency of hurricanes and For instance, in the framework of the Alliance for the persistence of droughts in certain parts of the Sustainability, we can note our participation in the Andes and the Pacific watershed 30. In the 14 countries Sustainable Cities and Communities Committee. On where we are present, the uncertainty regarding the other hand, our CEO was invited to participate in the characteristics of future hydrological events The Nature Conservancy’s Latin America Conservation entails the development of a series of strategies Council to share his experience regarding the supply and solutions to guarantee water security for the of water and sanitation. Likewise, we continue to population regardless of any climatic scenario31. chair the committee on “Culture and Sustainable Water Use” committee of the Mexican Water Council 27 Adaptación al cambio climático en América Latina y el Caribe, Graciela O. Magrin, Estudios del cambio climático en América Latina, CEPAL 2015. 28 Desafíos de la seguridad hídrica en América Latina y el Caribe, Humberto Peña, Serie Recursos naturales e infraestructura, CEPAL, 2016 29 Adaptación al cambio climático en América Latina y el Caribe, ibid 30 Desafíos de la seguridad hídrica en América Latina y el Caribe, ibid 31 ibid 32 The projects help to improve the water supply, and sanitation conditions, and generate impacts such s a reduction of infectious gastrointestinal diseases and more time available as it is no longer necessary to carry water. In turn, these effects lead to less absenteeism both at work and school, and to an empowerment of women, allowing them to grow outside the home. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 67 FORUM / EVENT GOAL ROLE OF ROTOPLAS COUNTRY Associação AMCHAM Brasil Forum of executives from the Campinas region Active participant in the association Brazil Associação Trata Brasil Foster, support, and develop social responsibility actions designed to Active participant in the association Brazil coordinate a national movement to achieve access to basic sanitation, with the aim to improve the population’s health, reduce infant mortality, generate employment, and preserve the environment Programa Sectorial de Ensure the quality of the products sold in the sector Active participant of the program Brazil reservatórios poliolefinicos Cámara Guatemalteca de la Ensure that the national construction sector grows in a transparent, healthy, Participation in the various activities, briefings, Guatemala Construcción and sustained manner and biddings Alianza por la Sostenibilidad Foster the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Founding member and participant of the Mexico Sustainable Cities and Communities committee. Campus Party Gather IT, robotics, and electronics companies and young university Jury and youth coordinator Mexico graduates to solve challenges through hackathons and contests Consejo Consultivo del Agua Provide knowledge and experience on water issues to the Mexican Federal Chair of the committee on “Culture and Mexico Government Sustainable Water Use Encuentro Estatal de Cultura Public projects that seek to transform communities positively in their care Teaching the “Let’s Care for the Future of Water Mexico del Agua and use of water Today” workshop Events of the National Forum of water and sanitation enterprises in Mexico that provides trainings Participation and interaction with the various Mexico Association of Water and and information lecturers that participate in the events Sanitation Utilities (ANEAS for its Spanish acronym) Mexican Network of Technology Congress bringing together all universities and research centers that have Congress participant Mexico Transfer Offices (TTO) technology transfer offices International Forum Challenges Multi-sector interaction platform to foster the preservation, recovery, and Member of Aquafondo, instititution that leads Peru and Opportunities for sustainable use of water sources in the cities of Lima and Callao the platform Sustainable Management of Water Resources—Peru, US, Colombia, Ecuador, Chile The Nature Conservancy Preservation of land and water on which life depends Member of the Latin America Conservation Various Council countries FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 68 Because we are convinced that the right decisions sustainable housing in a rural area of the Sierra Hoping to ensure the positive effects of this type of are informed decisions, we strive to foster and share Tarahumara in Chihuahua. solutions, we are carrying out a study that enables knowledge on the needs for water and sanitation. To us to identify and measure the key moments and achieve this goal, we collaborate with universities, On the other hand, we made a commitment with the processes that have the largest impact. In 2018, research centers, non-governmental organizations rural communities of Nayarit and Jalisco in Mexico, this pilot project in housing and schools will provide (NGOs), and the private sector. On the other hand, assisting farmworkers on the matter of sanitation. valuable information to generate improved social we are developing a publication on our strategic Agricultural producers must meet certain sanitation projects. contribution to Sustainable Development Goals N°6 and safety requirements to market and export their “Ensure availability and sustainable management of products. The installation of our outdoor toilets with water and sanitation for all”, and N°9 “Build resilient biodigestor, which enable a primary level treatment of 490,000 infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable wastewater, helps the beneficiaries of 70 plots of land industrialization, and foster innovation”, in order to to ensure the quality and safety of the food produced. report and share these efforts and their results with our stakeholders. Over the year and in response to the earthquakes that affected Mexico, we put in motion the Water RAINWATER HARVESTING AND OUTDOOR TOILET We believe it is essential to support initiatives that for Affected Areas Program (PAZA for its Spanish WITH BIODIGESTOR SYSTEMS THAT IMPROVE THE lead to a positive transformation of the communities acronym), through it, we benefited more than 600 STANDARD OF LIVING OF OVER 2 MILLION PEOPLE where we have operations and generate awareness thousand affected people through purifying water IN LATIN AMERICA in the use of water resources. For instance, Mexico plants, composting bathrooms in shelters and is known to be the main consumer in the world different water storage solutions that alleviated the of high caloric content beverages, according to basic water needs of the most affected population. data from the World Health Organization (WHO). Consumption of this type of beverages, poor nutrition, The will to offer solutions that meet communities’ and sedentarism are the main reasons for the high water and sanitation needs has led us, throughout levels of obesity in the country among adults (7 out time, to form alliances with various players in the of every 10) and children (1 in every 3)33. Thus, in countries where we have operations; thus, we have set order to encourage the adoption of healthy habits, we up over 490,000 rainwater harvesting and outdoor developed the Drinking Water Fountain line, which toilet with biodigestor systems that improve the provides purified drinking water and encourages its standard of living of over 2 million people in Latin consumption. We know, thanks to various studies34, America since they were launched. Now, in 2017, that having a Rotoplas Drinking Water Fountain we also cater to water access needs in urban areas increases water consumption by 54%, reducing the with the launch of the Urban Rainwater Harvesting consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages by 34% System, which optimizes space and makes it possible and waste related to bottled beverages by 16%. The to collect rainwater where a rural rainwater harvesting setting up of over 4,60035 drinking water fountains system would not be able to. This solution benefits in the Mexican Republic will benefit over 600,000 from the nearly 1.4 million cubic meters of water that children and teenagers, with a positive effect on Mexico receives annually as rain 36, supplying water their level of hydration and health. Moreover, we have that can be used for irrigation, washing cars, floors, established an alliance with Dow to build sustainable and clothes, and generating savings in the use of housing. This alliance resulted in a pilot project for potable water. 33 National Health and Nutrition Survey (ENSASUT for its Spanish acronym). 34 Studies performed together with Inmega (2016). 35 At yearend 2017, +2,850 have been installed; *1,770 remain to be installed under the INIFED National Drinking Water Fountains program. 36 Statistics of Water in Mexico (CONAGUA, 2016) FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / SOURCE OF CHANGE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 69 COMMUNICATION AND EMPOWERMENT REGARDING WATER (102-12, 103-2, 103-3) In Latin America, the deterioration Sytesa has enabled us to foster the water cycle’s regarding the sustainable use of this resource. The economic, ecologic, and operational sustainability platform experienced great growth in the year, totaling and overuse of water sources, through wastewater treatment for responsible +375 thousand fans, +20,500 monthly visitors, and discharges and/or recycling. With a presence in 32 91,569 average users. Aware that a change in culture the increasingly more noticeable states of the Mexican Republic, we treated over comes with the new generations, we continue to 6,496,416 m3 of wastewater in 2017. The potential offer training, workshops, conferences, and expos effects of global warming, and impact of this solution goes hand in hand with the at universities and for the general public, reaching progress made in legislation for wastewater treatment +34,000 people. We also sponsored the inauguration society’s lack of appreciation of and sensitizing society on the recycling of this of a new permanent space in the Papalote Museo del resource. The fourth focal point of our Sustainability Niño interactive museum in Mexico City. Through the water as a resource leads us to Model is thus centered on safeguarding water as a activity called “Catch the water!”, our goal is to teach resource, both for current and future generations. kids aged 3 to 5 about the water cycle through games focus on implementing actions to to make them aware of how to use, save, and care build a collective culture for the For us, water awareness begins with our collaborators. for this vital liquid. With this activity, we managed to Thus, in 2017, we included in our Onboarding process reach +750,000 people. responsible use and appreciation visits to our plants, sales routes, and communities where our solutions are set up in order to sensitize The university environment, and particularly a of water. and transform our collaborators into ambassadors of collaboration with Universidad Iberoamericana, a new culture of appreciation of water resources. provided us with the possibility of expanding our understanding of water consumption through Our participation in water-related forums and events research carried out on water uses and consumption also offers an opportunity to drive and spread habits in Latin America. We hope to boost the the water awareness. For instance, the First State findings of this study through our various initiatives Encounter of Water awareness in the State of Mexico to strengthen the water awareness. enabled us to sensitize over 300 elementary and middle school students on how to care for water, encouraging them to become the agents of change. Moreover, we continued to promote our “Fan del Agua” (Water Fan)35 platform with two weekly entries on the blog, whose contents are prepared in line with the global water agenda and the most relevant topics 37 www.fandelagua.com FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 70 05 TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE AT GRUPO ROTOPLAS, WE ARE COMMITTTED TO THE GENERATION OF VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS, IN LINE WITH OUR VALUES AND ADHERING TO THE ROTOPLAS WAY. THEREBY, WE FOLLOW THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, STRENGTHENING THE DUE DILLIGENCE OF THE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 71 STRUCTURE (102-5, 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-27, 102-28, 102-33, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37, 405-1) We conceive corporate governance as a framework Grupo Rotoplas’ shares are traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV for its Spanish acronym), and 35.15% are held by a group of the main shareholders. Our for action that guides the definition, evolution, market cap value at yearend was $14.689 billion Mexican pesos—13.4% higher compared to the previous year. and execution of our strategy. Based on our values At the top level, the General Shareholders’ Meeting is responsible for appointing and adhering to the Rotoplas Way, our corporate the members of the Board of Directors, proposed by the shareholders. It is also responsible for reviewing and approving, when applicable, the operational governance comprises a set of principles, processes, and results report each year, including the consolidated and audited financial statements at yearend. the Board of Directors is responsible for the presentation and controls that strengthen the due diligence and of said report, which enables the Shareholders’ Meeting to assess the performance of the board members. streamline the decision-making process, enabling us to keep creating value for our stakeholders. The Board of Directors comprises 15 members, 7 of whom are independent, thus surpassing the requirement of the Securities Market Law of at least 25% of independent members. Chaired by Mr. Carlos Rojas Mota Velasco, cofounder of the Group and CEO, the Board of Directors has broad knowledge of the Company, the environment in which it evolves, and a deep understanding of the sector. In fact, when they are proposed, the possible members of the Board must prove their experience and that they have the abilities and skills necessary to exercise their fiduciary functions and responsibilities. Appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board members serve for a renewable term of one year, averaging over ten and a half years in the position. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 72 When they step in, we make sure that all our board members fulfill their duties of loyalty, diligence, and sense; likewise, they receive training regarding their duties and responsibilities, ensuring that they are kept up to date regarding our policies and Code of Ethics and Conduct. In addition, each member of the Board is kept up to date on the inorganic growth, business opportunities, financial results, and state of the buyback fund, among other relevant affairs. Aiming towards continuous improvement, we encourage each board member to take a brief survey that makes it possible for you to assess the efficiency of the meetings in which they take part, and the level of information they are furnished. The Board has ordinary meetings every three months with an average attendance of 82%. Its functions, stated within the Bylaws, include setting the strategic course and monitoring it through the activities of the management team and their results. Likewise, the Board is responsible for approving the internal control and audit guidelines, as well as the policies for management compensation and the appointment of the CEO. To exercise its functions, the Board is supported by 3 committees, chaired by independent board members and in charge of supplying information regarding their corresponding field. Moreover, each committee is responsible for preparing and presenting an activity report to the Board of Directors, which is in turn discussed in the Shareholders’ Meeting, making it possible to assess the performance of the members of the various committees. Audit Corporate Practices Compensations Committee and Strategy Committee Committee FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 73 COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS It holds quarterly meetings, or more frequently if circumstances require it, and is comprised by 3 independent members. Some of its functions are: ·· Report to the Board of Directors on the irregularities found in audit processes ·· Supervise collaborators’ activities, such as the work of external auditors, including reports and opinions ·· Report to the Board of Directors on the state of the internal control system and the irregularities found Audit ·· Supervise related-party transactions ·· Monitor the activities of the management team It meets on a quarterly basis and is comprised by 3 independent members. Some of its functions are: ·· Give the Board of Directors its opinion on the administrative practices and operations ·· Request and obtain third-party opinions from independent experts Corporate ·· Assist the Board in preparing the annual reports Practices and ·· Assess inorganic growth opportunities ·· Monitor the Sustainability Committee’s initiatives and indicators Strategy ·· Assess strategic projects and capital investments It holds quarterly meetings, or more frequently if circumstances require it, and is comprised by 2 independent members. Some of its functions are: ·· Support the Board of Directors in reviewing the organizational structures of the Group and its companies to ensure that they are properly alined with the corporate vision and strategy ·· Provide their review and opinion of the guidelines for remuneration ·· Review the corporate values established within the institutional philosophy and ethics in the relations among collaborators, following the Companies set of beliefs and values Compensations ·· Propose actions to improve the work environment and guide the processes of organizational development ·· Propose to the Board of Directors the fixed compensation and fringe benefits for board members and management, as well as the policies for positions and salaries ·· Propose and monitor the performance evaluation systems ·· Recommend training and development programs Committed with the execution of the Grupo Rotoplas strategy, we have an (CFO), ensuring the management and monitoring of environmental, social, and experienced and high-performance management team, comprising four vicecorporate governance topics, in line with our Sustainability Model and the presidents and ten top managers. Advised by the Compensations Committee, our ensuing action plans. The committee reports its progress on a quarterly basis to management team receives compensation with a fixed part, a Stock Option Plan, the Corporate Practices and Strategy Committee. and an Allocation Plan of Reference Value Units (UVR for its Spanish acronym). Likewise, the Sustainability Committee is co-chaired by the Vice-President of Institutional Business Development, and a member of the Board of Directors FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 74 ETHICS (102-16, 102-17, 102-25, 102-26, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 406-1, 412-2, 415-1) The Rotoplas Way and our values guide our Human Capital, Controller, and Corporate Security departments get fully involved to take care of these reports and offer an adequate solution. Despite our efforts operations and interaction with the stakeholders. to prevent any type of breach of our code, in 2017 we found one case of corruption within our operations in Peru. Following the corresponding inquiry, we decided to Specifically, we are defined as a company with rescind the contract and file a lawsuit against the collaborator who had incurred in the breach. integrity, whose actions reflect honesty, justice, In order to share our values and communicate the importance of ethics to our ethics, and coherence between what we think, say, new collaborators, we make our Code of Ethics and Conduct available to them and provide training, as well as requesting their commitment with applying it when and do. exercising their functions. Later, all collaborators are evaluated to confirm their understanding of that code. To ensure that this document is available and that our collaborators can view it, We follow a Code of Ethics and Conduct, reviewed and approved by the Board of we have digitalized it and included it in our internal network, R-Connect. Likewise, Directors. This code includes the general rules of conduct and those specific to our suppliers may find the Code of Ethics and Conduct in the invoicing section of our collaborators’ relations with each other and with other stakeholders. The Code the website developed for their use since, as part of the registration process, they of Ethics and Conduct is compulsory to each and every one of our collaborators, must read and agree to it. board members, and suppliers. The Chairman of the Board is responsible for ensuring that all the collaborators are familiar with this code and follow it strictly. On the other hand, in line with our Talent Attraction Policy, our Code of Ethics and On the other hand, it is important to note that we make no political contributions Conduct emphasizes our commitment with equal opportunities and fair treatment. of any kind. To this effect, we should note that there were no cases of discrimination throughout 2017. Within our Code of Ethics and Conduct, we have established a set of principles and general rules that guide the ethical behavior of our staff. The document forbids Committed with constantly strengthening our corporate governance, we created 15 any form of corruption, including extorsion and bribery, as well as providing a new policies and updated 8 others throughout the year. definition of conflict of interest, the obligations should such a situation arise, and the activities to ensure an adequate resolution. Aside from our Code of Ethics, we assess the risk of corruption at 27 workplaces, including our plants, corporate offices, and distribution centers. Each department is responsible for supervising the adequate management of resources and compliance with controls, as well as other factors that compromise the integrity and honesty of the Group’s processes. If they should identify or suspect some breach of our code, our collaborators can resort to “Confia Rotoplas” (Trust Rotoplas), a channel that makes it possible to file an anonymous report on whoever is threatening the institutional values. Based on the type of report, our FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 75 RISK MANAGEMENT (102-11, 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 103-2, 103-3, 206-1, 307-1, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 419-1) At Grupo Rotoplas, we act preventively to identify, manage, and mitigate risks—both those that we could incur in due to our performance, and those related to external factors. With a presence in 14 countries, we evolve in an ever more complex economic, social, environmental, and political context, which forces us to keep our risk identification process up to date. Thus, we have a risk map, which we update and revise every year; it helps us to set prevention and mitigation measures, which are monitored through our internal control system. On the other hand, to guarantee the proper functioning of the internal control system, as well as compliance with our policies, we have sound internal audit processes carried out in line with an annual plan. This is complemented by evaluations carried out by a third party. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 76 Increase in raw material prices. ·· The main raw materials we use are oil derivatives whose prices vary based on market conditions. Changes in consumers’ income and preferences. ·· We are exposed to the disposable income of our customers, including government entities, given the economic situation of each country. ·· In a changing environment, consumer confidence can become affected and they can modify their preferences for one type of solution or other, particularly faced with an increasingly more global competition. Macroeconomic conditions that affect the ·· Demand for our solutions in sectors such as construction of agriculture is influenced MARKET sectors that make up our market. by shortand medium-term macroeconomic conditions. Decrease in the return on investment destined ·· The water solutions business requires a significant capital investment to design and to increase and improve production capacity, build plants near the points of sale and distribution. given the changes in the macroeconomic ·· Increased exposure to local sales, and thus, to the economic conditions of the country environment. where we are operating, making it difficult to sell that production in markets with better trends. Difficulties in the successful entry and ·· We continually analyze and explore the possibility of expanding our operations and expansion of operations in new markets. entering new markets. Although decision-making is based on business plans, there are factors inherent to each market that are beyond our control. Effects on the limits of foreign trade ·· We are exposed to disruptive measures on issues of imports and exports in the operations. countries where we have operations, those from where we import, or to which we export. REGULATORY Unforeseen costs of complying with ·· We are subject to various laws and regulations on environmental, labor, and security environmental, labor, and security laws. issues, which can be modified. Said modifications may represent additional costs, as well as costs derived from penalties for noncompliance. Operations affected by extreme weather ·· Extreme weather conditions and/or natural disasters could hamper our operations or conditions and/or natural disasters. damage the infrastructure including production plants and distribution centers. Stoppage and temporary shutdown of plants ·· Substantial interruption at production plants, supply chain, distribution centers, or and/or distribution centers. distribution network for reasons beyond our control. OPERATIVE Inability to develop high quality and innovative ·· The strength of our brand could face difficulties if we are unable to supply innovative products and solutions. and quality solutions. High turnover and inability to attract talent. ·· We are exposed to the loss of technical and strategic knowledge, as well as of investment in development due to turnover. Inability to manage the Company’s growth ·· We are exposed to suffer a lack of own resources, sources of financing, processes, FINANCIAL efficiently. controls, and suitable systems to manage the Company’s growth. Cybernetic vulnerability ·· We are exposed to cyberattacks and data leaks in the corporate information security EMERGING and when incorporating the online sales business and the offer of services contracted by phone. Although we are guided by our values and adhere to the legality of the various countries where we operate, there is a potential risk of noncompliance resulting from internal and/or external factors. During the year, this risk materialized in 14 monetary sanctions equivalent to $396,091.52 Mexican pesos. However, we should note the lack of incidents resulting from a breach of regulations regarding the effects of products and services on users’ health and safety during their lifecycle. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 77 06 PATHS TOWARDS THE FUTURE AT GRUPO ROTOPLAS, WE STRENGTHEN OUR PURSUIT FOR INNOVATION AS OUR HALLMARK BY DELIVERING PERTINENT SOLUTIONS TO PROVIDE WATER AND SANITATION, WHICH CONTRIBUTE TO SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / PATHS TOWARDS THE FUTURE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 78 FUTURE OUTLOOK At Grupo, Rotoplas we have Given the unequal distribution of water, the On the other hand, we believe there must be an underutilization of wastewater, and the lack of intrinsic connection between water and sanitation transformed our business model, appreciation of the water resource, as well as the needs and the solutions that make up our portfolio. remarkable incidence of global warming on water We are convinced that our clients and users play a key migrating from a model of product safety, we are facing large-scale problems that role in identifying those needs; thus, we are constantly challenge our capacity to innovate and offer solutions bolstering the mechanisms that can enable them to marketing to a mixed approach to deal with these issues. voice these needs so we can collaborate with them in designing, improving, and creating new solutions. that prioritizes the added value of Aware of the challenge to recycle wastewater, we continue to strengthen the offer of solutions through At Grupo Rotoplas, innovation in terms of solutions, service in our water and sanitation Sytesa to cross borders and meet the needs of other operations, and business models has become our markets. Likewise, we continue to favor innovative hallmark. We strive to merge our innovation and solutions. technologies, such as the Plasma Water Sanitation sustainability models to bring to life solutions System (PWSS) developed by AIC, as well as residential with positive impacts in economic, social, and wastewater treatment technologies developed by environmental terms, and build, together with each Sanzfield. In addition to working on developing and of our collaborators, an increasingly more sustainable upgrading them, we know that part of the challenge society, committed with the future generations. lies in revolutionizing the way in which society and the authorities perceive wastewater and foster the value of this resource. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / PATHS TOWARDS THE FUTURE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 79 ABOUT THIS REPORT (102-10, 102-32, 102-45, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56, 103-1) At Grupo Rotoplas, we bolster our We are therefore presenting our third Annual restatements of the information presented in the Integrated Report, which speaks of our financial and previous report, and which are integrated, alongside stakeholders’ trust by focusing on non-financial performance throughout 201738, in all their justification, in the corresponding chapters. the countries where we have operations. In line with The reader can thus properly understand the 2017 transparency and accountability the reports presented in past years, we continue to data, benefiting from an objective comparison to the apply the methodology developed by Global Reporting previous year’s figures. regarding how we create and Initiative (GRI), which is the international benchmark. This report has been created in compliance with In 2016, we carried out a materiality analysis that share economic, social, and GRI Standards: under the Exhaustive approach enabled us to add the outlook of our stakeholders to and communicates our social, environmental, and our own, and thus determine the key issues on which environmental value. economic performance together with the corporate we must focus our communication 39. This study was governance practices. the guideline for defining the contents of our report, which have been organized in line with the structure We continued to improve our information of our Sustainability Model and the elements that management processes, involving and training the comprise it. departments that participate in developing this report, in order to be able to submit it to external Below, we present a list of the material issues verification in the future, which will enable us and limits, which were validated last year by our to strengthen our relationship of trust with our Sustainability Committee. stakeholders. Thus, the 2017 report includes various 38 The group of Grupo Rotoplas’ subsidiaries can be viewed in the Financial Statements presented at e end of the Annual Integrated Report. 39 The stages and activities implemented under our materiality study may be viewed in the chapter on Sustainability Model in our Annual Integrated Report 2016, page 26. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / PATHS TOWARDS THE FUTURE ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 80 LIMITS (Coverage) Material Issue Internal External (GRI Standard 102-47) (GRI Standard 103-1) (GRI Standard 103-1) Access to water and sanitation Grupo Rotoplas ·· Distributors ·· Government & NGOs clients Employees’ attraction and retention ·· N/A Quality ·· Raw material suppliers Water Awareness ·· Authorities ·· Government & NGOs clients Employees’ development ·· Training providers Economic performance ·· Investors and other capital suppliers ·· Raw material suppliers ·· Distributors Operational efficiency ·· Suppliers ·· Distributors ·· Government & NGOs clients Strategy, business model and trademark ·· Investors and other capital suppliers ·· Distributors ·· Government & NGOs clients Risk management ·· Investors and other capital suppliers ·· Suppliers ·· Government & NGOs clients Innovation ·· Investors and other capital suppliers ·· Raw material suppliers ·· Distributors ·· Government & NGOs clients ·· Universities ·· Strategic partners ·· Authorities & Regulatory Bodies Relationship with clients ·· Distributors ·· Government & NGOs clients N/A Does Not Apply FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 81 AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management Comments for fiscal year 2017 2017 was Rotoplas’ third year as a Mexico’s sales reflect the successful integration of showed a significant 29.5% advance in sales, thanks Sytesa and the increase in demand for individual to higher demand for individual solutions, as well as public company, and despite the solutions during the first half of the year. Thus, to the incorporation of sales through the e-commerce Mexico’s annual sales grew 23.7% and stood for 64.4% platform in the United States of America. This division risks prevailing in the markets of the Group’s total income, whereas in 2016 they contributed 28.9% of the total income in 2017, stood for 64.7%. whereas in 2016 it represented 27.7%. where we participate, we focused We should note that, during 2017, we began recording At the solutions level, individual solutions stood on reconfiguring our portfolio income from the sale of integrated solutions with for 88.6% of sales, growing 18.8% vs. 2016, mainly maintenance service, both for wastewater treatment supported by higher sales in the traditional channel towards higher growth and and recycling plants, and for the drinking water in Mexico, as well as by the integration of Talsar in fountains program. Argentina. profitability solutions, as well as on the successful integration On the other hand, Brazil remained immersed Integrated solutions stood for 11.4% of total sales, in a tough political and economic environment, growing 97.2% vs. 2016, mainly due to the integration of our recent acquisitions, thus considerably reducing the demand for integrated of Sytesa in Mexico. solutions for sanitation and water access. achieving a 24.41% increase in net Nonetheless, thanks to higher sales of individual The consolidated gross profit margin decreased by solutions and the reactivation of government 270 basis points, given a lower capacity to absorb revenues vs. 2016. contracts, sales rose 11.6%, representing 6.8% of fixed costs in some countries and the increase in the Group’s total income, whereas in 2016 they resin prices resulting from the scarcity caused by represented 7.6%. natural disasters. Lower operating expenses thanks to a higher capacity to absorb and control expenses The Other Countries division, which includes our partially mitigated the hike in costs, keeping the operations in Argentina, Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, operating margin in line with the previous year. the US, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Peru, FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 82 Thereby, EBITDA margins in Mexico and Brazil rose to donations made under the Water for Affected Areas 23.0% and (15.1%), respectively. On the other hand, the Program (PAZA for its Spanish acronym) following the profitability of the Other Countries division decreased earthquakes that struck Mexico. by 380 basis points to 4.5%. On a consolidated level, it increased by 130 basis points, achieving a 15.1% The comprehensive financing result at December 31, margin. 2017 stood at $0 million Mexican pesos, compared to the positive balance of $70 million Mexican pesos By solution, the EBITDA margin of individual solutions generated a year earlier. This was because of a grew by 290 basis points, given a greater capacity revaluation of the currencies of the countries where to absorb fixed costs and expenses, thanks to Rotoplas has operations, and interest paid, given the higher sales. On the other hand, the profitability of issuance of a Sustainable Bond worth a total of $2.0 integrated solutions decreased significantly, from billion Mexican pesos to finance and refinance some 26.0% to 10.0% vs. 2016, due to a slowdown in of the company’s strategic projects. government spending during the second half of the year. We must note that net profit increased 18.7%, whereas in terms of margin, it contracted by 40 basis points compared to the previous year. This is due to extraordinary expenses resulting from the ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 83 TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS (102-55) GRI STANDARD 102: General Disclosures 2017 CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE Organizational profile 102-1 89 102-2 4 102-3 89 102-4 4 102-5 71, 89 102-6 4 102-7 3 102-8 55 Principle 6 102-9 48 102-10 79 102-11 75 102-12 64, 69 102-13 33, 44 Strategy 102-14 9 102-15 9, 75 Ethics and integrity 102-16 4, 33, 74 Principle 10 102-17 74 Principle 10 Governance 102-18 33, 71 102-19 71 102-20 71 102-21 33, 40 102-22 71 102-23 71 102-24 71 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 84 CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE 102-25 74 102-26 4, 74 102-27 71 102-28 71 102-29 75 102-30 75 102-31 75 102-32 79 102-33 71 102-34 Classified, due to internal policies. 102-35 71 102-36 71 102-37 71 102-38 Classified, due to internal policies. 102-39 Classified, due to internal policies. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 40 102-41 55 Principle 3 102-42 40 102-43 40 102-44 40 Reporting practice 102-45 79 102-46 79 102-47 79 102-48 79 102-49 79 102-50 79 102-51 79 102-52 79 102-53 89 102-54 79 102-55 89 102-56 79 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 85 UN GLOBAL COMPACT MATERIAL ISSUE GRI STANDARD CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION PRINCIPLE Access to water and GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 sanitation Approach 2017 103-2 46 103-3 46 GRI 2033: Indirect 203-1 46 economic impacts 2017 203-2 48, 64 Collaborator attraction GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 and retention Approach 2017 103-2 55 103-3 55 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 55 Principle 6 2017 401-2 55 401-3 Not applicable, as the company has no Principle 6 significant impacts in terms of gender equality Quality GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 48, 75 103-3 48, 75 GRI 416: Customer health 416-1 48 and safety 2017 416-2 75 Water awareness GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 69 103-3 69 Collaborator GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 development Approach 2017 103-2 60 103-3 60 GRI 404: Training and 404-1 60 Principle 6 education 2017 404-2 60 404-3 60 Principle 6 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 55, 71 Principle 6 equal opportunity 2017 405-2 Not applicable, as the company has no Principle 6 significant impacts in terms of gender equality. FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 86 UN GLOBAL COMPACT MATERIAL ISSUE GRI STANDARD CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION PRINCIPLE Economic performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 12 103-3 12 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 23 performance 2017 201-2 64 Principle 7 201-3 55 201-4 23 Operating efficiency GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 48 103-3 48 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 48 practices 2017 GRI 301: Materials 2017 301-1 48 Principle 7 and 8 301-2 48 Principle 8 301-3 Does not apply. Given the durability of the Principle 8 products that the company manufactures, the useful life is extened in such long intervals that the utilization when it ends does not generate a significant impact. GRI 302: Energy 302-1 51 Principle 7 and 8 302-2 Does not apply. The products Principle 8 manufactured by the company either do not require energy consumption for use, or this consumption is negligible. 302-3 51 Principle 8 302-4 51 Principle 8 and 9 302-5 Does not apply. The products Principle 8 and 9 manufactured by the company either do not require energy consumption for use, or this consumption is negligible. GRI 303: Water 2017 303-1 51 Principle 7 and 8 303-2 Does not apply. The significance of the impact on the need for water in the company’s operations lies in quantity, not in source. 303-3 51 Principle 8 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 87 UN GLOBAL COMPACT MATERIAL ISSUE GRI STANDARD CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION PRINCIPLE Operating efficiency GRI 305: Emissions 2017 305-1 51 Principle 7 and 8 305-2 51 305-3 51 . 305-4 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 7 information in the next report. 305-5 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 8 and 9 information in the next report. 305-6 Not available; we will work to have this Principle 8 information in the next report. 305-7 51 Principle 7 and 8 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Does not apply. The manufacturing Principle 8 waste 2017 processes of the product that the company makes do not generate significant water discharges. 306-2 51 Principle 8 306-3 Does not apply. The manufacturing Principle 8 processes and the materials handled do not lead to significant risks and/or impacts related to spills. 306-4 51 Principle 8 306-5 Does not apply. The manufacturing Principle 8 processes and the materials handled do not lead to significant risks and/or impacts related to spills. Strategy, business model, GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 and brand Approach 2017 103-2 29, 48 103-3 29, 48 GRI 206: Anticompetitive 206-1 75 behavior 2017 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 75 compliance 2017 GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 74 Principle 10 2017 GRI 419: Socio Economic 419-1 75 compliance FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / TABLE OF GRI CONTENTS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 88 UN GLOBAL COMPACT MATERIAL ISSUE GRI STANDARD CONTENTS PAGE/LINK OMISSION PRINCIPLE Risk management GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Principle 4 Approach 2017 103-2 75 Principle 5 103-3 75 201-2 64 Principle 7 307-1 75 Principle 8 205-1 74 Principle 10 205-2 74 Principle 10 205-3 74 Principle 10 406-1 74 Principle 6 412-2 74 Principle 1 and 2 Innovation GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 43 103-3 43 Customer relations GRI 103: Management 103-1 79 Approach 2017 103-2 48 103-3 48 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 48 labeling 2017 417-2 75 Not available; we will work to have this information in the next report. 417-3 75 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE / CONTACT INFORMATION ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 89 CONTACT INFORMATION (102-1, 102-3, 102-5, 102-53) Investor Relations Grupo Rotoplas, S.A.B. de C.V. y Subsidiarias Headquarters Ofelia M. López Aranda T. Calle Pedregal No. 24 piso 19. Col. Molino del Rey. olopezaranda@rotoplas.com Del. Miguel Hidalgo. Zip Code 11040, Mexico City agua@rotoplas.com Phone +52 (55) 52 01 50 00 Ticker: AGUA AGUA This annual report contains forward-looking statements and information subject to risk and uncertainties, which are based on current expectations and projections of future events and trends which may affect the Company’s business. Such statements were made based on current assumptions and knowledge. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve assumptions, expectations, and opportunities, both general and specific. Several factors could cause results, performance, or future events to differ materially from those in such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Therefore, no undue reliance should be placed upon such forward-looking statements. The Company has not registered (and has no intention to register) its securities under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) or any state or transparency regulations and the Company is not registered under the United States Investment Act of 1940, as amended. The securities of the Company may not be offered or sold in the United States or to US persons, unless registered under the Securities Act and other applicable securities state regulations or exempted from such registration. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 / 90 FLOWING INTO THE FUTURE A N N U A L I N T E G R AT E D R E P O R T 2017 WWW.ROTOPLAS.COM
