CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CSR) UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS SAS International® complies fully with and supports the Human Rights Act 1998 and the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. SAS International does not undertake business with any country or regime with known flagrant human rights abuses. SAS International is an equal opportunity employer and is fully committed to a policy of treating all of its employees and job applicants equally. The Company will avoid unlawful discrimination in all aspects of employment including recruitment and selection, promotion, transfer, opportunities for training, pay and benefits, other terms of employment, discipline, and selection for redundancy and dismissal. The Company will take all reasonable steps to employ, train and promote employees on the basis of their experience, abilities and qualifications without regard to age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation. The Company will also take all reasonable steps to provide a work environment in which all employees are treated with respect and dignity and that is free from harassment and bullying based upon age, disability, gender reassignment, race (including colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation. The Company will not condone or tolerate any form of harassment, whether engaged in by employees or by outside third parties who do business with the Company, such as clients, customers, contractors and suppliers. We ensure our policy is circulated to any subcontractors/ suppliers we work with, reminding them of their responsibilities. We maintain and review the employment records of all employees in order to monitor the progress of this policy. The result of any monitoring procedure is reviewed at regular intervals to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of this policy. Consideration is given, if necessary, to adjusting this policy to afford greater equality of opportunities to all applicants and employees. SAS International is committed to respecting the Human Rights of its staff, stakeholders and clients, to whom it provides a service, promoting values such as dignity, respect, fairness, and equality. It will continue to develop policies and practices in accordance with the Human Rights Act. We ensure our policy is circulated to any subcontractors/ suppliers we work with, reminding them of their responsibilities. SAS International is committed to respecting the Human Rights of its staff, stakeholders, clients, to whom it provides a service, promoting values such as dignity, respect, fairness, and equality. It will continue to develop policies and practices in accordance with the Human Rights Act. Implementation SAS International has an Equal Opportunities & Dignity at Work policy signed by the Chief Executive and is publicly available. SAS International is committed to encouraging equality and diversity among our workforce, and eliminating unlawful discrimination. The policy’s purpose is to: • Provide equality, fairness and respect for all in our employment. • Not unlawfully discriminate because of the Equality Act 2010 protected characteristics of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race (including colour, nationality, and ethnic or national origin), religion or belief, sex (gender) and sexual orientation. • Oppose and avoid all forms of unlawful discrimination. This includes in pay and benefits, terms and conditions of employment, dealing with grievances and discipline, dismissal, redundancy, leave for parents, requests for flexible working, and selection for employment, promotion, training or other developmental opportunities. The organisation, in providing services, is also committed against unlawful discrimination of customers or the public. We maintain a neutral working environment in which no employee or worker feels under threat or intimidated. We ensure our policy is circulated to any subcontractors/ suppliers we work with, reminding them of their responsibilities to the equality of opportunity. As part of our company inductions, our policies are discussed with all employees. We also ask all employees to complete an equal opportunities monitoring questionnaire upon starting with the Company. Our policy is reviewed annually to measure the effectiveness and implementation of the policy. Measurement/ Outcome Our Equal Opportunities Policy was updated to include Dignity at Work in July 2017. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CSR) UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 LABOUR SAS International supports the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We will not undertake any business with any company who uses forced or child labour. SAS International understands its commitments to employment law. SAS International enforces a formal Equal Opportunities & Dignity at Work policy which states that no job applicant, employee or worker is discriminated against either directly or indirectly on the grounds of race, colour, ethnic or national origin, religious belief, political opinion or affiliation, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age or disability. SAS International maintains a comprehensive Employee Handbook detailing employees’ rights, responsibilities and benefits. Remuneration is clearly detailed on their Main Terms and Conditions. Implementation All SAS International employees are issued with a Contract of Main Terms and Conditions relating to their employment at SAS International. This states their terms and conditions including pay, holidays, etc. Employees are issued with an employee handbook with contains information on the standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, standards, grievance and disciplinary procedures, etc. SAS International employs trained HR personnel experienced in Employment law and has access to various publications/ articles etc on employment law. SAS International has in place a number of policies in relation to employment, including maternity, paternity, applying for flexible working, etc. Health & Safety Health and Safety is drawn to the attention of personnel in a variety of ways, which include, but are not limited to: • Company and site induction. • Written communication – Health and Safety manual, Safety Alert memos, and safety quotations. • Face to face discussion. • Health and Safety Committee meetings. • Team meetings/briefings. • Notice boards. • Electronic media. • Employee handbook. • In-house workshops, seminars and other training events. • Tool box talks. • Method statements, risk assessments and COSHH briefings. Health and Safety Committee meetings are held quarterly, and attendees are taken from a cross-section of the organisation to ensure a full and adequate representation of the workforce. The agenda includes, but is not limited to the following: • Operational performance. • Inspection reports. • Audit information. • Accident/incident information. Measurement SAS International actively reviews employment law changes and implements any amendments into its policies as necessary. SAS International employees receive an annual performance review where employees and their Line Managers discuss the past year’s performance and developments for the coming year. Any training requirements are identified during these reviews on a specific development plan that is continually reviewed throughout the year. SAS International has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CSR) UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 ENVIRONMENT SAS International fully recognises the importance of protecting and enhancing the environment, and we endeavour to minimise the environmental impact of our activities, products and processes. This is achieved through a commitment to reduce the carbon footprint and energy usage, ensure effective waste minimisation, segregation, recycling and re-using where appropriate and practical and preventing pollution to the land, water and air. We are committed to the development and improvement of a management system that incorporates environmental issues and ensures all employees and suppliers are fully invested. The senior management team provides a framework for establishing objectives and cascading targets, reviewing performance against these targets is a fundamental company activity, in which all areas of the company are involved. We have a dedicated Quality and Environmental Representative and various policies such as Quality and Environmental, and Waste Management and Sustainability. We have an integrated management system dedicated to environmental processes and procedures in the company. Our system is accredited to ISO 14001. We comply with all relevant environmental legislation, best practice and guidelines. We measure our sustainability impact, set targets and objectives, monitor our legal compliance, and conduct environmental risk assessments for various works activities. • Integrated policy (Quality, Health, Safety & Environment) signed by Chief Executive reviewed on an annual basis. • Integrated Manual The Manual defines the policies, objectives and processes to satisfy BS EN ISO 9001: 2015 and ISO 14001:2014 – Quality & Environmental Systems requirements as well as OHSAS 18001 (health & Safety) requirements. It also provides focus, direction and the control mechanisms for SAS International to manage the quality and environmental systems in line with company business objectives. The Management System shall control all SAS International activities. • Environmental aspects register – monitoring taking into account positive and negative environmental impacts, actual and potential environmental impacts and normal, abnormal and potentially emergency situations. • Environment legislation register identified for both office and project based activities. The register identifies all environmental legislation anticipated for remediation and lining activities. The Environmental Legislation Register is reviewed on a periodic basis. • Environmental Forms as part of Integrated Management System – including environmental inspections, dust monitoring, noise monitoring, odour assessment, etc. Implementation Objectives and targets are set against business activities that could have a significant negative environmental impact. We ensure that our production and services have minimal environmental impact, in line with the company’s Environmental, Waste & Sustainability Policy. SAS International objectives are to: • Ensure compliance with all applicable legislative and other requirements, to achieve a target of zero legislative noncompliance. • Reduce CO2 emissions from company cars. • Increase the reuse of materials and reduce the quantities of waste disposed of at landfill through the implementation of the internal waste management procedure. • To prevent the unintentional release of contamination into the substrata and groundwater. Ensure no environmental harm occurs from spillages of fuel or chemicals used as part of our manufacturing processes. A zero spillage target is maintained through the implementation of operational control procedures and best practice for the storage and handling of fuels and chemicals. SAS International operates to an Integrated Management System, accredited to ISO 9001: 2015, ISO 14001:2014 and OHSAS 18001. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CSR) UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 Measurement SAS International has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. SAS International uses licensed waste companies for the disposal of waste and are registered with a WEEE compliance company for the disposal of waste electronic equipment. SAS International has a procedure for dealing with accident/ incident investigation as part of its integrated management system. This procedure shall be followed In the event of any Environmental Incidents. This is to ensure that accident/ incidents are reported and investigated in accordance with the company’s statutory and OHSAS 18001 and BS EN ISO 14001 requirements. A qualified QESH Coordinator shall investigate all Environmental Incidents. Our IMS is regularly internally audited (by trained employees) and externally audited annually by independent external auditors. ANTI-CORRUPTION One of the Company’s core values is to uphold sound, responsible and fair business operations. It is committed to promoting and maintaining the highest possible ethical standards in relation to all of its business activities. The Company’s reputation for maintaining lawful business practices is of paramount importance and this policy is designed to preserve these values. The Company therefore has a zero tolerance policy towards any form of corruption, including bribery. SAS International ensures compliance with anti-bribery laws, rules and regulations, not just within the UK, but also in any other country within which the Company may carry out its business or in relation to which its business may be connected. SAS International enforces full policies on anti-bribery, corporate hospitality and the receipt of gifts. SAS International supports the UN Convention against Corruption. SAS International has, signed by the Chief Executive, a policy on anti-bribery, the receipt of gifts and corporate hospitality. This policy is included in all employee inductions and are communicated to employees on a regular basis. The policy: 1. Provides suitable and secure reporting and communication channels and ensures that any information that is reported is properly and effectively dealt with. 2. Creates and maintains a rigorous and effective framework for dealing with any suspected instances of bribery or other unethical conduct. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring these policies comply with the Company’s legal and ethical obligations, and all Directors, employees and associated persons are expected to adhere to the principles set out in these policies. Breaches of any of the provisions of these policies constitute a disciplinary offence and are dealt with in accordance with the Company’s disciplinary procedure. Depending on the gravity of the offence, it may be treated as gross misconduct and could render the Director and/or employee liable to summary dismissal. In the event that someone wishes to report an instance or suspected instance of bribery, they are to follow the steps set out in the Company’s Policy. Confidentiality is maintained during the investigation to the extent that this is practical and appropriate in the circumstances. The Company is committed to taking appropriate action against bribery or other unethical conduct. This could include either reporting the matter to an appropriate external government department, regulatory agency or the police and/or taking internal disciplinary action against relevant employees and/or terminating contracts with associated persons. The Company’s Chief Executive has lead responsibility for ensuring compliance with this Policy and will review its contents on a regular basis. They are responsible for monitoring its effectiveness and provide regular reports in this regard to the Directors of the Company. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (CSR) UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 Implementation • Training to all Senior Management on the Bribery Act 2010 and its implementation. • Communication to all employees on Anti-Bribery, Corporate Hospitality, and the Receipt of Gifts policy upon joining the company and throughout employment as necessary. Measurement SAS International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events relating to corruption and bribery. Employees are reminded that if in doubt as to what might amount to bribery or other unethical conduct or might constitute a breach of this policy, they should refer the matter to the Company’s board or line manager. A recent company newsletter highlighted the need to familiarise employees with our policies in this. Breach of any of the provisions of this policy will constitute a disciplinary offence and will be dealt with in accordance with the Company’s disciplinary procedure. Depending on the gravity of the offence, it may be treated as gross misconduct and could render the Director, employee liable to summary dismissal. It is the contractual duty and responsibility of all Directors, Employees and associated persons to take whatever reasonable steps are necessary to ensure compliance with this policy and to prevent, detect and report any suspected bribery, fraud or corruption in accordance with the procedure set out in the Company’s Public Interest Disclosure Policy. You must immediately disclose to the Company any knowledge or suspicion you may have that you, or any other director, employee or associated person, has plans to offer, promise or give a bribe or to request, agree to receive or accept a bribe in connection with the business of the Company. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes reporting your own wrong doing. The Company encourages all Directors, Employees and associated persons to be vigilant and to report any inappropriate conduct, suspicions or concerns promptly and without undue delay so that investigation may proceed and any action can be taken expeditiously.
