AT P Group Responsibility 2017 UN Global Compact Report on Progress To our Stakeholders The foundation of the ATP Group’s work with responsibility is our vision of ensuring basic financial security for all of Denmark. As part of this commitment ATP continues to support The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which cover the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment, and Anti-corruption. Throughout 2017 ATP has continued our efforts to integrate the principles into our business strategy, culture and everyday work. This is further elucidated in the attached communication on progress. We further commit ourselves to share this information with our stakeholders through our primary communication channels. 28th of February, 2018. Hilleroed, Denmark Christian Hyldahl CEO Responsibility 2017 1 Contents 4 Preface 28 Active Ownership – Continuous dialogue 5 Introduction and voting 5 Responsibility in the ATP Group 28 ESG issues are integrated into dialogues 5 About this report 29 Continuous dialogue 6 ATP as a responsible investor 30 Dialogue through general meetings 6 Coordinating ATP’s responsibility efforts 30 Supervisory Board 6 ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments 32 Pay 7 ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership 32 Information 7 ATP’s Tax Policy on Unlisted Investments 34 ATP on Management Remuneration 8 ATP and FSB TCFD’s recommendations 36 Active Ownership – Thematic engagement 8 ATP and the OECD Guidelines for 36 The Committee for Responsibility selects themes Multinational Enterprises based on analyses 9 ATP and the PRI 36 ATP focuses on the most exposed companies 9 ATP and the Global Compact 37 Carbon emissions reporting 10 ESG integration 38 Child labour 10 ESG integration in ATP’s investments 38 ESG reporting 10 ATP’s overall perspectives on ESG integration 39 Tax 10 Better data is a main focus 39 Water 10 Integrating responsibility into investments in 41 Cooperation and knowledge sharing listed equities 41 ATP partners with international investors on 11 Integrating responsibility in the selection process into engagements through the PRI quantitative global equity strategies 42 ATP participates in discussions of long-term value 11 Integrating responsibility into alternative investments creation in international fora 11 Integrating responsibility into real estate investments 42 ATP keeps abreast of latest corporate 12 ATP and GRESB Real Estate governance trends 13 Integrating responsibility into 42 ATP prioritises climate partnership infrastructure investments 43 Nordic exchange of experience with responsibility 14 Climate 45 Fact-finding, targeted dialogue and exclusion 14 ATP’s method of integrating climate risks 45 Exclusion processes and opportunities into its investments 45 Why does ATP screen equities and corporate bonds? 15 ATP’s investments in green bonds 45 Structure of ATP’s screenings 16 ATP’s work on the TCFD’s recommendations 46 The three stages of the screening process 18 ATP’s work on governance for climate-related 47 Breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in financial risks Investments: targeted dialogue or exclusion 19 ATP’s work on metrics for climate-related financial risks 48 Actual fact-findings and topics 19 Dividing companies’ carbon emissions 20 Challenges associated with interpreting investors’ 52 Resource consumption, staff and diversity carbon footprint at the ATP Group 22 Calculating the carbon footprint of ATP’s investments in listed equities 23 Normalising metrics: Carbon Footprint and Carbon Intensity 56 Appendix 1: Global Compact references 23 Nordic equities 24 International equities 57 Appendix 2: List of excluded companies 25 The TCFD’s recommended metric: Weighted Average Carbon Intensity 59 Appendix 3: ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership 26 Perspectives on carbon footprint as a metric 62 Appendix 4: ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments Preface In the wake of the financial crisis, responsibility has featured prominently in the public debate and is more than ever before on the agenda of politicians, businesses and citizens. Responsibility is a constantly evolving field, which became apparent in January 2017 at the World Economic Forum summit in Davos, Switzerland, where global business leaders launched the Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership. It is the most comprehensive coordinated global corporate-sector initiative to date, which aims to provide a framework for business leadership according to long-term sustainability principles. ATP attended these discussions, joined the Compact and participates in the public debate to promote these views. Long-term decision-making, transparency and integration of responsibility in business cultures are a prerequisite for sustainable development. ATP believes that this gives financial disclosures. The recommendations are the first businesses a stronger reputation among customers, makes comprehensive climate-related financial disclosure guidethem a more attractive place to work and leads to lower lines, which are an important precondition for continuing cost of capital, as the business will be a more attractive the transition to a low-carbon economy for both businesses investment target for investors in terms of return and risk. and investors. In 2017, ATP introduced two climate initiatives. We have chosen to integrate the TCFD’s recommenDuring 2017, ATP therefore continued its efforts to integrate dations into our reports and internal processes, and we feel responsibility into our investment processes. We see ESG that the market for green bonds has grown to a size that issues as a valuable input in line with other business-related allows us to enter this market. risks and opportunities in our investment decisions. This, combined with active ownership where we maintain a close As a major investor that invests on behalf of virtually the dialogue with businesses on their strategy and operations, entire Danish population, ATP has a special responsibility for is an important precondition for creating attractive longcontributing to the ongoing debate and further development term returns for our members. To ensure better transparof social responsibility both locally in Denmark and globally. ency on these efforts, ATP set up a dedicated website (atp. Among other things, we joined the debate on international dk/voting) in 2017, where all votes cast by ATP at general taxation and adopted a tax policy for unlisted investments, meetings in listed companies from 2017 and onwards will which firmly opposes aggressive tax planning. One of the be published. recent initiatives which is suitable for implementation and communication of responsibility for businesses and invesIn 2017, a new climate initiative was launched when the Task tors is the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Several of the businesses that ATP invests in have adopted which is a working group under the G20’s Financial Stability these goals, and 2018 will see ATP focusing on integrating Board, published its recommendations on climate-related the SDGs into our work on responsibility in investments. 4 Responsibility 2017 Introduction Responsibility in the ATP Group time, experience has shown that we make better investment ATP plays a significant role in society by managing two decisions by integrating ESG information with knowledge thirds of all welfare benefits disbursed in Denmark and as a of other business aspects into the decision-making basis. pension fund with more than 5 million members in Denmark. As an important social institution, ATP also participates in ATP also manages one of the largest pension asset holdthe public debate, contributing facts, analyses and views on ings in Europe, which imposes on us a special obligation topics such as pension policy, rule simplification, responto invest responsibly and fulfil our responsibility to society. sible investment and tax, for example by making ourselves available to the media, NGOs and legislators. ATP is established by statute, and its aim is to provide good, stable pensions and basic financial security for its members About this report by investing its pension assets sensibly and responsibly. The ATP Act (ATP-loven) does not prevent ATP from acting This report deals with ATP’s work on responsibility. The as a responsible investor. On the contrary, we believe that report focuses on responsibility in investments, as they responsibility and high returns go hand in hand. have the greatest impact on society. The preconditions for high future returns are long-term and However, all parts of the Group leave a footprint on society, sustainable business value creation. Therefore, it is also which is why ATP also reports on fase+, employee satisfacimportant to us that the companies ATP invests in estabtion, carbon emissions and water use at the ATP Group’s lish long-term goals and take responsibility for the societies own offices on page 52. they operate in. By acting responsibly the businesses maintain their legitimacy and license to operate, which is fundaThe report is ATP’s statutory report on responsibility and mental to continued growth and development. The busicovers the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. The nesses’ long-term growth contributes directly to generating report also constitutes ATP’s Communication on Progress to solid returns for the benefit of ATP’s members. At the same the UN Global Compact, describing ATP’s progress in terms Business model ATP is a self-governing institution, established by statute and managed by the social partners. ATP Livslang Pension is a mandatory pension scheme with more than 5 million members. ATP Livslang Pension is guaranteed and lifelong and is disbursed to nearly all pensioners. A little less than half of all old-age pensioners has no other source of pension income other than their state-funded old-age pension and ATP Livslang Pension . With assets of DKK 768.6 billion, ATP is one of Europe’s largest pension funds. The assets are invested in, among other things, bonds, equities, real estate and infrastructure in Denmark and abroad with a view to creating good, stable pensions while keeping costs low. ATP administers key welfare benefits and schemes on behalf of the Danish state, the local authorities in Denmark and the social partners. ATP is the largest administration provider in the Nordic countries, managing two thirds of welfare benefits disbursed in Denmark. The ATP Group is a large employer. In 2017, there were 2,966 full-time employees (avg) in the entire Group, of which the majority were employed in Denmark, primarily in Vordingborg, Holstebro, Haderslev, Allerød, Lillerød, Frederikshavn, Greater Copenhagen and at the head office in Hillerød. Responsibility 2017 5 of incorporating the ten principles of the Global Compact into dinated by a dedicated Committee for Responsibility. The processes and business procedures. As part of its responCommittee is chaired by the ATP CEO and other members sibility, ATP continues to support the ten principles of the are the CIO (Chief Investment Officer) and the CRO (Chief Global Compact, covering the areas of human rights, labour, Risk Officer) as well as relevant managers. environment and anti-corruption and we are currently integrating them into our processes. See page 56 for a complete Governance and responsibility overview of ATP’s commitment to the individual principles. The report also includes ATP’s statutory report on the status ATP’s Supervisory Board of compliance with the target figures set for the underrepresented gender. The report can be found on page 54. Team ESG Committee for Responsibility ATP as a responsible investor Long-term and sustainable value creation is crucial to our work on responsible investments, and ATP works hard to intePortfolio managers grate responsibility into its investments within the framework of the Supervisory Board’s three policies on responsibility in investments, active ownership and tax on unlisted investThe Committee is responsible for establishing processes ments. The three policies are described below. The aim of which ensure compliance with the Policy of Responsibility the policies is to ensure that ATP’s work on responsibility in in Investments. In addition, the Committee is to ensure that investments is business-driven and based on stringent criteria. all assessments and decisions are rigorous, grounded on factually based assessments and that ATP’s ongoing ESG integration and dialogue play a key role in ATP’s responsibility efforts are coordinated, strengthened and approach to responsibility. Experience has shown that we developed. The analysis work is performed in-house by make better investment decisions by integrating ESG inforTeam ESG, which services the Committee for Responsibility mation with knowledge of other business aspects into the and implements decisions made by the Committee. decision-making basis. By entering into a constructive and patient dialogue with the companies ATP invests in, we are ATP’s Supervisory Board regularly receives reports on the able to gain an understanding of the challenges facing the work on responsibility, and any issues regarding the policy companies, which, in turn, can be used to make better and can be submitted by the CEO to ATP’s Executive Committee more informed investment decisions. Dialogue also allows which approves any deviations from or interpretations of us to encourage the companies to introduce change where the policy. appropriate, thereby minimising risks and promoting the companies’ long-term value creation. Faced with the choice ATP’s Policy of Responsibility between dialogue and exclusion, ATP will always choose in Investments dialogue, as long as we see a potential for improvement. ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, which was Integrating ESG into all investment decisions is a journey revised in 2017, constitutes the overall framework for the that ATP embarked on several years ago and which is still work on responsibility across asset classes and investongoing. This also means that as the level of ambition for ment methods. The aim of the policy is to ensure that ATP ESG increases, some earlier investments will not live up to also includes considerations for the environment, climate, the most recent ambitions. human rights, labour and management issues in its risk management and investment processes in line with other business conditions and risks. Knowledge and analyses Coordinating ATP’s responsibility efforts of corporate ESG issues are relevant to ATP, both in terms To ensure management ownership of responsibility in ATP’s of risk management and when identifying investment investment decisions, the responsibility efforts are cooropportunities. 6 Responsibility 2017 Through their operations, companies that ATP invests in Committee on Corporate Governance and has as such been leave their footprint on society, for instance through their involved in the formulation of the Committee’s Stewardship environmental impacts, employee conditions or the local Code, and he is often in the media presenting ATP’s views population. ATP is aware of this responsibility, and as a on corporate governance and long-term value creation. responsible investor ATP aims to ensure that its work on responsibility in investments benefits the employees, busiATP applies two processes, in particular, in its active nesses and communities affected. ownership activities. Firstly, ATP engages in dialogue with companies by voting at general meetings in all compaConsequently, ATP places a number of demands on the nies in which ATP holds equity investments. Secondly, companies we invest in. Firstly, the companies must respect ATP often engages in continuous dialogue with companies the law of the countries they operate in. Secondly, they about various issues, including corporate governance. The must respect the rules, norms and standards that ensue approach chosen by ATP depends on the size of ATP’s from conventions and other international treaties ratified ownership interest, the time horizon and the value of the by Denmark. This applies irrespective of whether or not the investment, among other things. Read more about contincountry the company operates in has ratified those convenuous dialogue on page 29 and dialogue through general tions. ATP does not invest in companies that intentionally meetings on page 30. and repeatedly violate such conventions. The policy refers to international rules and standards and is as such based In 2017, ATP worked consistently to develop and improve on stringent criteria rather than moral assessments. its stewardship processes in light of its Policy on Active Ownership, which was revised last year. Three new initiaATP strives to integrate responsibility across investment tives should be mentioned. strategies. ATP’s efforts to integrate ESG across its investments are described on page 10. ATP’s processes for and The first is ATP’s decision to publish its votes at general progress on the integration of climate in investments are meetings in listed companies. You can find all votes on the described on page 14. website atp.dk/voting. ATP’s Committee for Responsibility lays down and develops As a part of its active ownership activities, ATP has also processes to ensure that the companies ATP invests in do developed something we call ‘thematic engagement’. not intentionally and repeatedly violate the rules, norms Thematic engagement is systematic, risk-based dialogue and standards set out in conventions and other internawith companies on different topics. In 2017, ATP had five tional treaties. The screening and exclusion processes that thematic engagements with a total of 58 companies. Read apply to listed equities and corporate bonds are described more on page 36. on page 45. In 2017, ATP strengthened its collaboration with other invesThe complete policy is available in Appendix 4. ATP’s list of tors to influence companies through the PRI organisation. excluded companies can be found in Appendix 2. In the PRI, ATP participates in collective engagements with other investors on topics such as tax, OECD Guidelines and the SDGs. Read more about these collaborations on page 41. ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership describes the principles The complete policy is available in Appendix 3. and processes that guide ATP’s active ownership activities. As a responsible long-term investor, ATP has an interest ATP’s Tax Policy on in investors as owners of listed companies being able to Unlisted Investments understand and control the companies’ overall actions, thereby promoting the companies’ long-term value creation. ATP’s Tax Policy on Unlisted Investments, which was Active ownership activities are a high priority for ATP, and, revised by ATP’s Supervisory Board in 2017, describes ATP’s therefore, ATP engages in a direct dialogue with the compaapproach to tax in relation to ATP’s unlisted investments. nies. ATP’s CEO, Christian Hyldahl, is a member of the Aggressive tax planning represents an investment risk Responsibility 2017 7 for ATP, including a reputational risk. In the policy, ATP’s water levels which may affect the company’s results, assets Supervisory Board points out that ATP opposes and must and liabilities. take measures to avoid contributing to aggressive tax planning. It is also expected that ATP’s business partners and The recommendations apply to businesses of all sectors, the companies ATP invests in conduct themselves in the and ATP is therefore taking a two-pronged approach to the same appropriate, responsible and transparent manner recommendations. First in the active ownership activities with regard to tax. where ATP encourages companies to embrace climate-related financial disclosures. Second, ATP has started ATP expects that ATP’s business partners do not engage working on the guidelines for investors. in tax planning that deliberately contravenes the OECD’s so-called BEPS actions. ATP will inform its business partFor many years, ATP has focused on incorporating climate ners of ATP’s tax policy with the clear expectation that they considerations and risks in its investment processes and observe the policy and current tax legislation in general. welcomes the TCFD’s recommendations as an overall framework that we can use to further verify, challenge or ATP closely monitors its direct investments and also intends develop our approach and understanding of climate risks. to carry out random checks in the course of 2018, e.g. to verify Read more about ATP’s climate and climate reporting that fund managers’ investments comply with ATP’s tax policy. efforts on page 14. Before completing an investment, ATP identify relevant tax ATP and the OECD Guidelines for risks, partly via ATP’s internal tax department and partly Multinational Enterprises via external tax experts. If ATP has completed an investment and then discovers a subsequent violation of the tax ATP also endorses the OECD Guidelines for Multinational policy, ATP will immediately engage in a dialogue with the Enterprises which are recommendations on responbusiness partner to find a solution and consider its options, sible business conduct. Like the UN Global Compact, the including whether to continue the collaboration. OECD Guidelines cover a number of topics within human rights, environment, anti-corruption and taxation. The UN’s Guiding Principles have also been integrated into the ATP and FSB TCFD’s OECD Guidelines. Further to this, the OECD has published recommendations a number of specific guidelines for enterprises operating in ATP endorses the TCFD’s recommendations on climate-rethe extraction, agricultural and textile industries. lated financial disclosures (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures). The TCFD is an expert group, which In spring 2017, the OECD published guidance aimed specifiwas set up by the Governor of the Bank of England and cally at institutional investors looking to integrate the guideChairman of the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Mark lines into their investments. ATP has followed the developCarney on behalf of the G20 countries in continuation of ment of the new guidelines with great interest and attended the Paris Agreement. The expert group presented its recomthe launch of the paper, where experts from the OECD mendations in June 2017. elaborated on some of the points raised in the guidelines. Similarly, ATP welcomes the fact that the OECD Guidelines The fundamental idea behind the recommendations of the will be integrated into the Danish Business Authority’s forthexpert group is that company disclosures should focus coming guidelines on responsible investment. on the company’s financial risks and opportunities in the transition to a low-carbon economy. In the transition to a ATP also launched an internal evaluation of its processes low-carbon economy, changes in policy, technology and in relation to the clarifications provided in the OECD customer behaviour may impact companies’ results and Guidelines. The evaluation did not give rise to any major value. Moreover, there is a risk that climate change leads to changes in ATP’s approach, but we continue to adjust and physical changes, such as extreme weather and increased develop our processes. Read more about how ATP inte8 Responsibility 2017 grates the OECD Guidelines into its screening processes ples. The principles are based on internationally adopted on page 46. conventions and standards within human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact has focused a lot on SDGs, which are the UN’s 17 Sustainable ATP and the PRI Development Goals. ATP endorses the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment and is a member of the PRI organisation. In the ATP’s Policy of Responsibility is to ensure that a wide range PRI organisation, ATP focuses especially on the collaboof social, environmental and governance issues are clarration with other investors. Consequently, ATP is involved ified and included in risk analyses and investment deciin deciding, organising or carrying out major so-called sions. ATP therefore believes that it makes sense to include collective engagements where it makes sense, and where the ten principles in its screening processes. Read more common ground can be found. Collective engagements are about it on page 45. As this report is a progress report a series of dialogues with businesses on different topics. for the Global Compact, page 56 contains an overview of Such collaboration between investors can give them the the sections describing ATP’s work on the different Global necessary strength and influence to encourage businesses Compact principles. to change. In 2017, ATP participated in collective engagements concerning the OECD Guidelines, taxation and the In recent years, ATP has also begun looking into how the SDGs, among other things. Read more about PRI engage17 goals can be integrated into its investment processes. ments on page 41. This work is still in the early stages. In 2017, ATP initiated a thematic engagement with six companies on water and water risks inspired by the 17 global goals. In addition, ATP ATP and the Global Compact has joined an international working group in the PRI organiATP has joined the UN Global Compact initiative, which aims sation on how investors can integrate the SDGs into collecto promote corporate responsibility by endorsing common tive engagements with businesses. Read more on page 41. and universally accepted values consisting of ten princiJørgen Søndergaard Lars Rohde Jørgen Søndergaard Christian Hyldahl formand Chairman direktør CEO Responsibility 2017 9 ESG integration ESG integration in ATP’s investments Better data is a main focus ESG integration is about integrating information about High data quality is key to successful ESG integration, companies’ performance and responsibility efforts into particularly if information about the companies’ ESG perforthe decision-making basis for investments. From a finanmance and responsibility efforts is to form part of the decicial perspective, information about companies’ responsision-making basis for ATP’s investments. Consequently, bility efforts can help to identify high-risk investments and ATP has a firm focus on continuously exploring the market suggest potential investment targets that involve a lower for ESG data and influencing companies directly or through level of risk. investor groups to encourage them to report high-quality data. In 2017, ATP conducted thematic engagements with ATP invests in a number of different asset classes, including a number of companies on their reporting of different ESG listed equities, corporate bonds, government bonds, private data, among other things. The work on thematic engageequity, infrastructure investments and real estate investments is described on page 36. ments. The work on integrating ESG into risk management and investment processes largely depends on which of For some asset classes, the market for quality data on these asset classes you invest in, but the investment method ESG performance is still immature, for example within is also important. This chapter describes some of the ways unlisted investments in infrastructure. Within infrastrucin which ATP integrates responsibility into its investments. ture investments, ATP is therefore a founding member og the GRESB Infrastructure organisation, which benchmarks In addition to integrating ESG information into its investand compares infrastructure funds and assets against a ment decisions, ATP also continuously monitors its investnumber of different parameters such as environment, social ment targets’ compliance with ATP’s Policy of Responsibility issues and governance. When the data quality is improved in Investments. ATP employs thorough and systematic and investors receive data from multiple assets, it will processes to identify and investigate companies in its portalso be easier to work systematically with ESG integration folio that should potentially be excluded from the investment across the infrastructure investments. portfolio. Among other things, ATP has for years screened its listed equities and corporate bonds. When ATP has idenIntegrating responsibility into tified a company that is potentially in violation of the policy, investments in listed equities ATP engages in a dialogue with the company to rectify the situation. Exclusion will always be a last resort. Read more Listed equities is one of the asset classes where relatively about this work on page 45. good data and information about companies’ ESG performance and responsibility efforts is available from data providers. When ATP invests in listed equities, we employ ATP’s overall perspectives on a variety of investment strategies. ESG integration The philosophy behind ATP’s efforts to integrate knowledge ATP is an important investor in Danish listed companies, of companies’ performance and work on responsibility in both when it comes to ownership interests and the amount investments is that, similar to investment decisions, this of money invested. An integrated model is applied, where work must be anchored in the respective investment teams. responsibility is integrated into the decision-making basis The portfolio managers must decide for themselves whether and investment follow-up. The investment decisions are knowledge of companies’ ESG issues can contribute to a based on thorough and long-term analyses of individual better decision-making basis in risk analyses and investcompanies, covering issues such as corporate strategy, ment processes, so that ESG integration creates better financial results, governance power, governance, market investment decisions. position and responsibility. In Danish companies where ATP is a significant investor, ATP has successfully engaged Portfolio managers have access to knowledge and guidin active ownership activities and continuous dialogue, ance from an internal team of ESG analysts, which is discussing topics such as responsibility and ESG issues. ATP’s knowledge bank on issues relating to responsibility Read more about ATP’s active ownership activities and in investments. continuous dialogue on page 28. One example is ATP’s 10 Responsibility 2017 investments in Vestas and Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy), return, and improve returns in falling markets, in particular. where the business opportunities offered by the green ATP places the same requirements on factors based on transformation have formed an integral part of the assessESG data as factors based on market data. This means ment. The integrated model has helped to drive value creathat, as a general rule, the factors must be verified by tion in ATP’s investments in Danish companies. means of statistical analyses of historical returns. ATP also invests in global listed equities, acting as active At the same time, ATP is aware that the historical data is not owners, leading thematic engagements on responsibility necessarily an indicator of future performance. The world issues and voting at the companies’ general meetings. This is constantly changing, and so are the financial markets. following section describes ATP’s efforts to integrate ESG data ATP therefore continuously keeps itself up to date on the with market data into its global quantitative equity strategies. academic literature on ESG integration. It should also be noted that the preliminary investigaIntegrating responsibility in the tions have revealed certain challenges with respect to selection process into quantitative data quality. The number of covered companies is not high global equity strategies enough, and for some ESG factors the time series are also In 2017, ATP began the task of applying and integrating ESG relatively short, making statistical verification difficult. ATP data in the selection process directly into its quantitative continuously explores the opportunities for obtaining better equity strategies. The quantitative equity strategies mainly ESG data and, through thematic and collective engageapply to global investments, and in 2017 ATP worked hard ments, continues to push for companies to increase their to build up a large global portfolio of cash equities. reporting and reporting quality. A quantitative equity strategy means that ATP selects equiIntegrating responsibility into ties from a pool of several thousand companies based on alternative investments proven, factor-based market data analyses. Examples of proven quantitative factors used by ATP to select equities In addition to more traditional investments in listed equifor its portfolio are ‘value’, ‘momentum’ and ‘low risk’. ties, ATP has considerable investments in alternative assets such as real estate, infrastructure and forestry. Alternative Equities with a high value factor score are ‘cheap’, i.e. their investments have special characteristics, which makes it market value is low compared to their earnings. Equities more complex to systematically integrate ESG factors. with a high momentum factor score are equities that show a positive price development trend. Equities with a high low One of the barriers for integration is that the market for risk factor score are equities with low equity price volatility. good and adequate ESG data remains immature in some Statistically, equities with a high score in the three factors areas. ATP overcomes this barrier by working on ESG will perform better than expected in terms of higher risk-adreporting in the organisations GRESB Real Estate and justed return. ATP classifies all the equities in its investment GRESB Infrastructure. ATP reports to the two organisaportfolio according to quantitative factors and selects its tions, which evaluate and compare investor performance portfolio based on these factors. in terms of sustainability and responsibility. Investor performance is measured at both asset and fund level. ATP has examined the possibilities of integrating ESG data into its quantitative factor model. The work is complex Integrating responsibility into real and still ongoing. ATP’s hypothesis is that ESG data – and estate investments governance data, in particular – can be used as input to select quality companies. Internationally, the so-called ATP has years of experience with integrating responsibility ‘quality factor’ is increasingly seen as a recognised factor into its real estate investments. Through its subsidiary ATP similar to ‘low risk’, ‘momentum’ and ‘value’. By integrating Ejendomme, ATP invests in both existing real estate and ESG factors and quality, it is expected that ATP will be able new-build. For many direct investments, ATP is also responto further increase the expected risk-adjusted, long-term sible for the real estate management. Responsibility 2017 11 The real estate portfolio is spread across various sectors ATP uses the assessments as an internal work tool to and includes investments in Denmark, Europe and the UK. systematically understand, assess and benchmark its real ATP invests both directly, in partnership with other instiestate investments’ ESG performance against that of the tutional investors and through funds in office properties, largest global players. ATP has also used GRESB’s assessshopping centres and hotels, among other things. ments to identify the potential for improvement and step up its efforts to integrate ESG into its investment decisions. ATP strives to integrate responsibility into its investments in different ways. Read ATP’s Responsibility Report 2016 The chart below shows GRESB Real Estate’s latest for more details. assessment of ATP compared to a peer group of Northern European investors. The ambition is to continue developing ATP’s current practice of integrating responsibility into its real estate investATP scores higher than the peer group on the ‘Risks and ments. By participating in and reporting to GRESB Real Opportunities’ parameter, which assesses our efforts Estate, ATP will be able to continue to grow by comparing to integrate risk and opportunities into the investment its practice with that of leading global real estate investors. process. This reflects ATP’s serious efforts to integrate different ESG factors into risk management activities and its due diligence processes that precede investments in real ATP and GRESB Real Estate estate and funds. GRESB Real Estate is one of the most ambitious reporting standards for sustainable real estate investments. The One of the areas in which ATP scores below the peer standard has been adopted by the largest global real estate group average is ‘Policy and Disclosures’. ATP’s Policy investors, and a growing number of investors are reporting of Responsibility in Investments covers a wide range of on their sustainability work to GRESB Real Estate. Because topics, including different aspects of environmental and so many large real estate investors have adopted the social issues and governance. However, unlike some of standard, the benchmark becomes better and more robust. our peers, ATP does not have separate policies for indiReal estate investor performance is assessed based on vidual areas of its real estate and building operations, a number of factors, including stakeholder involvement, which affects the score, among other things. By reporting management, building certificates, risk and opportunities to GRESB Real Estate, ATP has identified possible develas well as general performance. opment areas. One development area, which ATP has been 100 Management 75 75 Stakeholder Engagement Policy & Disclosure 50 62 60 25 84 Risks & Opportunities 57 Building Certifications 71 60 Monitoring & EMS Performance Indicators This Entity Peer Group Average 12 Responsibility 2017 working on in 2017, is the formalisation of our processes. obtaining separate ESG reporting from infrastructure assets Because ATP often has sought to integrate responsibility at and funds, including GRESB Infrastructure reporting. asset level, for example in specific real estate investments, ATP has identified a development potential for formalising ATP is a founding member of GRESB Infrastructure and and systematically documenting our efforts. This work will sits on the organisation’s steering committee. Assets and continue in 2018. funds reported to GRESB Infrastructure for the first time in 2016. In 2016 and 2017, ATP focused on encouraging other investors and business partners to support the initiative, Integrating responsibility into among other things by raising the topic at board meetings infrastructure investments in the companies or consortiums or discussing it with other ATP integrates responsibility considerations into its infrainvestors who have not yet joined GRESB Infrastructure. structure investments by specifically considering the risk factors and opportunities of each investment. As a benchmark, GRESB Infrastructure has yet to fully mature as the level of reporting remains too low. Nor does ATP is continuously working on systematising its processes, it make much sense to compare an investment in motorbut the assets are so diverse that it can be difficult to develop ways with an investment in a gas pipeline. However, ATP is systematic and cross-sectoral solutions. The investments already using GRESB data as a starting point for dialogue include everything from gas pipelines over metro stations concerning its investments. to port terminals and roads – and for each asset, ESG risks and opportunities manifest themselves differently. As an investor, there are also commercial reasons for wanting increased ESG reporting from infrastructure One of the ways in which ATP is working on systematising assets. In 2017, ATP noted a demand from lenders for its approach to responsibility in investments is by strengthincreased ESG reporting following the assets’ application ening the data basis, so that we are better able to assess for financing. asset and fund performance. We do this for example by CASE: SDG reporting ATP has requested specific SDG reporting on a trial basis from one of its fund investments in infrastructure. Good and adequate reporting is required if we want to understand how a specific investment or investment portfolio contributes to the achievement of the SDGs. A substantial effort has been made by the manager of the fund in question to systematically examine and describe – for all 17 goals – how three specific assets contribute to achieving the goals. The fund manager’s reporting has made it clear to ATP that providing adequate reporting on the SDGs is a monumental and complex task. For businesses and investors, the SDGs represent both business opportunities and risks, and an investment in a specific company can contribute to promoting one goal while at the same time hampering another. In 2018, ATP will focus on integrating the SDGs into our work on responsibility in investments. Responsibility 2017 13 Climate For several years, ATP has been integrating climate considby focusing on companies’ commercial opportunities in erations into its investment processes. ATP believes that the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy and the climate change affects companies’ long-term value creation risks that climate change poses to the companies’ results. and investor returns in ways that are both complex and someIn order to overcome this complexity, ATP has had a broad times conflicting. approach to and understanding of climate risks and opportunities and has primarily applied this to unlisted investIn order to overcome this complexity, ATP has historically ments. In addition, ATP has continuously encouraged listed chosen to focus on climate risks and opportunities at asset companies to improve their reporting in order to strengthen level, for example in concrete real estate investments, infraATP’s own understanding of ESG risks in investments. structure investments or in listed equity investments. Similarly, ATP’s external reporting of its efforts to integrate climate Climate, climate change and climate-political trends may considerations into investments has focused on concrete affect ATP’s investments in different ways. Historically, ATP investments and investment considerations. has regarded climate risks as both tangible, physical risks as well as regulatory risks. ATP has lacked a broad and holistic framework for understanding and addressing climate opportunities and climate Climate change can pose a tangible risk of material damage risks across its investments. Therefore, ATP also welcomes to ATP’s assets, for example through an increase in cloudrecommendations and guidelines such as the Task Force on bursts, elevated water levels, forest fires, storms, changing Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) presented at the temperatures or drought. Consequently, ATP considers G20 meeting in Hamburg in June 2017. cloudburst protection during property development and the physical location or construction of real estate with ATP will use the TCFD’s recommendations as a general respect to protecting it against increased water levels in framework for verifying, challenging and further developing future. In a concrete forestry investment, ATP reduced its our approach to and understanding of climate risks. Further return outlook because ATP expects an increase in cyclone details on ATP’s support of the TCFD’s recommendations can frequency. On page 12-13 you can read about how ATP be found on page 42 and 44. continuously strives to integrate and improve the understanding of climate risks in its investments by reporting to GRESB Real Estate and GRESB Infrastructure. ATP’s method of integrating climate risks and opportunities Climate-related regulatory risks may also have a direct into its investments impact on ATP’s returns. In 2006, ATP invested a considATP has several years of experience with the integration erable amount of money in Spanish PV panels. The potenof climate considerations into its investments. This is done tial for generating an attractive return on the investment Climate-related risks and opportunities in ATP’s investment decisions Risks and opportunities for the individual company in the transition to a low-carbon economy: • Individual company carbon footprint and strategy for reducing emissions Regulatory risks: • Changes in subsidies • Introduction of regulation that affects certain business models Tangible risks of material damage: • Physical location of assets • Business models affected by physical changes in sorroundings 14 Responsibility 2017 ATP’s investments in green bonds ATP is an important global investor in traditional bonds. ATP has followed the developments in the market for green bonds for several years. The market for green bonds still represents a relatively small share of the bond market, although the market has seen strong growth in recent years. This means that liquidity remains relatively low, resulting in limited options for using green bonds as collateral. However, given the challenges that the world is facing with respect to funding the transition to a low-carbon economy, ATP sees future potential in green bonds. In light of the above, ATP decided to enter the green bonds market in 2017 with an initial investment of approx. DKK 1.5 billion. ATP’s focused on buying green bonds with a credit rating equivalent to that of the existing bonds in ATP’s investment portfolio. In addition to a high credit rating, ATP will also only buy green bonds from issuers that comply with the Green Bond Principles. ATP will monitor the green bond market closely in 2018 in order to remain at the forefront of developments. What are green bonds? Green bonds are special in that the issuer of the bond uses the proceeds to fund climate-friendly investments. A climate-friendly investment could for instance be an investment in increased energy efficiency. In order for a bond to be considered green, it is expected that the climate or environmental benefits are clear and quantifiable. However, it is not certain that the initiatives that are granted funding through the issue of green bonds would not have been completed without the issue, and the climate impact of the existence of the green bond market is therefore difficult to verify. ATP believes, however, that the development of the market may have the desired effect in the long term and therefore supports green bonds. In recent years, the market for green bonds has undergone considerable development as illustrated in the figure below. Green Bond Principles Attempts are already being made to regulate the market for Total cumulative issuance (USDbn) 400 green bonds. The International Capital Market Association (ICMA) is a membership organisation for financial sector 350 representatives which has formulated four Green Bond 300 Principles. The principles are not legally binding. They include: 250 1. nefits must be clear and preferably quantifiable. 2. The issuer has established a clear process for selection 200 and evaluation of projects – preferably with external veri150 fication of compliance with the Green Bond Principles. 3. The proceeds must be segregated from other funding 100 by the auditor. 4. The issuer’s use of the proceeds must be disclosed 50 publicly and updated at least once a year. 0 20 20 20 17 20 16 15 14 0 20 In addition, ATP expects the European Commission to 20 20 13 12 20 20 11 10 20 20 09 08 7 00 6 strengthen the regulation of the area in 2018 in connection 19 92 -2 with its Sustainable Finance Strategy. Source: SEB analysis based on Bloomberg (BNEF) and SEB data Responsibility 2017 15 took a hit, when the Spanish authorities suddenly changed For the past two years, ATP has exercised its voting rights in the legal framework for the investment. The introduction respect of its international listed equities. Here, climate-reof a carbon tax or stricter regulation of polluting induslated proposals are sometimes put forward by shareholders tries may also change the potential for attractive returns – proposals which ATP takes very seriously. At Occidental on ATP’s investments. Petroleum’s annual general meetings in 2016 and 2017, ATP voted in favour of shareholder proposals for increased ATP seeks to minimise regulatory risks which may stand climate reporting and preparation of scenario analyses. in the way of increased investments in companies contribQuite extraordinarily, the climate proposals were adopted uting to the green transformation. ATP has therefore joined at Occidental Petroleum’s annual general meeting in 2017, the IIGCC which is a forum for international investors, a decision which was warmly welcomed by ATP. At the providing a collaborative platform to encourage political same time, ATP has also had a very constructive dialogue decision-makers to implement policies that address longwith Occidental Petroleum through thematic engagement. term risks associated with climate change. Through IIGCC, ATP has contributed to raising political awareness of the ATP’s work on the need for a clear, credible and predictable policy frameTCFD’s recommendations work at national and regional level for the transition to a low-carbon economy. Read more about ATP’s IIGCC Even though ATP has worked on climate and climate risks membership on page 44. in its investment processes for several years and on several fronts, ATP has lacked a general framework to guide its ATP has also focused on the commercial opportunities and work and reporting. risks that climate change and the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy pose to companies. ATP has been The TCFD’s recommendations are holistic, focus on a long-term investor in Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy), climate-related financial risks and are therefore well Vestas and Rockwool, among others, providing ATP with aligned with ATP’s views on climate risk. The fundamental solid returns on the business opportunities offered by the idea behind the TCFD’s recommendations is that company green transformation, while at the same time keeping the disclosures should focus on the company’s financial companies’ capital costs lower than they would otherwise risks and opportunities in the transition to a low-carbon have been. On the other hand, certain sectors are exposed economy. In the transition to a low-carbon economy, to significant disruptions in connection with the transition changes in policy, technology and customer behaviour to a low-carbon economy. It is important that the compamay impact companies’ results and value. New taxes on nies are aware of these and adapt accordingly if they are climate-damaging behaviour may be introduced, consumpto remain relevant and competitive. tion habits may change or a technological disruption may occur. Moreover, the TCFD also points out that there is a For a number of years, ATP has sought to obtain better data risk that climate change leads to physical changes, such and increase the quality of climate data from companies, as extreme weather and increased water levels which may for example through continuous dialogue, ESG dialogue affect the company’s results, assets and liabilities. with our Danish investments, thematic dialogue and dialogue through the PRI. The TCFD’s recommendations were drafted by a wide range of international experts with special knowledge of ATP is cosignatory to Climate Action 100+ ATP is one of the founding signatories to Climate Action 100+, which was launched in December 2017. Climate Action 100+ is a global investor-led initiative designed to put a consistent pressure on the world’s 100 biggest polluting companies. ATP and other investors engage with the largest global emitters of carbon and other greenhouse gases. The purpose is to persuade them to reduce emissions, strengthen climate-related financial disclosures and improve governance on climate change. 16 Responsibility 2017 financial disclosures and climate. The recommendations ATP is taking a two-pronged approach to the recommendawere the result of an open process with public consultations. Firstly, ATP has adopted the supplemental guidance tion, and ATP has followed the development of the recomfor asset owners in order to better understand ATP’s own mendations closely. climate-related financial risks. Secondly, as a responsible investor, ATP also encourages companies that ATP invests The recommendations are broad in scope and apply in to adopt climate-related financial disclosures. to companies in all sectors. The expert group is aware, however, that climate risks and opportunities do not affect In order to cover all aspects of climate risk, the recomall industries in the same way, and has therefore drawn up mendations are structured around four overall categosupplemental guidance for certain industries. ries: Governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. Implementing all the recommendations would TCFD’s recommendations Governance Strategy Risk management Metrics & Targets Disclose how the organizaDisclose the actual and potenDisclose how the organizaDisclose the metrics and tion identifies, assesses, and tial impacts of climate-rlated tion identifies, assesses, and targets used to assess and manages climate-related risks. risks and opportunities on the manages climate-related risks. manage relevant climate-reorganization’s businesses, lated risks and opportunistrategy, and financial planties where such information ning where such information is material. is material. Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures Recommended Disclosures A. Describe the board’s overA. Describe the climate-reA. Describe the organization’s A. Disclose the metrics used sight of climate-related lated risks and opportuniprocesses for identifying by the organization to risks and opportunities. ties the organization has and assessing climate-reassess climate-related identified over the short, lated risks. risks and opportunities in medium, and long term. line with its strategy and risk management process. Asset owners should describe metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in each fund or investment strategy. Where relevant, asset owners should also describe how these metrics have changed over time. Where appropriate, asset owners should provide metrics considered in investment decisions and monitoring. B. B. B. Describe management’s B. Describe the impact of B. Describe the organization’s B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, role in assessing and climate-related risks processes for managing and, if appropriate, Scope managing climate-related and opportunities on climate-related risks. 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) risks and opportunities the organization’s busiemissions, and the related nesses, strategy, and finanrisks. cial planning. Asset owners should describe how climate-related risks and opportunities are factored into relevant investment strategies. This could be described from the perspective of the total fund or investment strategy or individual investment strategies for various asset classes. Responsibility 2017 17 be a monumental task, and ATP has therefore decided to Because ATP has historically dealt with climate issues at initially focus on the recommendations on governance, asset level, the actual work on integrating climate risks and metrics and targets in 2017 (see pillar 1 and pillar 4 in the opportunities has been handled decentrally by the different table). The remaining recommendations will be addressed investment teams. in the coming years. An overview of the recommendations for asset owners is provided on page 17. In light of the TCFD’s recommendations, ATP has made efforts to strengthen its organisational processes, re-assessing its governance model to ensure clearer manageATP’s work on governance for ment ownership and knowledge sharing across ATP’s climate-related financial risks investment teams. The TCFD recommends that businesses describe their governance for climate-related financial risks, including Consequently, ATP has appointed a climate responsible how the Supervisory Board and management will be investment manager, who is responsible for ensuring that involved. climate issues are integrated into investment processes across the investment area. The rationale behind appointing ATP’s Supervisory Board has adopted the Policy of a dedicated climate responsible is to constantly challenge Responsibility in Investments, which lays down the overall the investment organisation on climate issues. framework for ATP’s climate efforts. ATP’s responsibility reports are approved by the Supervisory Board, and the ATP’s climate responsible collects knowledge, conducts Supervisory Board also receives regular reporting on ATP’s climate-related analyses as needed and reports on the work responsibility efforts, including the work on climate-reof ATP’s Climate Forum to the Committee for Responsibility. lated risks. The climate responsible ensures that knowledge of climate risks and opportunities is available across ATP’s various Climate considerations are included in ATP’s risk manageinvestment teams and subsidiaries in ATP’s Climate Forum. ment on an equal footing with other business-related risks. Climate in ATP ATP’s Supervisory Board ATP’s Committee for ATP’s Climate Responsible Responsibility ATP’s Climate Forum Relevant Managers from Private Equity Global Direct ESG Danish Equities Real Estate Global Equities Partners Investments 18 Responsibility 2017 The Climate Forum consists of six executives, including five on investors’ work on climate and climate risks in the investinvestment managers and the head of ESG. They constitute ment processes. From ATP’s perspective, nor are measureATP’s Climate Forum where the climate responsible and the ments of the total carbon footprint of any use in ATP’s own executives meet to initiate relevant development projects. work on climate-related financial risks. This is for example The Climate Forum also serves as a forum for discussing due to concerns about data quality, methodological weakand exchanging experiences with climate-related financial nesses and the general focus of the measurements. risks across the investment business. Even if the assets and the strategies are very different, learning about other Although the TCFD widely acknowledges ATP’s and other professionals’ approaches and experiences can provide investors’ criticism of the application and usefulness of valuable input and inspiration. these metrics, the TCFD nevertheless decided to recommend investors to disclose the carbon footprint of their portfolios. One of the reasons for this recommendation was ATP’s work on metrics for climate-rethat, in the long term, investor disclosure may lead to better lated financial risks metrics in this area, as it will foster more nuanced discusIn 2017, ATP decided to follow the TCFD’s recommendations sions at company level. on metrics, despite the fact that the recommendations for asset owners are much debated among investors. In 2017, ATP therefore decided to follow the TCFD’s recommendations by disclosing the carbon footprint of its ATP does not believe that information about investors’ listed equities. carbon footprint at portfolio level provides greater clarity Dividing companies’ carbon emissions There are three standard ways to classify carbon emissions, each representing a company’s environmental impact. These three categories are called scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3. The illustration below shows the three scopes, and how they seek to methodically define all the emissions associated with business value chains. SCOPE 2 Indirect emissions linked to the heat and power consumed by the company SCOPE 3 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 E.g. Emissions from subsuppliers Direct emisE.g. Emissions from customers’ processing of raw materials, sions from use of products and distribuemissions from waste treatment, sources controlled tion of goods emissions from employees’ busiand owned by ness travels and commuting the company Emissions from upstream activities Company Emissions from downsstream activities Responsibility 2017 19 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources By including scope 3 emissions in their carbon footprint, controlled and owned by the company, for example emisinvestors also risk that emissions are counted several sions relating to the burning of fossil fuels at productimes, if, for example, the investor owns equities in compation sites and transport vehicles owned or leased by the nies as well as their subsuppliers. Knowledge of scope 3 company. emissions is, however, relevant to investors when assessing individual companies and their exposure to climate-related Scope 2 emissions cover indirect emissions linked to the financial risks. Investors can also use knowledge of carbon heat and power consumed by the company. This could footprint in the company’s value chains (including scope 3 for example be the power consumed by the company emissions) to engage in a dialogue with the company. for cooling, or steam to keep the production facilities up and running. Many companies have begun to report on their carbon emissions according to scope 1 and scope 2. There is still Scope 3 emissions are more complex, but also cover indisome way to go, though. As mentioned earlier, ATP continurect emissions. Here, a distinction is often made between ously strives to influence companies to report on their emisemissions linked to upstream activities and emissions sions according to scope 1 and scope 2. When compalinked to downstream activities. Scope 3 upstream emisnies do not report on their emissions, data providers are sions include emissions from subsuppliers’ processing of forced to estimate emissions. The estimation methods are raw materials and production, emissions from waste treatbecoming ever more sophisticated, but it is a difficult task ment, emissions from employees’ business travel and and the methods vary from data provider to data provider. transport to the workplace. Scope 3 downstream emisDifferent investors can thus use different estimated data sions include emissions from customers’ use of products on the same company, making comparison difficult. In their and distribution of goods. estimates, data providers tend to overestimate the companies’ emissions. The data quality and data uncertainty vary greatly between the three scopes. Even though scope 3 has the most inforATP wants to give a fair picture of the ‘actual’ footprint mation on a company’s actual climate footprint and expoof its investments and exposure to climate risks. Including sure, only a handful of companies report on their scope 3 scope 3 emissions provides a more adequate picture of a emissions. This is partly because it is very difficult for a company’s climate footprint, but ATP believes that the data company to estimate how their products are being used quality and estimation models are still not good enough. and subsequently handled. Therefore, ATP chooses to use companies’ scope 1 and scope 2 emissions to calculate its total carbon footprint. However, in order to illustrate the significance of scope 3 emissions, ATP also includes scope 3 upstream emissions EXAMPLE: Double reporting of carbon footprint in one of its calculations. When calculating the carbon footprint to assess a company’s climate footprint, including scope Challenges associated with inter1, scope 2 and scope 3 provides a more accupreting investors’ carbon footprint rate picture. When assessing a portfolio’s exposure, there is a risk of double reporting if you both An investor’s carbon footprint can offer perspectives on the own equities in a company and its direct or indirect carbon emissions of investment portfolios and thereby the subsuppliers. underlying portfolio companies. However, carbon emissions do not provide a full and accurate picture of neither climate A company’s scope 3 emissions are another compafootprint nor exposure to climate-related financial risks. ny’s scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. Therefore, the inclusion of scope 3 emissions in calculations There are many different methods for measuring investof portfolio carbon footprint provides an incorments’ climate footprint and exposure to climate-related rect picture. financial risks. Each method has different strengths and weaknesses and sheds light on various aspects of climate 20 Responsibility 2017 risk exposure. The results obtained using the individual may also prompt the investor to invest in companies with methods are therefore not directly comparable. low carbon emissions calculated according to scope 1 and scope 2, without looking at the companies’ value chains The TCFD recommended in its final draft that investors and thereby its actual exposure to climate-related finandisclose their carbon footprint according to a model named cial risks. ‘Weighted Average Carbon Intensity’. It should be noted that the TCFD only encourages investors to disclose according Carbon footprint calculations use data about companies’ to this one method, but ATP has chosen to increase transmarket capitalisation and earnings. At the end of 2017, ATP parency and illustrate the challenges of climate metrics by used market data on its current portfolios, but emissions also calculating the footprint according to the three other data from the same companies is compiled at different models which appear from the TCFD’s preparatory work. times and the most recent data are from 2016. Before interpreting the results of the footprint of listed equity The delay is due, among other things, to the fact that our investments according to the four methods, it is important data provider verifies and harmonises the companies’ to be aware of the challenges inherent in interpreting invesreported data before ATP gains access to data on its porttors’ calculations of their carbon footprint. folio companies. ATP believes that it is very relevant for companies to work Data on the companies’ emissions says nothing about on their carbon footprint by limiting carbon emissions to the companies’ strategy and progress in terms of limiting the atmosphere. If investors reduce their footprint by for their emissions. If an investor wants to invest in a way that example selling equities in high-emission companies, it will reduces the investor’s exposure to climate-related finannot lead to a decline in the actual emissions, however. In cial risks, the company’s strategy and progress seem to be fact, there is a risk that the equities are instead purchased much more relevant parameters. by less climate-responsible investors, who do not want to influence companies to reduce their emissions. Investors with a narrow focus on the carbon footprint of their investment portfolios and thus the carbon emissions If an investor has a narrow focus on its carbon footprint, it of the underlying portfolio companies may choose not to EXAMPLE: Limitations resulting from a narrow focus on carbon footprint Looking exclusively at the carbon footprint of portfolios and companies involves a risk of overestimating or underestimating a company’s climate risks and opportunities. A company with high carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) may at the same time contribute to reducing carbon emissions elsewhere in the value chain. A manufacturer of wind turbine blades, PV panels or an insulating product uses energy and emits carbon during production, while also providing key input in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Vestas and Rockwool are examples of companies with relatively high carbon emissions that contribute considerably with vital solutions to the green tranformation. A company with limited carbon emissions from its own production (low emissions according to scope 1 and scope 2) may have high emissions under scope 3 if it uses materials from high-emission subsuppliers in its production. The company’s climate footprint and exposure to climate-related financial risks and opportunities can thus be larger than what is immediately apparent from its carbon accounts. One could imagine a situation where a carbon tax affects the company’s production costs and earnings by increasing the price of materials purchased from subsuppliers. Responsibility 2017 21 invest in a company like Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy) tensive industries in the database. The calculation platform due to its high emissions, until Ørsted, as announced, has calculates the carbon footprint of the companies which completely phased out coal in 2023. As an energy company are covered by data. There is thus a risk that the calcuwith strong climate ambitions, Ørsted has transformed itself lated carbon footprint does not correspond to the ‘actual’ from a company with high carbon emissions (from coal, oil footprint. and gas) to a company whose energy production is largely based on wind power and sustainable biomass. Investors First metric: Total Carbon Emissions with a too narrow focus on reporting a low carbon footprint Total Carbon Emissions will deny themselves the opportunity of contributing to the green transformation of energy production. This metric for calculating the carbon footprint of investCalculating the carbon footprint of ments is the simplest and shows the portfolio’s total volume ATP’s investments in listed equities of carbon emissions (measured in so-called CO 2 equivalents ATP invests in listed equities both in Denmark and abroad. – CO 2e). ATP uses different strategies for investments in Nordic listed companies and international listed companies, This metric uses the value of the amount invested in the respectively. company, the company’s market capitalisation and the company’s carbon emissions to calculate the carbon footATP often invests in Nordic equities based on in-depth print. The assumption is that ATP ‘owns’ some of the compaanalyses of individual companies. ATP also often has large ny’s emissions, corresponding to ATP’s ownership interest in holdings of Nordic equities in individual companies. the company. If ATP has investments in a company corresponding to 5 per cent of its market capitalisation, ATP ‘owns’ ATP’s investments in international equities are based on a 5 per cent of the company’s emissions. ATP’s share of all quantitative equity strategy. A quantitative equity strategy portfolio companies’ emissions is added up to determine the means that ATP selects equities from a pool of several thoutotal footprint under this method. sand companies based on proven, factor-based market data analyses. Read more about ATP’s quantitative equity Total Carbon Emissions strategies and efforts to integrate ESG data into its equity Source: Trucost selection on page 11. In its quantitative strategies, ATP 2,000,000 invests in many companies, but has often invested lower amounts in the individual companies. 1,500,000 Due to the dissimilarity of the investment strategies, reporting is carried out separately for the Nordic and international listed equities. 1,000,000 ATP uses climate data and a calculation platform from a data provider to calculate the carbon footprint of its equity investments. The data provider is one of the leading 500,000 providers of climate data, and yet ATP experiences challenges in procuring data on all its investments. The data provider only recently began to cover the Nordic market, 0 and we therefore lack carbon emissions data on Nordic Nordic equities International equities Total portfolio companies in particular. Scope 1 Scope 2 Work is continuously being done to extend coverage. The The invested amount is crucial to the result, and because the data provider’s strategy is to start by including carbon-inmetric does not normalise based on size, there is no point 22 Responsibility 2017 in making comparisons with portfolios that do not have the One of the typical criticisms of this metric is that changes same market value. in the underlying companies’ market capitalisation has a significant impact on the result, even when the emissions The total carbon footprint of ATP’s listed equities under this remain unchanged. If the price of an equity goes up, so method is calculated by adding up the carbon footprint of the does the market capitalisation, and an investor will still own Nordic portfolio and the international portfolio. the same share of emissions. Decomposing the calculation to see which companies contribute the most to the total carbon footprint using this If the company’s emissions remain unchanged, ATP is metric, two companies stand out in particular: ATP’s considresponsible for the same volume of emissions, but because erable investments in A.P. Møller Mærsk and Ørsted have by the metric normalises from a higher market capitalisation, far the largest impact on the overall footprint. Together they ATP will appear more climate-friendly, compared to before represent more than 25 per cent of total emissions from ATP’s the increase in market capitalisation. listed equities. Another point of criticism is that this calculation does not If you focus on the investments in the international equity take into account the companies’ efficiency, but considers portfolio, ATP’s investments in Japanese and US utility only the amount of carbon emitted. companies have the biggest impact. The Carbon Intensity metric focuses on the company’s carbon efficiency, as this might be normalised on the basis Normalising metrics: Carbon Footprint of the portfolio companies’ earnings. Where, in popular and Carbon Intensity terms, the first two metrics describe the volume of the carbon emissions ‘owned’ by the investor, the Carbon Carbon Footprint Intensity metric describes how efficiently the portfolio generates earnings relative to the carbon emissions. The metric has the advantage of not being sensitive to changes in the market capitalisation of the equities. On Carbon Intensity the other hand, the metric may be criticised for being too sensitive to other factors which may change a company’s earnings, such as higher or lower prices of input factors. The portfolio and the portfolio companies may, for example, appear more or less climate-efficient without this having The TCFD’s preliminary work describes two metrics that anything to do with climate efforts. can be used to compare portfolios: Carbon Footprint and Carbon Intensity. These metrics build on the first metric Consequently, this metric is better suited to providing a (Total Carbon Emissions), but the carbon footprint is snapshot of the company’s efficiency, being careful about normalised. The Carbon Footprint calculation normalises comparing the year-on-year result without knowing the based on the total size of the portfolio, and the Carbon underlying reasons for the change in performance. Intensity calculation normalises based on the company’s earnings. Nordic equities When the TCFD submitted its first draft for consultation, ATP lacks data on around 33 per cent of the company they recommended that investors report using the Carbon names currently in our Nordic portfolio. These companies Footprint metric. The metric builds on the formula from the are therefore not included in this calculation. Investments first metric, but normalises the footprint on the basis of the in these companies total approx. 13 per cent of the portfototal portfolio size. This enables a meaningful comparison lio’s total value. ATP is engaged in a dialogue with the data of portfolios with different market values. provider on including more of ATP’s portfolio companies. Responsibility 2017 23 Carbon footprint – Nordic equities Source: Trucost ATP’s investment in A.P. Møller Mærsk. One of the world’s 25 most energy-efficient shipping lines per container, the company continues to pursue an ambitious plan to reduce its carbon footprint per transported container and is also 20 actively working towards increasing carbon regulation of n global shipping. 15 Other companies in the portfolio with a significant impact on the overall footprint are Ørsted, Rockwool and DSV. They 10 each contribute less than 10 per cent of the calculation, regardless of the metric used. 5 As a utility company, Ørsted will rank high in an emission calculation like this, but ATP does not consider the result 0 of this calculation to be controversial. The energy mix plays Carbon footprint an important role in ATP’s assessment of a utility company. Scope 1 Scope 2 Ørsted has a clear ambition to phase out coal from its energy mix, and ATP expects that emissions will decline over time. Even though Ørsted ranks high in ATP’s calculation, it is a utility company that has a clear strategy for Carbon intensity – Nordic equities adapting to a low-carbon economy. Source: Trucost 50 Rockwool produces and sells stone wool which is used for building insulation, among other things. The durability of 40 stone wool increases the lifetime of the insulation, leading n to higher energy savings over time. Stone wool is produced 30 at high temperatures, and the production process thus generates a certain volume of carbon emissions, which, however, are balanced by the optimised energy consump20 tion in buildings insulated with stone wool and the product’s lifetime. 10 DSV, like A.P. Møller Mærsk, is a transport solutions provider and therefore stands out in the carbon calculations. As 0 part of its active ownership activities, ATP engages in an Carbon intensity ongoing ESG dialogue with DSV on strategies in the area. Scope 1 Scope 2 International equities Decomposing the results When calculating the carbon footprint of ATP’s Nordic listed The international equity portfolio includes companies from equities using the Carbon Footprint and Carbon Intensity the USA, Europe, Japan and Australia, and the equities metrics, four companies are having a negative impact on are selected on the basis of a quantitative equity strategy. the overall result. In this calculation, data is missing for approximately 6 per cent of the company names. As one of the world’s largest container shipping lines, A.P. Møller Mærsk is a crucial factor in ATP’s carbon footprint, Decomposing the results regardless of the metric used. Around 60 per cent of the Climate risks resulting from carbon emissions are distribNordic portfolio’s total carbon footprint can be attributed to uted among several companies in the international equity 24 Responsibility 2017 Carbon footprint – International equities Source: Trucost To the extent that an investor has a one-sided focus on 25 reducing the carbon footprint of its portfolio, the investor could remove emission-intensive sectors – in particular utility companies – from its portfolio. 20 n ATP believes that utility companies play an important and 15 necessary role in any society, including in relation to some of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals concerning security of supply, job creation and poverty eradication. ATP 10 finds it neither appropriate nor responsible to refrain from investing in utility companies based on a desire to reduce the carbon footprint of one’s equity portfolios. 5 Instead, ATP believes that investors should focus on helping 0 to ensure that the utility companies, like other companies, Carbon footprint contribute constructively to the transition to a low-carbon Scope 1 Scope 2 economy. ATP continuously monitors the energy mix of the utility companies we have in our portfolio and engages in a dialogue with companies, where relevant. Carbon intensity – International equities Source: Trucost 60 The TCFD’s recommended metric: Weighted Average Carbon Intensity 50 Weighted Average Carbon Intensity n 40 30 The TCFD recommends investors to report their carbon footprint according to this metric. Due to the lack of data for 20 scope 3 emissions, the TCFD recommends only reporting these if deemed relevant. In spite of the data-related chal10 lenges, particularly in relation to scope 3 calculations, ATP, as described earlier, chooses to include these in this 0 calculation. Carbon intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 The metric shows a portfolio’s exposure to climate risks, as it provides a measure for the average carbon intensity portfolio. Here, we will therefore focus on industry distribufor all the companies in the portfolio weighted according to tion in the portfolio rather than specific company names. their respective size in the portfolio. Without comparison, the biggest contribution to the overall Put simply, this metric provides a measure for the portfolio’s footprint of the international equity portfolio comes from exposure to carbon-intensive companies, which indicates the utility sector. The international equity portfolio contains the portfolio’s exposure to climate-related financial risks. a significant number of utility companies. This is primarily It should be noted that this metric does not measure the because the equity strategy favours stable equities, which portfolio’s ‘contribution’ to climate change – neither in often characterises companies in this sector. absolute figures nor normalised relative to the size of the investment. Responsibility 2017 25 Nordic equities according to this metric. In this calculation, the overall Source: Trucost 60 scope 3 footprint of the Nordic portfolio is marginally higher than the international equity portfolio’s scope 3 footprint. 50 Given the considerable data-related challenges of scope 3 calculations, ATP does not believe, however, that it is n possible to reach a conclusion in terms of content. 40 30 Perspectives on carbon footprint as a metric 20 As shown above, the various metrics provide different perspectives on the carbon emissions of an investment 10 portfolio. The calculations of the four different carbon footprints were based on ATP’s investments in listed equities. 0 Compared with other asset types, most carbon footprints Weighted Average Carbon Intensity have been done on listed equities, but even for these investScope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 ments there are still considerable data-related and methodological challenges. International equities The actual interpretation of the results of the different Source: Trucost calculation methods is, as illustrated, neither simple 80 nor unambiguous. 70 As a metric to understanding and assessing climate-related 60 n financial risks, carbon footprinting is even more inadequate when it is applied across different assets in an investment 50 portfolio. 40 Real estate investments are one of the asset types where 30 climate-related financial risks are particularly relevant, but where carbon footprinting as a metric is inadequate. Carbon 20 footprint measurements capture only a small part of a real 10 estate portfolio’s climate footprint or a real estate portfolio’s significant climate-related financial risks. 0 Weighted Average Carbon Intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 For real estate investors, one of the key climate-related financial risks will be the physical location of the real estate in relation to future changes in climatic conditions. By focusing Decomposing the results on the carbon footprint rather than other factors, the investor When decomposing the results, the footprint calculation will overlook this component and risk owning real estate that using this metric is similar to the calculations using the may lose value in the event of climate change. other metrics. In the Nordic equity portfolio, A.P. Møller Mærsk once again has a substantial impact on the result. As real estate owner you are not responsible for carbon In the international portfolio, the concentration of utility emissions from the buildings under the common methods. companies is once again crucial for the result. Instead, the emissions occurring from the property’s consumption of electricity and similar will pass to the tenant. As can be seen from the figures, scope 3 constitutes a As the tenant is often responsible for operational issues significant part of the portfolio’s total carbon footprint of the property and the payment of energy bills, as owner 26 Responsibility 2017 you only have limited influence on the property’s energy fully integrated into the investment process. ATP will therefore consumption and carbon footprint from operations. Even continue to focus on carbon footprinting at company level. though carbon emissions are not allocated to investors by way of their property ownership, the property’s construcThere does not seem to be any prospect of a swift solution tion affects the volume of emissions from the building, for to improve the metrics. In the coming year, ATP will therefore example for energy consumed to heat and cool the building. focus on addressing the TCFD’s other recommendations on Therefore, investors who only own less climate-efficient strategies and risk management. buildings will indirectly have a greater negative impact on the climate than investors who exclusively own climate-efATP’s continuing work with the TCFD recommendations for ficient buildings. Focusing on carbon footprint as a metric Asset Owners will have special focus on convincing compadoes not capture the actual climate footprint. nies that ATP invests in to use the recommendations in their own financial reporting to understand financial risks and As a real estate investor, ATP focuses on constructing opportunities in the green transformation. sustainable properties that provide the best possible environment for the property’s tenants. ATP believes that highly ATP hopes that its work with the TCFD recommendations energy-efficient buildings benefit both the tenants and sends a clear signal to investee companies. By endorsing the society at large. recommendations ATP hopes to inspire other companies and thereby heighten support for the TCFD recommendations. ATP addresses the TCFD’s recommendations on carbon footprint reporting because we acknowledge the TCFD’s To manage climate related financial risks and opportunities desire to develop better metrics going forward. In light of our across the investment portfolio ATP needs information and review of the different metrics and methodologies for calcutransparency from investee companies on climate related lating carbon footprints, ATP is of the opinion that considerrisks and opportunities and how they integrate these in able challenges must be overcome before carbon footprint strategy and operations. calculations at portfolio level can be directly and meaningCASE: Climate one among several global challenges The challenges associated with climate change are complex – both for investors and for society as a whole. Climate change is one of several serious global challenges facing the world. The fight against climate change is one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that the global community has committed itself to implementing by 2030. The global process towards completing the transition to a low-carbon economy is very important, but the world is already facing serious climate events that also need to be addressed. In 2017, ATP gained first-hand experience with these challenges through its co-ownership of the company APR Energy. ATP owns one fifth of and sits on the Board of APR Energy which produces and drives generators and are specialists in setting up temporary power stations in emergency situations. In autumn 2017, the island of Puerto Rico was hit by hurricane Maria, resulting in catastrophic devastation. The entire island’s energy infrastructure was destroyed. Paradoxically, the PV panels and wind turbines which had been installed to counter man-made climate change also suffered extensive damage during this climate event. Four weeks after the hurricane, 90 per cent of the population still had no access to electricity, making the cooling of food and medicine or the use of telecommunications impossible. Only after APR Energy had installed a temporary gas turbine-driven power station, could the rebuilding of the island begin in earnest. Responsibility 2017 27 Active Ownership – Continuous dialogue and voting Active ownership is given high priority at ATP, and ATP ATP believes that handling investments and active ownerdevotes considerable resources to its implementation ship activities under one roof can ultimately lead to better across its listed equities. ATP exercises stewardship in all investment decisions. At ATP, investments in listed equities the listed companies we invest in. On the one hand, as an are handled by internal portfolio managers, and all dialogue active owner, ATP may, through dialogue with the company, with the companies is handled internally by ATP. This ensures gain an understanding of the challenges facing the compaa consistent and high-quality investment process. Another nies and the company-specific risks. ATP can then use this advantage of this solution is that it can create synergies understanding to make better and more informed investbetween processes, allowing information obtained during ment decisions. On the other hand, ATP can help to minithe dialogue to support the investments and vice versa. mise risks and promote companies’ long-term value creation by influencing change. Simultaneously with the publication of the annual report for 2017, ATP launched a website with data on all votes cast by In 2017, ATP developed and consolidated its stewardship ATP at general meetings. On the website, users can search processes, following an update of its policy in 2016. ATP for individual companies and see a breakdown of votes cast updated its policy in order to live up to the Committee on by ATP. In addition, the website contains aggregated statisCorporate Governance’s Stewardship Code, which was tics across multiple votes within a number of factors, for presented in November 2016 and apply to Danish listed equiexample a breakdown of ATP’s votes for and against. The ties. ATP has decided that the Policy of Active Ownership website also provides details on how often ATP’s votes are will apply to investments in Denmark and globally. ATP’s aligned with the Supervisory Board and voting by country. CEO, Christian Hyldahl, sits on the Committee on Corporate The website will be updated every six months with new data Governance and has in this capacity also contributed to the on ATP’s votes. Interested readers are therefore encourdevelopment of the updated Recommendations on Corporate aged to visit the website atp.dk/voting. Governance, which were presented in December 2017. ESG issues are integrated into Dialogue is the most important tool in ATP’s active ownerdialogues ship activities. ATP’s dialogue with the listed companies may concern any topic that may be important to the investImportant corporate governance issues, such as the ment, for example strategy, results, risk, capital structure, composition of the Supervisory Board and pay packages, corporate governance, corporate culture, management are naturally important topics at general meetings. The remuneration and general responsibility. The specific same goes for the continuous dialogues conducted by ATP. content of the dialogue with the companies is determined Responsibility is also on the agenda, but in order to ensure by the overall principles of ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership a firm and consistent focus on ESG risks across the portand ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. The polifolio, ATP has decided to develop supplementary processes cies can be found in Appendix 3 and 4. to integrate responsibility into the dialogue with companies. Like other stewardship initiatives, the aim of the dialogues ATP engages in two types of dialogue: continuous on responsibility is to ensure that ATP gains an underdialogue and dialogue through general meetings, which standing of the challenges faced by the companies, which are described below. ATP applies a principle of proporcan be used in the investment process. Moreover, ATP tionality in its active ownership, entailing that the scope is hoping to minimise its financial risks and promote the of the dialogue with a specific company generally reflects companies’ long-term value creation by influencing them the value of the investment and the size of ATP’s ownership to focus on improving their processes within responsibility interest. This strategy is linked to ATP’s possibility of effecwhen ATP sees this as a risk or an opportunity. tively engaging in dialogue, which increases with the ownership interest. Because ATP often has substantial holdings ATP’s approach to the dialogues on responsibility is riskin Danish listed equities, the ‘continuous dialogue’ often based, data-driven and analytical, and, like other stewardrevolves around these companies. Other factors such as ship initiatives, the specific form depends on the value of investment method and strategy may also guide the extent the investment, the size of ATP’s ownership interest and the to which ATP carries out its active ownership activities. investment method. 28 Responsibility 2017 As a general rule, when ATP engages in a continuous responsibility. The analysis is based on meetings with the dialogue with a company, the dialogue is followed by a company, among other things, to establish a dialogue with supplementary annual dialogue on company-specific the Executive Board and Supervisory Board about these issues, such as human rights, labour and anti-corrupissues. tion, or environmental and climate issues with the company’s own experts. ATP calls this ESG dialogue. When ATP Active ownership is initiated even before the investment engages in dialogue at general meetings, ATP has now is made and is followed up by regular meetings with the initiated thematic engagements. A thematic engagement is management for the duration of ATP’s investment. a risk-based, thematic dialogue with relevant companies. In 2017, ATP conducted five thematic engagements with a In ATP’s experience, companies can often be influenced total of 58 companies. Read about thematic engagements through continuous dialogue, and, conversely, ATP is influon page 36. enced by sound arguments. Furthermore, it is ATP’s view that this form of active ownership activities has generated added value in the companies ATP invests in, ultimately Continuous dialogue contributing to high returns on these investments. ATP is experienced in the practice of continuous dialogue facilitation with companies in which ATP is a major investor. ATP’s degree of involvement in individual companies In fact, active ownership through continuous dialogue is an depends on several factors, including ATP’s ownership integral part of the entire investment process in this type interest, the size of the investment and required changes. of investments. Another factor could be, in ATP’s assessment, an unfavourable turn of events for the company. When ATP is a major shareholder of a company, ATP conduct an in-depth, long-term analysis of the company, In its continuous dialogue with companies, ATP seeks covering issues such as corporate strategy, performance, to build a relationship based on trust – for discussion governance power, governance, market position and of problems as well as challenges. In order to have the CASE: Dialogue with banks on compliance risks Politicians and authorities in Denmark and the EU have a firm focus on preventing money laundering through European banks, as evidenced by the adoption of a new Anti-Money Laundering directive (AML). In recent years, the media have reported several instances of unacceptable banking conduct, both in Denmark and globally. The Panama Papers prompted a Danish debate on how banks address the risk of being used for money laundering or tax evasion. There have been examples of banks’ ability to address compliance risks affecting the operational risk and thus the expected returns. From a financial perspective, banks with a weak compliance function are more at risk than banks with strong compliance functions. In its continuous dialogues ATP for example asks how the banks address compliance risks, including their strategy and what processes they have implemented to ensure compliance with stricter regulatory requirements in the area. In order to understand the financial risks of its investment in Danske Bank, ATP engages in an ongoing dialogue with the management and the bank’s compliance officers. Focus has been on understanding the organisational and procedural steps taken by the bank to minimise future compliance risks. Responsibility 2017 29 most constructive dialogue with companies, ATP always Because the proposals are company-specific, comparison pledges confidentiality. between voting items does not always make sense. This is why ATP chooses to report on three main items featuring at several general meetings. Dialogue through general meetings ATP votes at annual general meetings in all listed compaSupervisory Board nies in our portfolio. Here we account for ATP’s voting practice in relation to ATP’s listed international equities. In 2017, The election of members to a company’s Supervisory Board ATP exercised its voting rights at general meetings in 21 is essential to the company’s long-term ability to generate different countries. Issues and proposals at general meeta profit and value for its owners. Consequently, this issue ings tend to be company-specific, varying from one country features relatively prominently in ATP’s Policy of Active to another. From an investor’s perspective, it is positive that Ownership. As such, five out of the sixteen principles in the the proposals are company-specific, because this allows policy concern the election of members to the Supervisory investors to better form an opinion of the challenges and Board (see principles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6). Seen from ATP’s risk profile of the individual company. ATP always considers perspective, a Supervisory Board must act in the long-term and decides on each proposal and voting item and seeks interests of all shareholders and serve as an independent to understand the details of each proposal and place it in control function in respect of the company’s Executive the context of the circumstances of the specific company. Board. These are the principles guiding ATP’s decisions and ATP’s active ownership and voting policy are governed by positions on specific voting items. the Supervisory Board’s Policy of Active Ownership. In 2017, ATP voted in favour of 80 per cent of the proposals If, on one or more voting items, ATP intends to vote against for the election of members to Supervisory Boards and the Supervisory Board and the company’s own recommenagainst the remaining 20 per cent of the proposals. dations, ATP will seek to inform the company of ATP’s intentions and motivation ahead of the general meeting. ATP also Voting statistics for the election of members to the Supervisory Board seeks to inform the company if we support the Supervisory Board in the concrete proposal, but find certain elements of 20 pct. 80 pct. against for the proposal to be of value. Such proposals may for example be those relating to discrimination. ATP may not necessarily support all proposals concerning the topic of discriminaOne of the main reasons why ATP voted against proposals tion, as they may relate to a process or implementation for the election of members to Supervisory Boards is that the rather than discrimination per se. ATP of course opposes duration of the term is too long. ATP believes that, in order to discrimination in all its forms and will point out its views to 20 0be held accountable to 40 60 the shareholders, 80 Supervisory Board 100 the company to make sure that a vote against a proposal members should be up for election regularly. Another reason cannot be misconstrued as opposition to the basic concept. is that the Supervisory Board is not sufficiently independent On page 31 is an example of such an enquiry to a company of the company. ATP believes that the Supervisory Board sent by ATP ahead of the vote. should generally be independent of the company. Among other things, this means that ATP votes against the same Example from votingsite 13% 87% Against For The above example from the website shows ATP’s level of agreement with the supervisory boards of our portfolio companies during 2017. 30 Responsibility 2017 Dear Investor Relations, We wish to inform you on the reasoning behind our votes, at your upcoming annual general meeting. At ATP we believe that the roles of Chairman and CEO are best fulfilled separately. Because we believe this to be best practice, we have a voting policy of opposing setups where the roles are combined. Based on this policy we will be voting against the election of the CEO to the board of directors. At ATP we believe that the Chairman of the board should not receive performance dependent remuneration. This policy also applies to combined Chairman/CEO setups, as it underlines the inability of the Chairman to independently act as a control function above the executive management. Because your remuneration policy does not live up to our best practice standards, we will be voting against the say-on-pay proposal. It follows from the above policy that we will be voting in favor of the shareholder proposal requiring an independent board chairman. Additionally we will be voting in favor of item 8 on board oversight of product safety and quality. This vote is again linked to our policy of separating the roles of chairman and CEO, as part of the proposal concerns the merits of adopting independent chair leadership at Merck. While we will be supporting management regarding the shareholder proposal regarding “Holy Land Principles”, we want to stress that we still find it important that the company lives up to the highest ethical standards regarding equal employment opportunity in all areas of operation. However we have no desire for the company to submit to the specific principles proposed, although we expect you to live up to the underlying idea of equal opportunity. We will also be supporting management regarding the shareholder proposal regarding reporting of risk of doing business in conflict-affected areas. Again we expect you to live up to best practice and act responsibly especially with regards to potential violations of human rights. We believe that the current responsibility lies safely with the audit committee. We urge you to continuously evaluate whether the company’s Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct lives up to the requirements. We trust that this responsibility is met to a satisfactory level in the current setup. On the remaining points up for election, our votes are in line with the management recommendations. At ATP we believe it to be best practice to inform companies of our voting intentions before an AGM, when our voting differs from the management recommendations. We adhere to this practice regardless of the size of our holdings in a specific stock. We hope that you will take our policy into consideration at future elections. On behalf of ATP, Responsibility 2017 31 person occupying the role of chairman of the Supervisory ATP’s primary reasons for voting against remuneration Board and CEO. ATP believes that the roles of chairman of proposals have been that ATP has found that the absolute the Supervisory Board and CEO are fundamentally different pay level was too high – for instance compared with compaand should be occupied by two separate individuals to rable companies – or that there was a mismatch between avoid undermining the Supervisory Board’s control funcremuneration and company performance. tion in respect of the Executive Board. ATP believes that this creates value for the shareholders. One of the challenges of reporting collectively on pay policy is that the scope of these proposals varies substantially. A However, producing statistics of and reporting on election number of countries have specific rules for the items to be of members to the Supervisory Board is not simple. In most put to the vote and how the voting items should be strucof the markets ATP votes in, the standard is for Supervisory tured. The general rule in the election of members to the Board members to be elected individually for a specific term, Supervisory Board is: one person, one vote. This does not which makes transparent reporting easier. However, there apply to remuneration. The USA has a statutory requirement are exceptions to this rule. For instance, in Italy, voting is for pay to be put to the vote at the general meeting at least not for individual members of the Supervisory Board but every three years. These ‘say-on-pay’ votes apply to the for a list of individuals. Consequently, we cannot vote in company’s CEO and the four highest paid executives, the favour of or against individuals, and one vote in favour of ‘Named Executive Officers’ (NEOs). Under US law, the votes or against a voting item entails that we have voted for, say, are advisory rather than binding on the Supervisory Board. ten Supervisory Board members. ATP finds it appropriate to Votes on the pay package of the five NEOs of a US company decide on each member of the Supervisory Board individuare included in the statistics only once. Under Swiss law, ally, and hence advocates individual voting for Supervisory the pay ceiling (cap) for both the Supervisory Board and Board members. Executive Board must be approved. For members of the Executive Board, the cap on both fixed and variable pay components are usually approved, entailing that each Pay Swiss company typically has three votes on pay. The remuneration of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board can be a topic of contention. Votes on pay packATP’s distribution of votes regarding remuneration varies ages for executives at general meetings are based on across regions. In some markets ATP finds the pay level ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership. ATP’s general pay policy inappropriate and here we will be more inclined to vote is set out in principles 10, 11 and 12. ATP basically finds against the packages. Another reason for ATP to vote that a company’s pay policy should be structured with the against pay packages concerns the technical aspects of company’s long-term value creation in mind. The pay policy the packages. For example, ATP has voted against more should also ensure that the company is able to attract qualthan 50 percent of the ‘say on pay’ resolutions in the US. ified labour, and the pay packages should strengthen the commonality of interests between the shareholders and the Voting statistics on pay in the USA Executive Board. However, the pay packages must also be 52 pct. 48 pct. reasonable. If ATP finds the pay level inappropriate, we will against for vote against the package. In 2017, ATP voted against a larger share of pay packages In 2017, ATP voted in favour of 70 per cent of the proposals in its portfolio companies than in 2016. ATP has taken a relating to the remuneration of the Executive Board and tougher stance on pay packages, but because the compaSupervisory Board and against the remaining 30 per cent. 0nies in the 20 60 in 201680 40 not the same portfolio were and 2017, 100 a direct comparison is not possible. Voting statistics on pay 30 pct. 70 pct. Information against for In general, ATP wants to receive all relevant information from the companies. Relevant information is information 32 0 Responsibility 20 2017 40 60 80 100 that contributes to highlighting the companies’ long-term date our concerns by implementing specific initiatives. value creation. Either via concrete contributions or by ‘documenting’ to stakeholders that risks are considered or While shareholder proposals are common in the USA, that progress in relation to a strategy is explained. Denmark has much less of a tradition of such proposals at general meetings. Sweden is another example of a market Lack of or inadequate information may occasionally prompt with a relatively large number of shareholder proposals – ATP to vote against a proposal. This may be a lack of infortypically very specific in nature. An overall view of ATP’s mation about the conditions for obtaining a pay package, voting practice in terms of shareholder proposals shows an equity buyback programme or a candidate for the that, in 2016, ATP voted in favour of 33 per cent of the shareSupervisory Board. holder proposals and against the remaining 67 per cent. Another aspect of information relates to various proposals for companies’ reporting on a variety of topics. Typically, Voting statistics for shareholder proposals such proposals are made by shareholders who are in favour 67 pct. 33 pct. of reporting. It is not unusual for US companies to be asked against for to report on their political donations and contributions to lobbying organisations. This also includes proposals for increased ESG reporting, reporting on environmental footProxy access is a frequent issue at general meetings of US print or policy of equal treatment in a number of areas – companies. Proxy access provides better access for sharetypically gender and ethnicity. holders to nominate members for the Supervisory Board – 0 20 40 60 80 100 essentially giving them the same access to nominate candiAs shareholder proposals often involve a request for infordates as the Supervisory Board. ATP generally supports mation of some kind, we explain below how ATP generally these proposals, as we find that the shareholders should addresses shareholder proposals. have real access to nominate members for the Supervisory Board. Shareholder proposals may cover a variety of topics, depending on the focus areas of the market in question. One of the cases which attracted a great deal of attenSome proposals are very company-specific, while others tion in 2017 was a proposal from Wells Fargo shareholders address more general trends because organisations have who called on the bank to adopt a global policy regarding put issues and proposals on the agenda at the general the rights of indigenous peoples in connection with lending meetings of several companies. This means that ATP needs and project financing. ATP was contacted by stakeholders to understand the details of each proposal and place it who wanted to know our position on the issue. ATP voted in the context of the conditions of the specific company. in favour of the proposal, partly because Wells Fargo’s ATP believes that our active ownership should be impleexisting policies had proved inadequate. mented to ensure that well-functioning Supervisory Boards are given the space and room to carry out the task they have ATP has also received questions about our position on been entrusted with, obviously provided that the members shareholder proposals at Facebook’s annual general work in the long-term interests of the shareholders. Many meeting calling for an independent chairman of the Board. shareholder proposals are guided by good intentions – ATP supports shareholder proposals to separate the two intentions that ATP often sympathise with. A vote against roles, because we want an independent chairman. ATP a proposal does not necessarily mean that ATP does not therefore voted in favour of the proposal at Facebook’s share the proponents’ concern about an issue. ATP may annual general meeting. choose to vote against a proposal because we find the proposal too restrictive – for instance because it relies on In 2017, ATP received questions about reporting of diververy specific reporting templates. If ATP votes against a sity policy and practice in a number of companies. ATP’s shareholder proposal, but supports its intention, we contact vote depends on the company in question and the compathe company directly. ATP points out to the company that ny’s existing reporting and situation. ATP voted in favour they should decide whether they are willing to accommoof increased diversity reporting on three occasions. Some Responsibility 2017 33 companies are already collecting the necessary data, and possible, ATP has voted in favour of an equity structure that in these cases it will not lead to increased reporting costs, embraces the ‘one share, one vote’ principle. which, all else being equal, makes the proposal less restrictive. On one occasion, ATP voted against the proposal, as Compared to 2016, ATP has called for increased disclosure we believed that the company was already adequately by companies. The limit of materiality with respect to ATP reporting on their diversity policy and practice. supporting a proposal on information to shareholders has shifted. ATP considers to some extent whether the inforProposals concerning the equity structure are also mation is of direct relevance for ATP’s investment, but also frequently put forward at annual general meetings. The considers the fact that the information may be relevant for wording of the proposal typically depends on the company’s other shareholders. The resulting monitoring of a business existing structure, so it does not necessarily make sense by another shareholder also benefits ATP, as we (typically) only to consider your position for or against the issue – hold identical equities that cannot or should not be treated you have to consider the proposal itself and the direction differently by the companies. The same is true the other way in which the proposal seeks to move the structure. Where around – ATP’s monitoring of portfolio companies in other contexts also benefits the other shareholders. ATP on Management Remuneration ATP’s active ownership activities are driven by a desire to provide the best conditions for long-term value creation. Management remuneration is an important tool in this context, but it is also a complex issue, which in addition to the fixed remuneration level involves considerations on fixed versus variable pay, short-term versus long-term benchmarks for the variable pay and how it should be paid over time, possibly through equity-based instruments. Therefore, ATP is seeking in various ways to influence companies to consider and explain the composition of their own pay packages, providing the management with the right incentives to make decisions with the shareholders’ long-term interests in mind. Furthermore, there must be transparency with regard to the relationship between the remuneration and the value created for shareholders in the individual company, both historically and going forward. It is precisely for this reason that it is necessary to assess any pay package separately and consider the company and the market in question. ATP opposes ratchet effect in executive pay – also in Denmark ATP’s Policy on Active Ownership points out that several considerations must be taken into account when assessing pay packages. An important consideration when designing pay packages is that the companies must be able to attract the most talented candidates for top management positions. However, the companies’ pay policy must also be fair. Excessive pay levels reduce the value created for shareholders and may also alienate stakeholders, which may harm the company’s legitimacy. ATP is concerned about ratchet effects in executive pay. Ratchet effects in executive pay occur because only few companies want to identify themselves with the bottom half of a target group. This means that each company raises the level above the median, thereby expanding it further. Consequently, there is a risk that increases in pay will spread like ripples in a pool, whether they are justified or not. ATP strives to counter these negative consequences 34 Responsibility 2017 in the market through its active ownership and urges company boards to show leadership by not letting themselves get carried away by irrelevant benchmarking. In recent years, top executive pay in the USA, in particular, has reached very high levels. In 2017, ATP voted against pay packages in more than half of the US companies in our portfolio, but we also voted against several European pay packages, for example at Carlsberg’s annual general meeting in Denmark in spring 2017. Carlsberg’s Board of Directors presented a proposal for a new pay package for Carlsberg’s management where the variable pay was four times the fixed salary, which amounted to DKK 12 million in 2016. ATP voted against the Board of Directors on this issue because the total potential pay level was found to be unreasonably high by ATP, the incentive programme structure was too complex and the balance between the fixed and variable pay was incompatible with ATP’s expectations for a company like Carlsberg. Prior to the annual general meeting, ATP had clearly expressed its views on the topic in the continuous dialogue with Carlsberg. ATP participates in public debate on pay While ATP votes against pay packages that do not meet ATP’s requirements, ATP’s CEO, Christian Hyldahl, participates in the public debate, presenting his views on pay issues. In the course of 2017, Christian Hyldahl spoke out in several national and international media on pay-related issues. “It is ATP’s experience that truly talented top executives are motivated by much more than pay”, Christian Hyldahl said in an interview with the Danish newspaper Berlingske in December, calling on boards to focus on more parameters than pay when trying to attract candidates for top-level positions. Christian Hyldahl has also argued that Danish and Nordic companies should protect their corporate culture. A dramatic increase in management remuneration can make it difficult to attract employees, because talented Danish/ Nordic employees want to work in an organisation with less hierarchy, more equality, and where their opinions will be heard. “Historically, Danish companies have had a culture with a flat organisation and short distance between top management and employees. This culture gives companies in the Nordic region a positive advantage compared to global companies, which is also demonstrated by their commercial success. If executive pay levels become too excessive and out of line with the pay offered to lower-level employees, this culture may disappear.” ATP also participates in relevant forums where the management remuneration is discussed. Christian Hyldahl sits on the Committee on Corporate Governance, where management remuneration and reporting have been high on the agenda in 2017 with the updated Recommendations on Corporate Governance. Furthermore, ATP has joined the International Corporate Governance Network, where pay is a recurring item on the agenda. In 2017, ATP attended meetings in Kuala Lumpur and Paris, engaging with other shareholders, asset managers, data providers and companies and helping to shape developments in corporate governance – including pay policies. ATP qualifies its votes with pay data ATP analyses pay packages based on specific pay data from external providers. Data can qualify ATP’s decisions and help to place the individual company in the right context. It does not mean, however, that ATP makes decisions based on simple algorithms when it comes to an issue as complex as pay. ATP actively assesses the individual pay packages on a case-by-case basis. Responsibility 2017 35 Active Ownership – Thematic engagement In order to ensure a firm and consistent focus on ESG risks in Other times ATP discovers during the screening and factthe investment portfolio, ATP’s Committee for Responsibility finding process that several companies are exposed to launched a supplementary stewardship process in 2017, the same ESG risks without us being able to document which we refer to as thematic engagements. a concrete breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. In such situations, thematic engagements can Thematic engagements are structured series of dialogues give us more insight into the policies and processes introwith groups of companies in the portfolio on responsibilduced by the companies to counter the portfolio risk. ATP ity-related topics. The aim of the dialogues on responsican use this insight in future when examining companies bility, like the other active ownership activities, is to enable that are exposed to the same risks. ATP to better understand the challenges facing the companies and ensure that ATP proactively and systematically Themes may also be selected on the basis of concrete identifies ESG risks across its listed equities portfolio. ATP investment considerations which call for more company is always seeking to increase its knowledge and awareinformation and data on specific ESG risks. ness of the companies’ risks and challenges so that we can make better investment decisions. ATP’s Committee for Responsibility may also decide on a focus area which it believes to be relevant to ATP’s risk ATP may also seek to promote the companies’ long-term management or the companies’ long-term value creation. value creation by influencing them to focus on improving reporting, formulating policies or establishing more robust ATP focuses on the most exposed processes for responsibility and thereby minimising their companies financial risks. Thematic engagements are a time-consuming and resource-intensive process, and ATP therefore focuses The Committee for Responsibility its dialogues on companies that have the greatest exposelects themes based on analyses sure to the selected theme. Companies which are selected The themes of the dialogue series are determined by ATP’s for thematic engagement share the challenge of being Committee for Responsibility every six months. In 2017, ATP exposed to the same ESG risks, for example due to their conducted five thematic engagements with 58 companies. industry or geography. Themes are chosen by ATP’s Committee for Responsibility When ATP has selected a topic for a series of dialogues, for a variety of reasons. If ATP spots a particular trend at the entire portfolio is analysed with a view to selecting the an annual general meeting, which means that a proposal companies to be included. ATP has a risk-based approach on responsibility is put to the vote at multiple general meetto its thematic engagements and analyses its portfolio ings, ATP may choose to address the theme in a thematic of companies to select the relevant and most exposed engagement. This provides ATP with knowledge and robust companies for the dialogue. input for voting at the companies’ general meetings. Thematic engagements : Themes and number of companies CO 2 reporting Child labour ESG reporting Tax Water 22 companies 6 companies 19 companies 5 companies 6 companies 36 Responsibility 2017 One of the methods currently used by ATP to select companies for thematic engagement is described below. Management systems High By comparing the companies’ management skills with their exposure within a specific ESG theme, ATP is able to select the companies which, in our opinion, are the most risky. The method is attractive, because it provides a comprehensive picture of the risk related to a large number of companies and makes it possible to select companies for thematic engagement with a well-defined risk profile. ATP often selects companies with a high exposure, but where the management capacity has been assessed by the data provider as low. One example of ATP’s application of this method is the issue of companies’ carbon emissions. Low High Here, ATP contacted the companies in the portfolio that Exposure do not report their carbon emissions. ATP has had a particularly strong focus on companies with high expected The number and position of items illustrates the method used in emissions. the assessment. This method also makes it possible to identify companies with the same high exposure, but where the companies are where ATP first identified companies which, according to assessed by the data provider to have appropriate control our data provider, do not report their carbon emissions. processes in place. By examining the companies with the ATP then looked at whether some of these companies best performance, ATP may gain insight and experience operate in industries with high emission levels. which can be used in the dialogue with other companies. The analysis identified 22 companies. ATP encouraged all The method is very useful for selecting companies for 22 companies to report on their direct emissions (scope 1) thematic dialogue, but it is important to emphasise that from production, and indirect emissions, for example from data does not always provide a full and true picture of their power and heat consumption (scope 2). The different the companies’ performance in the area. That is why types of climate and emission reporting are explained in ATP’s subsequent dialogue with the company is so impormore detail on page 19. tant. Here, ATP conducts an independent assessment of the relationship between the exposure and the resources However, the strategy was to put the heaviest pressure on devoted by a selected company to addressing the given companies operating in industries with a high carbon footESG risks. print, while companies with a smaller climate footprint were merely encouraged to report their emissions. ATP may also use other methods to identify and select high-exposure companies for thematic engagements. ATP supports the TCFD, which recommends companies to report climate-related financial disclosures. Carbon emissions reporting For ATP, it is crucial that companies understand their risks In 2017, ATP conducted thematic engagements and exposure to climate and climate change. In the tranon carbon emission reporting. The companies sition to a low-carbon economy, changes in policy, techwere selected on the basis of a risk analysis, nology and customer behaviour may impact companies’ Responsibility 2017 37 results and value. Some have mentioned the possibility of The companies were selected because they have previintroducing a carbon tax, which may affect the companies’ ously been involved in critical stories, and because they financial results. operate in countries and industries that are known to have a high risk of child labour. The companies in ATP’s thematic Transparency from the companies about their carbon emisengagement on child labour predominantly operate in the sions is important to ATP in terms of understanding our own agricultural and food industries. climate risks. In 2017, ATP calculated the carbon footprint of its equity portfolio for the first time based on the recomIn its dialogue with the companies, ATP has requested mendations of the TCFD. Data quality remains a challenge more insight into the companies’ policies for subsuppliers, in this respect. If companies do not report their emissions, processes for monitoring child labour, and how the compathey are instead estimated by data providers. Estimation nies liaise with relevant authorities, organisations and methods are continuously being developed, but tend to stakeholders to prevent child labour in their supply chains. overestimate the companies’ emissions. ATP’s work on In our dialogue with the companies we emphasised that carbon footprinting is described on page 22. ATP gives priority to the topic and expects companies operating in exposed industries to make continuous efforts to With the thematic engagement, ATP has engaged in a reduce the risk of subsuppliers making use of child labour. dialogue with the companies, advocating better and more reliable data. ATP’s decision to support a shareholder This thematic engagement showed that the selected proposal on climate reporting at a specific company was companies have already launched initiatives and devised based on experience gained from this thematic engagement. processes to minimise the risk of child labour. The area remains a high priority for ATP, however, and future dialogues will have a consistent focus on the challenge of Child labour child labour in companies’ supply chains. Child labour is a very controversial issue and is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the ESG reporting Child and ILO conventions on child labour. If companies use child labour in their production or supply At general meetings in 2017, ATP encountered chain, it may be contrary to the conventions, and the compamany shareholder proposals which called for nies may also risk considerable damage to their reputation. more ESG reporting from the companies. Good data is important for understanding investIn our efforts to ensure that the companies in the portment opportunities and risks, and therefore ATP generfolio respect ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, ally welcomes proposals on better reporting. ATP has ATP has often encountered allegations of child labour in an interest in good and adequate ESG reporting across the companies’ supply chains. ATP takes such allegations the companies in its portfolio in order to be able to intevery seriously, and we conduct thorough investigations grate ESG data into investment processes and strateduring our fact-finding process. In 2017, we completed two gies. However, the proposals put forward at the compafact-findings to investigate allegations of child labour. Read nies’ general meetings are often very specific in nature about them on page 48. with a focus on individual areas. ATP is worried that many individual cases take focus and resources away from the However, these investigations have often shown that the companies’ efforts to improve their general reporting. problems with child labour are systemic, and, consequently, ATP has wanted to learn more about which organATP’s Committee for Responsibility therefore launched a isational initiatives and processes have already or may be thematic engagement on general ESG reporting with 19 put in place by exposed companies. To that end, ATP’s companies. The purpose of the dialogues was to gain Committee for Responsibility initiated a thematic engageinsight into the processes of the companies where sharement on child labour. holder proposals had been made for increased ESG reporting in order to provide a better platform for voting at On the basis of a risk-based analysis of its equity portfolio next year’s general meetings. ATP selected six companies for a thematic engagement. 38 Responsibility 2017 ATP wanted to understand how the companies prioriOn the other hand, companies have a legitimate right not tise their reporting and why they choose not to report on to pay more tax than they are required to by law. In cases some issues and data points. If the dialogue shows that where companies achieve more favourable conditions a company fails to provide adequate reporting and has no than competing companies by intentionally paying more plan for improving its reporting, ATP will look more favourtax than they are required to by law, it will be considered a ably on shareholder proposals on better reporting going clear indicator of corruption in many jurisdictions. forward. Conversely, ATP will not necessarily vote in favour of more specific reporting if the dialogue shows that the ATP’s dialogue therefore takes a broad and holistic companies’ choices are well informed, or if the compaapproach to the issue of taxation. nies have formulated a plan for developing their reporting in the future. This thematic engagement has thus provided Among other things, ATP has asked the companies about ATP with a solid foundation for voting at general meetings their tax policy, and how they involve their supervisory in 2018. board in issues relating to tax transactions. ATP has also asked the companies how they balance the obligation to pay taxes under applicable law against their desire to miniTax mise business costs. As a responsible investor, it is very important for ATP that companies pay the taxes they are ATP is also aware that damage to the companies’ repurequired to pay. Consequently, ATP has also tation may have financial implications, and ATP therefore previously engaged in a dialogue with Danish asked how they liaise with authorities, organisations and companies on tax in its recurring ESG dialogue. stakeholders on tax issues. Being a highly complex issue, corporate tax payments are Unfortunately, ATP found that the companies only to a also a difficult topic to address in thematic engagements. very limited extent were willing to engage in a substantive Despite their complexity, ATP’s Committee for Responsibility dialogue with ATP on these issues. This was a key factor in has decided to initiate a thematic engagement with interATP’s decision to participate in the PRI’s common engagenational companies in ATP’s portfolio of listed equities. The ment on tax. Read more about this on page 41. companies were selected on the basis of risk analyses, which showed that the selected companies have major Water reputational challenges in relation to their tax practices. There is a growing international focus on In order to understand ATP’s work on thematic engagepeople’s access to and impact on global water ment on tax, it is important to keep in mind that underreserves, including water pollution, drought-restanding the companies’ tax payments is difficult and lated problems and general water scarcity. Goal requires in-depth knowledge of national tax laws, relevant 6 of the internationally adopted Sustainable Development double taxation agreements and the company’s specific Goals (SDGs) deals specifically with water. Water is a focus circumstances. Although ATP is able to gain insight into the area for ATP, as water shortages and water pollution pose underlying tax structures of its own direct investments, the a risk to local populations in the affected areas, and to same is not the case when ATP invests in listed equities. companies and investors. To that end, ATP’s Committee for Responsibility initiated a thematic engagement focusing ATP is aware that companies have to balance their tax on water. payments in order to ensure long-term value creation. On the one hand, there is a risk that companies with aggresATP’s thematic engagement on water is based on UN estisive tax practices may violate applicable tax laws. It is a mates of a growing demand for water as the freshwater legal risk, which may have financial implications and which reserves in many countries and regions are being depleted. may also pose a risk to ATP as an investor. In addition, The UN estimates that by 2030 the global water demand aggressive tax practices also constitute a reputational risk will exceed supply by 40 per cent in a business-as-usual for companies and their investors. scenario. Businesses are increasingly demanding and Responsibility 2017 39 consuming large amounts of water. In industrialised counpotentially increased demands and stricter regulations tries, half of the available water resources are consumed regarding water use and discharge. by businesses. Water scarcity is a local challenge that places considerable demands on companies operating in The companies replied that they are seeing a growing focus areas affected by drought and limited freshwater reserves. on water management among their investors and other Therefore, ATP had a special focus on companies operstakeholders. Whereas recent years’ international sustainating in areas affected by water scarcity. ability debate focused on climate change and emissions, it has now increasingly shifted to other topics such as water. ATP selected six companies for dialogue from its portfolio. The companies are exposed to water stress by way of their ATP found that the companies in this series of dialogues business activities, for example because they operate in were taking water risks very seriously and were taking steps industries with high water use or in areas affected by water to minimise water use. The companies’ communication scarcity. ATP selected companies, which, according to our on water measures and initiatives has been inadequate, data provider, have limited management capabilities in however, leading to critical assessments from our data relation to managing water and water risks. providers. In its dialogue with the companies, ATP emphasised that we have an interest in better data and reporting Among other things, the thematic engagement focused on on water use and water risk management. Based on this the companies’ water management processes, for example engagement, one of the companies decided to engage how they ensure responsible water use and discharge in a dialogue with the data provider on its assessments with the lowest possible impact on the surrounding stakeof the company. Another company decided to resume its holders. ATP also asked how the companies deal with reporting on water risks. 40 Responsibility 2017 Cooperation and knowledge sharing ATP still focuses on developing its knowledge on and direction for the PRI’s collective engagements on responstrengthening the integration of responsibility in investsibility and ESG. ATP thus has some influence on which ments. ATP aims to develop its knowledge on responsiengagements are initiated by the PRI. bility through its membership of various organisations and networks. You can read more about ATP’s membership In 2017, ATP decided to participate in three collecorganisations on page 44. tive engagements. The topics of the three engagements were aggressive tax practices, the OECD Guidelines for Cooperation and knowledge sharing are key terms in Multinational Enterprises and the TCFD’s recommendamany of the organisations and networks of which ATP tions for companies to report on climate-related financial is a member. ATP finds that knowledge sharing between risks and opportunities. investors in organisations and networks contributes to the continued consolidation of ATP’s work on responsibility in The PRI’s engagement on tax is still in the initial stages. investments. ATP monitors the work closely and participated in several coordination meetings in 2017. Tax is a very important topic By being active in organisations and networks on responfor ATP, and we have conducted our own thematic engagesible investment, ATP can also enter into specific partnerments with companies on tax and tax practices, although ships with other investors on relevant and current issues ATP experienced a considerable degree of secrecy on the where common ground can be found. In ATP’s experipart of the companies. One of the reasons why ATP chose ence, such partnerships between investors can bring clout to participate in the PRI’s collective engagement on tax is and influence. that ATP hopes that the companies respond to the growing pressure from several international investors. ATP partners with international The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises play a investors on engagements through key role in ATP’s responsibility in investments, and ATP is the PRI working on several fronts to integrate them into its daily In addition to its active ownership, ATP partners with work. Read more about this work on page 46. ATP thereother investors to influence companies to act responsibly fore found it meaningful to pursue a collective engageand with long-term value creation in mind. In 2017, ATP ment on the OECD Guidelines, which is headed by a large therefore began to participate in collective engagements European asset manager under the auspices of the PRI. through the PRI organisation. Read more about the PRI Planning is still ongoing, and ATP has participated in the on page 44. preliminary meetings. ATP participates in PRI engagements when it makes sense, In addition to its own work on the TCFD’s recommendaand whenever common ground can be found. ATP parttions, ATP is involved in the planning of engagements ners with other investors where relevant, because it can concerning the implementation of the TCFD’s recombring clout and influence. The PRI also provides ATP with mendations in the PRI. ATP sits on the PRI’s Advisory a unique opportunity to exchange experience with our Committee on the implementation of the TCFD’s recominternational peers, for example on procedures and opinmendations. ATP helps to decide the focus, methodology ions on various topics. In 2017, ATP was actively involved and purpose of the dialogues, and ATP is also taking the in devising, planning and carrying out collective engagelead in some of the dialogues. ments through the PRI. There is a lot of debate among investors about how to ATP plays an important role in setting the direction for approach the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). the PRI’s collective engagements through its seat on the ATP follows these debates with great interest and has PRI’s ESG Engagement Advisory Committee, which is a decided to participate as a member of the PRI’s ‘Working committee of investor representatives which advise the Group – SDGs in Active Ownership’. Here, ATP discusses PRI’s management on the ideas, priorities, goals and upcoming dialogues on SDG efforts with businesses. Responsibility 2017 41 ATP participates in discussions governance and stewardship activities. ATP participates of long-term value creation in in the organisation’s general discussions and is kept up-tointernational fora date on new knowledge of new trends in international corpoFor a pension fund with long-term liabilities, thinking and rate governance. In 2017, ATP participated in the annual acting with a long-term perspective is essential. One of meeting where current corporate governance issues were the purposes of ATP’s active ownership and responsibility discussed. ATP seeks to exercise stewardship and active in investments is to ensure long-term value creation and ownership activities according to the highest international attractive pensions for ATP’s members. standards, and, consequently, we have a great interest in staying abreast of the latest knowledge and international In addition to its work on responsibility and active ownertrends and standards through ICGN. ATP has also used ship activities in relation to ATP’s investments and portfolio the network for bilateral discussions with relevant individcompanies, ATP also participates in international debates uals and organisations with insights on international and and efforts to influence businesses and investors to think national standards of stewardship activities. Furthermore, and act with a focus on long-term value creation. One of the organisation gives ATP the opportunity to interact the ways in which ATP is trying to encourage long-term with stakeholders that are market leaders in their respecthinking is through its active membership of the organitive regions. International organisations are used by ATP sation Focusing Capital on the Long Term (FCLTGlobal). to share knowledge with investors and companies about FCLTGlobal works to encourage a focus on long-term value topics and issues relating to responsibility and long-term creation in business and investment strategies and decivalue creation. sion-making. Several times a year, ATP’s CEO attends meetings and debates with representatives from major ATP prioritises climate partnership global investors and companies. ATP has worked with other investors on climate issues World Economic Forum (WEF) is another important internafor many years, and due to the importance of the topic it tional forum in which ATP is actively involved. The WEF’s remains a high priority for ATP. annual meeting in Davos brings together world leaders, political decision-makers, global business executives and ATP has been a member of the two international organirepresentatives from civil society to discuss important politsations CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and ical and economic issues, for example how companies can the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) act responsibly with a focus on long-term value creation. for a number of years. In both organisations, knowledge and experience are exchanged between members, but the main objective of the organisations is to serve as forums ATP keeps abreast of latest corporate for collaboration. governance trends Corporate governance is key to companies’ ability to In CDP, ATP is a member and investor signatory of the generate value in the long term. ATP’s CEO, Christian Water Program, Climate Change Program and the Forests Hyldahl, sits on the Committee on Corporate Governance, Program. CDP encourages both Danish and international which drafts recommendations on corporate governance companies to disclose greenhouse gas emissions on behalf for companies and investors on stewardship activities. In of its members. In addition to the activities in CDP, ATP also December 2017, the Committee on Corporate Governance engages in independent dialogue with selected companies published updated Recommendations on Corporate which do not yet report or disclose their climate footprint. Governance. IIGCC is a forum for collaboration on climate change for ATP also follows international debates on corporate investors. The members agree that political and regulatory governance and stewardship activities, primarily through uncertainty is among the greatest barriers to green investits membership of the International Corporate Governance ment and that predictable, credible policy frameworks at Network (ICGN). An investor-led organisation, ICGN’s international, regional and national level will increase instimission is to promote effective standards of corporate tutional investors’ investment in low-carbon energy and 42 Responsibility 2017 green transformation. IIGCC’s task is to coordinate and Dansif was established at a time when ESG considerations deliver this message to political decision-makers. In 2017, were primarily handled by specialists in and outside the through IIGCC, ATP cosigned a joint investor letter to EU member companies. In 2017, given the recent years’ trend energy ministers, urging them to implement predictable towards the integration of ESG considerations into ordiclimate regulation to expand green investment. nary investment activities, ATP focused on building closer ties between Dansif and other Danish investment organisaATP is one of the founding signatories to Climate Action tions to ensure that Dansif stays relevant to its members. 100+, which was launched in December 2017. Climate Action 100+ is a five-year initiative led by investors to Nordic SIF is the Nordic network for responsible invesengage with the world’s 100 largest corporate greenhouse tors. ATP is active in the network and attended the annual gas emitters to curb emissions, strengthen climate-related meeting in Copenhagen where representatives of Nordic financial disclosures and improve governance on climate pension funds and other professional investors gathered change. to be updated on specific projects and experience gained from the responsible investment activities in the other Nordic networks. Nordic exchange of experience with responsibility ATP has also participated actively in the Danish and Nordic In addition to international organisations and networks, Global Compact. ATP supports the UN Global Compact and ATP also participates in Danish and Nordic discussions on has submitted Communication on Progress to the UN Global responsibility and responsible investments. Nordic compaCompact since 2012. ATP has spent several years integrating nies and investors often have a very special approach to the ten principles into its work on responsible investments. responsibility, and ATP finds knowledge sharing in Nordic The 17 Sustainable Development Goals are high on the UN networks to be rewarding. Global Compact’s agenda – both in the Danish and Nordic networks. In 2017, ATP attended the Nordic Global Compact ATP participates in the Danish and Nordic debates on Network meeting in Gothenburg. The focus was on the SDGs’ responsible investments through its membership of significance to the role of business in society – including the Nordic SIF and Dansif. Dansif is a Danish network for role of the financial sector – and on the significance of the professional investors, consultancy companies and other goals of sustainable cities and communities (Goal 11) and parties engaged in responsible investment in Denmark. global partnerships (Goal 17). In 2017, ATP also attended the Dansif’s objective is to exchange experience among the first general meeting of Global Compact Network Denmark, members of the Society and facilitate a diversified debate a new independent local network that works closely with the on responsible investment. ATP has supported Dansif for Global Compact headquarters in New York while at the same several years and is also a member of the Society’s Board time serving as a point of contact for Danish members of the of Directors. Global Compact. Responsibility 2017 43 UN Global Compact Dansif International Corporate ATP supports the UN Global ATP is a member of Dansif, an Governance Network Compact, a UN initiative estabimpartial Danish network forum ATP is a member of the lishing ten general principles for for professional investors, consulInternational Corporate companies’ responsibility efforts. tancy companies and other Governance Network, an invesThese principles are based on parties engaged in responsible tor-led organisation, the mission international conventions on investment in Denmark. Its objecof which is to promote effective human rights, labour, environtive is to exchange and dissemstandards in corporate government and climate and anti-corinate experience among the ance and stewardship activities. ruption. Global Compact also members of the Society as well ICGN provides recommended facilitates debates about compaas facilitating a diversified debate policies, coordinates working nies’ contribution to the UN’s 17 on responsible investment. groups and points out broad Sustainable Development Goals. trends in corporate governance and stewardship activities. The Institutional Investors CDP (tidligere Carbon Taskforce on Climate-related Group on Climate Change Disclosure Project) Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ATP is a member of IIGCC. IIGCC ATP is a member of CDP and a ATP supports the TCFD and the is a forum for international invesco-signatory of CDP’s Climate recommendations on disclosure of tors, providing a collaborative Change Program, Water Program climate-related financial risks. The platform to encourage political and Forests Program. CDP is TCFD is an expert task force set up by decision-makers to implement a global climate organisation. the FSB on behalf of the G20 countries. policies that address long-term Through CDP’s Climate Change The idea behind the recommendations risks associated with climate Program, members motivate is that company disclosures should change. companies and cities to measure, include the company’s financial risks manage and disclose their greenand opportunities in the transition to a house gas emissions. low-carbon economy. ATP follows the recommendations in connection with the reporting of its own processes and in its active ownership activities. Principles for Responsible GRESB Real Estate GRESB Infrastructure Investment (PRI) ATP is a member of GRESB ATP is a founding member of ATP is a member of the PRI organReal Estate, which provides GRESB Infrastructure and a isation which is a proponent of the the basis for benchmarking the member of its advisory board. six UN-supported Principles for ESG performance of specific The purpose is to assess and Responsible Investment. The aim of real estate assets or real estate benchmark the ESG perforthe principles is for investors to incorfunds on behalf of institutional mance of companies and funds porate ESG issues into their investinvestors. By aligning reporting, engaged in infrastructure. ments. In the PRI, ATP works with a benchmark is provided that Companies and funds reported other investors on collective engagemay strengthen internal policies to GRESB Infrastructure for the ments with companies concerning and processes in this area. first time in 2016. various issues and topics. 44 Responsibility 2017 Fact-finding, targeted dialogue and exclusion ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments commits ATP Why does ATP screen equities and to not invest in companies that intentionally and repeatcorporate bonds? edly violate the laws and regulations in the countries Rather than examining all potential equity or corporate bond they operate in, or norms, which can be inferred from the investments, ATP has decided only to screen the compainternational conventions ratified by Denmark. This also nies ATP has investments in. This enables ATP to devote applies even though the company’s breach of ATP’s Policy resources to examining the relevant companies thoroughly, of Responsibility in Investments does not pose a financial seriously and with a focus on facts in the later stages of the risk to ATP. examination. The purpose of the screening process is to analytically screen out information and allegations against companies to allow ATP to focus resources on the most Exclusion processes serious allegations and possible breaches of ATP’s Policy ATP will not invest in companies that violate ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. of Responsibility in Investments. ATP therefore screens its investments in order to identify conduct that contravenes The screening is based on information provided by an the policy. If a thorough investigation finds a company to be external data provider who continuously monitors and in breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, assesses the conduct of thousands of international compathe company may be excluded from ATP’s investment portnies on a number of parameters with both quantitative and folio. It is important to emphasise that ATP’s screening qualitative elements. The data provider’s monitoring is based efforts are based on the severity of the specific allegaon media reports, NGO reports, court decisions, regulatory tion or conduct, not by the size of ATP’s investment in the investigations, company disclosures and other material in the specific company. public domain. The data provider informs the companies of the allegations before publishing reports and data. The investigative processes vary and depend on the asset class and the investment strategy, among other things. ATP sometimes also receives information from external sources about a company’s possible breach of ATP’s Policy Different processes are needed to identify potential violaof Responsibility in Investments. Such information and input tions, depending on whether the investment is made in an are included in the screening process on an equal footing infrastructure project in Southern Europe or in a US listed with other information from our data provider. equity. While the availability of systematised data from an external data provider enables quantitative screening of The screening process is conducted continuously, and listed equities, a more asset-specific approach is needed ATP has decided to keep the process and the fact-finding to identify ESG risks and potential violations in connection in-house rather than delegate it to an external provider. with an infrastructure investment. Even though the method In-house screening gives ATP insight into and knowledge of identifying potential violations will be different, ATP’s of the companies’ affairs which ATP can use in its investinternal ESG team will always conduct an independent, ment processes and decisions. It also helps to ensure that qualitative assessment of the allegation as well as a thorscreening and decisions about the fact-finding and any ough fact-finding before the alleged violation is put before exclusion are objectively justified. ATP’s Committee for Responsibility. Structure of ATP’s screenings The investigative methods employed by ATP in respect of listed equities and corporate bonds are described below. In the selection of quantitative indicators for the screening ATP first conducts a quantitative screening of ATP’s investprocess, ATP incorporates a wide spectrum of ESG issues ments to identify potential violations. ATP then launches relating to international conventions and Global Compact a qualitative assessment of the allegations, followed by a principles. These indicators cover a wide range of environthorough fact-finding to identify conduct which may potenmental issues (such as biodiversity), human rights issues tially violate ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. (such as civil liberties and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples), labour rights (such as the right to collective bargaining, anti-discrimination and child labour) and Responsibility 2017 45 anti-corruption. By focusing on these issues and indicators, The screening process it is ensured that ATP concentrates on company conduct that can potentially constitute a breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. It is also one of the ways in which ATP works systematically to integrate the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Guidance for Institutional Investors into its investment processes. The Guidelines recommend that investors establish due diligence processes to identify and address situations where Stage 1 a portfolio company is having a negative impact on society. The three stages of the screening process Stage 1 – Quantitative screening The first step of the screening process is to select companies that potentially violate ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. Based on the selected quantitative indiStage 2 cators, with reference to the methodology applied by the data provider, ATP has established threshold values which enable automatic selection of so-called focus companies. The focus companies’ scores on the selected ESG indicators are significantly poorer than those of other companies in the portfolios – which indicates a risk of violating ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. Stage 3 Stage 2 – Qualitative assessment and prioritisation If a company’s score is below the threshold value, it is investigated whether conduct and allegations, if true, would also constitute a breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. This leads to the second step of the investigation process where the allegations against the focus Stage 3 – Fact-finding companies are subjected to a qualitative examination by The fact-finding process is an open investigation, based ATP’s analysts to assess whether the individual allegaon a variety of sources, for instance open sources, NGO tion could constitute a breach of the policy. Specifically, reports and company websites. ATP’s analysts assess ATP’s ESG analysts assess – independently of each other if the allegations are well-founded. In this part of the – the allegations against each focus company, which is screening process, ATP often initiates a dialogue with the followed by a joint evaluation and selection procedure. In companies to get their input and assessment of the allegathis process, ATP considers the requirements and recomtions. In cases where the fact-finding indicates unacceptmendations for companies that follow from the Global able conduct, the company is also given the opportunity to Compact principles and the OECD Guidelines. The OECD explain what organisational or operational measures it has Guidelines include detailed recommendations to help taken to prevent recurrences. The dialogue will often be in companies respect human rights. writing, but in many cases ATP will also engage in a verbal dialogue with the companies. In many cases, a fact-finding If the allegations are believed to be serious and constitakes several months. As the facts of the case are not yet tute a potential breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in sufficiently clarified, ATP does not disclose the allegations Investments, they are subjected to a more thorough invesat this stage of the process. tigation known as a fact-finding. 46 Responsibility 2017 If a fact-finding indicates a possible breach of ATP’s Policy Exclusion processes of Responsibility in Investments, Team ESG presents the findings of the investigation to the Committee for Responsibility with a recommendation to the Committee Committee for Responsibility on engaging in targeted dialogue with the company or excluding it. If a fact-finding indicates that the company’s conduct is in Breaches of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in keeping with ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, Investments the fact-finding is concluded. Throughout the ongoing screening process, it is ensured that any new allegations made and identified by our data provider are brought to Documented by an our attention. Documented internally external weapons expert Breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments: targeted dialogue or exclusion Exclusion When ATP’s Committee for Responsibility has decided that a company has violated ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, it is decided if ATP will exclude or engage in a targeted dialogue with the company. the company at the given time. If, in a responsible, factual and professional manner, leading investors have docuTargeted dialogue mented issues and conduct by a named company that ATP engages in targeted dialogue with a company in could constitute a breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments if in Investments, ATP may choose to use the material as the there is deemed to be a reasonable expectation that ATP basis for its own fact-finding in respect of the company. can persuade the company to change its conduct. In other If the company’s conduct constitutes an obvious breach words, the stated purpose of the dialogue is to change the of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, ATP may specific conduct. This also means that ATP shows patience choose to exclude the company. in the process of engaging in targeted dialogue, as long as ATP finds that the company has a cooperative attitude and In exceptional cases, ATP excludes companies without prior is responsive towards ATP. If the company does not change internal investigation. Such exclusions specifically relate to its conduct, ATP will exclude the company. companies involved in the production of cluster bombs or landmines. In these cases, ATP bases its decisions on the Exclusion assessment by an external weapons expert. Read ATP’s ATP’s Committee for Responsibility may also choose to 2016 report on responsibility for more information about exclude the company without first engaging in a dialogue this process. with it. Exclusion entails selling ATP’s equities or bonds in the company and removing the company from ATP’s investATP may exclude a company based on general sanctions ment portfolio. as well as an assessment of specific company behaviour. Similarly, lifted exclusions may be grounded in lifted sancIn some cases, ATP adds a company to its list of excluded tions or that ATP assesses that a company has rectified companies although ATP does not have any investments in its behaviour. Responsibility 2017 47 Actual fact-findings and topics In 2017, ATP completed 19 fact-findings of companies in its portfolio. In addition, ATP is currently conducting three fact-findings. Most of these fact-findings have been initiated and conducted in accordance with the general screening processes for ATP’s equities and corporate bonds. As already mentioned, ATP prioritises its screening and fact-finding according to the severity of the allegations. This also means that ATP will conduct a fact-finding if it is assessed that there is strong evidence that the company intentionally and repeatedly has violated or contravened laws, international norms and conventions. The overall topics and themes addressed in a fact-finding therefore vary from year to year. Human rights are one of the topics that have received a lot of attention in this year’s fact-findings. In 2017, ATP conducted seven fact-findings of companies accused of human rights violations. In addition, ATP conducted two fact-findings of alleged child labour in corporate operations or value chains. Another recurring topic in several fact-findings conducted in 2017 was labour rights. On six occasions ATP investigated companies accused of negatively influencing employees’ or suppliers’ labour rights. Environment and climate was also a recurring topic in ATP’s fact-findings. The topic was examined in three of ATP’s fact-findings. ATP investigated cases where a company’s activities were accused of harming the environment to the detriment of biodiversity or the local population’s access to vital natural resources. Several companies in ATP’s portfolio have been accused of corruption and bribery. On four occasions, ATP investigated allegations of corrupt business conduct. On page 49-50 you can read more about some of the fact-findings which ended in exclusion. Topics in ATP’s fact-finding in 2017 2 Human Rights 3 7 Labour Rights Corruption Environment and Climate 4 Child labour 6 ATP’s investments in government bonds ATP has separate processes for investments in government bonds. As a result, ATP does not invest in government bonds in countries against which the EU or UN has imposed targeted sanctions. ATP also includes the OECD’s long-term country risk classification in its investment process for government bonds. Read ATP’s 2014 report on responsible investments for more information about screening of government bonds. 48 Responsibility 2017 CASE: Fact-finding of US prison corporations During the screening process, ATP became aware of a number of allegations against two companies in the portfolio which are operating private prisons and detention centres in the USA. The allegations against the two companies were many and serious. The companies were accused of not providing adequate healthcare and legal assistance to inmates and detainees and of providing unsafe conditions. Both companies were recommended for fact-finding due to potential breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. ATP subsequently conducted a thorough fact-finding of the companies, which were also consulted and presented with the allegations. ATP’s investigation found that the allegations against one company were generally unfounded, and that the company had the necessary policies and procedures in place to manage risks within the area, including in relation to the protection of the inmates’ rights and access to filing a complaint. However, the investigation also revealed that the other company, The GEO Group, Inc., did not live up to ATP’s requirements. ATP found the company’s implementation of own policies, procedures to prevent and deal with incidents and willingness to provide transparent information about the conditions on site to be unsatisfactory – not least for a company in that line of business. As the company did not appear willing to take the necessary action to rectify the problems pointed out, despite a lengthy dialogue with the company, ATP decided to exclude the company from its investment portfolio. CASE: Fact-finding of Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. In spring 2017, ATP learned that a leading global investor had excluded the Indian company Bharat Heavy Electricals due to the risk of serious environmental damage resulting from the company’s operations. Even though ATP did not have any investments in the company, it was decided to carry out an internal investigation of the company due to the nature and severity of the allegations. The problem was that the company had been awarded a contract for the construction of a coal-fired power plant in south-western Bangladesh. The coal-fired power plant will be built close to the protected mangrove forest Sundarbans which is home to two UNESCO World Heritage sites and a number of animal species, including the river dolphin and the Batagur turtle, which are both on the endangered species list. Experts say that the construction of the power plant will have a negative impact on the surrounding environment in the mangrove forest and increase the risk of accidents, which may potentially cause irreparable damage to the area’s biodiversity. For this reason, UNESCO recommended the relocation of the power plant, which was opposed by the company and the company has also dragged its feet when it comes to minimising the environmental impact associated with the construction of the power plant. ATP therefore concluded that the company was unwilling to take the necessary steps to prevent harmful damage to the Sundarbans, even though concerns had also been raised by the UNESCO, among others. ATP ultimately decided to exclude the company from its portfolio. Responsibility 2017 49 CASE: Fact-finding of Africa Israel Investments Ltd. and Shikun & Binui Ltd. ATP’s fact-finding is typically based on input from ATP’s own screening process. If ATP receives information from an external source, ATP may also decide to initiate a fact-finding. In connection with a public debate on companies’ involvement in the construction of the Israeli settlements, ATP was criticised for its investments in two companies in particular. However, after a preliminary investigation ATP found that none of these companies had any involvement in these activities that might justify further, in-depth investigations. Allegations were also made against other companies which ATP had no investments in. As a general rule, ATP focuses on conducting fact-findings of companies that ATP has investments in. In cases where leading investors have documented unacceptable conduct and subsequently excluded companies which ATP does not invest in, ATP may, however, choose to use such information as a basis for its own fact-finding. These considerations were the reason for ATP’s decision to initiate a fact-finding of allegations against two Israeli companies operating in the construction industry. ATP’s investigation of the cases showed that the two companies were centrally involved in several construction projects in the Israeli settlements on the West Bank and eastern Jerusalem which are illegal under international law. Furthermore, the investigation showed that both companies are also likely to be involved in such projects in future and do not appear willing to change this practice. Overall, the nature and extent of the companies’ involvement in the construction of the Israeli settlements prompted ATP to exclude Africa Israel Investments Ltd. and Shikun & Binui Ltd. from its investment universe. ATP and tobacco With around 5 million members, there are many different opinions as to how ATP should manage its responsibility. Tobacco is one of the topics which give rise to ethical discussions and differences in opinion among ATP’s members. ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments lays down a number of requirements to be met by the companies we invest in. Firstly, the companies must respect the law of the countries they operate in. Secondly, they must respect the rules, norms and standards that ensue from conventions and other international treaties ratified by Denmark. This applies irrespective of whether the country the company operates in has ratified those conventions. ATP does not invest in companies that intentionally and repeatedly violate such conventions. The policy refers to international rules and standards and is as such based on stringent criteria rather than moral assessments. In Denmark it is still legal to produce, sell and smoke tobacco, and as long as the companies comply with Danish legislation and international conventions, ATP can invest in them. Generally speaking, there is nothing to prevent ATP from investing in tobacco companies, but, like all other companies, tobacco companies must observe ATP’s other requirements regarding the environment, human rights and corporate governance. 50 Responsibility 2017 ATP has adopted a new tax policy for unlisted investments, which prevents investments in countries on the EU’s tax haven blacklist For international investors, tax and international tax payments is a topic they need to address. ATP drafted its first tax policy in 2015. But as the debate about tax payments has shifted in step with the changed demands of the outside world, ATP set about revising its Tax Policy on Unlisted Investments in early spring 2017. In December 2017, the policy was adopted by ATP’s Supervisory Board. ATP’s new tax policy is valid from 1 January 2018 and applies to all new unlisted investments. Read more on page 8. In parallel with this work, ATP contributed to the public debate on companies’ and pension companies’ tax payments – particularly the debate about tax payments relating to investments made through international tax transparent funds. The Cayman Islands has been a particular focus of attention from the media and politicians. Reports on the so-called Paradise Papers also fuelled the debate on tax payments. ATP has a desire and a responsibility to contribute information and ensure transparency about ATP’s views and conduct in the field of tax. As a result, ATP’s CEO and CFO together with ATP’s Chairman have on several occasions engaged in dialogue with members of the Danish Parliament and NGOs, and ATP has also participated in press interviews on tax issues. ATP’s messages in the debate were: • ATP pays the tax it is required to pay, i.e. tax on pension savings returns and return on capital as well as income tax. ATP discloses all income to the Danish tax authorities. • When ATP invests in businesses or assets outside Denmark, income tax is paid on locally generated profits in accordance with applicable laws of the country where the profit was generated. • ATP’s focus is on ensuring that the highest possible portion of the returns on ATP’s investments are taxed in Denmark. The tax liability for the return rests with ATP, irrespective of whether the investment is made directly or through a tax transparent fund on, say, the Cayman Islands, and the return will thus only be taxed in the country of activity and in Denmark. • Investments via for example the Cayman Islands are not made for tax optimisation purpose, but solely to prevent the members’ assets from being taxed twice. • The reason why ATP invests via funds in the Cayman Islands is that there is a substantial number of external asset managers who bring together large global investors via these funds to invest in unlisted companies and infrastructure outside the islands, for example in OECD countries. • ATP only invests in countries that have joined CRS/FATCA. This means that the income and assets of coinvestors is disclosed to the relevant authorities in their respective home countries, so that the authorities in the investors’ home country are fully informed of the tax base. • ATP does not invest in jurisdictions which at the time of investment are on the EU’s blacklist (EU list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions). Responsibility 2017 51 Resource consumption, staff and diversity at the ATP Group Employees in the ATP Group ployees and customers. In other words, diversity among manThe ATP Group is a large employer. In 2017, the Group emagers and employees is the basis for continuous innovation ployed 2,966 full-time staff (avg), 2,800 of whom were based and competitiveness. Diversity expands ATP’s recruitment poin locations across Denmark in Vordingborg, Holstebro, Hadtential and ensures a wide range of skills in managers and emerslev, Allerød, Lillerød, Frederikshavn, Greater Copenhagen ployees. Both managers and employees are expected to help and at the head office in Hillerød. to ensure that diversity flourishes and thrives in the workplace. As a large employer with many offices, the ATP Group leaves FASE+ its ‘footprint’ on society, for example in the form of en-vironATP has a long tradition of commitment to diversity and inclumental, climate and employee impacts. sion, and in 2010 this led to the establishment of the FASE+ department. A common denominator of the employees in Employee satisfaction surveys FASE+ is that, for various reasons, they need support to return ATP is constantly working to create an attractive workplace to the labour market. In addition to being unemployed, they which is able to attract and retain motivated, dedicated and also face other challenges. The employees currently associcompetent managers and employees. ated with FASE+ include non-ethnic men and women and employees with mental disorders. The aim of FASE+ is to help the ATP has defined three targets for the achievement of index employees become self-supporting and thus able to manage 80 in employee satisfaction. With indices of 78, 78 and 79, rea job or education on normal or special conditions. In return, spectively, the indices for happiness at work, job satisfaction the FASE+ employees carry out a number of ATP’s service and and motivation are very close to the target. business processing tasks, relieving other employees of some of their workload. In 2017, 51 employees have been or are asIn the table overleaf, ATP accounts for environmental impacts, sociated with FASE+, nine of whom have subsequently enfor instance through carbon emissions, electricity, heat and rolled in the basic integration education programme. At yearwater consumption in ATP’s Danish offices in Copenhagen, end 2017, 13 employees previously associated with FASE+ Haderslev, Holstebro, Vordingborg, Frederikshavn, Hillerød, were employed at ATP on standard or special terms. Allerød and Østerbro and the offices of ATP’s subsidiaries in Copenhagen. ATP smoke-free workplace in 2018 Effective from 2018, ATP has introduced smoke-free working ATP’s Diversity Policy hours. This decision is in continuation of a number of initiaAt ATP, the working environment is strengthened through ditives implemented by ATP to ensure a healthy working enviversity. Diversity provides for a more dynamic, vibrant and inronment and to generally encourage a healthy lifestyle among spirational working environment – for the benefit of both emits employees – for instance through a focus on nutrition, exerEmployees, distributed in Denmark Employee welfare 100 228 80 60 207 40 1397 451 20 262 255 0 2015 2016 2017 Happiness at work Job satisfaction Motivation Note: Employee satisfaction survey data based on ATP employees’ Note: Average number of full-time employees in 2017 in Denmark own ratings of happiness at work, job satisfaction and motivation on a scale from 0 to 100. 52 Responsibility 2017 Carbon emissions per employee Water consumption per employee Tonnes per FTE M3 1.4 8 1.2 6 1.0 0.8 4 0.6 0.4 2 0.2 0.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 1 Facts about ATP Number of locations 8 8 9 Number of sq. m. 60,545 60,714 73,933 2 Number of full-time employees (FTE) 1,964 2,445 2,966 3 Consumption data Power consumption (MWh) 3,757 3,864 4,198 Heat consumption (MWh) 5,028 4,943 5,667 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption (MWh) 6,414 5,687 6,703 3 Water consumption (m ) 14,369 15,593 15,710 KPIs Area per employee (sq.m.) 33 30 27 Power consumption per employee (kWh) 2,038 1,893 1,545 Power consumption per sq.m. (kWh) 62 64 57 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption per employee (kWh) 3,480 2,793 2,466 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption per sq.m. (kWh) 106 94 91 3 Water consumption per employee (m ) 7.80 7.66 5.78 3 Water consumption per sq.m. (m ) 0.24 0.26 0.21 4 Carbon emissions Carbon emissions, heat consumption (tonnes) 931 910 1,057 Carbon emissions, power consumption (tonnes) 899 926 1,189 Carbon emissions, transport (own vehicles, taxis and aircraft travel) (tonnes) 408 447 479 Total carbon emissions (tonnes) 2,237 2,283 2,725 Carbon emissions per employee (tonnes per FTE) 1.21 1.12 1.00 1 On 1 June 2017, ATP entered into an agreement on a lease in Lillerød. This lease is not included in the report, given that consumption data for one year are not yet available. 2 Number of employees is determined as the average number of full-time employees in Denmark. To determine the environmental impact, this figure is adjusted for employees in Lillerød to proportionally reflect total carbon emissions. 3 In previous periods, consumption data for the water consumption at the Copenhagen location represented the entire property. This year, it was possible to break down water readings on a floor-by-floor basis, which is now reflected in the total water consumption (m 3) for ATP. Comparative figures and derived KPIs have been restated to reflect this breakdown. 4 The calculated carbon emissions include Scope 1 (emission factors for fossil fuels), Scope 2 (emission factors for power and district heating) and Scope 3 (emission factors for derived transport, power and district heating), calculated using the climate compass ‘Klimakompasset.dk’. Responsibility 2017 53 cise and alcohol. Before the decision was made, positive exThe gender distribution target also applies to the Supervisory perience was obtained from municipalities and other private Boards of ATP’s subsidiaries. This means that the underrepworkplaces. In connection with the designation of ATP as a resented gender should account for at least one third of the smoke-free workplace, employees are offered stop-smoking Board, the same as the target for ATP’s Supervisory Board. programmes. Specifically as regards the gender distribution on the Boards of ATP’s subsidiaries, the target has been achieved for three The Supervisory and Executive Boards are aware that the out of 12 companies: ATP Timberland Invest K/S, Via Equistrategic decision of designating ATP as a smoke-free workty Fond I K/S and Via Equity Fond II K/S. The target has not place could be seen as a contrast to investing in tobacco been achieved for the companies Real Estate Partners I K/S, companies. Based on its employee policies, ATP cannot deReal Estate Partners II K/S, ATP Ejendomme A/S, Private Eqviate from the basic principles to which its investment activiuity K/S, Private Equity Partners I K/S, Private Equity Partners ties are subject. For instance, although ATP is an alcohol-free II K/S, Private Equity Partners III K/S, Private Equity Partners workplace, ATP also invests in alcohol-producing companies. IV K/S and Private Equity Partners V K/S. The primary reason is that members of ATP’s Group Management are appointed ATP’s report on the status of compliance with the target to serve on the Boards of the subsidiaries, and in ATP’s Group figures set for the underrepresented gender Management, the specialist skills required by the investment ATP’s Supervisory Board has adopted a Diversity Policy subsidiaries are held by men. with a defined target for the gender distribution of its senior management. The target is to have at least one third of the ATP is constantly striving to increase the share of women in underrepresented gender on ATP’s Board of Representatives management, given that the gender targets are part of ATP’s (at least 11) and on ATP’s Supervisory Board (at least 5). This Diversity Policy. Part of the strategy is to increase the focus target must be achieved by 1 April 2019. The deadline has and emphasis on diversity in the recruitment of new employbeen set in view of the three-year election period applicable ees. Efforts are focused on recruiting broadly for the manfor members of the Board of Representatives and the Superagement and developing internal talents in ATP’s talent provisory Board, which means that one third of the members are gramme as a way of encouraging more women to take the appointed each year. The target for the Board of Represent‘management path’. atives was met with 11 women in 2017 (35 per cent), while the Supervisory Board continues to work towards its target and There is no gender underrepresentation at other of the ATP had four female members in 2017 (31 per cent), the same numGroup’s management levels. Overall, for all management levber as in 2016. els, including executives, the distribution is equitable. 2015 2016 2017 Women 69% 67% 65% Gender distribution among all employees Men 31% 33% 35% Gender distribution on the Supervisory Board and the Board of Women 36% 34% 34% Representatives Men 64% 66% 66% Gender distribution among executives (CEO, CIO, COO, CFO, CRO, Women 42% 42% 33% Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents) Men 58% 58% 67% Women 52% 52% 54% Gender composition among managers, excluding executives Men 48% 48% 46% 54 Responsibility 2017 APPENDIX Appendix 1: Global Compact references UN Global Compact Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 6, 8, 9, 11, 27, Human Rights 31, 33, 38, 41, 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 45, 48, 49, 50 abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 6, 9, 11, 34, 45, Labour Rights 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 48 5. Effective abolition of child labour 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environ14-27, 37, 39, Environment mental responsibility 41, 42, 44, 45, 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmen48, 49, 53 tally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 6, 9, 11, 29, 46, Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. 48 56 Responsibility 2017 Appendix 2: List of excluded companies Company Reason for exclusion Year Exclusion repealed Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings (tidligere Gencorp) Cluster weapons 2008 2016 Aerostar Cluster weapons 2008 2015 Aeroteh Cluster weapons 2015 Africa-Israel Investments Ltd. Human rights 2017 Ashot Ashkelon Cluster weapons 2015 BAE Systems Cluster weapons 2006 2015 Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. Biodiversity 2017 Chevron Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 China Aerospace International Holdings Cluster weapons 2015 China National Offshore Oil Corp (CNOOC) Human rights 2007 China National Oil and Gas Exploration and Development co Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 China National Petroleum (CNPC) Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 China Oilfield Service Ltd. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 China Spacesat Cluster weapons 2015 Daewoo International Corp Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Dongfeng Automotive Weapon embargo, Sudan 2009 Dongfeng Motor Weapon embargo, Sudan 2009 Essar Oil Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Esterline Technologies Corp. Cluster weapons 2016 Gail India Ltd. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 General Dynamics Cluster weapons 2006 2016 Genting Berhad Biodiversity 2015 Goodrich Cluster weapons 2008 Hanwha Corp Anti-personnel mines 2007 Hanwha Techwin Co., Ltd. Cluster weapons 2016 Hyundai Motor Corruption 2009 IHI Corporation (tidl. Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries) Cluster weapons 2007 IJM Corporation Bhd. Biodiversity 2015 Korea Gas Corporation Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 L3 Communication Holdings Cluster weapons 2006 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. Violation of NPT 2016 Lockheed-Martin Cluster weapons 2006 2016 Magellan Aerospace Cluster weapons 2008 Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Mitsubishi Oil Co. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Motovilikha Plants JSC Cluster weapons 2015 Nippon Oil Corporation Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Responsibility 2017 57 Nissan Weapon embargo, Sudan 2009 Norinco International Cooperation Cluster weapons 2015 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. Videsh Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 Orbital ATK Cluster weapons 2006 Petrochina Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Petronas Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Petronas Daganga Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Petronas Gas Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Poonsan Corp Cluster weapons 2007 Posco Biodiversity 2015 PTT Aromatic Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 PTT Chemical Trade embargo, Myanmar 2008 2014 PTT Exploration and Production Comp. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Raytheon Cluster weapons 2006 2016 Rheinmetall Cluster weapons 2008 2015 S&T Dynamics Co. Ltd. Anti-personnel mines 2015 Sears Canada ILO 2008 Sears Holdings Corp ILO 2005 Shikun & Binui Ltd. Human rights 2017 Singapore Technologies Engineering Anti-personnel mines 2006 Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co Ltd. Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Saab Cluster weapons 2008 2015 Ta Ann Holdings Bhd. Biodiversity 2015 Target ILO 2005 Textron Anti-personnel mines 2006 Thales Cluster weapons 2006 2015 The GEO Group, Inc. Human rights 2017 Total Trade embargo, Myanmar 2007 2014 Vedanta Resources Human rights 2008 Walchandnagar Industries Limited Violation of NPT 2016 Wal-Mart ILO 2005 Wal-mart de Mexico SA de CV ILO 2007 WTK Holdings Bhd. Biodiversity 2015 ZTE Corporation Corruption 2016 58 Responsibility 2017 Appendix 3: ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership Background ATP has a considerable interest in the markets for listed ATP handles all active ownership-related matters intercompanies working according to the best international nally. We believe that by handling dialogue and corporate standards, in the general actions of the listed companies governance ourselves rather than hiring an external partner being subject to overall management and control, and in gives us special and important insight into a company’s the pricing on the markets being as effective as possible. affairs. Furthermore, we believe that this is the only way to ensure the integrity of all votes and thereby maintain ATP’s Purpose reputation with companies and other stakeholders. The purpose of a Policy of Active Ownership is to promote the companies’ long-term value creation and thus contribute ATP uses a proxy advisor (external partner), which provides to achieving the highest possible long-term return for ATP’s ATP with information about companies and their general investors. ATP’s conduct in all situations will be guided by meetings. ATP handles the dialogue with companies on the that principle. ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership, together voting and takes the actual decision of what to vote. with ATP’s Policy of Social Responsibility in Investments, make up ATP’s overall ESG policy for listed equities. The ultimate responsibility for ATP’s active ownership lies with ATP’s CEO. The work is coordinated by ATP’s Proces Committee on Social Responsibility. The scope of ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership in relation to a specific company generally reflects the value of ATP’s Recommendations on Active Ownership investment and ownership interest. ATP has contributed to and supports the development of the Recommendations on Active Ownership of the Danish Fundamentally, ATP has t wo ways of engaging Committee on Corporate Governance. with companies: • Through continuous dialogue which involves an Like the Recommendations on Corporate Governance, the ongoing dialogue with companies and ATP making use purpose of the Recommendations on Active Ownership is of its right to vote at the companies’ general meetings to promote the companies’ long-term value creation and thus contribute to creating the highest possible long-term • Through dialogue at general meetings where ATP return for investors. The Recommendations on Corporate makes use of its right to vote at the companies’ Governance and the Recommendations on Active general meetings. Ownership are thus mutually reinforcing with regards to The choice of method depends on a number of factors, the common purpose. for example factors related to ATP’s ownership share and possibility of effectively engaging in an active dialogue. ATP draws on the Recommendations on Active Ownership, This is for instance reflected in ATP’s active ownership in and any deviations from the recommendations are Denmark, where ATP typically has a higher exposure and explained as required in the recommendations. therefore takes a more active approach through continuous dialogue. The dialogue with companies may, for example, As recommended by the Recommendations on Active concern strategy, results, risk, capital structure, corporate Ownership, ATP prepares an annual statement on the indigovernance, corporate culture, remuneration of managevidual recommendations in the Recommendations on Active ment and responsibility. Ownership according to the ‘comply or explain’ principle. Responsibility 2017 59 ATP Supervisory Board’s Policy of Active Ownership Active ownership 1. We are an active investor which includes making use of our voting rights. Supervisory Board 2. The Supervisory Board must act in the long-term interests of all shareholders. 3. We work to ensure that the Supervisory Board is independent of the day-to-day management. 4. We believe that the Supervisory Board has a control function in respect of the Executive Board and should actively participate in the preparation of the company’s strategy. 5. We believe that members of the Supervisory Board (except for any employee representatives) should be elected for a short term so that they are frequently held accountable to the shareholders. The election of members to the Supervisory Board should be a transparent process, and it should be reported how the members’ performance is evaluated. 6. We seek to create the best working conditions to ensure a well-functioning Supervisory Board, provided that the members work in the long-term interests of the shareholders. We have an obligation to give the Supervisory Board room to carry out the task they have been entrusted with. Value Creation 7. We support work of the Supervisory Board, wherever we expect this to increase shareholder value. 8. As a general rule, we support proposals made by the Supervisory Board, but we do not support proposals which we believe to be detrimental to the rights or financial interests of the shareholders. Where we have a continuous dialogue with a company, we will vote against the proposals made by the Supervisory Board only when we believe that other means of influence have been exhausted. 9. We believe that a business-oriented integration of ESG can contribute to increasing the value of our investments. Furthermore, we believe that companies’ lack of focus on basic principles and standards on ESG matters constitutes a risk that ultimately threatens the value of our investments. Compensation 10. We believe that companies should have a pay policy to ensure that they are able to attract qualified labour. 11. The remuneration of the Executive Board should be carefully adapted to the conditions of the company and include both variable and fixed pay elements which strengthen the commonality of interests between the Executive Board and the shareholders. Performance-related pay must contribute to ensuring the company’s long-term value creation. 12. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board should be fixed, but we prefer a share of the remuneration to be invested in shares in the company. Variable remuneration of the Supervisory Board may undermine the control function in respect of the Executive Board. Information 13. We work to ensure that companies make all relevant information available to the shareholders wherever possible, while taking into account the company’s competitive environment and the confidentiality of the information. This includes: 14. companies providing a comprehensive description of their strategy and detailing how it contributes to long-term value creation. 15. companies’ executive remuneration, including incentive schemes, being described comprehensively in the financial statements. 16. companies reporting comprehensively on their ESG matters. 60 Responsibility 2017 Recommendations on Active Ownership of the Committee on Corporate Governance 1. The Committee recommends that institutional investors publish a policy of active ownership in connection with equity investments in Danish listed companies. 2. The Committee recommends that institutional investors regularly monitor and engage in a dialogue with the companies they invest in, with due regard to the investment strategy and the principle of proportionality. 3. The Committee recommends that institutional investors as part of the policy of active ownership establish a policy for when and how they intend to increase their active ownership over and above the regular monitoring and dialogue. 4. The Committee recommends that institutional investors as part of the policy of active ownership establish a policy for their collaboration with other investors with a view to maximising effectiveness and impact. 5. The Committee recommends that institutional investors as part of the policy of active ownership adopt a voting policy and be willing to disclose if and how they voted. 6. The Committee recommends that the policy of active ownership describe how conflicts of interest in terms of active ownership are identified and handled. 7. The Committee recommends that institutional investors every year report on their active ownership activities, including voting activity. Responsibility 2017 61 Appendix 4: ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments Purpose Integration in the day-to-day investment practice ATP acts as a responsible investor and must, within this ATP works continuously to integrate ESG considerations in framework, invest its assets in a manner which serves the its day-to-day investment process in line with consideramembers’ best interests. The objective for investment of the tions for other business conditions and risks. assets is to maintain their real value. ATP considers analysis of companies’ and countries’ ESG Responsibility is usually a prerequisite for long-term, issues to be an important and relevant element in ATP’s healthy earnings – and thus for the preservation of the real risk management, and ATP’s experience is that investment value of the investments. opportunities can also be identified on the basis of this work. The aim of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments is to protect the value of ATP’s investments and to contribute ATP does not invest in companies that intentionally and to ensuring that the companies have the lowest possible repeatedly violate rules laid down by national authorities capital costs through focus on and act responsibly. on the markets on which the company operates or by international organisations endorsed by Denmark. Combined with this, the aim is that ATP’s work on responsibility in investments benefits the employees, businesses ATP does not invest in specific securities, including central and local communities that are affected. government debt securities, which are covered by sanctions adopted by the EU or the United Nations. Integrating responsibility considerations constitute a central element in the tasks ATP handles on behalf of its members. Committee for Responsibility ATP’s work on responsibility in investments is coordinated ATP’s work on responsibility in investments covers a wide in a special internal Committee for Responsibility chaired range of socially relevant issues in relation to environment by ATP’s CEO. The Committee for Responsibility holds six and climate, social issues and governance – the so-called ordinary meetings a year as well as additional meetings Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Issues. as required. ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments is implemented The Committee is responsible for establishing processes in close interaction with ATP’s Policy of Active Ownership. which ensure compliance with ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. The Committee must ensure that ESG Assumptions assessments are made on a factual basis and that the ATP’s work on responsibility in investments is based on a assessments are as objective as possible. number of general considerations: As stipulated in the ATP’s Supervisory Board’s Policy of • ATP’s work on responsibility in investments must be Active Ownership, the Committee also functions as the characterised by consistency, predictability, seriouscoordinator for ATP’s active ownership activities. ness and openness and must be based on facts rather than subjective assessments In addition, the Committee is the coordinating point for ATP’s internal discussions on the development in this area • ATP performs its work with respect for the fact that and in ATP’s practice in individual areas, including, for conditions in other parts of the world may set different example, ATP’s inclusion of climate issues in the investframeworks for corporate behaviour than those appliment process. cable in Denmark and Western Europe • ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments is, to a Finally, the Committee is the coordinator of ATP’s ongoing great extent, based on stringent criteria, as it refers to work to strengthen its initiatives and actions in this area. politically adopted structures in the form of national This applies, for example, in relation to decisions on further legislation and international agreements. analyses of individual companies or special problem areas, 62 Responsibility 2017 approval of new processes which ensure compliance with engagement process. This includes a further investigathe Supervisory Board’s policy and in relation to the decition of relevant accusations and, if these are confirmed, a sions to examine alternative methods and new focus areas. dialogue is entered with the company on how the criticised matters can be solved or significantly improved. Cooperation To a great extent, responsibility issues extend across Dialogue and focus on improvements are ATP’s preferred national borders. International collaboration is therefore tools, whereas exclusion is seen as a tool which can be of great importance to the development in this area. ATP used when all other options have been exhausted. continuously seeks to contribute to the development in the area through participation in relevant organisations, ATP updates its list of excluded companies at ATP’s through specific collaboration with other investors as well website every six months. ATP does not continuously as by contributing to and following the development of new, update information about companies in which ATP does relevant standards. not invest, or which ATP has excluded. This means that ATP cannot publish an overall and exhaustive list of excluded Openness and information companies. ATP sets great store by a high degree of openness in relation to its activities to promote corporate responsibility. ATP In principle, there is nothing to prevent ATP from investing in therefore seeks continuously to increase transparency in its a company that ATP has previously excluded. In such case, work on responsibilty in investments vis-à-vis its members. this will require a renewed analysis. ATP’s Supervisory Board approves an annual responsiOverall management bility report, which describes ATP’s work and processes ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments is laid down in this area and which is published together with ATP’s by ATP’s Supervisory Board. Annual Report. ATP also participates regularly in the public dialogue on relevant responsibility issues, and ATP provides ATP’s Executive Board handles ATP’s investments within information about its work via ATP’s website. this framework and is responsible, together with the Committee for Responsibility, for ensuring compliance with Dialogue with the companies the framework. ATP engages in an ongoing dialogue with a number of the companies in which ATP has invested. As part of Matters relating to the policy which the CEO believes give this dialogue, ATP also addresses responsibility issues, rise to doubt are submitted to ATP’s Executive Committee, including the need for these companies to report adequately and any deviations from or interpretations of the policy are on this area. approved by ATP’s Executive Committee. Exclusion There is ongoing reporting on the work on responsibility in Information that a given company has – or is suspected investments to ATP’s Supervisory Board. of having – exceeded ATP’s policy forms the basis for an Adopted by the Supervisory Board on 13 December 2017. On behalf of the Supervisory Board Jørgen Søndergaard Lars R Jørgen Søndergaard formand Chairman dire Responsibility 2017 63
