United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress December 2017 HASSELL Systems, Policies, Initiatives and Progress relative to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2017 HASSELL Code of Ethics policy updated to reference UK Modern Slavery Act Principle 1 Businesses should support and Management and Human Resources procedures HASSELL has contributed to a number of respect the protection of including; community based activities including; international proclaimed human  Equal Opportunity Policy; _ Maningrida Arts and Culture Project, Northern rights Territory, Australia with Architects Without  Discrimination and Harassment Policy; Frontiers  Bullying policy; Principle 2 Businesses should make sure _ Educating Girls of Rural China (EGRC) project  Code of Ethics Policy; and they are not complicit in human sponsoring 3 girls to complete their tertiary rights abuses  Whistle Blower Protection Policy education. _ JobSupport program for intellectually disabled persons (Sydney Studio). Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the HASSELL Code of Ethics policy updated to freedom of association and the Management and Human Resources procedures reference UK Modern Slavery Act effective recognition of the right to including; HASSELL is a key participant in the Australian Institute of Architects Male Champions of Change collective bargaining  Equal Opportunity Policy; program and has committed to a range of actions  Discrimination and Harassment Policy; aimed at advancing gender equality across our Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the  Bullying policy; studios. elimination of all forms of forced  Code of Ethics Policy; HASSELL reports annually to the Australian and compulsory labour Workplace Gender Equality Agency, and is  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and currently compliant with all requirements.  Parental Leave policy; and Qualitative and quantitative measure for gender Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the  Breast Feeding Policy equality are reported biannually to the HASSELL effective abolition of child labour Board. HASSELL does not use or employ forced, bonded Inappropriate Behaviour training (ie antiPrinciple 6 Businesses should uphold the discrimination, bullying etc ) was conducted or child labour. HASSELL abides by all legislation elimination of discrimination in throughout the HASSELL studios in 2017. and regulations in the countries in which we are respect of employment and HASSELL Parental Leave policy and entitlement based. was approved for UK studio. Introduction of a new occupation. policy for Singapore and China planned for 2018. 1 of 2 UN Global Compact Principles HASSELL Systems and Policies HASSELL Initiatives and Progress in 2017 The principle objective of the HASSELL Environmental Policy is to support sustainable Principle 7 Businesses should support a Environmental and Management procedures development and reduces the environmental precautionary approach to including; impact of our projects and our studios. environmental challenges  Environmental Policy;  Project Sustainability guide; In 2017 the HASSELL Environmental Management System (EMS) was independently  Studio Sustainability guide; and re-certified to ISO14001. The EMS was reviewed  Opportunities and Risk Register. in 2017 and new series of programs with Principle 8 Businesses should undertake measurable targets will be introduced in 2018. The HASSELL Knowledge and Sustainability initiatives to promote greater team supports, undertakes and promotes; HASSELL has now designed over 1,400,000 environmental responsibility  Sustainable design training; square metres of buildings certified or registered  Green Star and LEED accreditation; under sustainable building rating systems  Interaction with Green Building Councils in including LEED, Green Mark and Green Star. Australia, China, Hong Kong and United HASSELL continues to be a key participant in the Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the States; and Cooperative Research Centre (CRC) for Low development and diffusion of  Participation in university and industry Carbon Living, which brings together over 40 environmentally friendly research programs. research institutions, government and industry technologies organisations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the built environment. Principle 10 Businesses should work against Management and Human Resources procedures In 2017 HASSELL reviewed and updated the Anti corruption in all its forms, including including; Bribery Policy and Code of Ethics Policy. These extortion and bribery  Anti-Bribery Policy policies apply across all studios.  Code of Ethics Policy;  Whistle Blower Protection Policy; and  Benefits, Taking Advantage, Business Commission and Presents China 2 of 2
