2017 CSR Report Global Transport and Logistics Contents DSV at a glance 3 Highlights 2017 4 Finding the key to a sustainable future 5 Our approach to corporate social responsibility 6 Environment and climate 9 Business ethics and anti-corruption 15 Employees and working environment 19 Community engagement with Red Cross | Red Crescent 23 Subcontractors 25 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index 29 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Group 32 This Corporate Social Responsibility Report is a Communication on Progress (COP) of the DSV Group under the United Nations Global Compact, which DSV signed in 2009. The CSR Report gives information and data on the CSR activities of the Parent and of subsidiaries of the DSV Group in which the Parent has an ownership interest of more than 50%. The CSR Report covers the twelve-month period, ending 31 December 2017. This CSR Report is a part of manage­ ment’s review and covers the statutory reporting on social responsibility and the gender composition of senior manage­ ment as prescribed by sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Further, this report serves as DSV’s statement according to section 54, part 6 of the UK Modern Slavery Act pursuant to Section 54, Part 6. This report has not been externally audited. With this progress report, we would like to express our continued support to the United Nations Global Compact initiative and its ten fundamental principles as well as its efforts to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. We also encourage all our business partners to support the Global Compact initiative. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Contents 2 DSV at a glance Freight forwarding and value-added services Solutions – delivering a full range of transport and logistics Asset-light freight forwarding DSV is a global freight forwarder offering transport and solutions throughout the more than 80 countries in which DSV is an asset-light freight forwarder. As such, we plan and logistics services that support our customers’ entire supply we operate. coordinate transportation from shipper to consignee as illuschain. We provide traditional transportation of goods as well trated in the business model below. The physical transport as a variety of value-added services. One of the big five is outsourced to external subcontractors – airlines, shipping DSV was founded in Denmark in 1976 by ten independent lines, haulage companies etc. Value-added services include purchase order management, hauliers. Since then we have evolved to become the world’s cargo consolidation, customs clearance, cargo insurance, fifth largest freight forwarder generating total revenue of The value we add and the services we offer as freight forwarehousing, distribution and consultancy. Our services are DKK 74,901 million in 2017 and with a skilled workforce of warders are therefore based on the skills and industry know­ offered through our three divisions – Air & Sea, Road and more than 45,000 employees. how of our employees, our specialized and integrated IT infrastructure, and our global network. People IT systems Industry knowhow Standardised global workflows Carrier relations Global network with local presence KEY RESOURCES AND PERFORMANCE DRIVERS FREIGHT FORWARDING SERVICES TRANSPORT LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION (SUBCONTRACTED) Shipment booking Cargo consolidation Warehouse Labelling, configuration, testing Pick-up Purchase order Picking/packing Distribution management From Shipper To Consignee Warehouse Cross-dock terminal Cross-dock terminal Documentation & customs clearance Documentation & Insurance Deconsolidation E-commerce customs clearance fulfilment SUPPLY CHAIN VISIBILITY Alerts Exception management Track and Trace Proof of delivery KPI reporting DSV 2017 CSR Report – DSV at a glance 3 Highlights 2017 Target fulfillment 4,878 DKKm 4,700 4,835 DKKm 23.4% 23.4% 21.5% OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 4,900 4,878 ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW 4,400 4,835 ROIC SPECIAL ITEMS 3,475 Adjusted free cash flow (excluding the The increase in ROIC in 2017 was mainly Operating profit before special items for impact from M&A and special items) a result of improved earnings. Invested 1,838 2017 was in line with the latest outlook. increased significantly to DKK 4,835 capital amounted to DKK 20,391 million, Regionally, the Americas and APAC million in 2017 from DKK 1,838 million 4.4% lower than in 2016. achieved the highest growth rates, in 2016 driven by higher operating profit 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 2016 driven by both higher activity outlook actual actual and lower net working capital. outlook actual actual and UTi synergies – mainly in The positive deviation from the latest the Air & Sea division. outlook was mainly due to better than expected performance on net working capital. Growth in all divisions DSV Air & Sea DSV Road DSV Solutions 10% Transportation of all types of cargo Comprehensive road freight and 24% Specialised logistics solutions, inby air and sea. We offer standard distribution services throughout cluding warehousing and distribution. and industry-specific logistics Europe as well as in North America We also offer packaging, freight solutions through our global network supplemented by a project +53.2% and South Africa. We offer both groupage, part loads and full loads +15.9% management, customs clearance, e-commerce and e-business sup+28.2% department, which handles excep2016-2017 as well as more specialised ser2016-2017 port. 2016-2017 tionally large or complex projects. vices, including temperature-controlled transportation. 66% ■ EBIT before special items, DKK 3,225 million (66% of group EBIT) ■ EBIT before special items, DKK 1,201 million (24% of group EBIT) ■ EBIT before special items, DKK 494 million (10% of group EBIT) DSV 2017 CSR Report – Highlights 2017 4 Finding the key to a sustainable future Every year, every day, DSV works with CSR within the together. And even then, we need the firm backing of inter­frame­work of UN’s Global Compact. We work with conduct, governmental bodies in terms of legislation and investments standards and targets to ensure compliance and better to keep us on track. ways of working while focussing on four major areas: the environment, business ethics, employees and their working Helping the help environment and last but not least our suppliers. Another area that we took to the next level in 2017 was our community engagement activities, more It makes me proud to see that our focus and efforts are specifically our global partnership with the worthwhile. The acquisition of UTi in 2016 expanded our Red Cross | Red Crescent. global presence. We nearly doubled our number of employees and increased our activities in all divisions. Yet, we have In our first year of partnership, we were able been able to keep improving our results across all focus to help with logistics and provide support in ­areas. different parts of the world: from disaster relief in the Caribbean Islands, to ongoing human aid The challenge of going green projects in Malawi and Togo. The environment continued to be a key focus area of DSV in 2017. We managed to improve our energy efficiency, In 2018, we will continue to push for a green and we continued to raise the issue with customers and agenda, and we look forward to an even sub­contractors in order to get all parts of the supply chain stronger partnership with the Red Cross | ­talking about how we can improve. Red Crescent. What’s more, we will continue our commitment to corporate social In 2017, I accepted an invitation to speak and represent DSV responsibility within the DSV network and at The Toronto Global Forum. Here I was vocal about the fact I believe that partnerships with customers that even a modest absolute reduction in total greenhouse and suppliers will be increasingly important gas emissions will be challenging – while the global econoin the years to come. my keep growing and fossil fuel based modes of transport ­continue to be the most prevalent. Jens Bjørn Andersen CEO I emphasised the point that pushing and implementing a DSV A/S green agenda is something all industry players have to do DSV 2017 CSR Report – CEO letter 5 Our approach to corporate social responsibility Commitment offices, warehouses and terminals, which sets the basis for CSR governance DSV is committed to being a responsible and reliable our governance and ongoing work on social responsibility. Our social responsibility activities are anchored with the business partner and an active participant in the global Board of Directors, who sets the direction for our CSR community. Still, we also focus on areas where we have less influence. strategy, targets and group policies together with the We work systematically with both customers and suppliers Executive Board. By working systematically within the framework of the to set standards and drive progress. Our Supplier Code of ­United Nations Global Compact, we have dedicated ourConduct is an important example of how we work with and The basis for the strategic work and decisions made by the selves to improving and reporting on matters of social influence our business partners. Board of Directors and Executive Board is laid out by our ­responsibility that are material to our core business. Group CSR department, who facilitates the CSR risk manWe have been committed to this framework since 2009, and we continue to apply initiatives targeted at changing and shaping practices that contribute to improving sustainability DSV business activities and sphere of influence and raising ethical standards within our line of business. Since 2009, we have reported regularly on our progress within the UN Global Compact key principles of anti-­ corruption, the environment, human rights and labour. Sphere of influence As we are freight forwarders and run our business based on an asset-light business model, we do not control the FROM TO transport equipment that carries and delivers our services. SHIPPER CONSIGNEE The physical transport services are outsourced to external subcontractors. Sphere of influence As such our core sphere of influence and focus on matters of social responsibility are mainly within our global network of FREIGHT FORWARDING TRANSPORTATION (SUBCONTRACTORS) LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION DSV 2017 CSR Report – Our approach to corporate social responsibility 6 agement process and the related data collection and analysis nities, in an objective manner. The outcome of these discusMateriality and Sustainable Development Goals throughout the year. sions are used for setting operational goals on CSR initiatives The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) launched by the and reporting. United Nations have been adopted by and are primarily tarOur Group CSR department furthermore plans and manages geted at national states. ongoing CSR activities throughout the organisation in collabOur CSR risk management process is aligned with the main oration with the Executive Board, and follows up on ongoing key risk analysis process of DSV as described in the 2017 However, as the Sustainable Development Goals in princiCSR initiatives. Annual Report, insuring that handling of CSR related risks are ple set the criterias for achievement of the Ten Principles in addressed at the same level and with the same urgency as Global Compact, we apply them in our materiality assessImplementing and driving our strategies and initiatives our key operational risks. ment as an expression of the expectations of the global ultimately rests with our global subsidiaries through local stakeholder community. initiatives. The 2017 Annual Report is available at investor.dsv.com. Risk management In DSV, we define CSR related risks within the framework of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. We consider these goals and apply their principls to the way Risk assessment method we conduct our business by considering which goals are applicable and material to our core business activities and to what extent are we able to impact these goals through our direct and indirect sphere of influence. Risk identification Risk analysis and assessment Based on these considerations, we have built an active risk management process that ensures that CSR risks and other material CSR issues are identified, assessed, classified and mitigated on an ongoing basis. Furthermore, the process provides a basis for the ongoing strategic decision making DSV’s CSR and targets set by the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. risk management process Our risk assessment process is also an operational tool, Risk Risk which supports both current and future business activities. mitigation recording The tool helps us clarify our largest operational risks, as well as potentials for contributing to the communities in which we operate. Additionally, the process advances our stakeholder engageRisk reporting ment and provides an opportunity for Group management to discuss sustainable development issues, risks and opportuDSV 2017 CSR Report – Our approach to corporate social responsibility 7 When engaging in global value chains, our business touches CSR risk analysis 2017 on all 17 SDGs, either directly or indirectly. Many of the Concluding on our CSR risk and materiality analysis for 2017, goals and targets cover issues that are already core to our our materiality criterions and identified risks are unchanged CSR efforts; the environment, anti-corruption, labour rights, from last year. Our primary focus points remains the envisafety and responsible supply chain management. ronment and climate, business ethics and anti-corruption, employees and working environment, and dealings with our When assessing areas with a direct link between our CSR subcontractors. targets and the SDGs, we see the greatest potential for achieving impact at scale through our business activities at In the remainder of this CSR Report we describe how we goal 8: decent work and economic growth, goal 12: responmitigate these risks, matching the expectations of our sible consumption, goal 13: climate action, goal 16: peace primary stakeholders. and justice, and goal 17: partnership for the goals. Materiality, business risks and key CSR areas MATERIALITY BUSINESS KEY CSR 2017 CSR SUSTAINABLE ISSUE RISK AREAS REPORT DEVELOPMENT GOALS COSTUMER CARBON EMMISION REPORTING Environment Pages 9 14 AND CARBON and climate FOOTPRINT COMPLIANCE (COMPETITION X Business ethics Pages 15 18 AND ANTIand antiCORRUPTION corruption LEGISLATION) EMPLOYEE X Employees Pages 19 22 SAFETY and working environment SUPPLIER Subcontractors Pages 25 28 CONDUCT DSV 2017 CSR Report – Our approach to corporate social responsibility 8 Environment and climate In carrying out our daily business activities, we will inherently have an influence on the environment. As a responsible company, we seek to limit this by implementing sustainable solutions in our operations and by offering our customers logistics services with a reduced environmental impact. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 9 Being among the top five companies of our industry, we acLack of legislation knowledge our special responsibility to the environment. Our In 2017, CEO Jens Bjørn Andersen gave a speech at the own efforts, however, do not make the necessary contribu­Toronto Global Forum, emphasising the necessity of legislaReporting carbon emissions to tion to the overall reduction in the use of fossil fuels. tion from intergovernmental bodies. Today, the mixture of customers alternative energy sources for heavy transport modes such Therefore, in 2017, we made an effort to raise the issue with as electrically or hybrid powered vehicles are only supported Carbon emission reports are the basis of our diacustomers and subcontractors in order to get all parts of the at a national level. To make a difference in the global infralogue and collaboration with customers on reducing supply chain talking about how we can improve. Creating structure, we advocate for legislation that clearly outlines carbon emissions. In 2017, DSV prepared more sustained change and implementing a green agenda require the future of a non-fossil-fuelled transportation industry. than 1,200 reports on carbon footprint data to the dedication of all industry players as well as firm backing customers relating to our transport services. Total of inter-governmental bodies. Facilitating improvements carbon emissions reported correspond to nearly Despite of the challenges, we still have the potential of facil8% of total carbon emissions from our activities in This process will probably take decades and we face signi­ itating environmental improvements: We construct energy-­ 2017. ficant challenges. However, DSV’s market position makes it efficient buildings, we improve the trucks and trailers that we possible to influence subcontractors through collaboration operate to reduce fuel consumption and we consolidate the and dialogue. That is a necessary step in the process of cargo shipped to make the movement of goods as efficient ­creating sustained change. as possible to reduce the overall environmental impact from our activities. Sustainability challenges When working with customers we face two main struc­ Innovative customer collaboration overall costs, fewer vehical kilometres driven and lower fuel tural challenges to attain sustainability in logistics and freight One way to improve and extend our reach is by collaborating consumption and thereby to a reduction in carbon emissions. transportation. Firstly, to most of our customers transporwith customers, which we do in a variety of ways. tation represents a low commercial risk, as transport is only However, consolidation can also lead to less flexible delivery a minor part of their costs and a relatively small part of their Some customers are willing to invest in new and more susschedules, which may mean fewer consolidated shipments individual environmental impact. tainable transport. The projects are often on a smaller scale, instead of more frequent, but smaller shipments or a route but the symbolic value and potential future benefits can be with less frequent departures. When a customer is open to The second challenge is that the freight market is charactersignificant. such changes, significant reductions in carbon emissions are ised by highly volatile prices and short-term customer relafeasible. tions. Short-term or price-sensitive business relationships When initiating a dialogue with a customer on reducing are a barrier to an ongoing dialogue that is needed at this carbon emissions from transportation, DSV has two differDSV ECO point for a sustainable transition from the use of fossil fuels. ent approaches to environmental improvements: Efficient In Sweden, we have conceptualised the consolidation proconsolidation and specific initiatives launched in cooperation cess. DSV offers a discount provided the customer grants Downstream, we are challenged by how much we can with customers. three days of extra flexibility on the pickup date. When directly change the conduct of our subcontractors. As an freight forwarders has more flexibility in planning the collecasset-light company, DSV is not in a position to make largeEfficient consolidation tion of goods, the utilisation capacity increases and fewer scale changes to the carbon footprint of the transports we CO2 reduction by consolidation is crucial to our business and kilometres are driven, which reduces CO2 emissions. organise simply because subcontractors carry out most of a main element of our contribution to an overall CO2 reducthem on market terms. tion. We can create shared value by lowering the cost of DSV ECO has existed for some years now and it is the intentransportation by consolidating freight, which leads to lower tion to promote the concept to yet more customers in 2018. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 10 Choosing the right mode of transport may be as a result of the customer having to invest in new We conduct transports of customer goods in a number of transport equipment and technologies in cooperation with a ways depending on quantities, time-slot, value and charsupplier, or because existing transport equipment may have acteristics of goods, route, distance etc. Choosing the right to be modified to accommodate for the alternative fuel. mode of transport is usually considered a straightforward choice, but sometimes alternatives exist that provides the In addition, some limitations may apply on these alterantive customer with a possibility to reduce a transport’s carbon types of transportation. Partly because the range of electrifootprint, and sometimes even the cost. cally powered trucks is limited and partly because the availability of alternative fuels still are limited in many countries. Generally, the faster and heavier the transport of goods, the higher the cost and carbon footprint. However by beeing Examples of cases in which alternative transportation soluflexible on time of delivery the customer may be able to tions have been succesfully implemented have been highchoose an alternative transport mode with reduced CO2 lighted in the following: emmisions to follow. ­ Nationwide use of alternative diesel A classic example within the transport industry is substitutIn Sweden, we agreed with a large customer to set up a road ing airfreight with either rail, road or sea transport. Shipping solution based on an alternative fuel delivery to their supergoods via air emits much more greenhouse gasses on a given market chain. The initiative made the Swedes realise that distance compared to a ground transport. Nevertheless, the use of the renewable biodiesel HVO 100 (hydro-treated airfreight is a fast transport mode that can bring the cus­ vegetable oil) could be feasible on a countrywide basis. tomers’ products swiftly from continent to continent. DSV Sweden’s domestic groupage loads are handled in a Rail as an inter-continental mode of transport closed system that already ensures maximum utilisation of Transporting goods between Southeast Asia and Europe cargo capacity and thus reduces the number of vehicles on can go either fast by air or take weeks with a container ship. the roads. These transports consumed nearly 9 million litres As an alternative, DSV offers customers a rail solution that of alternative diesel in 2017, which is equivalent to a reduccompletes a transport in less than two weeks. tion of carbon emissions by 10,500 tonnes of CO2. In 2017, more than 150 customers chose rail as the means Hybrid truck of transportation between the continents, which is a good DSV Sweden also tested a hybrid truck during spring and compromise between speedy delivery and the inherent envisummer 2017, which ran partly on HVO biodiesel and partly ronmental impact. on electricity. The truck drove 16,000 kilometres in the trial period and consumed 2.05 litres of fuel per every 10 Trucks with alternative power kilometres on average, which is an 18% reduction of fuelAs an alternative to a complete change of transport mode, consumption compared to the trucks running on HVO-fuel we offer our customers the use of existing types of transentirely. portation but powered by a fuel or technology with a smaller impact on the climate. Electric truck for inner city use In Germany, we are testing the first fully electric truck for Typically, this type of solution requires long-term co­ inner city delivery for the drugstore chain dm drogeriemarkt. operation with the customer in order to be established. This The truck drives 145 km on a daily average and has saved DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 11 In 2017, DSV experienced significant growth across all three From an environmental perspective, the most important part divisions. This entailed growth in the total number of transof trailer maintenance is to ensure the correct tyre pressure. Improvement in engine standards ports, which caused the Group’s carbon footprint to increase If tyres are underinflated, the rolling resistance increases, with 5.2%. which leads to increased tyre wear and fuel consumption. We monitor the Euro engine standards of our own and our European subcontractors’ fleets of trucks. Though Road increased the total CO2 footprint because of To avoid that, DSV uses Ultra-Seal as a tyre sealant that an increased number of transports, we improved the energy reduces pressure loss and minimises punctures. It is both In 2017, nearly 80% of our own and our sub­ efficiency for road transports by 3%. This partly due to an incost efficient and a way to reduce carbon emissions because contractors’ trucks met the highest European creased efficiency in fuel consumption, as it rose close to 4% it reduces deflation to less than 5% and reduces fuel standards. This means that toxic and hazardous both for trucks owned by DSV and by subcontractors. consumption by 3%. In addition, using Ultra-Seal extends emissions from our trucking operations continue to tyre life by 20% compared to tyres without Ultra-Seal. fall. Emissions of harmful particles from DSV’s road Within air transport, we also experienced an increase in totransport activities have been reduced by almost tal CO2 emissions. DSV’s growth meant an increase in the Finally, the sealant liquid is water solvent and has no envi52% since 2010. weight of transported cargo and unfortunately a slightly ronmental impact, and so all benefits of using the sealant lower energy efficiency. product taken together generate a significant positive net environmental gain. In Sea transport, we experienced a decline in our total carbon footprint. The decline was driven by a positive reduction Though this is not directly our core business, it is a practical in CO2 emissions per TEUkm by more than 8% by our main example of one of the important pieces that make the bigger suppliers. In addition, DSV increased utilisation per twenty-­ picture. more than 8,000 litres of fuel in the year it has been in use, foot equivalent-unit(TEU) transported, which contributed to equal to more than 20 tonnes of CO2. an 8% improvement in the energy efficiency of sea transProperty development ports. Another example of how we control our environmental imThe truck is performing well but remains a test truck for the pact is how we manage property. In 2017, DSV developed time being, as no truck manufacturers seem to be able to Therefore, even though we were transporting a higher nummore than 500,000m2 warehouses and office space and deliver electric trucks within the next couple of years. ber of containers, the CO2 emissions from sea transports in 2018, we intend to develop an equal number of square declined. metres. From 2018, all new buildings will be certified after DSV Group’s carbon footprint results global or local building standards. While our initiatives to reduce carbon footprint mainly focus Environmentally conscious solutions on collaboration with customers and subcontractors, we Besides our focus on CO2 efficiency we have also carried out DSV develops new property for a variety of reasons, many continue to monitor our total carbon footprint and energy other activities focusing on sustainability and environmental of them related to consolidating to improve our business efficiency for each mode of transport. friendly solutions. efficiency. Part of this efficiency is obtained by reducing our energy consumption and environmental impact. Over the years, we have seen a positive trend where subExamples of three such activities has been highlighted in the contractors make investments in new and technologically following: New DSV warehouses or office space must comply with improved ships, planes and vehicles to reduce fuel consumpa range of efficiency requirements listed in our internal tion. DSV works to improve capacity utilisation to contribute Trailers and tyres property development manual that specifies all parts of the to improved energy efficiency and thereby lower carbon DSV maintains some 8,700 trailers used for road transports development process. emissions per transported unit. that travel around 75,000 kilometres each on a yearly basis. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 12 Firstly, the process includes deciding on a location for a new site. Before doing so, we make calculations to determine which location will give rise to the lowest total transportation Working closely with Givaudan to further reduce CO2 costs and thereby the lowest carbon emissions. Givaudan has been a customer of DSV’s since 2013. CO2 emissions, transports costs and lead-time for the Secondly, new locations are built by some of the most deAccording to Karsten Mortensen, Global Account customer. manding national and international building standards and we Manager (DSV), “the relationship has always been invest in expensive materials with longer lifecycles to ensure about much more than meeting their transport needs”. Mapping future reductions a low consumption of energy. One of the suggestions put to Givaudan at workshop Since the beginning, Givaudan has expressed an was a further re-routing of all FCL shipments from Thirdly, a new site is developed with the energy-saving interest in reducing CO2 emissions related to their Tianjin/Xingang or Qingdao via Rotterdam initiatives appropriate for a given location; be it solar panels, transports. Based on previous successful reductions to Switzerland. fresh air ventilation, kitchen waste recycling, automated through re-routings in 2016, DSV took things a step illumination and low energy light bulbs, low energy windows, further in 2017 together with the customer to put By changing point of delivery from Rotterdam to water saving fixtures etc. CO2 reduction even higher on the agenda. Genoa in Italy, we would be able to produce savings on CO2 emissions, cost and days of delivery amounting to Finally, new buildings have good working conditions for emPairing departments of expertise the following reductions: ployees and we e.g. prioritize natural light penetration and The DSV account management team took the oppor• CO2: 29% = a potential reduction of 39.945 kg fresh air ventilation. tunity to suggest that a direct dialogue ought to be • Ocean route reduction: 3,400 km set up between DSV’s and Givaudan’s sustainability • Port to plant route reduction: 473 km New target for collecting of garbage and logistic experts. A joint “Continuous Improvement” • Cost: Euro 200 per Container (Port to Plant) Paper, wooden pallets, plastic and cardboard are essential workshop took place, to identify further initiatives • Speed of delivery: 7 days materials used in the transport and logistics sector. We for reducing CO2 from transport and possible related want to control our impact on these natural resources and cost-reductions. The process is a great example of how DSV can work materials, as they all have an impact on the environment and closely with our customers to ensure continued reducleave a footprint when used. The workshop resulted in a joint development plan, tion of emissions and other wins. including a prioritised list of initiatives to help reduce DSV’s more than 1,000 sites vary from offices, where we rent a small part of a floor of a building, to huge warehouses with more than 100,000 m2. Each of them use paper, wooden pallets, plastic and cardboard that can be collected and re-used. We want to collect as much as possible of the materials we With this objective, we set a new target: By the end of use to help minimize our environmental impact. The goal is 2018, 78% of our square meter premises will collect to increase the share of m2 of DSV’s total pool of locations garbage and recycle as many materials as possible in a with a systematic approach to garbage collection and systemic way. recycling. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 13 2017 performance environment and climate TARGET RESULT We wish to increase collaboration with interested strategic customers In 2017, we have continued working closely with our customers and suppliers and suppliers in order to find transport solutions focusing on the on reducing the environmental impact from our global transportation activities. reduction of carbon emissions and general environmental impacts. With customers, we have had several success stories – some of them highlighted in this report. With suppliers, we are still working on developing sustainable business models and solutions and will continue this work into 2018. We will assess our CO2 reporting methodology in 2017 in collaboration As intended, we have in 2017 reviewed our CO2 reporting framework and with a third party. methodology assisted by external subject matter experts. The review validated the current DSV reporting framework on CO2 emissions with no reservations and with only minor suggested improvements to be made. We will report on climate parameters such as group carbon emissions, Reporting and commenting on climate parameters relevant to DSV is included in energy efficiency from transport modes and energy and water conthis CSR report. Reported data is based on a structured data collection and verisumption from buildings. fication process carried out at year-end 2017. Reporting on climate parameters will continue in 2018 – the extent of data provided being determined by the continuing development of our business and expectations of our stakeholders. We will establish targets for annual waste reduction per square metre in Continuing our focus on reducing waste inherent from our operational activities our locations. and increasing waste recycling, we have in 2017 finalised our work on establishing new measurable targets on waste reduction. These targets will be used as basis for measurement on all DSV locations worldwide going forward. 2018 targets environment and climate TARGET We wish to increase collaboration with interested strategic customers and suppliers in order to find transport solutions focusing on the reduction of carbon emissions and general environmental impacts. We will report on climate parameters such as group carbon emissions, energy efficiency from transport modes and energy and water consumption from buildings. We will in 2018 increase the share of DSV locations that sortes waste for recycling measured per square metre to 78%. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Environment and climate 14 Business ethics and anticorruption DSV does things in an orderly and transparent manner. That has always been the fundamental principle for our business ethical behaviour. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Business ethics and anti-corruption 15 Finally, our internal procedures and IT systems are designed alleged violations of laws or DSV Guidelines, Manuals and Polito support and ensure compliance with relevant legislation cies by employees or third parties acting on behalf of DSV. and the DSV Code of Conduct. An independent global email and local phone numbers for Code of Conduct each DSV country have been set up and communicated to all The DSV business environment is global, and the acquisition DSV employees to make it easy to file an anonymous report. of other companies over the years have brought many culThe reporting channels are open 24/7 and can handle tures and business practices together. It is essential that all reports in over 150 languages. More than 3,200 managers have employees share the same business ethical conduct regardcompleted training in our less of local business cultures. All reports are investigated Code of Conduct. In the year under review, we received 23 reports through To ensure this, we have a Code of Conduct that gives both the Whistle-blower Programme, which was slightly fewer information and guidance to employees on ethical conduct than the year before. All reports were examined and sub­ towards customers, competitors and subcontractors. sequently presented to the Audit Committee. We comply with national and international legislation and The Code of Conduct is a pivotal document, and we are conMost of the received reports fell outside the scope of the special requirements. Responsible conduct and transparency stantly working to raise the level of awareness of business Whistle-blower Programme, as they were minor employee are imperatives that make us a trusted business partner, ethics across the organisation and among suppliers. issues that had to be resolved with local management. All which is essential for our global presence and network in the relevant cases were investigated, and appropriate action was industry. Extensive and successful training taken to solve the issues. In 2017, Approximately 3,200 managers (virtually 100% Business ethics and risks of all managers of the Group) completed the training. Less Transgressions have consequences At DSV, we unambiguously support and work for a market than 5% of those who completed the training programme The purpose of the DSV Whistle-blower programme is to with equal opportunities for all parties. However, the global failed – a clear improvement from the last training session provide a safe place to report any perceived wrongdoings business environment in which we trade sometimes requires conducted in 2014. – and to make sure that matters are properly and us to tackle ethical issues like corruption and other attempts professionally handled. of circumventing rules and regulations. This underpins the Employees who failed as well as any non-completers importance and relevance of our Group-wide business ethiparticipated in a webinar session with additional Code of cal standards. Conduct training. Internal guidelines Today and going forward, practice is that all managers must To avoid cartelisation and related challenges, DSV has a complete the basic as well as regular brush-up training in the number of internal guidelines and regulations to ensure comCode of Conduct. In addition, Code of Conduct training will pliance with our ethical standards. be rolled out even broader with a focus on main risk areas and employees working within these. In addition, our global compliance department monitors and Employees and soon external manages areas of risk, including those related to unethical Global Whistle-blower Programme business practices. They also ensure that employees receive In addition to the Code of Conduct, the DSV Whistle-blower stakeholders can file a report training in internal guidelines and relevant legislation. programme is in place to enable employees and the Board of under our Whistleblower Directors to make filings (anonymously or by name) about Programme. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Business ethics and anti-corruption 16 Employees are made aware of the Whistle-blower programme through repeated communication on our corporate website and through local managements. New employees are made aware of the Whistle-blower programme as part of the global on-boarding programme. In 2017, we decided to expand our Whistle-blower programme and soon external stakeholders will also be able to file a report about alleged violations of laws or DSV Guidelines. DSV Group’s global tax policy We believe taxes are part of a well-ordered society, and we appreciate that they fund, among other things, infrastructure for the benefit of both DSV and trade in general. The principle of the DSV Group is that we pay both direct and indirect taxes in the countries in which we do business. The principle is laid out in the DSV Group’s global tax policy and adopted by the Board of Directors. The Global tax policy is publicly available on www.dsv.com/About-DSV/csr/globaltax-policy. For more information on taxes paid in this financial year, please read the 2017 Annual report. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Business ethics and anti-corruption 17 2017 performance business ethics and anti-corruption TARGET RESULT We will establish a procedure to ensure that all new employees at manAs intended, we established automated procedures in 2017 ensuring that all agement level receive training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end new employees at management level receive, are trained in, and have passed of 2017. related testing on the DSV Code of Conduct. All employees at management level must have completed training in the By the end of 2017, all DSV employees at management level had been DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2017. reintroduced to the latest DSV Code of Conduct. The reintroduction included extensive training and testing in the Code and our business ethics. Training and testing have been passed by all employees included in the training program, either by the first test or a new test after their re-training. We will carry out training programmes on the DSV Code of Conduct for The work on extending our training programmes on the DSV Code of Conduct employees below management level within selected fields in 2017. to all relevant employees below management level of the DSV organisation is underway. We are currently on track and are rolling out the program. This work will continue 2018. 2018 targets business ethics and anti-corruption TARGET We will continue to maintain procedures to ensure that all new employees at management level receive training in the DSV Code of Conduct. For present employees at management level we will repeat the training continuously at appropriate intervals. We will carry out training programmes on the DSV Code of Conduct for employees below management level within selected fields in 2018. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Business ethics and anti-corruption 18 Employees and working environment 45,000 employees around the globe make up DSV. Every day, each employee plays a vital part in enabling DSV to deliver the best possible service to all stakeholders. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Employees and working environment 19 We invest in our employees Engaging blue collar workers Employee turnover Developing and retaining experienced key employees and atWe offer a wide variety of e-learning courses. Until now, tracting new talents is essential to our success as a business. they have only been available to employees with daily access to a personal digital device. In 2017, we made efforts to In this regard, employee empowerment and development make e-learning modules available to blue-collar employees 25.5% of skills is high on our agenda. To this end, we have several who work at our warehouses or terminals. According to plan, initiatives in place initiated by our management with support the e-learning programmes will be rolled out to our blue-­ 17.8% 16.6% 17.6% 17.4% from local and global HR departments to help employees collar workers in 2018 on a more global scale. grow regardless of occupation and geographical placement. Another initiative aimed at blue-collar workers is literacy Some of the initiatives carried out in 2017 are highlighted in courses. At those courses, the participants receive non-­ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the following: formal training in reading and writing to enable them to ­develop their professional skills. Getting the best candidate on board Global HR conducted extensive recruitment training in 2017 Employee turnover to help local leaders recruit the best-suited candidates. In 2017, the total employee turnover rate at DSV was Occupational accidents Getting the perfect candidate for an open position involves 17.4%, which was a 32% decrease on the year before. per million working hours matching the right set of skills and finding the right personal A large proportion of this decline is attributable to fit for thriving in the DSV culture. restructuring activities integrating UTi into the existing 8.1 DSV organisation. As most integration activities have been Our recruitment training is based on two-day seminars completed, we are now back to normal operations similar 5.9 5.9 focusing on the entire recruitment process with the intent to the time before the acquisition, which is reflected by our 4.6 4.2 of providing leaders and recruiters with tools and experience employee turnover figures. which will support them in bringing in new people. A safe working environment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Leadership training Accidents may happen, especially when cargo is handled A highly qualified manager is also a strong leader. We conat a terminal or a warehouse with constant movemnets. duct leadership training at DSV, tailored to emphasise and To prevent accidents, we have local incident procedures in develop strong businessand people leadership skills at all place. Incidents and accidents are registered and examined management levels. to clarify the cause, and the local management then decide Absence due to illness whether to subsequently alter procedures. In 2017, we completed more than 50 training sessions in more than 30 countries, covering the globe from the USA We have steadily reduced the number of occupational incito Norway and Australia. dents since 2013, and we were able to continue this trend 3.4% 3.3% 3.3% recording a slight decrease in 2017. 2.1% 2.0% At the same time, we experienced a slight increase in workdays lost due to occupational incidents in 2017 compared with the year before, indicating that the few accidents that 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 DSV 2017 CSR Report – Employees and working environment 20 occurred required longer recovery time. The number of advancement for anyone dedicated and skilled regardless of governments as a global standard intended to address comworkdays lost however still remains low and well under the gender. mercial operations’ potential for violating human rights. The last five-year average. We will continue our efforts to reduce UNGPs stipulate that enterprises must respect, protect and the number of working accidents and improving on the area This focus is reflected in our employee statistics as we end observe human rights, and DSV fully supports the principles. into 2018. of 2017 have reached the most balanced gender ratio yet with 39% of our employees being female and 61% being We have initiated a due diligence process with the purpose Absence due to illness or injury male. This is significant considering that freight forwarding of identifying and accounting for areas in which DSV might The rate of employees absents due to illness was at 2% in traditionally has been a male dominated line of work. have an adverse human rights impact. We screen the human 2017, thereby continuing the trend or low and declining rights listed in the International Bill of Human Rights, in order absence rates from prior years. This development is also reflected in our management to identify if or where DSV is directly linked to, cause of or gender ratio. Currently the Board of Directors of DSV A/S contributes to violations of human rights. Diversity at DSV consists of 33% women and 66% men. A similar ratio is not As a global company, we value the diversity of our emseen in all legal entities of DSV, but the Danish operational Through this process, we found that there is a small number ployees as a genuine strength. Our global reach and local companies, among others, have also set targets to increase of human rights, that DSV risks violating through our busipresence brings together people from a multitude of backthis ratio – both on higher and lower management levels. ness operations. DSV has already established policies, global grounds, all with different skills and experience. and local processes and put activities in place to help avoid At lower management levels, 31% of management were and prevent any violations. At DSV, our aim is always to hire the best candidate. We do females and 69% males at the end of 2017. This is a not evaluate skills based on or discriminate due to gender, significant step forward compared to only a few years ago As an example, DSV might violate a human right if we race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, national origin when only one fourth of management were females. hired children or young people in place of adults. However, or any other characteristic protected under law. we state in our Code of Conduct that we do not employ By the adoption of our hiring and advancement practices, we children. As part of our CSR data collection and validation, Our global presence in more than 80 countries also implies a expect the management gender ratio to follow the overall we make sure that we have processes in place and have both multifaceted and divers employee landscape. gender ratio of the Company within a reasonable threshold, accounted for how we risk violating the human right in which is the trend we are currently seeing. We believe that question. Gender distribution this development to a high degree is driven by our principles Building on the basic principles of our Code of Conduct and and company culture, and we will maintain our emphasise on DSV is committed to continuously reassessing the risk of our general approach to diversity as highlighted above – a this matter in the coming years. violating human rights, for which reason we will continue our dedicated attention to non-discrimination on gender and due diligence process disclosing local processes and practices achieving a balance gender distribution in our organisation Respecting human rights on human rights. remains high on our agenda. In line with our values and Code of Conduct, DSV wants to ensure that we support, respect and protect internationally We believe that having a balanced workforce with equal recognised human and labour rights. This applies to both our access and opportunities for anyone who decides to join our operations and to our business relations with third parties. company is crucial to our success as a business and con­ tributes to ensuring a good working environment. This commitment to human rights is framed by the UN Global Compact and made operational with the UN Guiding We emphasize this through our hiring and advancement Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). These practices and policies emphasizing equal access and career principles are recognised by the private sector, NGO’s and DSV 2017 CSR Report – Employees and working environment 21 2017 performance employees and working environment TARGET RESULT The rate of occupational accidents must be reduced every year. The rate of occupational accidents decreased by 9% compared to last year. We are on track on this target and will keep our focus on maintaining and further developing a safe working environment in 2018. Lost work days due to occupational injury must be reduced every year. The rate of lost working days due to occupational injury remains low with fewer accidents but slightly longer recovery time for the ones occurring. This area will continue to be a focus point for improvement in 2018. We will complete a project before the end of 2017 to raise the During the year an assessment of specific human rights mostly relevant for DSV corporate awareness of any consequences and risks relating to the has been mapped out providing the offset for our future work. We have furtheractivities of DSV to comply with the UN Guiding Principles on Business more prepared and published our position towards Modern Slavery and the steps and Human Rights (UNGP). The purpose is to observe universal human taken to limit the potential impact within this. rights, including national standards on labour rights. 2018 targets employees and working environment TARGET The rate of occupational accidents must be reduced every year. Lost work days due to occupational injury must be reduced every year. We are committed to comply with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and continue our due diligence process disclosing local processes and practices on human rights to enable the remediation of any adverse human rights impacts we might cause or to which we contribute. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Employees and working environment 22 Community engagement with the Red Cross | Red Crescent In 2016, DSV adopted a more global approach to charity and selected the Red Cross | Red Crescent as our primary humanitarian aid partner. A year into the partnership, DSV has been able to help and provide support in a number of ways. The partnership in its essence Several thousand Red Cross volunteers and delegates were sities. The primary focus is on women, youths and children, The partnership between DSV and the Danish Red Cross present in the affected areas. Until the base camp arrived, who all learn about aspects such as sanitation, hygiene and includes logistics assistance, allowing DSV to use its core they were sleeping in open air or in local shelters, making the agriculture. competences. DSV sponsors the provision of 2,000 m2 base camp imperative for an effective system for emergency warehouse space for emergency relief equipment near relief. Malawi visit Copenhagen. Included in the agreement is also the transIn November 2017, DSV attended the Danish Red Cross portation of disaster relief equipment to the nearest port Local engagement delegation trip to the Malawi project called “Building resilient or airport whenever base camps need to be established in Throughout the year, local DSV countries engaged in local communities in Malawi”. disaster-struck areas. Red Cross | Red Crescent support around the world. DSV employees spent a week with the Red Cross to learn In addition, DSV provides financial support to two of the Red In South Africa, the local DSV Cycling Club raised money for more about the country’s need for aid and relief and to see Cross’ international projects. These projects may involve the the Red Cross on their spring ride. The members of the club the difference that our support makes. use of local DSV transport and logistics expertise in addition brought friends and family to the event to exercise and have to monetary donations. fun while supporting a good cause. The peek into the project brought the visitors to very different and rural places around the country, where they took Disaster relief for the victims of Hurricane Irma When the Italian Red Cross donated an ambulance to the Red part in a large variety of activities. They participated in the The emergency relief warehouse passed its first big test in Cross in Mauritius, DSV sponsored the transportation of the inauguration of wells with clean drinking water, saw projects September 2017, when the Red Cross had to deliver relief ambulance to make sure it arrived in top condition. with focus on the improvement of hygiene practices and to the victims of Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Maria. visited clinics at which small children received health checks International projects – just to mention a few. The packing list for a disaster relief base camp includes DSV’s financial support goes to two international projects in everything from generators to tents, toilets and washings Malawi and Togo. DSV not only met the people, who were the beneficiaries of machines. In cooperation with the Red Cross DSV prepared the support, but also got a first-hand impression of the Red the shipment and secured the air transportation to Florida The projects aim to enhance the living conditions of poor or Cross as a professional and skilled humanitarian aid organiKeys in Miami – all within 48 hours. vulnerable families by ensuring access to fundamental necessation. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Community engagement with the Red Cross | Red Crescent 23 Follow the partnership Keep up to date with the activities taking place within the DSV Red Cross | Red Crescent partnership: visit www.humanaid.dsv.com. Red Cross I Red Crescent partnership in 2017: January DSV Thailand donates funds to the Thai Red Cross Society to help those affected by a mudslide in Southern Thailand. March The Danish Red Cross and DSV A/S signes an international agreement. August DSV Cycling South Africa raises funds to the South African Red Cross foundation on their spring ride. September Deployment of emergency relief base camp from DSV warehouse in Denmark to Florida Keys, USA. DSV provided transportation. October DSV sponsors transportation of ambulance donated by the Italian Red Cross to the Mauritius Red Cross. November DSV attends Danish Red Cross’ delegation trip to Malawi to visit the project ‘Building resilient communities in Malawi’. December 100 employees of DSV Denmark donated the value of their Christmas gift to the Danish Red Cross. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Community engagement with the Red Cross | Red Crescent 24 Subcontractors As part of our asset-light business model, we rely on thousands of subcontractors and suppliers to carry out the physical transport of our customers’ goods, stressing the importance of proper supplier vetting. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Subcontractors 25 DSV delivers services to global industries many of whom are management and of the contracts we form with transporcharacterised by complex supply chains that rely on compotation subcontractors and other service providers. The Code nents manufactured in different parts of the world. describes in general terms what DSV considers appropriate and ethical business conduct on the part of our suppliers This creates a need for an international network of more when they perform services on behalf of or supply products than 200,000 suppliers, partners and agents, who all supto DSV. port our offices all over the world in providing the best possible services for our customers all the way from factory to As an example of our suppliers’ difference, we have ex­ stores. tracted and emphasized relevant content from our Supplier The DSV Supplier Code of Code of Conduct into a two page long Road Haulier Code of Conduct is based on the strategic Due diligence processes in our supply chain Conduct. goals and values of DSV and is A large and wide spread network of suppliers and sub­ therefore an integral part of our contractors inevitably means that DSV faces risks beyond This document is aimed at small-sized European based supour internal control from time to time; risks that we continupliers, which are used by DSV for road freight operations. supplier management. ously work to identify and mitigate through our entire supply chain. Central and local processes The Supplier Code of Conduct applies in all areas of business. Part of that is integrating sustainability into our purchasing One example is procurement, as DSV performs procurement processes by measuring and ensuring compliance with anti-­ of transport services both centrally and locally. corruption, human and labour rights and environmental standards written in DSV’s Supplier Code of Conduct. If a We have centralised processes for procurement in the three risk is identified, we assess the significance and take steps to divisions. These processes are used to contract with transprevent, monitor and mitigate it. portation subcontractors that base their services on a global network such as air and sea freight providers or regional proOur suppliers are naturally very different representing several curement of haulier services in Europe. different types of enterprises. That is why we find it relevant to classify them in different risk categories. By doing so, we Localised procurement processes are used to select sub­ can customise due diligence processes and compliance procontractors for local business operations and needs. The As another means to monitor cedures for the different types of categories. Supplier Code of Conduct also applies to local agreements. our subcontractors’ compliance Supplier adherence to DSV values Auditing of suppliers with DSV’s expectations and Suppliers are required, as a minimum, to follow the DSV As another means to monitor our subcontractors’ compliance legal requirements, we regularly Supplier Code of Conduct and international standards. To enwith DSV’s expectations and legal requirements, we regularly sure that all suppliers in our supply chain with a yearly spend conduct audits and random spot checks of our suppliers. If conduct audits and random spot above EUR 25,000 comply with our code of conduct we we identify issues during an audit, the supplier is required to checks of our suppliers. have different processes in place. prepare a corrective action proposal and resolve all violations within an agreed period. The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the group’s Code of Conduct and thereby the strategic goals and values of DSV. The document is an integral part of our supplier DSV 2017 CSR Report – Subcontractors 26 Responsible use of agents Besides our subcontractors, who carry out transport or logistics services in collaboration with DSV, we also make use of agents in countries where we are not represented by own offices. To ensure that agents also live up to DSV standards, we have several vetting systems in place. Before conducting business with a new agent, our Group Legal department examines the agent and relevant partners thoroughly. All agents undergo such examination annually. Agents used for projects are examined separately to ensure that the right training and permits are in order, e.g. in connection with the transportation of hazardous cargo. The challenge of collecting and validating CSR data The collection and validation of data is central to our To ensure the greatest possible validity of our data, CSR work. It is, however, challenging to collect data in all subsidiaries have a duty to provide documentation a large, geographically dispersed organisation like DSV of their data. In connection with internal reviews, our that operates in very different business cultures and financial controllers validate and refine documentation statutory frameworks. of the reported data. To accommodate these challenges, we have integrated Due to extra scheduled visits in 2017, more than 43% the CSR reporting into the corporate reporting systems of all operating entities underwent internal control. for non-financial data and involved our financial controllers in the validation process. We have set a target: all business entities must undergo internal review during any three-year period. With the We collect data from all subsidiaries twice a year acquisition of UTi, the number of DSV entities grew by through a well-proven CSR reporting method. Data more than 50%. Due to the following comprehensive incollected from subsidiaries are then verified, evaluated tegration project in 2016, we are sligthly behind schedand consolidated before used in our reporting. ule, as the proportion of entities internally reviewed during the past three years totals more than 85%. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Subcontractors 27 2017 performance subcontractors and interdisciplinary areas TARGET RESULT The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct must be communicated to suppliers End of 2017, 93% of our suppliers and subcontractors had received the DSV and subcontractors. All suppliers and subcontractors given contracts for Supplier Code of Conduct. We are on track on this target and will continue the more than EUR 25,000 a year by DSV must receive the Supplier Code work in 2018 communicating the Code and raising awareness amongst our of Conduct. suppliers and subcontractors. We will improve the subcontractor due diligence process before the end Further improvements within subcontractor due diligence have been made in of 2017 through centralised and decentralised procedures. 2017 by a stronger centralised team handling screening procedures as well as a better mapping, communication and improvement of processes towards suppliers. A CSR review must be carried out in all operating subsidiaries of the End of 2017 the proportion of entities subjected to internal control on CSR Group at least once every three years. parameters totaled 85%, which is slightly behind schedule. This backlog is as expected and is a consequence of the acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. in 2016, which increased the number of DSV entities by more than 50%. We expect to catch up on this target during 2018. 2018 targets subcontractors and interdisciplinary areas TARGET The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct must be communicated to suppliers and subcontractors. All suppliers and subcontractors given contracts for more than EUR 25,000 a year by DSV must receive the Supplier Code of Conduct We will continue improvement of our subcontractor due diligence process through centralised and decentralised procedures. A CSR review must be carried out in all operating subsidiaries of the Group at least once every three years. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Subcontractors 28 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organisation that has produced a set of indicators and guidelines for sustainability reporting. The main goal of the GRI is to create a framework for systematic, transparent and comparable sustainability reporting for corporations. DSV follows the GRI G4 guidelines for determining conindicate whether our level of disclosure covers the GRI reIn addition, every profile or performance indicator applied is tent and quality in terms of materiality, but does not apply quirements fully or partially. To simplify the table, we have linked to a specific section on our corporate website (www. specific GRI-disclosures. To increase the transparency and included only indicators for which we provide either full or dsv.com), the Annual Report (AR), the CSR Report (CSR) or comprehensibility of the detailed content table below, we partial data. our latest report to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). Information Level of Information Level of GRI reference available in 1) reporting 2) GRI reference available in 1) reporting 2) Strategy and analysis Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-1 Statement from CEO CSR 5 G4-17 Entities and boundraries AR 14-27 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 28-33, CSR 6-8 G4-18 Report content CSR 6-8 G4-19 Material aspects CSR 6-8 Organisational profile G4-20 Internal boundary CSR 6-8 G4-3 Name of organisation CSR 36 G4-21 External boundary CSR 6-8 G4-4 Primary services CSR 3-4 G4-22 Restatements CSR 32-35 G4-5 Location of HQ CSR 36 G4-23 Changes from previous reporting CSR 32-35 G4-6 Countries of operation AR 82-86 G4-7 Ownership and legal form AR 38-39 Stakeholder engagement G4-8 Markets served AR 18-27 G4-24 Stakeholders engaged CSR 6-8 G4-9 Scale of organization AR 3-5 G4-25 Identify stakeholders CSR 6-8 G4-10 Workforce breakdown AR 18-27, CSR 34-35 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement CSR 6-8 G4-12 Supply chain description CSR 25-28 G4-27 Engagement result CSR 9-28 G4-13 Significant changes to organization AR 6 G4-14 Precautionary approach AR 28-33, CSR 6-8 G4-15 Externally principles endorsed CSR 2 G4-16 Memberships www.dsv.com/csr DSV 2017 CSR Report – GRI Index 29 Information Level of Information Level of GRI reference available in 1) reporting 2) GRI reference available in 1) reporting 2) Report profile Indirect economic impacts G4-28 Reporting period CSR 2 G4-EC7 Impact of investment CSR 6-28 G4-29 Previous report CSR report 2016 published on 10 February 2017 Environmental G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually Disclosure on management approach CSR 6-8 G4-31 Contact point CSR 36 G4-32 GRI content index CSR 29-31 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization CSR 32-33 Governance G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of G4-34 Governance structure of the organization AR 34-37 the organization CSR 32-33 G4-35 Delegating authority AR 34-37 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio for the organization CSR 32-33 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption CSR 9-14, 32-33 and social topics CSR 6-8 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-37 Communication with board CSR 6-8 G4-38 Board members AR 37 Water G4-39 Relationship between chair and CEO AR 34-36 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal CSR 32-33 G4-40 Governance nomination AR 34-37 G4-41 Conflicts of Interest AR 34-37 Emissions G4-42 Governance role CSR 6-8 G4-43 Board’s competencies AR 37 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-44 Board evaluation CSR 6-8 (Scope 1) CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-45 Board’s role in of economic, environmental G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) and social impacts, risks AR 34-36, CSR 6-8 emissions (Scope 2) CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-46 Risk management review CSR 6-8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-47 Frequency of review CSR 6-8 emissions (Scope 3) CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-48 Committee/Position review CSR 6-8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-49 Critical concerns communication CSR 6-8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-50 Communicated concerns AR 34-36, CSR 6-8 emissions CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-51 Remuneration policy AR 34-36 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. AR 34-36 G4-53 Stakeholders’ views AR 28 36, CSR 6-8 Products and services G4-EN27 Mitigate impact from services CSR 9-14, 32-33 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards CSR 5-28 Compliance G4-57 Advice mechanisms CSR 15-18 G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions None G4-58 Unethical behavior CSR 15-18 Aspect: Transport Economic performance G4-EN30 Transport impact CSR 9-14, 32-33 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated AR 3-39 and distributed G4-EC2 Financial implications CDP DSV 2017 CSR Report – GRI Index 30 Information Level of GRI reference available in 1) reporting 2) Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN33 Supply chain impacts CSR 9-14 Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Environmental grievances None Social Disclosure on management approach CSR 6-8, 19-22 Labour practices and decent work G4-LA1 Employee turnover CSR 19-22, 34-35 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Diversity indicators CSR 19-22, 34-35 Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-LA15 Negative impacts (labour) CSR 19-22, 34-35 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training CSR 15-18 G4-SO5 Corruption response CSR 15-18 1) AR = Annual Report, CSR = CSR Report, CDP = Reporting to CDP 2017 2) = Full reporting, = Partical reporting, DSV 2017 CSR Report – GRI Index 31 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Group Environmental data Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Environmental data 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 General details Key figures The figures and charts of the 2017 CSR Report have been prepared in accordance with the policies applied in 2016 with the exception of the Emissions ('000 tonnes) key figure for the recycling of paper, carboard and plastic, which has been revised compared to last year. CO2e emissions – Group 3,225 3,433 3,735 5,984 6,297 CO2e emissions – Container shipping 558 566 516 757 738 Emissions CO2e emissions – Air transport 1,132 1,278 1,270 2,425 2,593 Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from transport activities are CO2e emissions – Road transport 1,481 1,544 1,901 2,739 2,915 calculated based partly on the average fuel utilisation ratios reported CO2 emissions – Buildings 54 45 48 63 51 for trucks owned by DSV and by subcontractors and used for the transportation of DSV freight, partly on data from DSV's own traffic management systems, including data on freight volumes carried to Water ('000 m3) and from various destinations. Carbon emissions from buildings are Total water consumption – Buildings 278 260 332 534 513 calculated based on direct consumption of electricity, gas, oil and water at DSV's own locations. Reports on carbon footprint data to customers Water Total number of reports on carbon footprint data to customers 1,214 1,243 1,141 1,265 Total consumption of water at DSV's own locations. Key indicators Reports on carbon footprint data to customers Total number of reports on carbon footprint data prepared to customers. Energy efficiency (g/tonne-km) CO2e per consignment – Container shipping 9.5 7.9 6.6 6.9 6.3 Energy efficiency Emissions from consignment relative to freight volume and transportaCO2e per consignment – Air transport 690.4 666.9 622.0 601.9 607,0 tion distance. CO2e per consignment – Road transport 69.6 70.9 72.0 73.9 71.5 Euro engine standards (%) Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 2 standard or older (own and subcontractors' trucks) 3.6 2.5 1.6 1.2 0.7 Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 3 or 4 standards (own and subcontractors' trucks) 41.2 33.7 29.8 24.1 20.8 Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 5 or 6 standards (own and subcontractors' trucks) 55.2 63.8 68.6 74.7 78.5 DSV 2017 CSR Report – Non-financial highlights 32 Environmental data (continued) Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Environmental data (continued) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Euro engine standards Key figures Proportion of different Euro engine standards of trucks operating for DSV Road. Data collected in Europe among more than 15,000 trucks owned by either DSV or subcontractors. Reports on carbon footprint data to customers (%) Proportion of total carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the Group Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic reported directly to customers 7.2 4.9 7,7 Total square metres at DSV locations having initiated recycling schemes for paper, cardboard and/or plastic, relative to total number of square Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic (%) metres locations of DSV. A few entities have leased premises without Proportion of locations recycling paper, cardboard and/or waste management schemes operated by DSV. Those locations are not plastic from offices, terminals and warehouses 85 85 88 70 74 included in the data. Screening of buildings for potential energy savings (%) Screening of buildings for potential energy savings Number of DSV entities having screened one or more of their buildings Proportion of entities having screened their locations to identify potential energy savings relative to the total number of for potential energy savings 77 78 76 53 61 Group entities. DSV 2017 CSR Report – Non-financial highlights 33 Social data Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Social data 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 General details Key figures The figures and charts of the 2017 CSR Report have been prepared in accordance with the policies applied in 2016. Employees (full-time employees) Employees Group 22,021 22,874 22,784 44,776 45,637 Average number of full-time employees of the year. Salaried employees 13,708 14,216 14,541 23,433 22,730 Hourly workers 8,313 8,658 8,243 21,343 22,907 Employee gender ratio Number of female and male employees relative to total employees at year-end. Key indicators Management gender ratio Employee gender ratio (%) Number of female and male managers relative to total managerial Proportion of female employees 38 38 38 38 39 employees at year-end. Proportion of male employees 62 62 62 62 61 Age distribution of employees Number of employees by age group relative to total employees at yearManagement gender ratio (%) end. Proportion of female managers 26 31 31 Proportion of male managers 74 69 69 Employee seniority Number of employees by seniority level relative to total employees at Age distribution of employees (%) year-end. Employees <25 7.5 8.0 8.0 7.9 8.3 Employee turnover Employees 25-34 30.5 30.4 28.6 31.8 30.7 Number of employees leaving the Group during the year relative to the Employees 35-44 27.8 28.5 28.0 28.7 29.6 average number of employees calculated on the basis of monthly surEmployees 45-54 22.3 21.8 22.6 20.2 20.5 veys of the actual number of employees at the end of the month. Employees >55 11.9 11.4 12.8 11.4 10.9 Employee seniority (%) Seniority <1 year 15.5 13.6 16.8 19.5 19.1 Seniority 1-2 years 16.6 18.6 17.3 21.5 21.1 Seniority 3-5 years 17.1 17.8 15.8 16.1 16.2 Seniority 6-10 years 21.2 20.1 18.9 18.1 17.3 Seniority 11-25 years 23.1 23.6 24.1 19.0 20.6 Seniority >25 years 6.5 6.3 7.1 5.8 5.8 Employee turnover (%) Group 17.8 16.6 17.6 25.5 17.4 Salaried employees 18.0 16.6 16.8 26.0 17.4 Hourly workers 17.5 16.7 19.0 24.9 17.3 DSV 2017 CSR Report – Non-financial highlights 34 Social data (continued) Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Social data (continued) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Rate of absence Key figures Number of days of absence due to illness relative to the number of working days during the year adjusted for maternity/paternity leave, agreed holidays and national public holidays. Absence due to illness is measured Absence due to illness (%) on the basis of wage/salary system records. Group 3.4 3.3 3.3 2.1 2.0 Salaried employees 2.9 2.8 2.9 2.0 2.0 Rate of occupational accidents Hourly workers 4.2 4.1 4.0 2.2 2.0 Number of reported occupational accidents resulting in more than one day of absence per million working hours scheduled for the year. Rate of occupational accidents (per million working hours) Rate of lost work days due to occupational injury Group 8.1 5.9 5.9 4.6 4.2 Number of reported days of absence from occupational accidents Salaried employees 1.7 1.4 1.2 1.3 0.8 resulting in more than one day of absence per million working hours Hourly workers 18.6 13.2 14.1 8.9 7.6 scheduled for the year. Rate of lost work days due to Quality management standards occupational injury (per million working hours) Percentage of DSV locations certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 or OHSAS 18001. Number of locations certified relative to the Group 147.3 114.8 112.0 64.1 81.2 total number of locations of the Group. Salaried employees 27.3 17.6 26.2 9.7 20.8 Hourly workers 345.0 275.0 263.7 133.5 142.5 Distribution of DSV's Supplier Code of Conduct Number of companies having distributed DSV's Supplier Code of Quality management standard (%) Conduct to suppliers relative to total number of companies of the Group. ISO 14001 30 30 31 23 24 ISO 9001 56 55 55 43 39 OHSAS 18001 15 15 15 15 12 Distribution of DSV’s Supplier Code of Conduct (%) Proportion of companies having distributed DSV’s Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers delivering goods and services for more than EUR 25,000 each year. 80 79 93 DSV 2017 CSR Report – Non-financial highlights 35 DSV A/S Hovedgaden 630 2640 Hedehusene Denmark Tel. +45 43 20 30 40 E-mail: csr@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR-No 58 23 35 28 Published 8 February 2018
