• • • • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A sustainable Movestic for a sustainable society To work actively and consciously with sustainability is concrete action plans aimed at improving both our company culture and working practices. central to Movestic and reflected within a number of areas – from those that are very close to our core busiSUSTAINABILITY IN THE WORLD AROUND US ness, with focus on our staff, customers and partners, Corporate responsibility is a cornerstone in both our operation and to a broader sustainability perspective, where we try to our values. By helping our customers to build up a good pension take responsibility and influence the world around us. and feel protected, we generate values that are of benefit to society as a whole. With our savings and insurance solutions, we help our STAFF IN FOCUS customers to make wise choices for an active life. This is what we are passionate about in our everyday operation – but we are also aware We live in a changing world, were we continuously have to adapt that we must take responsibility from a broader perspective. to new regulatory requirements, and increasing demands from the Movestic’s aim is to reduce its environmental impact, not least by market and our customers. To make the most of any opportunities encouraging employees to act in an environmentally responsible and overcome any challenges, we place high demands on our staff manner. All staff members must take an active part in our environmembers. At the same time Movestic is doing its utmost to ensure mental efforts, for example by suggesting improvements or reporting that our employees are happy, develop and feel well. For this reason, breaches of the Company’s environmental policies. All purchase Movestic has put in place an occupational health policy, aimed at decisions and supplier selections include relevant environmental preventing and monitoring work-related health issues. Movestic wants requirements, and we strive to reduce our consumption of energy to improve the balance between work and personal time, and works and consumables, as well as the amount of waste we produce. We actively to improve the health and well-being of our employees. do this by, as far as possible, using electronic means of communiAll new employees at Movestic complete a tailor-made induccation, avoiding paper mailings, and minimising the use of consumtion program, as well as the internal training courses in Movestic ables. Equipment that is no longer in use is sent for resale or recyAcademy, with the aim that everyone – irrespective of job title – will cling. Whenever possible we replace business travel with telephone obtain a good insight into the Company’s vision, services, and values. or video conferences; where this is not possible, we try to choose Movestic has a positive attitude to internal mobility and regularly modes of transportation with a low environmental impact. promotes existing employees to new positions. All managers complete a training program, which includes individual coaching and THE SAME FOR ALL leadership courses. We carry out an annual employee survey, the results of which are An equal society is a good society. With this as our starting point, actively utilised at both company and department level, and lead to we provide a system which counteracts the gender differences when MOVESTIC LIVFÖRSÄKRING AB – ANNUAL REPORT 2017 The sustainability report on pages 12-16 refers to Movestic Livförsäkring AB in accordance 12 with the statutory requirements as stipulated by the Annual Accounts Act. »By helping our customers to build up a good pension and feel protected, we generate values that are of benefit to society as a whole.« SUSTAINABILITY REPORT it comes to pensions. Movestic has highlighted the issue of equal risk still exists, despite Movestics high ambitions when it comes to pensions for several years, and continued to do so in 2017, by pointsustainability matters. ing out the factors that lead to women’s pensions being on average One vitally important risk segment is compliance and corruption. 30 per cent lower than men’s. Within our own industry, we run the For this reason, Movestic works continuously to ensure that all legal business network MOVE – a forum where female insurance brokers requirements are complied with, and to prevent all forms of corruption. can exchange experiences and build contact networks, which aims A significant sustainability risk in our operation relates to the way to help increase the proportion of female brokers. in which we process the personal data of our customers. Safe and Our employees have different backgrounds and experiences, correct processing of personal data is critical to our ability to maintain something that improves Movestic’s ability to meet the challenges a good reputation and the trust of our customers. and opportunities of tomorrow. One way to ensure diversity is the Company’s policy on equal rights and zero tolerance of harassment SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS and discrimination because of gender, ethnic origin, religion or sexual We believe that people who save in funds will generally gain longorientation. No reports of such incidents were received in 2017. term benefits as a result of our greater focus on various aspects of sustainability, such as the environment, human rights, and good busiOUR BUSINESS MODEL ness ethics. This is why sustainability efforts are an important part of Movestic offers a comprehensive range of savings and insurance the work of our investment department. They get involved with difproducts. Within the saving and pension segment, we provide ferent activities related to sustainability; in particular through ongoing unit-linked products, with focus on occupational pension plans. reviews of the fund companies included in Movestic’s fund offering. Within the risk segment, we offer life, accident and health insurance. The long-term aim is to ensure that any fund company we work with Movestic's insurance products are mainly distributed by insurance also carries out its investment activities in a responsible manner. brokers. Further information on our business model is available under the headline ‘This is Movestic’ on page 5. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Movestic operates in an industry based on confidence, where security and value-generation for its customers, both today and in the future, are vitally important. Everything we do in our business operation has an effect on the trust of our customers and partners, which is why we continuously work to ensure that our actions are in line with both relevant regulations and the interests of our customers. When it comes to sustainability, personnel and social conditions are areas that should be subject to special focus, as their intrinsic risks could potentially have a negative impact on both Movestic and our customers. We work continuously to ensure that both our personnel policies and social conditions are sustainable, and supported by clear policies and guidelines. There is a risk that Movestic, despite a high awareness of environmental matters, is unable to live up to the customers’ expectations for responsibility and environmentally friendly products. This MOVESTIC LIVFÖRSÄKRING AB – ANNUAL REPORT 2017 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Examples of areas where Movestic try to influence the fund companies: The fund companies should: Ensure that their board of directors, management team, and the company as a whole are characterised by diversity Be active at AGMs and vote for their ownership Hold a proactive sustainability dialogue with the companies in which their funds invest One of Sweden’s Follow basic international norms, such as signing the UNPRI, the most sustainable Proportion UN’s Principles for Responsible Investments pension providers * * sustainable funds: 75 % Design any incentive programs to reward long-term thinking * According to Söderberg & Partners’ report, Sustainable Unit-Linked Policies In addition to this, Movestic also carries out its own reviews of the fund (Hållbara fondförsäkringar), Jan. 2018 holdings, aided by the independent external consultancy firm ISS/Ethix. Assessments are carried out twice a year, based on widely recognised sustainability criteria. Funds that do not meet our requirements are excluded for sustainability reasons. In 2017 one fund was removed due to a lack of focus on sustainability, and four other funds with a clear focus on sustainability were brought in. Our aim is that at least 75 per cent of Movestic’s regular fund offering should be sustainable. In the spring, we published a Sustainability Summary, intended as a guide for customers wishing to invest sustainably. The guide includes Movestic’s sustainability ratings, to make it easier for our customers to make environmentally conscious selections from our range of funds. We have also started publishing information about ongoing activities related to the sustainability efforts performed by our investment department on movestic.se. In 2017, Movestic had its first assessment by UNPRI, the UN Initiative for responsible investments. Movestic received a rating above, or on par with, the median rating for its peer group in all areas. As a result of the sustainability work carried out by Movestic’s investment department, we were awarded the highest rating by Söderberg & Partners. We were one of four providers of unit-linked products, out of a total of 14 assessed, to receive this rating. TTHIE MA S X S M A Hållbar E N fondförsäkring A 2 0 1 7 A N S V E R S D F N U A L L T Ä G SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability report 45 % Energy consu The operation mption 's carbon 2017: 124 538 footprint in 2 kWh 017: 87 tonnes Proportion female employees Proportion women in Movestic's senior management team: 57 % 100 % 100% climate compensatio Environmenta n for lly work-related certified pape travel r Organic fruit and coffee Proportion women on Movestic's board of Proportion female directors: 29 % managers: 57 % 42 years 80 % Proportion of employees who are satisfied with Proportion of the Average age of the Participation in the 2017 the leadership (according to employees who utilise the employees employee survey: 92 % the 2017 employee survey) Sick leave: 3,32 % fitness vouchers: 70 % MOVESTIC LIVFÖRSÄKRING AB – ANNUAL REPORT 2017 16 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Movestic Livförsäkring AB, corporate identity number 516401-6718 ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 12-16 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies. THE SCOPE OF THE AUDIT Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 22 March 2018 Deloitte AB [Signature on the Swedish original] Henrik Nilsson Authorized public accountant MOVESTIC LIVFÖRSÄKRING AB – ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 R I T R A N S P A R E N C Y R E P O RT 2 01 7 Movestic Livförsäkring AB An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP Finance Initiative and UN Global Compact About this report The PRI Reporting Framework is a key step in the journey towards building a common language and industry standard for reporting responsible investment (RI) activities. This RI Transparency Report is one of the key outputs of this Framework. Its primary objective is to enable signatory transparency on RI activities and facilitate dialogue between investors and their clients, beneficiaries and other stakeholders. A copy of this report will be publicly disclosed for all reporting signatories on the PRI website, ensuring accountability of the PRI Initiative and its signatories. This report is an export of the individual Signatory organisation’s response to the PRI during the 2016 reporting cycle. It includes their responses to mandatory indicators, as well as responses to voluntary indicators the signatory has agreed to make public. The information is presented exactly as it was reported. Where an indicator offers a response option that is multiple-choice, all options that were available to the signatory to select are presented in this report. Presenting the information exactly as reported is a result of signatory feedback which suggested the PRI not summarise the information. As a result, the reports can be extensive. However, to help easily locate information, there is a Principles index which highlights where the information can be found and summarises the indicators that signatories complete and disclose. Understanding the Principles Index The Principles Index summarises the response status for the individual indicators and modules and shows how these relate to the six Principles for Responsible Investment. It can be used by stakeholders as an ‘at-a-glance’ summary of reported information and to identify particular themes or areas of interest. Indicators can refer to one or more Principles. Some indicators are not specific to any Principle. These are highlighted in the ‘General’ column. When multiple Principles are covered across numerous indicators, in order to avoid repetition, only the main Principle covered is highlighted. All indicators within a module are presented below. The status of indicators is shown with the following symbols: Symbol Status  The signatory has completed all mandatory parts of this indicator  The signatory has completed some parts of this indicator  This indicator was not relevant for this signatory The signatory did not complete any part of this indicator  The signatory has flagged this indicator for internal review Within the table, indicators marked in blue are mandatory to complete. Indicators marked in grey are voluntary to complete. 1 Principles Index Organisational Overview Principle General Indicator Short description Status Disclosure 1 2 3 4 5 6 OO 01 Signatory category and services  Public  OO 02 Headquarters and operational countries  Public  Subsidiaries that are separate PRI  Public  OO 03 signatories OO 04 Reporting year and AUM  Public  Asset mix OO 05 Breakdown of AUM by asset class  disclosed in  OO 06 How would you like to disclose your asset  Public  OO 06 class mix OO 07 Fixed income AUM breakdown  Private  OO 08 Segregated mandates or pooled funds  Private  OO 09 Breakdown of AUM by market  Private  OO 10 RI activities for listed equities  Public  OO 11 RI activities in other asset classes  Public  Modules and sections required to  Public  OO 12 complete OO End Module confirmation page  2 Strategy and Governance Principle General Indicator Short description Status Disclosure 1 2 3 4 5 6 SG 01 RI policy and coverage  Public  Publicly available RI policy or guidance  Public  SG 02 documents SG 03 Conflicts of interest  Public  SG 04  Private  SG 05 RI goals and objectives  Public  SG 06 Main goals/objectives this year  Private  SG 07 RI roles and responsibilities  Public  RI in performance management, reward  Private  SG 08 and/or personal development SG 09 Collaborative organisations / initiatives  Public   SG 10 Promoting RI independently  Public  Dialogue with public policy makers or  Private    SG 11 standard setters SG 12 ESG issues in strategic asset allocation  Public  Long term investment risks and  Private  SG 13 opportunity Allocation of assets to environmental and  Private  SG 14 social themed areas ESG issues for internally managed  n/a  SG 15 assets not reported in framework ESG issues for externally managed  Public  SG 16 assets not reported in framework SG 17 Innovative features of approach to RI  Private  SG End Module confirmation page  3 Indirect – Manager Selection, Appointment and Monitoring Principle General Indicator Short description Status Disclosure 1 2 3 4 5 6 Role of investment consultants/fiduciary  Public  SAM 01 managers RI factors in selection, appointment and  Public  SAM 02 monitoring across asset classes Breakdown by passive, quantitative,  Private  SAM 03 fundamental and other active strategies SAM 04 ESG incorporation strategies  Public   SAM 05 Selection processes (LE and FI)  Public  Evaluating engagement and voting SAM 06 practices in manager selection (listed  Public  equity/fixed income) Appointment processes (listed  n/a  SAM 07.1 equity/fixed income) SAM Appointment processes (listed  n/a  07.2-5 equity/fixed income) Monitoring processes (listed equity/fixed  Public  SAM 08 income) Monitoring on active ownership (listed  Public  SAM 09 equity/fixed income) SAM 10 Percentage of (proxy) votes  n/a  Percentage of externally managed assets  Private  SAM 11 managed by PRI signatories Examples of ESG issues in selection,  Public   SAM 12 appointment and monitoring processes SAM 13 Disclosure of RI considerations  Public  SAM End Module confirmation page  4 Movestic Livförsäkring AB Reported Information Public version Organisational Overview PRI disclaimer This document presents information reported directly by signatories. This information has not been audited by the PRI Secretariat or any other party acting on their behalf. While this information is believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties are made as to the accuracy of the information presented, and no responsibility or liability can be accepted for any error or omission. 5 Basic Information OO 01 Mandatory Public Gateway/Peering General OO 01.1 Select the type that best describes your organisation or the services you provide.  Non-corporate pension or superannuation or retirement or provident fund or plan  Corporate pension or superannuation or retirement or provident fund or plan  Insurance company  Foundation  Endowment  Development finance institution  Reserve sovereign or government controlled fund  Family office  Other, specify OO 01.2 Additional information. [Optional] OO 02 Mandatory Public Peering General OO 02.1 Select the location of your organisation’s headquarters. Sweden OO 02.2 Indicate the number of countries in which you have offices (including your headquarters). 1  2-5  6-10  >10 OO 02.3 Indicate the approximate number of staff in your organisation in full-time equivalents (FTE). FTE 140 OO 03 Mandatory Public Descriptive General 6 Indicate whether you have subsidiaries within your organisation that are also PRI signatories in OO 03.1 their own right.  Yes  No OO 04 Mandatory Public Gateway/Peering General OO 04.1 Indicate the year end date for your reporting year. 31/12/2016 Indicate your total AUM at the end of your reporting year, excluding subsidiaries you have chosen OO 04.2 not to report on. trillions billions millions thousands hundreds Total AUM 28 000 000 000 Currency SEK Assets in USD 3 046 002 484 OO 06 Mandatory Public Descriptive General New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. OO 06.1 How you would like to disclose your asset class mix.  as percentage breakdown  as broad ranges Internally managed (%) Externally managed (%) Listed equity 0 >50% Fixed income 0 10-50% Private equity 0 0 Property 0 0 Infrastructure 0 0 Commodities 0 0 Hedge funds 0 <10% 7 Forestry 0 0 Farmland 0 0 Inclusive finance 0 0 Cash 0 0 Other (1), specify 0 0 Other (2), specify 0 0 OO 06.2 Publish our asset class mix as per attached image [Optional]. OO 06.3 Provide contextual information on your AUM asset class split. [Optional] The AUM asset class split was carried out according to the following model: Equity: 100% of funds classified as equity funds, and 55% of funds classified as multi asset funds Fixed Income: 100% of funds classified as fixed income funds, and 37% of funds classified as multi asset funds Hedge funds: 100% of funds classified as hedge funds, and 8% of funds classified as multi asset funds Source of classification: Morningstar Direct Gateway asset class implementation indicators OO 10 Mandatory Public Gateway General Select the direct or indirect ESG incorporation activities your organisation implemented for listed OO 10.1 equities in the reporting year.  We address ESG incorporation in our external manager selection, appointment and/or monitoring processes  We do not incorporate ESG in our directly managed listed equity and/or we do not address ESG incorporation in our external manager selection, appointment and/or monitoring processes. Select the direct or indirect engagement activities your organisation implemented for listed equity in OO 10.2 the reporting year.  We engage with companies on ESG factors via our staff, collaborations or service providers  We require our external managers to engage with companies on ESG issues on our behalf  We do not engage directly and do not require external managers to engage with companies on ESG factors. 8 Select the direct or indirect voting activities your organisation implemented for listed equity in the OO 10.3 reporting year  We cast our (proxy) votes directly or via dedicated voting providers  We require our external managers to vote on our behalf  We do not cast our (proxy) votes directly and do not require external managers to vote on our behalf OO 11 Mandatory Public Gateway General Select the externally managed assets classes where you addressed ESG incorporation and/or OO 11.2 active ownership in your external manager selection, appointment and/or monitoring processes (during the reporting year)  Fixed income – SSA  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – corporate (non-financial)  Fixed income – securitised  Hedge funds  None of the above OO 12 Mandatory Public Gateway General You will need to make a selection in OO 12.1onlyif you have any voluntary modules that you can choose to report on. Select from below any additional applicable modules or sections you would like to report on OO 12.1 voluntarily. You are only required to report on asset classes that represent 10% or more of your AUM. Core modules  Organisational Overview  Strategy and Governance RI implementation via external managers Indirect Selection, Appointment and Monitoring of External Managers  Listed Equities  Fixed income SSA  Fixed income Corporate (financial)  Fixed income Corporate (non-financial)  Fixed income Securitised Closing module  Closing module 9 OO 12.2 Additional information. [Optional] N/A 10 Movestic Livförsäkring AB Reported Information Public version Strategy and Governance PRI disclaimer This document presents information reported directly by signatories. This information has not been audited by the PRI Secretariat or any other party acting on their behalf. While this information is believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties are made as to the accuracy of the information presented, and no responsibility or liability can be accepted for any error or omission. 11 Investment policy SG 01 Mandatory Public Core Assessed General New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. SG 01.1 Indicate if you have an investment policy that covers your responsible investment approach.  Yes SG 01.2 Indicate the components/types and coverage of your policy. Select all that apply Policy components/types Coverage by AUM  Policy setting out your overall approach  Applicable policies cover all AUM  Formalised guidelines on environmental factors  Applicable policies cover a majority of AUM  Formalised guidelines on social factors  Applicable policies cover a minority of AUM  Formalised guidelines on corporate governance factors  Asset class-specific RI guidelines  Sector specific RI guidelines  Screening / exclusions policy  Engagement policy  (Proxy) voting policy  Other, specify (1)  Other, specify(2) SG 01.3 Indicate if the investment policy covers any of the following  Your organisation’s definition of ESG and/or responsible investment and it’s relation to investments  Your investment objectives that take ESG factors/real economy influence into account  Processes / approaches to incorporating ESG  Time horizon of your investment  Governance structure of organisational ESG responsibilities  ESG incorporation approaches  Active ownership approaches  Reporting  Other RI considerations, specify (1)  Other RI considerations, specify (2) 12 Indicate what norms you have used to develop your investment policy that covers your SG 01.4 responsible investment approach.  UN Global Compact Principles  UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  Universal Declaration of Human Rights  International Bill of Human Rights  International Labour Organization Conventions  United Nations Convention Against Corruption  OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises  Other, specify (1)  Other, specify (2)  Other, specify (3)  None of the above Describe your organisation’s investment principles, and overall investment strategy, and SG 01.5 how they consider ESG factors and real economy impact. Movestic Liv & Pension (Movestic) works with longterm fund managers that mostly have an active management approach. We feel certain that our focus on sustainability, environment and ethics offers added value to our policyholders this is why sustainability is incorporated in our investment analysis. Apart from the PRI, Movestic is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, thereby promising to promote implementation of the ten principles. Movestic works to ensure that all fund companies represented on the platform strive to meet international conventions regardarding the environment, human rights, workers' rights and controversial weapons. Movestic evaluates both funds and fund managers on an annual basis, using surveys and reviews of current policies. If Movestic finds that a fund manager does not meet its requirements, the manager will be informed about the actions they must take to ensure they are not excluded from Movestic's offering. Any dialogue deemed ineffective will result in the exclusion of the fund.  No Provide a brief description of the key elements, any variations or exceptions to your investment SG 01.6 policy that covers your responsible investment approach. [Optional] Movestic's investment policy covers all asset classes included in its offering. The assessment of the ESG approach of the included funds is to some extent relative, and depends on the opportunities and limitations of the asset class. Equity funds (active), equity funds (passive), fixed income funds (all), and hedge funds are assessed in relation to their respective competitors, so that the basic requirements/minimum level match the limitations of the asset class being assessed. SG 02 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 6 New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. Indicate which of your investment policy documents (if any) are publicly available. Provide a URL SG 02.1 and an attachment of the document.  Policy setting out your overall approach 13 URL/Attachment  URL URL https://www.movestic.se/om-oss/haallbarhet/  Attachment (will be made public)  Screening / exclusions policy URL/Attachment  URL URL https://www.movestic.se/om-oss/haallbarhet/  Attachment (will be made public)  Engagement policy  We do not publicly disclose our investment policy documents Indicate if any of your investment policy components are publicly available. Provide URL and an SG 02.2 attachment of the document.  Your organisation’s definition of ESG and/or responsible investment and it’s relation to investments URL/Attachment  URL URL https://www.movestic.se/om-oss/haallbarhet/  Attachment  Processes / approaches to incorporating ESG  Reporting  We do not publicly disclose any investment policy components Indicate if your organisation’s investment principles, and overall investment strategy is publicly SG 02.3 available  Yes  No SG 03 Mandatory Public Core Assessed General 14 Indicate if your organisation has a policy on managing potential conflicts of interest in the SG 03.1 investment process.  Yes SG 03.2 Describe your policy on managing potential conflicts of interest in the investment process. The aim of the policy is to ensure that conflicts of interest that arise within the Company are identified and managed, and that there are effective routines in place for dealing with and monitoring both actual and potential conflicts of interest. The CEO holds the final responsibility for the ongoing identification, documentation and handling of conflicts of interest and for making sure that these are reported to the Board of Directors, as required. All employees should be vigilant and watch out for situations that could potentially result in conflicts of interest. Such situations should immediately be reported to their immediate manager, who will in turn notify the Compliance function. The Compliance function is responsible for ensuring that the Company's record of concrete situations that have resulted in, or may result in, a raised risk of conflicts is updated on an ongoing basis, as new conflicts of interest are identified. Board members, alternate members and the CEO must report any instances of partiality and other conflicts of interest to the Chairman of the Board.  No Objectives and strategies SG 05 Mandatory Public Gateway/Core Assessed General Indicate if and how frequently your organisation sets and reviews objectives for its responsible SG 05.1 investment activities.  Quarterly or more frequently  Biannually  Annually  Less frequently than annually  Ad-hoc basis  It is not reviewed SG 05.2 Additional information. [Optional] The Sustainability Policy is reviewed annually. As part of this review, an action plan for the coming year is also put together. Governance and human resources SG 07 Mandatory Public Core Assessed General 15 Indicate the roles present in your organisation and for each, indicate whether they have oversight SG 07.1 and/or implementation responsibilities for responsible investment. Roles present in your organisation  Board members or trustees  Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Investment Officer (CIO), Investment Committee  Oversight/accountability for responsible investment  Implementation of responsible investment  No oversight/accountability or implementation responsibility for responsible investment  Other Chief-level staff or head of department, specify  Portfolio managers  Oversight/accountability for responsible investment  Implementation of responsible investment  No oversight/accountability or implementation responsibility for responsible investment  Investment analysts  Oversight/accountability for responsible investment  Implementation of responsible investment  No oversight/accountability or implementation responsibility for responsible investment  Dedicated responsible investment staff  Oversight/accountability for responsible investment  Implementation of responsible investment  No oversight/accountability or implementation responsibility for responsible investment  External managers or service providers  Oversight/accountability for responsible investment  Implementation of responsible investment  No oversight/accountability or implementation responsibility for responsible investment  Investor relations  Other role, specify (1)  Other role, specify (2) For the roles for which you have RI oversight/accountability or implementation responsibilities, SG 07.2 indicate how you execute these responsibilities. Movestic's Investment Committee includes the CEO, CIO and Portfolio Manager. The RI Analyst and the Investment Analyst are rapporteurs. RI related matters are brought up for review. Decisions are made on future approach/implementation. Movestic's CIO holds the overall responsibility for reviewing the insurance company's entire range of funds, and for making sure that sustainability issues are taken into account both when funds are selected, and in the fund management activities. The CIO reports to the CEO. The RI Analyst is responsible for providing the CIO and the Portfolio Manager with RI information, and for making sure this is implemented. ISS/Ethix assists Movestic Kapitalförvaltning in the screening of portfolios and provides general information about sustainable investments. 16 SG 07.3 Indicate the number of dedicated responsible investment staff your organisation has. Number 0 Promoting responsible investment SG 09 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 4,5 New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. Select the collaborative organisation and/or initiatives of which your organisation is a member or in SG 09.1 which it participated during the reporting year, and the role you played. Select all that apply  Principles for Responsible Investment Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting period (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced 17 Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic signed up to PRI in 2015  AFIC – La Commission ESG  Asian Corporate Governance Association  Australian Council of Superannuation Investors  BVCA – Responsible Investment Advisory Board  CDP Climate Change  CDP Forests  CDP Water  CFA Institute Centre for Financial Market Integrity  Code for Responsible Investment in SA (CRISA)  Code for Responsible Finance in the 21st Century  Council of Institutional Investors (CII)  ESG Research Australia  Eumedion  EVCA – Responsible Investment Roundtable  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)  Global Investors Governance Network (GIGN)  Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN)  Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB)  Green Bond Principles  Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC)  Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR)  International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN)  Investor Group on Climate Change, Australia/New Zealand (IGCC)  International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)  Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR)/CERES  Local Authority Pension Fund Forum  Principles for Sustainable Insurance  Regional or National Social Investment Forums (e.g. UKSIF, Eurosif, ASRIA, RIAA), specify Swesif Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting period (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced 18 Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic is a member of Swesif. Funds managed by Movestic Kapitalförvaltning have described their working practices in Swesif's Sustainability Declaration for Funds. Movestic supports Swesif's work, and was one of the first providers to include information about the Sustainability Declaration on its web based platform. Movestic also encourages funds/fund companies that have not yet completed the Sustainability Declaration for Funds to do this at the earliest opportunity.  Responsible Finance Principles in Inclusive Finance  Shareholder Association for Research and Education (Share)  United Nations Environmental Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)  United Nations Global Compact Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting period (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic signed up to UN Global Compact in 2015.  Other collaborative organisation/initiative, specify Sedex Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting year (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic is a member of Sedex.  Other collaborative organisation/initiative, specify Insurance Sweden Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting year (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced 19 Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic is a member of Insurance Sweden which is the industry organization for insurance companies. About 50 insurance companies are members of Insurance Sweden and together they account for more than 90 per cent of the Swedish insurance market. Insurance Sweden consists of around 20 employees who work with economic, legal and other analysis, as well as communication. Insurance Sweden is a member of the European insurance and reinsurance federation, Insurance Europe (former CEA), and participates actively in its work on various issues at EU level. Among other topics Insurance Sweden has focused on climate change http://www.svenskforsakring.se/Startsidan-EN/Huvudmeny/Our-work/Undersidor/Climate/Undersidor/Hightime-for-more-climate-adaptation/  Other collaborative organisation/initiative, specify Swedish Investment Fund Association Your organisation’s role in the initiative during the reporting year (see definitions)  Basic  Moderate  Advanced Provide a brief commentary on the level of your organisation’s involvement in the initiative. [Optional] Movestic Kapitalförvaltning (a fully owned subsidiary of Movestic Liv & Pension) is a member of the Swedish Investment Fund Association. The Swedish Investment Fund Association works to promote a sound industry that operates in the best interests of the savers. The Association monitors legislative work in relation to the sector and acts as a referral body at national and EU level. The Association has extensive contacts with decision-makers, authorities, and the media and has a well-established international network. One of the associations priority issues is Responsible Investments http://fondbolagen.se/en/About-us/Priority-issues/Responsible-Investments/ During 2016 one topic (among other) the Association focused on was the reporting of carbon footprint http://fondbolagen.se/en/Press/Press-releases/2016/The-Swedish-fund-industry-agrees-on-carbon-reportingfor-funds/  Other collaborative organisation/initiative, specify SG 10 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 4 Indicate if your organisation promotes responsible investment, independently of collaborative SG 10.1 initiatives.  Yes 20 Indicate which of the following actions your organisation has taken to promote responsible SG 10.2 investment, independently of collaborative initiatives.  Provided or supported education or training programmes for clients, investment managers, broker/dealers, investment consultants, legal advisers or other investment organisations  Provided financial support for academic or industry research on responsible investment  Encouraged better transparency and disclosure of responsible investment practices across the investment industry  Spoke publicly at events and conferences to promote responsible investment  Wrote and published in-house research papers on responsible investment  Encouraged the adoption of the PRI  Wrote articles on responsible investment in the media.  Other, specify  No Describe any additional actions and initiatives that your organisation has taken part in during the SG 10.3 reporting year to promote responsible investment [Optional] Each year, Movestic carries out a survey of selected funds and managers. The responses given are combined to provide an overall rating, and all participants are given feedback on areas with room for improvement. Movestic also refers to other, positive examples, with the aim to gradually bring all managers up to a high minimum standard. One criterion in the overall evaluation is whether the fund company has signed and follows the PRI principles. Managers that do not follow these principles are urged to start doing this as soon as possible. Implementation not in other modules SG 12 Mandatory Public Descriptive PRI 1 New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. Indicate if your organisation executes scenario analysis and/or modelling in which the risk profile of SG 12.1 future ESG trends at portfolio level is calculated.  We execute scenario analysis which includes factors representing the investment impacts of future environmental trends  We execute scenario analysis which includes factors representing the investment impacts of future social trends  We execute scenario analysis which includes factors representing the investment impacts of future governance trends  We execute other scenario analysis, specify  We do not execute such scenario analysis and/or modelling Indicate if your organisation considers ESG issues in strategic asset allocation and/or allocation of SG 12.2 assets between sectors or geographic markets.  We do the following  We do not consider ESG issues in strategic asset allocation 21 SG 12.3 Additional information. [OPTIONAL] N/A All management takes place within Movestic Kapitalförvaltning. SG 16 Mandatory Public Descriptive General Describe how you address ESG issues for externally managed assets for which a specific PRI SG 16.1 asset class module has yet to be developed or for which you are not required to report because your assets are below the minimum threshold. Asset Describe what processes are in place and the outputs or outcomes achieved Class Hedge funds follow the same processes as other funds, although with certain limitations resulting from Hedge their investment approach, for example in relation to impact and voting. Hedge funds are assessed in funds comparison with other, comparable funds, which means that the assessment becomes a 'best practice' review of the managers included in our offering. Overall, hedge funds developed positively in 2016, as an increasing number of investors are demanding change. One example is that more managers have signed up to UNPRI, and that screening is becoming more common in areas where this is possible. Challenges remain within managed futures/CTA solutions, where it is difficult to implement ESG in a traditional manner. 22 Movestic Livförsäkring AB Reported Information Public version Indirect – Manager Selection, Appointment and Monitoring PRI disclaimer This document presents information reported directly by signatories. This information has not been audited by the PRI Secretariat or any other party acting on their behalf. While this information is believed to be reliable, no representations or warranties are made as to the accuracy of the information presented, and no responsibility or liability can be accepted for any error or omission. 23 Overview SAM 01 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 4 New selection options have been added to this indicator. Please review your prefilled responses carefully. SAM 01.1 Indicate whether your organisation uses investment consultants and/or fiduciary managers.  Yes, we use investment consultants  Yes, we use a fiduciary manager that delegates management of some or all of our assets to third-party managers.  No, we do not use investment consultants or fiduciary managers. SAM 02 Mandatory Public Gateway PRI 1 Indicate for which of the following externally managed asset classes your organisation, and/or your SAM 02.1 investment consultants, consider responsible investment factors in investment manager: (a) Selection, (b) Appointment (investment management agreements/contracts), and (c) Monitoring Select all that apply Asset classes (a) Selection (b) Appointment (c) Monitoring    Listed equity    Fixed income SSA    Fixed income Corporate (financial)    Fixed income Corporate (non-financial)    Fixed income Securitised Provide a brief description of how your organisation includes responsible investment considerations SAM 02.2 in your investment manager selection, appointment and monitoring processes. Selection: As part of the selection process, the fund managers' approach to responsible investments is initially assessed based on publically available information, responses to RFP requests, and official sustainability ratings. As the screening process moves on towards a shortlist of funds, we ask detailed questions relating to the requirements we have when it comes to fund monitoring (see Monitoring item below). Appointment: At present there are no specific contract clauses relating to responsible investments, however the fund managers are informed that they will be evaluated annually, and that they risk being excluded from our offering unless they meet our requirements. Monitoring: We use a structured process to monitor our managers. Towards the end of each calendar year, a comprehensive survey is sent out, where managers are asked to provide answers for each fund included in our offering. The survey sent out in 2016 included around fifty questions, covering the companies' policies, incorporation 24 of ESG in investment processes, use of screening and exclusions, voting and other ways to influence, resources and incentives for incorporation in the investment process. The responses from the survey are combined into a rating, where the cut-off points for the ratings 'green' (best practice/pass with distinction) and 'yellow' (pass) have been agreed in advance for each area. The fund manager's overall rating is determined once the various sub-ratings have been set, and the overall rating is given as red (fail), yellow (pass), or green (best practice/pass with distinction). Movestic has set a goal that 75 percent of the funds within the offering should have the rating 'green' or 'yellow'. The fund managers are informed about their rating via letter, and given the opportunity to comment. All managers also participate in follow-up meetings. Managers given a yellow or red rating are told what they can do to improve their results. Managers with a red rating are also warned that they must improve or risk being excluded from our offering. Listed Equity and Fixed Income Strategies SAM 04 Mandatory Public Gateway PRI 1,2 Indicate which of the following ESG incorporation strategies you require your external manager(s) SAM 04.1 to implement on your behalf: Active investment strategies Active investment Listed FI FI Corporate FI Corporate (nonFI strategies Equity SSA (financial) financial) Securitised      Screening      Thematic      Integration      None of the above Passive investment strategies 25 Passive investment strategies Listed Equity  Screening  Thematic  Integration  None of the above Explain how you integrate ESG factors in the selection, appointment and monitoring of your SAM 04.2 passive funds The assessment of whether a manager reaches an acceptable level in relation to sustainability is based on an overall evaluation of the manager's efforts to incorporate ESG factors in their investment strategy. Movestic requires all managers to incorporate ESG in their investment processes. If this is not currently being done, the manager is informed about this requirement and asked to implement it at the earliest opportunity. SAM 04.3 Additional information. [Optional] The category listed equity funds includes both passive and active funds with specific investment focuses (renewable energy, fossil-free, and ethical funds). We do not require all funds to have a thematic approach. The majority of our passively managed equity funds apply ethical screening. Selection SAM 05 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 1 Indicate what RI-related information your organisation typically covers in the majority of selection SAM 05.1 documentation for your external managers 26 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised Investment strategy and how      ESG objectives relate to it ESG incorporation requirements      ESG reporting requirements      Other      No RI information covered in the      RFPs Explain how your organisation evaluates the investment manager’s ability to align between your SAM 05.2 investment strategy and their investment approach Strategy LE FI FI FI Corporate FI SSA Corporate (non-financial) Securitised (financial) Assess the time horizon of the      investment manager’s investment strategy Assess the quality of investment policy      and its reference to ESG Assess the investment approach and      how ESG objectives are implemented in the investment process (asset class specific) Assess the ESG definitions to be used      Other      None of the above      ESG people/oversight 27 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised Assess ESG expertise of      investment teams Review the ownership of the      ESG implementation Review how is ESG      implementation enforced /ensured Other      None of the above      Process/portfolio construction/investment valuation 28 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised Review the process ensuring the quality      of the ESG data used Review and agree the investment      decision making process (and ESG data use in it) Review and agree the ESG      incorporation strategy impact of ESG analysis on investment decisions Review and agree how the manager is      targeting returns and ESG objectives Review and agree how the manager      identifies, measures and manages ESG risk Review and agree return and risk in      combination at a portfolio level (portfolio construction) and ESG objectives Review how ESG materiality is      evaluated by the manager in the monitored period Review process for defining and      communicating on ESG incidents Other, specify      None of the above      If you select any 'Other' option(s), specify We annually review if the manager has incentives for integrating ESG into the investment decisions. 29 SAM 05.3 Describe the selection process  Review responses to RfP, RfI, DDQ etc.  Review Limited Partners' Responsible Investment Due Diligence Questionnaire (PE DDQ)  Review publicly available information  Review assurance process  Review PRI Transparency Reports  Request and discuss PRI Assessment Reports  Meetings with the potential shortlisted managers  Site visits to potential managers offices  Other, specify SAM 05.4 When selecting external managers does your organisation set any of the following: LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate (nonFI SSA (financial) financial) Securitised ESG score      ESG weight      Real world economy      targets Other RI considerations      None of the above      SAM 06 Mandatory Public Additional Assessed PRI 2 Indicate how your organisation typically evaluates the manager’s active ownership practices in the SAM 06.1 majority of the manager. Engagement 30 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised Review the manager’s engagement policy      Review the manager’s engagement      process (with examples and outcomes) Ensure that engagement outcomes feed      back into the investment decision-making process Other engagement issues in your selection      process specify None of the above      (Proxy) voting LE Review the manager’s voting ability within different ownership rights  Review the manager’s voting policy  Ensure that voting outcomes feed back into the investment decision-making process  Other active ownership voting issues in your selection process; specify  None of the above  SAM 06.2 Describe how you assess if the manager’s engagement approach is effective.  Impact on investment decisions  Impact on company / asset level  Impact on ESG profile or the portfolio  Evidence of changes in corporate practices  Other, specify  None of the above 31 SAM 06.3 Describe how you assess if the manager’s voting approach is effective/appropriate  Impact on investment decisions  Impact on ESG profile or the portfolio  Evidence of changes in corporate practices  Other, specify  None of the above Monitoring SAM 08 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 1 When monitoring managers, indicate which of the following types of responsible investment SAM 08.1 information your organisation typically reviews and evaluates from the investment manager in meetings/calls 32 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised ESG objectives linked to investment      strategy Investment restrictions and any      controversial investment decisions ESG incorporation objectives (with      examples) ESG portfolio characteristics      How ESG materiality has been      evaluated by the manager in the monitored period Information on any ESG incidents      Metrics on the real economy      influence of the investments PRI Transparency Reports      PRI Assessment Reports      Other general RI considerations in      investment management agreements; specify None of the above      When monitoring external managers, does your organisation set any of the following to measure SAM 08.2 compliance/progress 33 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate (nonFI SSA (financial) financial) Securitised ESG score      ESG weight      Real world economy      targets Other RI      considerations None of the above      Provide additional information relevant to your organisation's monitoring processes of external SAM 08.3 managers. [OPTIONAL] We use a structured process to monitor our managers. Towards the end of each calendar year, a comprehensive survey is sent out, where managers are asked to provide answers for each fund included in our offering. The survey sent out in 2016 included around fifty questions, covering the companies’ policies, incorporation of ESG in investment processes, use of screening and exclusions, voting and other ways to influence, resources and incentives for incorporation in the investment process. The responses from the survey are combined into a rating, where the cut-off points for the ratings ‘green’ (best practice/pass with distinction) and ‘yellow’ (pass) have been agreed in advance for each area. The fund manager’s overall rating is determined once the various sub-ratings have been set, and the overall rating is given as red (fail), yellow (pass), or green (best practice/pass with distinction). Movestic has set a goal that 75 percent of the funds within the offering should have the rating ‘green’ or ‘yellow’. The fund managers are informed about their rating via letter, and given the opportunity to comment. All managers also participate in follow-up meetings. Managers given a yellow or red rating are told what they can do to improve their results. Managers with a red rating are also warned that they must improve or risk being excluded from our offering. SAM 09 Mandatory Public Additional Assessed PRI 1 When monitoring managers, indicate which of the following active ownership information your SAM 09.1 organisation typically reviews and evaluates from the investment manager in meetings/calls Engagement 34 LE FI FI Corporate FI Corporate FI SSA (financial) (non-financial) Securitised Report on engagements undertaken      (outcomes and examples) Account on engagement ESG impacts      Other RI considerations relating to      engagement in investment management agreements; specify None of the above      If you select any 'Other' option(s), specify As part of our annual survey, we review engagement and voting policies. Each fund manager is also asked to state how many dialogues they have taken part in, how they define engagement dialogues, and to specify the most important dialogues they took part in during the previous year. The managers are also given the opportunity to report which dialogues are public, and how/where they are reported. (Proxy) voting LE Report on voting undertaken (with outcomes and examples)  Report on voting decisions taken  Other RI considerations relating to (proxy) voting in investment management agreements; specify  None of the above  If you select any 'Other' option(s), specify The survey is used to review that the managers are using their voting rights in a systematic manner. Outputs and outcomes SAM 12 Mandatory Public Additional Assessed PRI 1,6 35 Provide examples of how ESG issues have been addressed in the manager selection, appointment SAM 12.1 and/or monitoring process for your organisation during the reporting year.  Add Example 1 Topic or issue No entry in Swesif’s Sustainability Declaration for Funds Conducted by  Internal staff Asset class  All asset classes  Listed Equity  Fixed income – SSA  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – securitised Scope and In 2016, those managers that had not filled in Swesif's Sustainability Declaration for Funds process were identified, and asked to do this as soon as possible. Outcomes This year's review shows that the number of funds that have described their work in Swesif's Sustainability Declaration has increased.  Add Example 2 Topic or Managers of Movestic Funds that have not signed the PRI issue Conducted by  Internal staff Asset class  All asset classes  Listed Equity  Fixed income – SSA  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – securitised Scope and As part of a review of the Movestic funds (outsourced management) it was found that only one process of ten appointed fund managers had not signed up to PRI. The manager in question was informed about this at the following review meeting. Outcomes The manager has decided to sign PRI during 2017.  Add Example 3 36 Topic or Fund managers with an unsatisfactory general sustainability approach issue Conducted  Internal staff by Asset class  All asset classes  Listed Equity  Fixed income – SSA  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – securitised Scope and Managers given a 'red' rating in the annual survey were sent a letter informing them that they process risk being excluded from our range of funds unless improvements were made. The letter was followed up with a meeting. Outcomes We note that selected managers have generally increased their focus on sustainability, and that improvements have been made. When all the meetings had been completed, it was decided that one of the managers given a red flag will be removed from our offering and replaced with more sustainable alternatives.  Add Example 4 37 Topic or issue Nuclear weapon-related assets in Movestic Global Conducted by  Internal staff Asset class  All asset classes  Listed Equity  Fixed income – SSA  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – corporate (financial)  Fixed income – securitised Scope and When screening Movestic Global in June 2016, it was found that the fund had two holdings process with verified connections to the manufacture of nuclear weapons (within the NPT). The manager was contacted via email, and asked to comment on these holdings. The manager submitted their comments, and these were later discussed at the annual review meeting. This discussion has continued throughout the year, with support from internal resources and ISS/Ethix, as Movestic has made a decision of principle not to invest in nuclear weapons. Outcomes These holding will be sold in a controlled manner at the earliest opportunity  Add Example 5  We are not able to provide examples Communication SAM 13 Mandatory Public Core Assessed PRI 6 Indicate if your organisation proactively discloses any information about responsible investment SAM 13.1 considerations in your indirect investments.  Yes, we disclose information publicly provide URL https://www.movestic.se/om-oss/haallbarhet/ provide URL https://www.movestic.se/fonder-foervaltning/fondlista/ 38 Indicate if the level of information you disclose to the public is the same as that disclosed to SAM 13.2 clients and/or beneficiaries.  Yes Indicate what type of information your organisation proactively discloses to the public and SAM 13.3 clients and/or beneficiaries about your indirect investments.  How responsible investment considerations are included in manager selection, appointment and monitoring processes  Details of the responsible investment activities carried out by managers on your behalf  E, S and/or G impacts and outcomes that have resulted from your managers’ investments and active ownership  Other, specify  No  Yes, we disclose information to clients/beneficiaries only  We do not proactively disclose information to the public and/or clients/beneficiaries SAM 13.4 Additional information. [Optional] Information on the level of sustainability for each individual fund is available for funds that have described their efforts in Swesif's Sustainability Declaration for Funds. The Sustainability Declaration for Funds is visible in our fund listings. 39 Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 23 Anti-fraud Policy Adopted by: The Board of Directors Decision date: 2017-12-07 Replaces: 2016-12-08 Legal or other basis: Chesnara Group Principles Policy owner: The HR Director The information above is not included in the Board's decision and can thus be changed without the Board's involvement. Such changes may only be carried out by the Compliance Officer. Policy owners are however appointed by the CEO. 1 Background All employees of Movestic Livförsäkring AB (the Company) must at all times act honestly and with integrity, and protect the assets for which the Company is responsible, including both the Company’s own assets and those belonging to its customers. Fraud is an ever present threat and therefore a matter for all employees, consultants and other persons working for the Company. The Company takes fraud very seriously. All suspicions of fraud must be swiftly and thoroughly investigated and appropriate action taken. 2 Aim The Company shall work preventively to counteract losses to the Company and its customers, to maintain confidence in the Company, and to protect its brand. By continuously reviewing risks to the operation and suggesting ways in which processes can be improved, the Company can create the conditions needed to at an early stage prevent and/or detect attempts at fraud against the Company. The policy details the division of responsibilities in relation to fraud prevention, and describes how suspected and detected instances of fraud should be handled. The risk of fraud is monitored by the Risk Management Function, in accordance with the processes for monitoring of operational risks, which are described in the Company’s risk management policy. 3 Roles and responsibilities The final responsibility for safeguarding the Company’s assets and maintaining good internal controls rests with the board of directors. The board must always be notified about serious incidents and suspicions of fraud (both external and internal). Incidents and suspicions relating to the company management are always considered to be serious. The Company’s management is responsible for:  identifying the risks to which systems, operation and procedures are exposed, 1 (4) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 23  developing and maintaining effective controls to detect and prevent fraud (external and internal),  ensuring that these controls are enforced,  conducting vigorous and swift investigations when fraud is detected,  taking appropriate legal or disciplinary action against suspects and perpetrators of fraud, and  taking appropriate action against managers and supervisors, whose actions or failure to act have enabled fraud to be carried out. The CEO carries the overall responsibility for the prevention of fraud, but the responsibility for carrying out the abovementioned measures applies to all managers, and can even involve all Company personnel. All personnel, including managers, are responsible for behaving correctly and responsibly when using the Company’s resources and assets. 4 Definition of fraud External fraud External fraud includes all conscious actions intended to deceive others and which are to the detriment of the affected party and the benefit of the perpetrator. The act would be carried out by an external party, against the Company. Examples of external fraud include:  Payment fraud Internal fraud Internal fraud includes all conscious actions intended to deceive others and which are to the detriment of the affected party and the benefit of the perpetrator. The act would be carried out by an employee or other party hired by the Company. Examples of internal fraud include:  Embezzlement  Salary system fraud 5 Prevention measures and controls By implementing fraud prevention measures and controls in the day-to-day operation, the Company can avoid potential serious events and mitigate fraud. To ensure that the Company’s control systems are performing adequately, it is important that for example the following routines and documents are updated, implemented and communicated to everyone within the operation:  Policies and instructions  Permissions and authorisations*)  Requirement to have two signatories  Reconciliations 2 (4) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 23  Incident response mechanisms  Segregation of duties *) Made up of two parts. One part relates to a co-worker being granted certain permissions, for example in a computer system, i.e. access is given to a particular system. The second part concerns the time when this permission is used, and involves verification of the identity of the person using it, so that the right person is able to access the systems for which they are authorised. 6 Action plan when fraud is detected The Company has produced a separate action plan for fraud, which can be used as a checklist and guide to actions to be carried out in situations where fraud is suspected. 7 Reporting External fraud Suspicions of external fraud must immediately be reported to the immediate manager and to the CEO. Internal fraud Suspicions of internal fraud must immediately be reported to the HR Department and the CEO. If the suspicions relate to the HR department, they should be reported to the CEO. If the suspicions relate to the CEO, they should be reported to the HR Department and the Compliance Function. In these situations, the chairman of the board shall also be notified. 8 Disciplinary action External fraud Where external fraud is suspected, the Company reserves the right to refer the matter to the Police at the earliest opportunity. The CEO determines whether any disciplinary action should be taken. Internal fraud Where internal fraud has been proven or there is suspicion of internal fraud of a serious nature, the Company reserves the right to refer the matter to the Police at the earliest opportunity. The CEO determines whether any disciplinary action should be taken. If the matter relates to the CEO, the chairman of the Company’s board of directors determines whether disciplinary action should be taken. 3 (4) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 23 9 Entry into force and review This policy has been adopted by the board of directors for Movestic Livförsäkring AB and enters into force immediately upon adoption. The policy will be adopted annually, even when no amendments have been made to its content. The policy should be reviewed and adjusted as needed over the course of the year, after which it should again be adopted by the board. 4 (4) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 24 Whistleblowing Policy Adopted by: Board of Directors Date of adoption: 2017-12-07 Replaces: 2016-12-08 Legal or other basis: Swedish Act (2016:749) on Whistleblower protection and Chesnara Group Principles Policy owner: HR Director The information above is not included in the Board's decision and can therefore be changed without the Board's involvement. Such changes may only be carried out by the Compliance Officer. Policy owners are however appointed by the CEO. 1 Background and aim The operation of Movestic Livförsäkring AB (the Company) should be characterised by transparency, accuracy and accountability. From time to time, a situation may arise where an employee has serious concerns about irregularities in the way the business is conducted or about the actions of colleagues. Such concerns could relate to for example financial irregularities, giving or accepting bribes, non-compliance with external or internal rules and routines, or with other obligations required for efficient management and control. The aim of this policy is to encourage employees and other persons working within the Company to report any suspicion of irregularities and other serious infringements relating to the operation. Anyone who reports suspected irregularities or other serious infringements should feel safe in the knowledge that such reports can be submitted without the whistle-blower being subjected to reprisals or harassment. The Policy is based on the Swedish Act (2016:749) on Whistle-blower protection and shared Group Principles, adopted by Chesnara Plc. According to these principles, the Company should have in place a set of rules and routines that encourage employees and other persons active within the Company to report suspected or confirmed incidences of illegal, unethical or otherwise inappropriate incidences, without any effect on their own employment or duties. 2 Scope and limitations The Policy relates to board members, employees and other persons active within the Company. It does not cover matters of labour rights relating to individual employees, such as matters relating to occupational health, equality, complaints, harassment, or disciplinary matters, which should be reported in accordance with separate guidelines produced by the HR Department. 1 (3) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 24 3 Processes and reporting Reporting Reports on irregularities and/or other serious infringements in the operation shall be submitted to the nearest line manager, the HR Department, or one of the Company’s independent Swedish board members. If the suspicions concern the HR Department, the report should be submitted to the Company’s Compliance function or to one of the Company’s independent Swedish board members. The CEO must always be notified about the receipt of any reports of this type. If the report concerns the CEO, the Company’s chairman should be notified about the receipt of the report. If there is enough legal base according to the Swedish Act (2016:749) on Whistle-blower protection , the report can be submitted to, e.g., the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and/or to the Police or be published. Investigation and actions Any employee or board member who receives a report on irregularities should immediately make sure that the matter is investigated and resolved. The investigation process is determined by, and in consultation with, the HR Department, CEO and – where applicable – the independent board member, to ensure that correct procedures are followed in cases where an individual is under investigation. Should the report concern the HR Department, the investigation process will be determined by one of the Company’s independent Swedish board members. In all except the most exceptional circumstances, the individual being accused of misconduct should be informed of the claims made and any evidence provided, and given the opportunity to respond to the allegations. Any actions from a manager or any other person aimed at obstructing or preventing an employee from submitting a report in accordance with this policy will be regarded as a disciplinary offence. . Anonymity Any person submitting a report should be ensured that their report will be treated seriously and with care. If the person wishes to remain anonymous, this will be respected as far as possible given the nature of the report and the outcome of the investigation. It is, however, not always possible to guarantee anonymity. The Company will under any circumstances support the whistle-blower and protect them from reprisals and similar. Reports of investigations Reports on all investigations must be provided to the Company’s board of directors and to Chesnara’s Audit and Risk Committee. 2 (3) Movestic Livförsäkring AB Policy 24 4 Information and documentation This policy does not give any person the right to disclose confidential information relating to the Company, its employees, customers, partners, etc. All employees are reminded of the professional secrecy they are obliged to maintain. The individual who submitted the report should, if appropriate, be notified of the outcome of the investigation, but is never entitled to access to any documentation relating to the matter. Where a report is dismissed after investigation, the person reporting the matter should be notified. The person who is being investigated must be notified of the outcome of the investigation and is entitled to a copy of the report and details of any actions that will be taken as a result of the investigation. The investigation, including any plans of action and measures to be put in place, shall be documented in writing and archived by the HR Department. All documentation relating to an investigation initiated as the result of a report submitted under this policy should be treated as confidential and only be available to authorised personnel. 5 Entry into force and review This policy has been adopted by the board of directors for Movestic Livförsäkring AB and enters into force immediately upon adoption. The policy will be adopted annually, even when no amendments have been made to its content. The policy should be reviewed and adjusted as needed over the course of the year, after which it should again be adopted by the board. 3 (3)
