SUSTAIN ABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 Welcome to the Elif Sustainability Report which covers our efforts, performance and Elif Plastik Ambalaj San. ve Tic. A.Ş. significant events on our focus areas of Orhangazi Mahallesi 1652 Sokak No:2 Esenyurt 34538 Istanbul, Turkey environment, society, economy, workplace T: +90 212 622 06 22 F: +90 212 622 06 77 www.elif.com and marketplace for the period 2017-2018. Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace INTRODUCTION FROM CEO Introduction from CEO, Selçuk Yarangümelioğlu Our work on sustainable business Elif continued to demonstrate an For more than a decade, As the contribution of practices helps to strengthen the outstanding performance in GHG packaging has become a key technological innovations to connections between our brand emissions with its new benchmark focus area for the brands to sustainability and efficiency and the people who touch our projects like tri-generation and new communicate their sustainability increases, the new industry OUR VALUES products billions of times every generation air conditioning system. credentials. With packaging being revolution Industry 4.0 accelerates year in more than 50 countries. Elif has achieved 4 % reduction in such a visual and tactile touchits entrance to our business GHG emission in 2017. point between consumer and transformation. Elif's journey in This is fundamentally important to brand, innovations have come Packaging 4.0. started in 2008  Leadership us as we know our business thick and fast. with data collection for analysis thrives and grows sustainably Safety is a key focus area for Elif. Neo-Eco is the next evolutionary and information. After full scale  Responsibility when life quality of the society is We are working relentlessly to transformation and integration of also thriving. To this end, we’ve reach our goal of “No Injuries”. step in how sustainability is Elif systems into ERP in 2013, the  Passion to Create established a set of priorities that addressed in packaging, with new Indtrıduction from CEO Woman are intimatelyEmpowermant connected to our in Progress Investing in new systems, tools innovations empowering journey speeded up. With the Value and programs, we target to recent implementation of PLCs Elif Holding CEO, Selçuk businessYarangümelioğlu, for providing high-quality consumers with the ability to lead Selçuk Chairman and Chief continue Executiev improving our and OLC servers, machine  Diversity Yarangümelioğlu, introducing packaging Officer, materials for8happy celebrating MarchandInternational Woman’s performance in theDay withyears. coming their lives in a more communication has enriched our sustainability report. healthy moments of the life. This is environmentally positive way. co-workers why we reconstructed our brand We have completed 6 years as a instant data flow into ERP which  Integrity Elif's latest neo-eco innovations has resulted in effective control of with “Packaging for Life” concept, supporter of United Nations Global are ElifHybr and ElifHepta. These the system over machines and Compact and 8 years as a a unique B2B2C approach in the member of SEDEX. We will new printing and color operations for higher productivity. Purpose & Approach packaging industry that puts DEAR FRIENDS, continue to participate in new technologies enable our The studies continue to be brought Read more about consumers and life at the heart of customers to serve their COLLEAGUES packaging. organizations and programs to to a higher level everyday. Our purpose & approach consumers with a more diverse AND PARTNERS exchange and develop our I would like to thank all of our that shapes Elif. Elif targets being a pioneer in the product and campaign portfolio. approach of sustainability business partners and co-workers Elif is committed to creating packaging sector in terms of More information about Elif’s neomanagement. for their ongoing commitment to sustainable value for wellbeing of strategic trends as well as the next eco innovations developed in the achieve our vision. We will the earth and the society. Our generation of packaging. Our Elif has achieved a growth of 10% last 6 years can be found in the maintain our focus on our PACKAGING FOR corporate responsibility projects Marketplace section of this packaging reaches millions of and activities are focused on the in 2018 with the refreshing effect sustainability update. sustainability objectives and LIFE people all around the world every of Egypt operation. Our investment targets for the coming years. day, helping to create a happier pillars of the society, women and for industry 4.0, innovation and and healthy life. We exist for children. We do plan and realize capacity has continued.  Environment People in every sphere of life. Our projects supporting women and business is “Packaging for Life”. children rights.  Society Focus Areas  Economy Sustainability activities of  Workplace Elif are focued on our sustainability foces areas.  Marketplace 3 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 | 4 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT  APPROACH Our live sustainable reporting approach Elif prepares and presents its COVERAGE OUR APPROACH Sustainability Report in In this review, ‘Elif’ refers to Elif accordance with the Global In the 2015-2016 Sustainability Holding Inc. Co. and its Review, Elif announced its new Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) subsidiaries; Sustainability Reporting G4 reporting approach along the Guidelines (2013). • Elif Plastik Packaging Industry sustainability journey. and Commerce Inc.Co. Based Sustainability Report 2017-2018 in Istanbul, Turkey The projects and existing is Elif’s fourth review on project roll-outs as well as sustainability and provides a • Elif Global Packaging Industry and Commerce Inc.Co. Based project updates does not Questions Prior Reviews summary of its management always fit in a single document. approach and operational in Istanbul, Turkey Contact us for your Click here to view our prior sustainability reports. That is why we have, in last performance for year 2017-2018. • Elif Global SA based in questions and feedback reporting period, shared links in Details regarding the information Lausanne, Switzerland our sustainability report which about this report. given in the review can be • Elif Global Packaging S.A.E. provided online at Elif’s corporate will help reader reach Elif’s Based in Cairo, Egypt updates and news online. website and at the section dedicated for sustainability The sustainabilty activities in this With its dynamic and proactive activities. report represent the 18-month culture, Elif pursues developing period between 01 January 2017 The online content provides this approach in the to 30 June 2018 for operations further information about Elif’s totally owned by Elif during that Sustainability Report 2017management systems and period while statistics and 2018. processes as well as additional financials represent an annual and update information about the data from 1 January to 31 issues covered. December of the related year unless otherwise stated. Responsible Packaging Read more on how we innovate for sustainability. Read More Access to our sustainability activities can be found here in this Sustainability Report and on Elif website. 5 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 | 6 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENT & NAVIGATION Our topic selection structure to identify content of this report HOW TO NAVIGATE THIS TOPIC SELECTION AND This report lists the topics that TABLE OF REPORT CONTENT were a priority to our company CONTENTS The topic selection process in period 2017-2018. A full list of This report focuses on the key sustainability challenges we face identifies the sustainability the topics that consistently Introduction 3 and the many ways we respond. subjects that were most relevant to ranked of higher importance are It details our social, safety and Elif and our stakeholders or provided in the table on page 9Our Approach 5 environmental performance in prominent globally in period 10 in subsequent pages. Content & Navigation 7 2017. covered in this report. Sustainability Report 2017-2018 is Topic Selection 9 The Sustainability Report 20172018 focuses on the key Elif’s first report using materiality Materiality Matrix 11 sustainability challenges, matrix for topic selection , a responses and outputs of Elif It structured process to select the Executive Summary 15 details Elif’s sustainability report’s content and confirm its validity. We engage with various Our Business Model 17 activities under 5 key areas: groups and individuals to Change Management 19 • Environment understand specific concerns • Society about our business and its impact Corporate Presence 21 • Economy around the world, particularly in • Marketplace Our Products 23 relation to the 5 key ares coverd in • Workplace this report. Sectors We Serve 25 In each chapter of this report, These include co-workers, you can find key progress from Our Committments For Sustainability 27 shareholders, stakeholders, the past year, key partnerships customers, suppliers, contractors, Enviroment 29 and highlighted activities. community representatives, Obur online live reporting business partners, customers, Society 37 Be Online approach also enables readers non-governmental organizations, Economy 43 Access to our sustainability activities can be found in this to learn more about the investors, media, academics and Sustainability Report and on Elif website. higlighted stories in German, consultants. Workplace 49 Turkish and Arabic languages. We also talk to teams within Elif Marketplace 55 Please follow the link related with across all parts of our business. the topic of interst to find more We gather opinions and advice in information and/or update or to various ways including formal and read it in your local language. informal meetings, workshops and online surveys. 7 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 | 8 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT TOPIC SELECTION Defining what matters with materiality matrix MATERIALITY MATRIX The intersection of upper most TOPIC SELECTION STEPS quadrants of the three axis The contents of the materiality The concept of materiality is central to sustainability reporting shows which aspects and other matrix were established in 2017 and it factors into investors’ topics that have proven most as part of a multi-level evaluations of Elif in which they important to Elif and that they materiality process involving invest. GRI provides high-level should be reported in Elif’s internal and external guidance in its Sustainability Sustainability Report. These stakeholders. Based on Reporting Standards to help are action points which are qualitative and quantitative companies undertake a process classified as being particularly through which topics are interviews with the Elif’s important to business success Executive Board, Elif’s identified and prioritized for and they feature prominently in reporting and communicating. Sustainability Commitee the reporting. comprising of Marketing, Elif has put this guidance into practice by considering their Elif’s Sustainabiliy Report 2017Occupational Health and Safety main sustainability impacts and, 2018 covers all the subjects and Energy and Utility Services, in dialogue with their included in the matrix. The Human Resources, Brand stakeholders, prioritizing certain reporting on the key areas (GRI Development and Corporate topics and issues to report on. aspects) is based on the Communication specialists The materiality matrix covers the indicators outlined in the GRIworked on selected key themes key sustainability themes at Elif G4 guidelines. for Elif, discussed them with and arranges them according to selected stakeholders and GRI is the world's leading their weighting from an internal refined them in structured and external perspective. standard for comparable sustainability reporting based interviews. Elif’s first materiality The central issues of the on key figures matrix is announced with Elif Sustanability are displayed and Sustainability Report 2017(www.globalreporting.org). Elif organized along three axes: 2018. The matrix will be applies the guidelines in Axis 1: Significance to conformity with the GRI-G4 reviewed annually and stakeholders Core option. In addition, amended when necessary. Axis 2: Significance to industry-specific requirements sustainability context Axis 3: ignificance to Elif Strategy for industrial manufacturing services providers (manfufactured capital disclosures) have also been Read More taken into account. Elif’s latest topic selection criterias, steps of materiality matrix process and final materiality matrix can be found here. 9 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |10 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY MATRIX Classification of topics by focus area & topics in detail Responsible Packaging Sustainable Materials GHG Emissions Perf., Management Lower-carbon and Renewable Energy Natural Resources & Waste Pollution Environment Local Supplier and Skill Employee Attraction and Ocupational Health and Development Engagement Safety & Human Rights Business Strategy & Circular Economy Business Partner Performance Management and Collaboration Supply Chain Responsible Packaging Next Generations & Technology & Industry Policy and Community Education 4.0 Education Equality & Women Information Security Access to Food and Empowerment Prevention of Food Waste Product Safety and Environment Workplace Quality Economy Society Marketplace e 11 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |12 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY MATRIX Prioritization of topics & topics in detail cont’d. MATERIALITY MATRIX The intersection of upper most TOPIC SELECTION STEPS quadrants of the three axis The contents of the materiality The concept of materiality is central to sustainability reporting, shows which aspects and other matrix were established in 2017 and it factors into investors’ topics that have proven most as part of a multi-level evaluations of Elif in which they important to Elif and that they materiality process involving invest. GRI provides high-level should be reported in Elif’s internal and external guidance in its Sustainability Sustainability Report. These stakeholders. Based on Reporting Standards to help are action points which are qualitative and quantitative companies undertake a process classified as being particularly through which topics are interviews with the Elif’s important to business success Executive Board, Elif’s identified and prioritized for and they feature prominently in reporting and communicating. Sustainability Commitee the reporting. comprising of Marketing, Elif put this guidance into practice by considering their Elif’s Sustainabiliy Report 2017Occupational Health and Safety main sustainability impacts and, 2018 covers all the subjects and Energy and Utility Services, in dialogue with their included in the matrix. The Human Resources, Brand stakeholders, prioritize certain reporting on the key areas (GRI Development and Corporate topics and issues to report on. aspects) is based on the Communication specialists The materiality matrix covers the indicators outlined in the GRIworked on selected key themes key sustainability themes at Elif G4 guidelines. for Elif, discussed them with and arranges them according to selected stakeholders and GRI is the world's leading their weighting from an internal refined them in structured and external perspective. standard for comparable sustainability reporting based interviews. Elif’s first materiality The central issues of the on key figures matrix is announced with Elif Sustanability are displayed and Sustainability Report 2017(www.globalreporting.org). Elif organized along three axes: 2018. The matrix will be applies the guidelines in Axis 1: Significance to conformity with the GRI-G4 reviewed annually and stakeholders Core option. In addition, amended when necessary. Axis 2: Significance in industry-specific requirements sustainability context Axis 3: ignificance to Elif Strategy for industrial manufacturing services providers (manfufactured capital disclosures) have also been taken into account. Read More Elif’s updates on materiality matrix and selected topics of Elif can be found here. 13 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |14 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Leading the way of flexible packaging Elif is a global supplier of flexible benchmark factories in Turkey and Elif continues to target tomorrow's packaging solutions for food, Egypt, Elif has a production excellence to keep its global beverage, pet, home and capacity over 100,000 tons per benchmark company position in personal care industries. Elif year. Elif’s international operations the flexible packaging industry. works relentlessly to create value This has been achieved with the network is strategically structured enthusiasm generated by the in a spirit of leadership, through to offer both worldwide supply synergy of Elif's customers, diversity and integrity and with a flexibility and a global localized suppliers, professional human clear awareness of its service for its customers. Offering resources and management team responsibility for professional services to many major brands, with innovative approach. Our Brand Story human resources and with its both domestic and global, Elif Our logotype tells our passion for Continuously improving its service innovative management exports over 50% of its production and quality standards, Elif has packaging. To learn more about Elif approach. to more than 50 countries been authenticated as the market brand story please clck here. Elif has a full awareness of being worldwide. leader for setting high standards in Elif has generated 190 mEUR the flexible packaging industry by world-class and a clear vision of, sales in 2018 with the advanced its multinational customers with in every aspect of its business. leading brands. Elif will continue to be pioneer by growth of 10%. empowering initiatives and setting With its ISO 22000 and BRC/IoP Elif is committed to work Grade A certification as well as relentlessly to deliver value adding worldwide standards through ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 27001 flexible packaging solutions leadership, responsibility, passion through leadership, responsibility, to create value, integrity and and OHSAS 18001, Elif is committed to provide exceptional passion to create value, integrity diversity. These values are the and diversity. service and highest quality basis of Elif’s commitment to products tailored to the unique For Elif, sustainable development deliver benchmark results. needs of each customer through means the combination of long Elif continuously search for new collaboration and innovation. The term oriented economic success concepts and packaging ideas Company not only advocates good with environmental protection and together with its customers and corporate governance but also social responsibility. Elif has promotes long-lasting cooperation realized many best in class suppliers to provide packaging Read More About Elif as well as open communication projects for sustainability which solutions of future.. with customers and suppliers to are awarded by its customers and Access to our web site in order to get more detailed Elif owns leading flexible uphold the principles of mutual authenticated authorities. trust and fundamental human Sustainable practice is an integral information regarding Elif and its operations. packaging production facilities in the world with architecture of values as a part of its code of part of Elif’s corporate culture and, conduct and ethics policy. therefore, Elif will continue to be a construction, infrastructure and leader in sustainable development high technology of production and with new investments and scale. With its worldwide initiatives strengthening its Elif at a Glance sustainability approach. Our logotype tells our passion for packaging. 15 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |16 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our sustainable business model leverages Elif’s successful business transformation. Elif Value Chain Passion to Leadership Responsibility Diversity Integrity Create Value HORIZON OF IMPROVEMENT minimization of risks by DIVERSITY diversification of growth sources, Elif’s successful transformation We leverage diversity to create and disciplined management of of business into a global maximum value for our business capital by benefiting our cash flow, benchmark company is using the colors of diverse ideas, productivity and cost lowering Quality Honest and Ethical leveraged buy its value chain needs, talents, geographies, Safety Cultural Behaviour Customer Focus methods, we achieve sustainable and growth strategies based on cultures and capabilities of our Environmental Talent & growth and successful Know-how Respect Intellectual Respect Teamwork its corporate values. With the organization, customers, business transformation of business into a Innovation Social Awareness Geographical Sprit of Law Productivity well management of change, partners as well as communities. Global Benchmark Company. risks and capital basing on its INTEGRITY value, Elif’s sustainable growth Our core values also map our business strengths and priorities. We build trust in our relationships Successful model targets long term through honest and ethical Change Management transformation of economic success in LEADERSHIP behavior . We uphold the values business into a combination with environmental We will continue to be pioneers by and principles of Elif in every and social responsibility both in empowering initiatives and setting action and decision. As a vital Capital Sustainable Global Benchmark the workplace and marketplace Growth Company of Elif. worldwide benchmarks. We are asset of our corporate Management top-notch in the way we design, responsibility, we operate within For the last 45 years, we have produce and serve our products, integrity, respect and the sprit of come along a long way through leader in management law. challenges to reach our goals. In performance and committed to Risk Management this long journey, we recognize deliver leadership results. that the horizon of improvement never comes closer, thanks to RESPONSIBILITY Elif Growth Strategy our vision of being a global We act responsibly toward the Customer benchmark flexible packaging environment and the society and Value Proposition Technology Primacy Market Penetration Sector Coverage Investment in Human Capital company. In every phase of our aim to make a positive impact transformation we target to through our brands, activities, achieve higher standards for our resources and assets. sustainability framework (society, PASSION TO CREATE VALUE environment & economy). This is the source of our never ending We are passionate about enthusiasm and passion for our intelligent packaging solutions and business. helping to shape the next generation of our customers’ Through change management Our Sustainable Business Model products. using “Elif DAA (Define-ApplyAdopt) Transformation Method”, Elif’s value chain and growth strategy are the drivers of the company’s successful business transformation. 17 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |18 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  CHANGE MANAGEMENT Long-termed, organized and strategical change. CHANGE MANAGEMENT technologies to be the leader in SECTOR COVERAGE adopting, using and developing Through change management Flexible packaging sector these new solutions to be able to using “Elif DAA (Define-Applyproduces packaging for almost all offer advanced products and 1972 1997 2005 2015 Adopt) Transformation Method”, of the consumer and industrial 2010 services for packaging needs of minimization of risks by markets. We are the clear leader our customers. As an indicator of diversification of growth sources, in hygiene, detergents, consumer that approach, Elif has been one and disciplined management of of the pioneering companies to tissue, and food sectors in Turkey PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 capital by benefiting our cash flow, and a significant player in hygiene utilize the Digital Plate Making and productivity and cost lowering market in Europe. While we are HD Flexo Printing technologies Multi-geographical methods, we achieve sustainable improving our performance in the 1976: 1st factory 1998: First ERP 2007: ISO 14001, 2011: Decision for and offer these high quality growth and successful sectors we lead with better value 1990: 2nd factory system live OHSAS 18001, overseas production and printing options to its customers. transformation of business into a proposition, we also enter and 1991: First export 2001: Decision to ISO 22000 investment distribution With this innovative approach, we Global Benchmark Company. grow in new sectors on a strategic 1994: 3rd factory collect production 2009: COBIT & 2011: BRC/IoP facilities aim to provide the best solution background. 1995: under single roof General audit to 2012: New ERP Our growth strategy is powered by available for our customers with & 5 strengths of our company: our expert team and state of the INVESTMENT IN HUMAN Revitalization with 2004: State-of-art define necessities system Global Corporate art equipment. Therefore, we Continuity of our quality and state-of-art production facility 2010: SEDEX & 2014: Cairo plant CUSTOMER VALUE Governance leverage closer relationships with service can only be achieved with production lines start operating Total process opt. startis production PROPOSITION our customers, ensuring that we Model qualified employees. Therefore, 1997: ISO 9001 2004: 2nd phase 2010: 3rd phase 2014: 4rd phase We are strictly connected with our can fully understand the dynamics we select high quality employees 1997: 1st phase re-organization re-organization reorganization values chain in order to deliver an shaping their markets as their and invest in them to make them re-organization (2nd generation) (under Elif outstanding value proposition for packaging partner and deliver the even more qualified for the road in Holding) our customers. Our values are the innovative packaging that they front of them. Co-worker integral part of our customer value need and want. development and career planning proposition. With well-founded MARKET PENETRATION is integrated into Elif's know-how and talents, state-of-art performance management production techniques and the Through a truly global presence process. We organize tailor-made flexibility for tailor-made products and supply flexibility, we have a induction programs to ensure that and services , we contribute to the penetration in more than 50 new co-workers receive consistent business success of our customers countries all over the world. introductory training about Elif and all over the world. We continuously Parallel to the balance of local and export markets, we are delivering the industry dynamics. At Elif, it is CORPORATE CULTURE & VALUES develop, test and optimize our believed that competencies and products, materials and processes more than 50% of our products to capabilities develop on-the-job as in order to provide the optimum Europe and rest is equally well as formal training programs packaging solution for their needs distributed in North America, Asia, Change Management and training tools. We build and secure their success. Middle East and Africa. We are Read our history for further details of our successful transformation of business into a Global capability through 'on the job leading the local market in sectors Benchmark Company. TECHNOLOGY PRIMACY we serve and target to be the learning' as well as through formal programs and trainings. We are continuously seeking for market leader in MENA after new materials, techniques and opening of our facility in N.Africa. 4. 19 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |20 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  CORPORATE PRESENCE Providing a full range of services on a secure global footprint CORPORATE STRUCTURE comprehensive network ELIF TURKEY stretching across globe. This Elif Turkey is the leading global Founded in 1972, Elif Holding has become one of the most enables the global coordination flexible packaging manufacturer in successful group of companies of customer requirements, Turkey with a customer network all not only in Turkey but also in ensuring the delivery of a single ove rthe world. Elif Turkey Europe by staying one step quality system across all manufactures various standard ahead of change throughout its operations. and complex flexible packaging journey of 45 years. solutions in Elif’s state of art plant Gathering sales and distribution in Istanbul. Elif Turkey flexible Harmonizing international of all Elif subdiaries under one packaging manufacturing factory standards and continuous roof, Elif Global is headquarted combines its high-quality improvement in all of its in Istanbul, Turkey with more production techniques with an activities, Elif Group is a global than 100 employees. understanding of consumer and player progressing step by step ELIF EUROPE customer needs. towards the goal of capturing the success it has achieved. ​Elif In Turkey Elif has more than 1000 Elif Europe is the hub of European intends to be a worldwide employees. Elif Turkey business is operations of Elif Group. Elif's international trademark by headquartered in Istanbul, Turkey. European sales organization and administering corporate operation network is strategically ELIF EGYPT governance, undertaking social structured to provide operational responsibility and providing Elif Egypt is the hub of Middle East excellence and supply flexibility for and African operations of Elif environmental protection at Elif’s European customers. international standards. Group. The state-of-the-art facility Elif Europe business is has started operation in 2015 and ELIF GROUP OF COMPANIES headquartered in Lausanne, represents a significant Greenfield Elif continues to transform new Switzerland. Elif Global S.A. aims investment by Elif in Egypt. market potentials into growth and to provide localized service and Elif Egypt business is strengthens its international competitive advantage for its headquartered in 6 October City in position on a secure global customers in Europe. Cairo, Egypt. Elif Global S.A.E. footing. Elif Europe sells and distributes employs 350 co-workers and aims ELIF GLOBAL various standard and complex to bring a competitive advantage Elif Global is the worldwide leader flexible packaging solutions to the Egyptian Industry with in flexible packaging and has produced in Elif Turkey and Elif quality packaging that will increase strong international relationships Egypt to European markets. the demand to their products in with major customers via a global arena. Corporate Structure and Governance To see the overview of Elif Groupof Companies with a detailed list of key products, capabilities and services please clich here. 21 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |22 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  OUR PRODUCTS Our packaging reaches millions of people all around the world everyday, helping to create a happier and healthier life. Packaging Films Pre-made Bags & Pouches 30% Packaging Films Pre-made Bags & Pouches 53% 7% 10% Home Care Industrial & Other Read More Access to our markets and solutions on our web site full a full range of features and capabilities. 23 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |24 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  SECTORS WE SERVE Shaping the future of packaging with our customers Home Care Personal Care Pet Care Food & Beverage Home Care 33% 28% 15% 22% Industrial Food & Beverage Pet Care & Rest Home Care Read More Access to our markets and solutions on our web site full a full range of features and capabilities. 25 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |26 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ABOUT ELİF  OUR COMMITTMENTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS FOCUS GOAL STRATEGY 2017-2018 2015-2016 2014-2015 • Recognition of 3 awards for • Recognition of 2 awards for sustainability Drive process, product and • GHG emission is reduced by 27.3%. sustainability. Reduce natural resource • Energy efficiency programs resulted • Direct waste to landfill is recorded as • Trigeneration project resulted in policy initiatives in the in 3% decrease in energy ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT usage continuously and sector related to reduction 0. 42,8% calculated and 36,1% efficiency consumption and 17% reduction in globally. • Water consumption is decreased by in electricity usage. of natural resource usage. natural gas consumption 4.4%. • 9,9% GHG emission reduction • Re-Water projects lowers water achieved in 2016. consumption by 6% • 6 corporate social responsibility • 4 corporate social responsibility • 7 social responsibility projects projects. projects. completed in 2012. • Millions of people in contact with Elif Create value for the Sponsor education of • Signed United Nations Women • Direct Positive effect on 4870 every day SOCIETY SOCİETY communities we touch. future generations for children’s life standard. Empowerment Principles • 3rd consecutive «Human Respect» sustainable development. • Planted more than 10.000 trees • Amenity of 1000 trees is saved against award • Support for animanl sheplters and global warming. • 30% increase in number of co-workers Children with Leucemia continues • 3rd year as a member of UNGC Perform sustainable Promote efficient, • «Elif» brand is accepted to Turquality • 12% CAGR in last 5 years. • Over 11% CAGR in last 5 years. solutions for our productive and cost saving program. • 25.000 tonnes capacity plant in MEA • 12.3% increase in total export in 2012. • 12% growth and 15% capacity region ECONOMY ECONOMY business framework to methods, technology and • 10% capacity increase achieved in increase in 2016. • 10% capacity increase achieved in achieve sustainable investments for and with 2012 with new investments in • Cairo factory doubled its capacity and Istanbul plant together with production line. growth. the business framework. increased work force by 43%. production lines for new technologies Develop an equal Elif is committed to deliver • Lost days due to injuries decreased • Workplace Conditions Assessment • Average weight of cases decreased by opportunity for diverse any legal, organizational or by 26.1%. Achievement Award 17.3% • Average lost time weight reduced by • UNGC supporter for last 5 eyars • 14 hours of training per co-worker WORKPLACE WORKPLACE workforce, engaged to functional requirement 29.0%. • R&R System launched in 2 plants • Know-how transfer to new plant (180 work in a safe workplace related with labor rights • 11.6 hours of education per co-worker • 12 hours of training per co-worker qualified new co-workers, 350 with no injuries. and safety. achieved. • Stable case weight and frequency* planned) • Packaging 4.0 in progress in concept • 4 innovative products introduced to • Project for new production facility in factory the market Develop intelligent Cairo, Egypt has kicked off. Help shaping the next • 91 existing product developments • 54 existing product developments • 7 years of SEDEX membership has packaging solutions for achieved achieved MARKETPLACE MARKETPLACE generation of our consumer, environment, been completed successfully. • New innovation concept: Neo-eco • Enlarging geographical effectiveness customers’ products. • 64 new product developments customer and economy. packaging by reaching new markets achieved. • 6 years of SEDEX membership • 4 years of SEDEX membership has • ElifHybr hybrid printing technology completed successfully. 27 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |28 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace %10.23  GHG Emissions 4 new product innovation for lower raw material use and rcyclability 5 green projects for future 2 NGO collaborations 2 awareness campaign for environment 29 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |30 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT  PACKAGING FOR EARTH Innovating sustainable solutions with higher performance, functionality and cost-efficiency HYBRID PRINTING differentiation needs of its SWEETEST SOLUTION FOR ‘ElifHybr’ customers particularly in terms of SUSTAINABILTY ElifHybr is the hybrid printing marketing by reducing high ‘Elif2Twist’ technology of Elif using a installation, roller printing and lineElif’s last eco-innovation combination of different ink cut costs. ElifHybr enables printing Elif2Twist, amplifies candy brands transfer systems with electron the desired design on different to take a step forward in beam curing. ElifHybr offers packaging films regardless of sustainability to with its elegant printing results and cost thickness of film and color. environmental-friendly structure efficient solutions for especially ElifHybr is distinguished with and superior twist performance. in short runs. advantages provided to its With outstanding printing quality ElifHybr provides a great customers in the field of marketing and ideal twist properties, Elif advantage for customers who as well as environment-friendly offers PE twist film Elif2Twist to want to achieve significant structure and contribution to the piece wrap a large variety of preadvantage over the competition sustainability. First and foremost, formed confection, ranging from in the fast moving consumer energy savings obtained thanks to hard candy to chocolate truffles as sector by providing new its electron beam curing well as chocolate bars, taffy and products, promotions and technology used through curing caramels. campaigns fast to market, by process, and hybrid printing technology by minimizing volatile With transparent, white and improving market entry speed of organic compounds (VOCs) metallized versions, Elif2Twist packing average 50-70 % which thanks to the non-use of solvents works fluently on high speed provides advantage during during the drying process with packaging machines thanks to printing preparation and special inks produced for this improved surface properties for installation. technology offer the optimum lower friction. Elif2Twist helps ElifHybr eliminates all quality and solution for environment. ElifHybr brand owners to increase both high cost problems of brands economizes energy by 65% brand loyalty and sales with Elif’s implementing designs on more thanks to immediate curing high quality printing solutions and than one or different campaigns process as well as reduces the finishing/coating applications that and promotions parallel to consumption of ink by 60%. meet shelf appeal requirement of increasing marketing activities by ElifHybr provides advantage with confectionery producers. differentiating product designs on much more less energy use and Elif2Twist is also ecologically safe the packages by taking into emission for drying process and and can be recycled replacing account personal, regional and non-solvent printing and less traditional materials that harm the similar purposes and objectives formation of VOCs thanks to use environment, such as cellophane, of the companies. ElifHybr, of special ink and curing process paper and PVC. Elif2Twist is supporting brand ownership for and reduces the carbon footprint available in a variety of colors, the brand owners at the side of by 75%. including transparent, matte, consumers by establishing an ElifHybr is honored with WorldStar gloss, white and metallized, ElifHybr & Elif2Twist emotional link between Visit Elif’s innovation highlights to see more products providing more performance, functionality, Award of WPO (World Packaging providing high visibility of the consumers and brands, meets personalization, privatization and Organization) which is the candy or chocolate. cost-efficiency and sustainability. packaging industry's most prestigious award. 31 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |32 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT  RECYCLEABILITY FIRST Running together to reach the European Commission's 2030 recyclability targets Optics HIGH PERFORMANCE PE FILM feasibility advantages as well as 100% RECYCLABLE PE POUCH Tensle Strength ‘EliFHyPEr’ its contribution to environmental ‘Elif2Pouch’ Stiffness Elif creates difference with its friendliness and sustainability. Elif2Pouch is Elif’s 100% approach of “Packaging for Life” ElifHyPEr offers improved barrier recyclable PE pouch solution to and innovative packaging properties, enhanced tensile meet the growing demand for solutions. Working ceaselessly strength toughness and stiffness, recyclable and environmentalwith the purpose of creating useful better shrink properties, and friendly packaging. The innovative Toughness Barrier High Performance Pe Film solutions for “humans” and increased gloss and transparency. packaging solution of Elif meets “environment”, the reasons of ElifHyPEr films have better gloss, consumer’s expectations and being, Elif presents a new more clarity and haze. ElifHyPEr is helps compatibility with the 2030 alternative with “ElifHyPEr”, the stiffer, has much higher tensile recyclability target of the EU high performance PE packaging strength, is much tougher, offers Commission to create a better solution, which has been two times improved barrier future for the environment. developed as a result of Elif’s properties and its shrink properties Elif2Pouch has high moister intensive R&D studies for its can be controlled over a wide barrier and puncture resistant customers. range. These properties of properties and can be designed A high-performance PE film for ElifHyPEr offer product with customizable oxygen barrier. product differentiation, differentiation, sustainability and Elif2Pouch can be printed with sustainability and cost advantage. cost advantage for brand owners high definition graphics using ElifHyPEr is a modified and and consumers. ElifHybr -hybrid printingor high improved PE film to save Targeting to achieve maximum quality flexo printing. resources, improve film properties, performance with minimum • Great optical properties. High and optimize films for specific resource usage, ElifHyPEr can be clarity, transparency and gloss uses. ElifHyPEr offers better used in various flexible packaging • Excellent stiffness and strength optical properties like higher gloss, applications like stand-up • 100% recyclable Can be clarity and lower haze, better pouches, in-mold labels, shrink recycled with all other PE mechanical and barrier properties, sleeves, draw string tapes, cereal materials including retail advancement in film performance and cracker packaging, sealant shopping bags and reduced natural resource wraps, twist wraps, tapes, frozen • Compatible with existing postusage. food packaging, barrier packaging, consumer recycled waste ElifHyPEr also eliminates the need liners, heavy duty bags and streams for lamination with other lamination replacement. • 100% recyclable closure, spout substrates allowing recyclability of and zipper options the packaging.. The highWith its improved properties • High barrier to moisture performance PE film solution of ElifHyPEr can be used as an • Excellent puncture resistance Elif is at the forefront of the fastalternative for BOPP or PET films for greater product protection moving consumer sector in its enabling recyclability of the • Customizable oxygen and increasingly competitive packaging, which leads to aroma barrier ElifHyPEr & Elif2Pouch environment, thanks to its product recyclable pouches and bags. To learn more about how ElifHyPEr and Elif2Pouch contributes ‘Packaging for Earth’ please vsit differentiation and financial our product pages on our website. 33 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |34 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ENVIRONMENT  BETTER TOGETHER Running together to reach the European Commission's 2030 recyclability targets NEW YEAR, NEW HOPE such as climate changes, water With the introduction of the new been on the list of best-selling EarthHour ‘Packaging for Environment’ resources depletion, loss of system, Elif will invest 4.3MW books on circular economy. This biological diversity which comes more energy in addition to the important book has been brought Please connect with us to New Year, New Hope; ‘Packaging in the name of Turkish ‘Atıktan get more information up against the world. existing 4MW electrical energy for Environment’ Servete’ by SKD Turkey. generating system and will regarding EarthHour Since its establishment, Elif has After the publication of ‘Atıktan TRIGEN II produce 8.3MW of total electrical become a symbol that makes a Continueing to invest in future energy, and with the energy Servete’ with the cooperation of activities and reminders. difference in the sector with its Business Council for Sustainable amount of natural gas consumed environmental awareness and Elif has invested a trigeneration Development Turkey and by the existing system and the environmental activities in the project 2 years ago as part of its Accenture ‘Waste to Wealth’ book energy waste in the heating and context of climate change. Elif has 'NOsume Energy' program. Elif was translated into 11 languages. cooling system from the heat. In added a new one to its projects in continued to contribute to the Elif also supported the translation addition to all these, Elif will the environment and donated protection, improvement and and printing of the books with ipreincrease the quality of the final seedlings to the TEMA Foundation sustainability of the environment orders. product produced by reducing the on behalf of its customers and and human life through its new ‘Waste to Wealth’ / ‘Atıktan static electricity in the production suppliers. Trigeneration investment, Trigen Servete’ proves that 'green' and by the steam obtained from waste In this year, Elif has been II, which increases its trigeneration 'growth' do not have to be heat with the new system. continuing raising awareness by capacity by 100%. alternatives of each other, and As a result of secong trigeneration drawing attention to the fight against environmental problems. As a result of its sustainability system, TRIGEN II, Elif lowered its makes the circular economy a NEW YEAR NEW HOPES approach, Elif started to produce greenhouse gas emission rate by practical and viable business Elif donated hundreds of seedlings the energy it used at its production model from an abstract concept. Elif celebrated new year by planting %10,23 equilavent to releasing to the TEMA Foundation on behalf facility in Istanbul in recent years. Elif distributed over 100 pretrees on behalf of all its customers. production of 267.043 10-year old of its customers and suppliers with In addition to using energy that ordered books to its customers trees. the New Year's societies, respects the environment and and suppliers, contributing to the contributing to the greening of the human life, Elif reduced its achievement of the purpose of this ‘WASTE TO WEALTH’ IS NOW North Cyprus cantonal area. dependence on the transmission important resource and the growth IN TURKISH: ‘ATIKTAN and distribution network to a SERVETE’ of the cyclical economy. EARTHHOUR minimum, and managed to reduce Elif helps to protect the Planet With the awareness of transition with its 1200 Co-workers production losses and resulting to circular economy is the greatest ‘ATIKTAN quality problems and maintenance Elif supported the 'Earth Hour' costs as a result of network revolution and opportunity ahead SERVETE’ for sustainability, Elif continued to movement this year as it was in interruptions and fluctuations Elif's collaborate with NGOs this year. LAUNCH the past years. Elif turned its lights old system, which produces 4 MW off on Saturday March 24 between of electricity, allowed the recovery After analyzing more than 120 Business 8:30 – 9:30 pm in local time for of 3.2 MW of heat energy, low companies, Accenture explained Council for Earth Hour, an annual event carbon emissions and clean five major circular economy aimed to raise awareness about energy production, reducing business models that have Sustainable energy consumption and climate greenhouse gas emissions, and identified resource efficiency with Development change. Elif, one of the pioneers in saving energy by 80% in energy innovative methods in the book TRIGEN I & II Turkey, realized by turning off the efficiency and cooling water and Waste to Wealth, which has long Turkey Elif invested in 2 trigeneration projects: TRIGEN I in 2016 lights for an hour was aimed to obtaining thermal oil. . (BCSD and TRIGEN II in 2018. raise awareness in the issues Turkey) 35 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |36 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace Millions  of people in contact with Elif every day 2 years of UNICEF Platinum Wings sponsorship 5 years of Save Food Initiative membership 1370  working days employment for women wo/ social security 6 years of UNGC participation 37 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |38 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY  PACKAGING FOR NEXT GENERATIONS Elif’s major areas of focus: Next Generations & Access to Food PACKAGING FOR LIFE realization of sustainable projects Elif’s most important leverage for in order to achieve the basic the global society is the quality of Producing Packaging for Life , Elif rights and freedoms of these packaging materials that helps works constantly to create value, children and to maintain their lives societies to access better quality in the spirit of leadership, with the on equal terms with the other products. knowledge that diversity is the children. In 2017, with regular source of a rich culture, and with As part of “Save Food Initiative”, funds from Elif and other honesty and responsibility being Elif is particularly keen to promote supporting organizations, 2.5 its indispensable values. information interchange and million children were treated with Packaging is an essential part of cooperation between all parties severe acute malnutrition, 13.6 our daily lives. Elif works and partners involved in the value million children were vaccinated passionately to deliver «always» chain. Elif will continue to its against measles, 29.9 million better products for the society, for innovations that extend shelf life, people were given safe access to the environment, for the future. At reduce waste and deliver ultimate safe drinking, cooking and Elif, «We are Packaging for Life». product and brand protection. personal hygiene, 2.8 million children were given psychosocial Save Food Initiative also supports 2ND YEAR OF UNICEF support and 5.5 million children enhancement of access to food in ‘PLATINUM WINGS’ SAVE FOOD were given formal or non-formal disadvantageous regions of the SPONSORSHIP access to basic education. world. Children in that region are Elif is the supporter of Save Food Elif has been the first supporter of Elif, one of the long-term the most affected group by UNİCEF’s “Platinum Wing” supporters of LÖSEV in line with shortage of food. initiative since 2014. Visit Save Food program in Turkey in 2017. In the vision of ‘Packaging for Life’, is web site for further nformtion. 2018, Elif continued its aware that hope-filled tomorrows sponsorship for this meaningful will be possible with hopeful project . The company is the first children and invites all institutions Turkish institution conferred with and organizations to support nonthe ‘UNICEF Platinum Wing’, governmental organizations such thanks to the regular funds as UNICEF and LÖSEV who granted by the company to the serve this meaningful purpose. UNICEF projects that aim to ensure access by the most SAVE FOOD INITIATIVE disadvantageous children in Elif is proud to be the supporter of Turkey and around the world to the initiative consequently the living, improvement, health including 2018.. and educations services and offer them the same rights with their The aim of Save Food is to peers. develop new concepts which As the first ‘Platinum Wing’ contribute to the more efficient use 2ND YEAR OF UNICEF PLATINUM WING of food resources amongst supporter of UNICEF in Turkey, industry experts, researchers, Elif continued support ng UNCEF for treating children with Elif has been contributing to the disadvantageous conditions. More info is accessable here politics and consumers. for: 2017 and 2018. 39 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |40 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace SOCIETY  PACKAGING FOR NEXT GENERATIONS Elif’s major areas of focus: Women Empowerment and UN Global Compact Principles UNGC development goals of the United highest needs of our society. Elif hundreds of thousands of bags Nations, particularly the continued its Women's Day produced by the company in 2016, Elif aims to make its corporate which in turn has created total Millennium Development Goals. activities this year, which became environment and social women employment of 235 an Elif tradition. responsibility official by joining the working days. Elif raised this After the 'March 8th Women's Day United Nations Global Compact, The Global Compact is a voluntary number to 1,370 working days and Lunch’ attended by all employees, the intention of which has been code that is intended to put provided employment for women as a symbol of this day Elif MARCH 8TH declared with a Letter of substance behind the interest of in 2017. presents gifts Women’s Day Commitment sent to the UN in July Elif in upholding fair, sustainable, Elif celebrated 'March flowers with special messages Elif, one of the first initiators and 2012. responsible and ethical principles of conduct. The Global Compact emphasizing the meaning and supporters of the Women's 8th Women's Day importance of this day to ensure Empowerment Principles – WEPs together with all of its Elif’s corporate values define the was announced in 1999 as a UN that all Elif employees, their platform, which was established in effective integration of ecological, initiative for the business families, their immediate employees in 2017 economic and social engagement community to help promote partnership with the United of the company and its sustainable development in the surroundings and the society's Nations Global Compact and and 2018. awareness of ‘gender equality‘ Elif United Nations Gender Equality representation of individual world and lays down 10 principles enriched its activities for Women’s and Women's Empowerment Unit responsibility for the realization in four important areas: human Day with new projects and (UN Women) in 2010, actively and sustainability of successful rights, labor rights, environment donated the Turkish Education continues its efforts to strengthen business. As a global company and anti-corruption. Foundation on behalf of its women's empowerment, which is making business in many different employees to raise strong women one of the most important global cultures, diverse environmental Elif’s commitment to sustainable for the future. initiatives in the private sector. platforms and social attitudes, Elif development and corporate values adopts the importance of the UN are and will continue to be Elif questioned the meaning and Global Compact principles that are reflected, promoted and purpose of gender equality during already adopted by the company implemented. Elif urges all of its the events with a short survey in the way it conducts relations suppliers, dealers, consultants and among its employees. Elif also with employees, business partners other business partners within its shared mini videos of short and other stakeholders. For Elif, sphere of influence to adopt the anecdotes that share these views sustainable development is based UN Global Compact principles. from their social media accounts. on consistently conducting Being conscious about the fact business with integrity, in INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S that achieving higher level of compliance with the laws and DAY & WOMEN development requires women’s regulations governing its activities, EMPOWERMENT increased participation in the environmental protection and economy, a bigger share to them Elif puts its signature under new social responsibility. from development and growth and projects that add value to the life in a regular basis, being aware of the improvement of their position in Elif is committed to making the the family, Elif continues to launch fact that improvement of the Global Compact and its principles important social responsibility a part of its corporate strategy, position of women in the projects as well. In this frame, Elif 6TH YEAR OF UNGC community and their participation culture and every day operations in the business life, more than has offered job opportunities to To access our UNGC CoP reports and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the being a demand, is among the housewives in tying operations of please visit our UNGC page or UNGC web site. 41 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 | 42 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace %4 Capacity Growth %8 Revenue Growth Debugging System of cutting machine Software for register engines of cutting machine 43 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |44 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY Growing business targets pulls up the investments SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS customer needs through in With the new investments, RESULTS IN 2016 strategic and innovative more than 130 production lines 4.0% investments, Elif increased its are running under Elif roof in Sales growth is enabled by our 2017 capacity parallel to the mid-term B2B2C business approach, by Istanbul and Cairo plants. In growth targets of the company. winning with the customer by 2017, Elif’s capacity reached focusing on the consumer, and 20% CAPACITY EXPANSION IN 100,000 tons with more than CAIRO PLANT 8.0% driven by both Elif’s sustainable 1,800,000 MM printing and business model and expanding Elif grew its production capacity by around 3 million bag-making packaging solution portfolio 40% in the past 3 years. Elif’s capacity. strengthening efforts that are capacity policy is an obligation for underway. Business objective of its investment and growth strategy EGYPT ON THE GO Elif is to consistently deliver to keep its flexibility and respond Elif’s Cairo plant in Egypt has organic sales growth ahead of to the peak demands from the started operation in early 2015 underlying growth of the customers. According to Elif’s with 350 planned co-workers and segments in the markets it capacity policy, the necessary 25.000 tons of production competes. Elif targets high level additional capacity investments capacity. The new Middle East Elif Plants of top-line growth running are placed when the production Africa packaging hub of Elif is Elif’s plants have 10% increase in together with consistent bottomdemand reaches 75% of the constructed considering further 15.0 head count. line growth. This target has set capacity. Infrastructural extension of the facility for future % by Elif to deliver leadership levels investments of Elif will continue in capacity requirements parallel to 2016 of value creation for Elif and its 2018 to cover the mid-term growth the raising packaging needs of the business partners. targets of the company. region. Our Progress 2017 2017 has been a dynamic year Elif added new production lines In 2016, Elif doubled the capacity 10.1 inside Elif. While expanding our and systems to its operations of Elif Cairo plant and reached a % investments to cover capabilities including the new generation headcount of 360 qualified coParallel to its growth strategy and essential to its customers’ extrusion lines, Elif’s new printing workers equipped with know-how capacity policy, Elif made infrastructure 4% success, Elif also continued its technology «ElifHybr» and the transfer from Elif’s global talent growing business results. With investments and increased its capacity «ElifHepta» color management pool. the leveraging effect of Egypt system . for its mid-term growth targets. operation, Elif has closed the year 2017 with 10% growth -5% 5% 15% 25% Business continued to grow in 2017 with versus the previous year. 8% Enhancing its ability to serve the power of new Egypt caior plant. Capacity Growth changing Revenue Growth 45 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |46 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace ECONOMY Elif continues pioneering technology from Industry Industry 4.0 to Packaging 4.0. 4.0 Overview PACKAGING 4.0 AT ELIF of the INDUSTRY 4.0 VISION With the effective use of APO, Elif has started to control and analyse strategic Industry 4.0 is a vision that Elif targets to achieve flexibility, quality and cost efficiency at the all inputs and outputs of the platform for machines and systems independently monitor all of the same time with Packaging 4.0. system. Implementation of the new Elif’s The new industrial approach system resulted in harmonization connected important process and system of the production with the states, share information with allows Elif to answer new strategic plant in trends of: variations in the inputs. Live data each other and optimize the Istanbul. • Convergence of applications for enables diagnosis and analysis of production processes throughout Data initiating new advancements the deviations in the outputs the entire process chain. • Greater business focus on instantly, making it possible to feeding Industrial Revolutions 1.0 to 3.0 interfere the system on time. ERP MII energy efficiency and took the industrial advancements through mechanised processes, sustainability The strategic platform of enables • Greater presence of mobility Packaging 4.0. enables live mass production and production and web-based information manufacturing integration and management automation. Today Industry 4.0 systems intelligence and plant connectivity. pursuits product innovation, of increased collaboration, Elif started to move forward into The increasing intelligence of the performance operational process Industry 4.0 in 2008 with machines through the integrated datamaster software enabling automation and intelligent resulting in enhancement and cyber-physical production. definition of production phases of operation increases the level of increased machines, identifying stops and control over the machine which flexibility, However, the road to completely implementing this vision is a long downtimes, live data collection lead an increase in flexibility, cost quality and from the systems and efficiency and quality of the cost term evolution for Elif. This is instantaneous sharing of the production at the same time. why it is important to specifically efficiency. collected data for analysis. define Industry 4.0 for flexible Packaging 4.0 is being packaging market: Packaging After transformation of Elif’s ERP implemented in Elif plants and 4.0. system into a full scale ERP, Elif business units in multiple started to use MII module with geographies and will be Packaging Packaging 4.0 refers to intelligent machines with integrated integration of PLC devices on all developped with the 4.0 at Elif machines. PLCs enabled data advancements of the technology. processes and intuitive Upgrades at flow into operator computers and operation. recording. Elif Istanbul plant for Packaging 4.0 47 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |48 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace 5%  Lost days 4.88%  case weight ratio 11.7  hours of education 7 years of SEDEX membership 5S  implementation 49 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |50 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE  OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Elif’s major areas of focus: Occupational Health and Safety GETTING CLOSER TO Elif Case Frequency Rate is Elif continuously and periodically ‘NO INJURIES’ measured by calculating the educates, trains and conducts number of injuries or work-related yearly health risk-control programs Elif’s approach to occupational illnesses per total hours worked for its co-workers. Elif is and workplace health and safety is and multiplied by 1.000.000. certificated with OHSAS 18001 driven by Elif Environment, Occupational Health & Safety Occupational Health and Safety Elif Case Weight Ratio is Management System Certificate Policy. Elif prepares and develops measured by calculating the and implemented a variety of an annual action plan to reach its number of lost days due to the programs and processes to long terms targets on occupational injuries or work-related illnesses achieve greater protection and to health and safety. As well as Elif per total hours worked and prevent occupational injury and Environment, Occupational Health multiplied by million. In year 2017, illness of employees, contractors and Safety department Case Number and Case and visitors. responsible from the management Frequency Rate remained the of the environment and labor same as in 2016, Case Weight The results clearly demonstrates OCCUPATIONAL safety, every Elif employee can Ratio decreased by 4,88% and that Elif’s health and safety HEALTH & come with proposal for Lost Days decreased by 4,96% in programs are performing and the development of safety. Employees 2017. Company is getting closer to its SAFETY AT ELIF are welcome with their proposals Elif Case Weight Ratio is «No Injuries» target parallel to its Click here to read Elif’s and ideas and are also measured by calculating the Environment, Occupational Health Occupational Health encouraged with an award system. number of lost days due to the and Safety Policy. and Safety Policy. To Supporting Elif’s Environment, injuries or work-related illnesses CO-WORKER AWARENESS Occupational Health and Safety per total hours worked and AND EDUCATIONS learn more about Policy and strategy, each Elif multiplied by million. occupational health Total time of education covered by manufacturing site prepares an In the past years, it was and safety at Elif Elif for orientation, information and annual program including action determined that the majority of the plan for environment and awareness-raising purposes has please follow the link. accidents that occurred in the Elif reached 11.7 hours per co-worker. workplace safety. production line were caused by Educations for occupational health The goal of Elif's occupational the cuts of snap curved knives, so and safety are specifically special equipment was purchased health and safety programs is to and all of the employees were designed according to the OCCUPATIONAL COfoster a safer and healthier work technical requirements of each environment for its co-workers as trained in cutting. In addition, a department. WORKER team of experts on cutting was well as to protect the welfare of established. In this way, cutting AWARENESS & people engaged in work or employment and surroundings. . work accidents have declined by EDUCATION %60 Elif is aware that its co-workers To learn more about carrier and the synergy generated by them are key values for the and co-worker development company. programs of Elif, please follow the limk.. Or contact Elif HR department. 51 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |52 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE  PACKAGING FOR NEXT GENERATIONS Elif’s major areas of focus: Next Generations & Access to Food 7 YEARS OF SEDEX ROAD TO SUCCESS, SELFsuch as lack of taking control at Elif aims to introduce new MEMBERSHIP CONTROL WITH 5S! the operations easily, employees products, services and projects wasting time with searching through the renewed company Elif is a member of SEDEX In 2017, By means of “Road to page on LinkedIn. LinkedIn will materials and tools, giving too (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) success, self-control with 5S” also be a platform where all Elif much or too little raw material which has more than 50,000 project which is a workplace co-workers are agthered and get orders, occupational accidents members globally. As a member of organization that consists of five connected in any time and any and lack of using the factory space SEDEX, Elif is being audited stages and is named after the loation. effectively. periodically according to SMETA initials of five Japanese words, Elif (SEDEX Members Ethical Trade aims to implement, manage and In 2018, Elif continued its journey Elif will continue to use social Audit) and assuring self ensure the sustainability of on lean manufacturing after media accounts in an active, improvements of its sustainability industrial order, neatness, and completion of the 5S informative and entertaining and ethical policies for all of its cleanness into the organization in implementation. manner and will continue to bring manufacturing sites. a systematic manner. Elif has the passion for ‘Packaging for Life’ GATHERING ONLINE announced the launch of this to more people every day. You Every year, Elif goes through Elif grew rapidly with its dynamic, can follow Elif from social media important project in September, by SEDEX audit and also supports informative and entertaining accounts, to be aware of Elif's new means of the launch meeting numerous audits from our shares in social platforms. Elif products and services and to learn conducted with the participation of customers against the SEDEX shares market trends, innovations about new business opportunities. 700 employees. responses. and company news within By means of the 5S project to LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter and SEDEX provides an online which the entire Elif family other social media platforms. platform for reporting labor participated with high motivation, LinkedIn, which is a social sharing standards, health and safety, Elif is aiming to raise its platform that aims to enable business integrity and organization to the top level in business professionals to environmental performance simplicity, efficiency and quality communicate and exchange information. The questionnaire fields by applying Sort-Set In information, attracting the attention includes questions about labor Order-Shine-Standardize-Sustain of professionals in the packaging conditions, human resources systematic in all work areas. and FMCG sectors. You can reach policy and human rights. “Road to success, self-control Elif from LinkedIn as Elif Global, Questions are centered around: with 5S” project, which is initiated who has started using LinkedIn's • Child and young employees in parallel with Egypt and Turkey company page application to • Freely chosen employment operations, will spread within the strengthen communication on • Freedom of association and organization in the presence of LinkedIn. collective bargaining consultants for 1 year and will be • Wages LinkedIn is the largest social supported with trainings, activities • Working hours platform in the professional and campaigns. • Non-discrimination • Regular employment Being aware that the 5S project business world today with more 5S LAUNCH than 500 million users that gather • Use of small holders does not only consist of a cleaning professionals from more than 200 To read mor about Elif 5S • Discipline and grievance activity, Elif aims to prevent losses launch please visit our web countries. • Use of home workers caused by workplace disorders site and our youtube page for Elif 5S video. 53 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |54 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace NO  corruption 7 years of SEDEX membership 3rd  year in information security system certificate 55 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |56 Elif Sustainability Report 2017 2018 Intro Environment Society Economy Workplace Marketplace WORKPLACE  MARKETPLACE APPROACH Responsible sourcing and information safety MARKETPLACE APPROACH RESPONSIBLE AND ETHICAL NEW INFORMATION to keep the records during the SOURCING AND MANAGEMENT SECURITY practice. Elif has achieved that Elif intends to be a worldwide success by publishing an PROCUREMENT SYSTEM international trademark by information safety policy in which providing products and services of Elif is a member of Sedex Elif was one of the first packaging all activities are contained and high quality and value, helping (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) companies, which were awarded creating awareness by the staff customers and societies, articulate since 2010. Sedex is a not-forthe 2017 version of the ISO/IEC about the threats towards 7 years of their goals, charting a course profit membership organization 27001 Information Safety information safety. which navigates them from where that enables the sharing of ethical Management System Standard in they are today to where they want performance information between Turkey. Elif renewed its ISO 27001 to be tomorrow and beyond. Elif upholds the values and principles companies and their suppliers. Sedex membership means that ISO/IEC 27001 is the only certificate in June 2018. INDEPENDENT AUDITS membership controllable international standard of cultures it operates and serves, Elif provides access to its ethical that defines the requirements of In today's global economic as well as its customers, in every performance information to its Information Safety Management conditions, both international and action and decision by treating customers and can request the System (ISMS). Being designed to national environment in which the their assets as its own and same from its suppliers. More than ensure adequate and business world, Elif is behaving with their long-term 400 global brands, 17,000 proportionate safety controls, emphasizing the concept of the development in mind. suppliers and more than 21,000 ISO/IEC 27001 certification helps continuity and transparency. But sites in 160 countries currently protect and manage the valuable transparency can only be obtained CODE OF CONDUCT AND participate in Sedex. information assets. At the same with financial reporting and ETHICS POLICY As a member of Sedex, Elif is time, ISO/IEC 27001 adopts the independent audits provided under IMPLEMENTATION FOR NEW being audited periodically process approach to create, international standards. MARKETPLACES according to SMETA (Sedex implement, operate, monitor, Elif’s new manufacturing plant will Members Ethical Trade Audit) and inspect, maintain and develop the Elif goes through a tax audit and start operating in Q4 2014. The completed SSAQ (Sedex SelfInformation Safety Management auditing of accounts on an annual new plant in Cairo, Egypt will be Assessment Questionnaire) for System. base. As a global company the hub of Middle East and Africa improvements of its sustainability operating in foreign trade, Elif also Following the inspections carried gets external auditing service for operations of the company. and ethical policies. The increased out in June, Elif has been granted its foreign trade operations. In this demand for sustainability Elif is not only an investor who the ISO 27001 Information Safety sense, the accuracy of the information about Elif’s operations provides new job opportunities Certificate, which sets the declarations in conformity with the from customers is met by the and creates added value for the standards to prepare risk African Economy, but also, by registered information in the management and risk handling regulations and the calculated ISO 27001 Sedex database and, during duties & taxes is audited and the using the latest technology and period 2017-2018, more than 20 plans, duties and responsibilities, outcome is reported . INFORMATION bringing its know-how to the business continuity plans, region, Elif’s Code of Conduct and customers requested access to emergency incident management MANAGEMENT Sedex information relating Elif Ethics Policy will be implemented sites. procedures of the institutions in SECURITY as well in its new facility and terms of information safety and organization. SYSTEM Click here to reach Elif’s latest ISO 27001 certificate. 57 | Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Elif Sustainability Report 2017-2018 |58
