Communication on Progress 2017 We unite Norway – and Norway with the world 2 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 3 THE YEAR 2017 52 885 200 PASSENGERS 696 700 DEPARTURES AND LANDINGS 3 098 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 98 PER CENT REGULARITY 85 PER CENT PUNCTUALITY Avinor’s target is a punctuality rate of 88 per cent. The lower rate of punctuality in 2017 is primarily due to adverse weather conditions in January and December. 4 AVINOR AS Our performance Operating income Operating income airport operations air navigation services Profit after tax 10 162 NOK MILLION 2 085 NOK MILLION 499 NOK MILLION NUMBER OF AIRLINE PASSENGERS NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT MOVEMENTS Figures in 1 000 Figures in 1 000 60 000 800 50 000 700 40 000 30 000 600 20 000 500 10 000 0 400 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NOK MILLION 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operating income airport operations 10 162.1 9 674.9 9 424.1 9 561.5 9 001.1 Operating income air navigation services 2 085.2 1 990.8 2 087.6 2 014.8 1 897.3 Total operating income group 11 526.0 10 788.1 11 989.4 10 671.0 9 977.6 EBITDA group 3 126.4 3 520.7 4 691.8 3 648.3 2 993.0 Profit after tax 499.3 1 028.6 2 449.0 1 398.7 890.9 Number of airline passengers (figures in 1 000) 52 885 50 803 50 025 50 107 48 799 Number of aircraft movements (figures in 1 000) 697 704 724 738 731 1) The Group uses EBITDA as an alternative performance measure (APM). This calculation is directly reconciled in the profit and loss account. EBITDA is used because it is an approximate calculation of free cash flow from operations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 5 Content About Avinor A responsible and growing aviation sector 6 8 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 11 Corporate Governance 16 Corporate social responsibility 20 Overview of GRI indicators 54 Executive management 60 Board of Directors 61 Income statement 64 Statement of comprehensive income 65 Balance sheet 66 Changes in equity 68 Statement of cashflows 70 Notes to the accounts 72 Responsibility Statement from the Board of Directors and the CEO 120 Auditor’s report 121 6 AVINOR AS About Avinor Avinor is a wholly state-owned limited liability company under the authority of the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications and is responsible for the 45 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation in Norway. VISION MISSION VALUES We create Avinor will develop and · Open valuable operate a safe, efficient, · Accountable relationships. and sustainable aviation · Dynamic system throughout · Customer-focused Norway. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 7 Avinor is a self-funding business and its airport operations arerun In 2017, there were 82,357 overflights using Norwegian airspace, as a single unit, in which the financially profitable airports finance which is an increase of 2.7 per cent compared with 2016. the financially unprofitable airports. Avinor’s primary sources of income are fees from airlines and passengers and income from the The shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state rental of space to retail operators, tax-free sales, food and drink, and as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. other passenger services. In addition, Avinor has income from the The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the rental of space to airport hotels and parking facilities. ownership by the Norwegian state and determines Avinor’s financial framework. In addition, the Ministry of Transport Air navigation services are provided by way of a separate company and Communications regulates the aviation fees. The Ministry – Avinor Flysikring AS – which is wholly owned by Avinor. Avinor of Transport and Communications is the highest authority Flysikring AS provides services including en-route navigation serfor Norwegian aviation and also lays down the Civil Aviation vices, approach control services, and control tower services, as well Authority’s regulations that have consequences for Avinor’s operaas maintenance and operation of the technical infrastructure for air tions. Avinor’s head office is located in Oslo. navigation. Avinor Flysikring AS is responsible for air navigation in Norwegian airspace and provides services to both civil and military aviation. This report also includes air navigation services. A process commenced in 2017 to explore the possible separation of air naviOUR AIRPORTS gation services from Avinor. This process will continue in 2018. It is Avinor’s airports vary by size and traffic volume. Oslo airport uncertain if or when any such separation will take place. is by far the largest and accounts for more than half of Norway’s air traffic and just over 70 per cent of the country’s total Avinor co-operates with the Norwegian Armed Forces at eleven international traffic. Stavanger, Bergen, and Trondheim also airports, nine of which are Avinor airports (Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, have a sizeable proportion of direct international traffic. Some Trondheim, Bodø, Andøya, Harstad/Narvik, Bardufoss, Lakselv). other airports also have international traffic: Tromsø, Bodø, Ørland airbase has only military traffic, and Rygge airfield has only Harstad/Narvik, Molde, Ålesund, Haugesund, Kristiansand, and military activity and some general aviation. Kristiansund, in addition to some international charter traffic at individual airports. 53 million passengers travelled to or from Avinor’s airports (scheduled, charter, and offshore) in 2017 – an increase of 4.1 per cent Oslo is the only Norwegian airport to have two parallel runways. compared with 2016. International traffic increased by 6.3 per cent, Stavanger airport has a secondary runway used during certain while domestic traffic increased by 2.8 per cent compared with the wind conditions. Traffic forecasts indicate the need for a third previous year. The main reason for international traffic growth at runway at Oslo airport by 2030. The consideration of Norway’s Avinor’s airports is the decommissioning of Rygge airfield. Looking National Transport Plan and the Avinor ownership report by at the last four years as a whole, one can see that visitors from the Norwegian parliament in the spring of 2017 concluded that overseas have driven the growth of Norwegian aviation, with 10 per Avinor should prepare plans for a third runway to the east of the airport. The importance of developing Oslo airport as a national cent annual growth in overseas visitors to Norway and 18 per cent and international transit hub was emphasised. Bergen airport growth in overseas visitors using Oslo airport as a hub. will probably require a second runway by around 2040. Oslo airport is the hub of Norwegian aviation and a transit airport Oslo airport’s runways are 3,600 metres long. At the other large for traffic between Norway and the rest of the world. The profit airports, the runways are between 2,600 and 3,000 metres long, generated by Oslo airport is crucial for the financing of the network which means they can be used by larger jet aircraft. 27 of Avinor’s of airports spread across the rest of Norway. 27.5 million passen45 airports have short runways of between 800 and 1,200 metres. gers used Oslo airport in 2017, which is an increase of 6.6 per cent These are used by smaller aircraft types such as the Bombardier compared with 2016. Dash 8, air ambulances, and private aircraft. These small airports are of huge importance in ensuring the habitation and econoThere was a total of 697,000 movements (take-offs and landings) at mies of remote areas. Avinor’s airports in 2017, which is a slight decline of just over 1 per cent compared with the year before. The increase in passenger numbers is therefore linked to the number of passengers per flight (load factor) and not to the number of movements. We saw a similar trend in 2016. 8 AVINOR AS Message from the CEO A responsible and growing aviation sector The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the system, and for the country’s armed forces. In general, there is conUnited Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, siderable understanding of the importance of aviation in Norwegian Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication society, as well as concern about its impact on the environment on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the inteand climate. Efforts relating to effective climate and environmental gration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business measures must be reinforced. Avinor’s goal is to be a leader in the strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this aviation sector with regard to climate and the environment. information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Avinor has taken a number of important initiatives with regard to the introduction of jet biofuel, which is a decisive measure for Our primary focus at Avinor is our operations. By this we mean the achieving a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. basic airport and air traffic services that are essential for our cusIn 2016, Oslo airport became the first major airport in the world to tomers. In spite of extensive construction activities and sometimes offer jet biofuel to all airlines. This was expanded to Bergen airport, difficult weather conditions in 2017, our punctuality and regularity Flesland, in 2017, with plans to extend this further to several more were high. There were no aviation accidents in which Avinor was airports in the near future. In 2017, Avinor conducted analyses a contributing party. The opening of new Oslo airport and the new that document the potential for catering for a large proportion of terminal at Bergen airport, Flesland, were two highlights of Avinor’s Norwegian aviation’s jet biofuel requirements from Norwegian foroperations in 2017. estry waste. However, this will require substantial investments and incentives in order to establish production that is both economiBoth of these major projects were delivered on time, within budget, cally and environmentally sustainable. Players in Norway’s aviation and with the right level of quality, and they represent key milesector believe that an earmarking of state climate-based fees from stones in Avinor’s forward-looking approach to fulfilling its social aviation for the development of new technologies and the producobligations. We will ensure that the whole of Norway benefits from tion of climate-neutral solutions could help aviation to become a good aviation services in a way that is safe, efficient, and environclimate-efficient means of transport. mentally friendly. We have now laid the foundations for ensuring that our biggest transit hubs serve the nation well for many years The second road towards sustainable aviation is electrification. In to come. This is essential for ensuring funding for Norway’s airport recent years, there have been rapid and promising developments in network so that it can deliver its services and create value at a local this area. All major manufacturers of aircraft, engines, and batteries and a national level. In addition, this supports the ninth UN sushave set themselves ambitious goals. Over the course of the next tainable development goal in relation to inclusive and sustainable few years, the first electric-powered passenger aircraft will be tested infrastructure. and put in production. Avinor has assumed a pioneering position in efforts to promote electric-powered aircraft. In co-operation with 2017 was a year of new growth in air traffic. The improved perforthe Norwegian Association of Air Sports (Norsk luftsportforbund), mance of the Norwegian economy is the primary reason for pasin the summer of 2018 we will receive an electric-powered light senger growth. Looking further afield, the international economy aircraft that we will use in our project efforts relating to the elecis recovering and Norway is perceived as a safe country to invest in trification of aviation. Producers of electric-powered aircrafts view and to visit. the Norwegian network of local airports as an especially interesting market. Our aim is that Norwegian aviation will be electrified Through the efforts of Avinor’s strategy plan for 2018 to 2023, the by 2040. By this point, aviation will no longer be a contributor to Group’s executive management team and Board of Directors have climate problems but rather a contributor to solutions to climatic been keen to ensure that facilitating growth in air traffic is a central challenges. This is in line with the thirteenth UN sustainable develelement in Avinor’s social obligations. A good range of aviation seropment goal, which is about acting immediately to combat climate vices is crucial for Norwegian commerce and travel, for air ambuchange and its consequences. lance services, for culture and sport, for a decentralised education COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 9 Our aim is that Norwegian aviation will be electrified by 2040. By this point, aviation will no longer be a contributor to climate problems but rather a contributor to solutions to climatic challenges. Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO WE SUPPORT 10 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 11 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 · New Oslo airport and the new terminal at Bergen airport opened on time and within budget · Stable and safe operations – there were no aviation accidents in 2017 in which Avinor was a contributing party · Avinor is to plan a third runway at Oslo airport to the east of the existing runways · Avinor has been commissioned to build a new airport in Bodø · Efforts to separate air navigation services from Avinor must continue · A remote-controlled tower centre is under construction in Bodø with the goal of operating 15 towers from the facility by the end of 2020 · The savings forecast of the Group’s modernisation programme is in excess of targets · Operating profit (EBIT) for 2017 amounted to NOK 1,237 million · Sickness absence in Avinor in 2017 was 4.5 per cent HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 (Last year’s figures in parantheses) Air traffic through Avinor’s airports in 2017 increased by 4.4 per The newly extended terminal at Oslo airport was opened on 27 cent. Traffic through Oslo airport increased by 6.6 per cent. Overall, April 2017. The development project was completed and the facility traffic at other airports was at the same level as in 2016, but traffic put into operation within the target timeframe and budget of NOK at Bergen airport increased by 4.7 per cent in the second half of the 14,050 million. year, coinciding with the opening of the new terminal. Traffic is expected to grow in 2018, although this outlook may change based The new terminal at Bergen airport was opened on 17 August 2017 on uncertainties regarding socio-economic development. as scheduled. The development project was completed within the agreed budget of NOK 4,700 million. Safe and stable operations were maintained in 2017 despite the high level of construction activity. The punctuality rate for the past The ownership report was adopted by the Norwegian parliament in 12 months averaged 85 per cent, while the regularity rate averaged June 2017. It was, for example, clarified that Avinor is to plan a third 98 per cent. No aviation accidents were registered in 2017 in which runway at Oslo airport to the east of the existing runways. Avinor was a contributing party. In 2017 Avinor was tasked by the Ministry of Transport and The Group’s operating income in 2017 was NOK 11,526 million Communications to continue planning the move of the airport in (NOK 10,788 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 499 million Bodø, with the aim of conducting a concession application. The (NOK 1,029 million). Avinor’s profit was adversely affected by a total new airport is scheduled to be ready between 2024 and 2026. The of NOK 415 million due to changes in the rules of regulation liability Norwegian Defence Estates Agency has submitted a report by way for pension rights. of an overall state-owned property strategy for the areas in Bodø. 12 AVINOR AS The report presents a possible model for the sharing of funding ·· Provide effective and fair operating conditions for non-state airports; between Avinor, property values, and an external source of funding. ·· Enable municipalities and private entities to participate in the On behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, development of airports and the surrounding area; Avinor has conducted a new review of the conditions for the estab·· Develop regional airports to bolster seafood exports; and lishment of a new airport. The cost of a new airport is estimated to ·· Look at how aviation fees can be restructured to increase the total NOK 6 billion at current prices. competitiveness of Norwegian aviation. In the ownership report adopted by the Norwegian parliament in June 2017, the government states that efforts to separate air FACTS ABOUT AVINOR navigation services from Avinor must continue: “The government will set in motion a process through to the next ownership report Avinor AS is a state-owned limited liability company tasked with that seeks to separate Avinor Flysikring as a separate company.” The facilitating safe, environmentally friendly, and efficient aviation reason for this is to distinguish between the buyers and sellers of across Norway. Operations encompass a network of 45 airports air navigation services. On 1 March, Avinor submitted a schedule and air navigation services throughout Norway. As at 31 December outlining the processes for how to transfer ownership of Avinor 2017, the company’s balance sheet amounted to around NOK 43.8 Flysikring AS from the Avinor Group. billion. At the same date, the company employed 3,098 (3,074) people. With regard to Haugesund airport, the government asked Avinor to explore the possibility of establishing a service concession so that The shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state operations can be handed down to a party other than Avinor by way as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. of competitive tendering, known as a service concession model. The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the Avinor itself will not tender but will own and rent out the airport. ownership of the Norwegian state and determines Avinor’s financial framework. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is Remote Services has been established as a unit in Avinor Flysikring the highest authority for Norwegian aviation and lays down the AS to develop, implement, and commercialise remote-controlled Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations that have consequences for tower services. Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace is a partner and Avinor’s operations. systems supplier for the development project. A remote-controlled tower centre is under construction in Bodø with the goal of operatAvinor’s head office is located in Oslo. ing 15 towers from the facility by the end of 2020. The savings forecast of the Group’s modernisation programme is in ECONOMY AND FINANCES – GROUP excess of targets. The programme set a cost savings target of NOK 600 million per year from 2018 in relation to the Group’s previous The Group’s operating income in 2017 was NOK 11,526 million financial long-term plan (2013 baseline). This is expected to be (NOK 10,788 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 499 million achieved by a good margin. (NOK 1,029 million). The Board of Directors participates actively in corporate social Year-on-year operating revenues for airport operations increased by responsibility efforts by way of strategic work and the discussion of 5.0 per cent in 2017, driven by an increase in traffic volumes and an individual matters. As part of its corporate social responsibility to increase in sales and rental income at Oslo airport. Total operating facilitate climate-friendly and sustainable aviation for the future, income within air navigation services increased by 4.7 per cent. Avinor is continuing its involvement in assessing the possibility of the increased production and use of jet biofuel in Norway. This coinOperating expenses totalled NOK 8,400 million in 2017 (NOK 7,267 cides with the start of a study into the future use of electric aircraft million), which is a year-on-year increase of 15.5 per cent. This was in the Norwegian domestic market. This is supported by a declaraan increase of 4.7 per cent, excluding costs relating to the regulation tion made in January 2018 by three parties that form the Norwegian of established pension rights, a settlement with the Norwegian government – the Conservative Party, the Progress Party, and the Armed Forces, increase in cost related to tenant operations and Liberal Party – emphasising the exciting phase of development that increased provisions for possible pollution responsibility. The the aviation sector is currently in: Jet biofuel and electric aircraft increase is partly related to cost increases at Oslo Airport following are opening up completely new opportunities for a smaller envithe opening of the new terminal. ronmental footprint and an increased range of transport options. Consequently the government will facilitate the use of biofuel for Effective from 1 January 2018, the state through the Ministry of aircraft and is tasking Avinor with developing a programme for the Labour and Social Affairs has introduced amended provisions for introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation. the regulation of deferred pension rights in so-called independent state operations . The financing of deferred pension rights rights In its statement, the government also makes clear the importance for employees who leave the company is transferred from the of aviation to the Norwegian transport network, in particular Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund to the individual company. for large areas of many districts, as well as for economic growth For the Avinor Group, this change results in increased pension oblithroughout the country. The government emphasises that it will gations in the sum of NOK 415 million. This amount was charged to “implement a competition-oriented aviation policy that contributes the Group’s income statement in the second quarter. to the development of a competitive Norwegian aviation industry”. The government will: On 26 June 2017, Avinor concluded an agreement with the Norwegian Armed Forces regarding financial settlement for the COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 13 period 2010-2016 pursuant to the Co-operation Agreement. The As at 31 December 2017, the Group’s cash reserves amounted to agreement entails an additional payment to the Norwegian Armed NOK 6,672 million, distributed between NOK 2,072 million in bank Forces in addition to the NOK 135 million previously set aside in deposits and NOK 4,600 million in unutilised bank overdrafts. the financial statements. This amount was charged to the income statement in the second quarter. ECONOMY AND FINANCES – AVINOR AS Total depreciation, amortisation, and write-downs for 2017 amounted to NOK 1,889 million (NOK 1,763 million). The increase In 2017 the Parent Company, Avinor AS, had an operating income compared to the previous year is due to the completion and comof NOK 10,219 million (NOK 9,565 million) with a profit after tax of missioning of several facilities that were under construction. NOK 1,436 million (NOK 905 million). The Group’s modernisation programmes reached their target of The Parent Company’s balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 NOK 300 million in efficiency and cost savings in 2017 by a good amounted to NOK 42,182 million (NOK 39,832 million) with an margin. The overall cost-savings target amounts to NOK 600 million equity ratio of 32,1 per cent (41.1 per cent). per year from 2018 and to an accumulated total of NOK 1,500 million for the period 2016 to 2018. In 2017 Avinor AS had a cash flow before the payment of dividends and changes in liabilities of negative NOK 941 million (negative EBITDA totalled NOK 3,126 million in 2017 (NOK 3,521 million), NOK 2,148 million). Dividends paid for the year amounted to NOK with an EBITDA margin of 27.2 per cent (32.6 per cent). 550 million (NOK 500 million). Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2017 amounted to NOK 21,000 million (NOK 19,309 Operating profit (EBIT) for 2017 amounted to NOK 1,237 million million). (NOK 1,758 million). This reduction in operating profit is primarily due to increased pension and environmental obligations, as well as the agreement on the financial settlement with the Norwegian APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Armed Forces for the period 2010 to 2016. The Board proposes the following appropriation of profit for the year: The Group’s net financial costs in 2017 amounted to NOK 598 million (NOK 348 million). The change in net financial costs was due In dividend: NOK 249.7 million to interest costs related to the increased drawdown of loans and to To other equity: NOK 1,185.8 million a reduction in the extent of project-related interest costs recorded on the balance sheet. Tax expenses are calculated at 24 per cent to The annual financial statements have been prepared under the NOK 141 million. assumption that the company will continue as a going concern on the basis of forecasts and the calculated present value of estimated As a result of investment payments exceeding the contribution future cash flow. See note 13 to the annual financial statements for from current operations, the Group had a negative cash flow before further details. changes in liabilities of NOK 900 million (negative NOK 2,622 million) in 2017. Avinor paid NOK 550 million (NOK 500 million) in dividends to the state in 2017. RISK Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2017 amounted to The Group’s operations are focused on safe air traffic management, NOK 21,622 million, which is an increase of NOK 2,117 million with procedures and measures to minimise the risks and consesince 31 December 2016. On 2 February 2017 Avinor AS issued EUR quences of accidents and serious incidents. Developments with 500 million under the company’s EMTN programme. The loan is regard to national and international regulatory issues may have secured in Norwegian kroner with a fixed interest rate for a term financial consequences for the Group. of 10 years. Short-term certificate loans fell by NOK 1,400 million in the first half of 2017. NOK 1,017 million in other liabilities was Avinor safeguards national sectoral policy objectives. The repaid in 2017. Norwegian state sets guidelines for a number of conditions, including airport structure, emergency preparedness, aviation fees, The Group’s equity totalled NOK 43.9 billion as at 31 December 2017 and social duties. The scope and organisation of sectoral policy (NOK 41.0 billion) with an equity ratio of 32.1 (36.5) per cent. Equity guidelines may change over time. as a percentage of the sum of equity and interest-bearing liabilities pursuant to the definition in the Articles of Association was 41.8 The organisation’s capitalised infrastructure is long term, and (42.8) per cent as at 31 December 2017. the management of operations is largely governed by laws and regulations. As a result, Avinor has a high percentage of fixed costs In light of developments in interest rate markets and other factors, that vary to a limited extent with changes in traffic volumes and equity was charged by NOK 832 million after tax as at 31 December capacity utilisation. The Group’s earnings and financial value are 2017. Much of this is due to negative estimate deviations in the affected by changes in traffic volume. calculation of pension obligations. As at 31 December 2017, a discount rate of 2.4 per cent and a long-term expected wage increase There are technical, economical, and regulatory risks associated of 2.5 per cent were applied when calculating the Group’s pension with air navigation development projects. This encompasses the obligations. development of remote-controlled tower services. 14 AVINOR AS Major airports are a key source of funding for the rest of the airport Environment Agency has issued an order for measures at Evenes network in Norway. The earnings of major airports are especially airport, an order for measures at Oslo airport, and an order to vulnerable to economic fluctuations and competition from airports prepare action plans at Kristiansand airport and Svalbard airport, outside of Avinor’s network. and it is likely to issue an overall order for the preparation of action plans for the remaining airports. Revenues from services and offers to passengers at the airports are very important to the Group’s funding. Changes in the framework conditions for the duty-free scheme in particular may have a major CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AVINOR impact on the Group’s earnings and financial value. Good corporate governance in Avinor aims to ensure that the maxFinancial hedging instruments are used to curtail risk related to imum possible value is created and business risk is curtailed. The changes in interest, exchange rates, and energy prices. The value company’s core values and ethics guidelines are a basic premise for of hedging instruments changes in line with prices in the market corporate governance in Avinor. and may affect profits. When investing the Group’s surplus cash, emphasis is given to the issuer’s solidity and the liquidity of the As the owner, the state focuses on ensuring that state-owned investment. The Group’s liquid assets are deposited in a bank on companies adhere to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate negotiated terms. Governance. The Board attaches importance to following this recommendation regarding the Group’s corporate governance In connection with the National Transport Plan for 2018 to 2029, whenever possible. The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate the Norwegian parliament approved the construction of a new Governance is available at www.nues.no. airport in Bodø and stressed that this must take place as quickly as possible – in the first part of the NTP period. NOK 2.2 billion in Avinor has issued bonds that are listed on Oslo Børs and additional funding will be granted to the project in the first half of Luxembourg Børs. Oslo Børs has been chosen as the Group’s home the NTP period, in addition to NOK 0.2 billion for the public rescue market. The Group follows the recommendations of Oslo Børs with helicopter service. There continue to be unresolved issues related respect to corporate governance whenever possible. Section 3-3b of to the future needs of the Norwegian Armed Forces at Bodø airport. the Norwegian Accounting Act stipulates that companies under a This entails financial uncertainty related to investments in buildstatutory accounting obligation which issue securities in accordings and facilities as well as to future operations in Bodø. ance with Section 5-4 of the Securities Trading Act must provide a report on their policies and practices for corporate governance In connection with the pension settlement in 2005, although it was either in their annual report or in a document referred to in their determined that public service pensions should be adjusted for an annual report. Point 3.10 in Oslo Børs’ document entitled Bond increase in life expectancy and be made subject to the new pension regulations – entry requirements and ongoing obligations states adjustment rules, there were no provisions for the co-ordination that the borrower must provide an account of its policies and of public service pension performance and the new rules on practices relating to corporate governance in a similar manner. The Norwegian National Insurance. The rules for co-ordination have Norwegian Accounting Act is available at www.lovdata.no. Oslo therefore not been clarified and so have not been taken into considBørs’ regulations are available at www.oslobors.no. eration in the financial statements. For more details about corporate governance in Avinor, please refer The labour market parties have agreed a new occupational pension to the separate document Corporate governance in the Avinor Group. scheme for public sector employees. The agreement will be sent for approval by the various associations, which will have four months to make their decision. If all associations approve, the Norwegian govCORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ernment will present a new bill before the Norwegian parliament as quickly as is practicable. If the agreement is adopted, it will be due to Avinor’s corporate social responsibility efforts are based on the take effect from 2020. This will have consequences for how Avinor’s expectations set forth with regard to corporate social responsibility pension expenses and obligations are calculated in its accounts. in Avinor’s Articles of Association and in the Norwegian Accounting However, at this moment in time there is an insufficient basis for Act. Avinor takes the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business as calculating the impact. The impact on the accounts will have to be the basis for its corporate social responsibility efforts, and it signed taken into account from when the new scheme is adopted. up to the UN Global Compact in 2014. Avinor’s efforts cover areas such as human rights, employee rights and social conditions, the The airports have discharge permits that require risk assessments external environment, and combatting corruption. to identify potential sources of acute pollution that represent a risk of damage to the external environment. Work is continuing on For more information about Avinor’s work with corporate social reducing the risk of incidents occurring that harm the environment, responsibility, including climate, environment, flight safety, HSE, while at the same time existing pollution is being surveyed and impartiality, anti-corruption, and safe notification, please refer to cleaned up. Environmentally hazardous additives in fire-extinguishthe separate document “Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017”. ing foam which have spread to the environment have been detected at airports. Work is currently being conducted to clarify the scope of the measures that will need to be implemented. Risk assessRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ments have been conducted for possible damage to health and the environment. The economic consequences depend on the extent of Avinor is implementing several projects to help optimise the use the measures that need to be implemented, as well as the authorof Norwegian airspace. This work helps to improve safety, increase ities’ requirements and the measures available. The Norwegian capacity, streamline service delivery, and reduce environmental impact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 15 For more information on Avinor research and development and 2017 saw systematic efforts to design Group-wide training work, please refer to the separate document Corporate Social programmes. Avinor continued its investment in management Responsibility Report 2017. development throughout the year, with special emphasis on training managers in how to communicate change. PERSONNEL AND ORGANISATION Sickness absence in 2017 was 4.5 per cent. The Group has worked actively to reduce breaches of the working time regulations in the There were 3,098 permanent employees in the Group at the end of Working Environment Act, which resulted in a total reduction in the year. Permanent and temporary employees performed work the number of breaches by 27 per cent compared with 2016. corresponding to 3,175 full-time equivalents. The average age of all employee groups in the Group is 46.6. The percentage of women Avinor must be a professional and attractive employer. For more among permanent employees is 22 per cent. The number of women information on Avinor as an employer, please refer to the separate in executive positions is representative of the total number of document Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017. women. The Group aims to increase its percentage of women to 25 per cent in 2020, and this is being monitored closely. Avinor’s recruitment policy contains clear guidelines that promote a gender OUTLOOK balance, from the design of the recruitment adverts to the interview process and the selection process. Mobility and efficient air transport are essential for social development, as well as for the growth of the Norwegian travel industry and Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal opporbusinesses. tunities in the Group, irrespective of their gender, age, disability, ethnicity, or cultural background. Avinor conducts systematised Traffic growth is expected in the coming years. Avinor is continuing performance reviews that ensure neutral salary and career develto pursue activities and investments that develop our extensive netopment. Employee surveys confirm that employees enjoy equal work of airports, thus facilitating a good range of regional, national, opportunities. Commitment within the Group is high. and international aviation services. As an Inclusive Working Life company, Avinor emphasises the Avinor’s initiatives to ensure the sustainable development of aviaprevention of exclusion from work and has schemes in place tion are continuing. Key measures in 2018 and the years to come especially for employees who no longer meet physical and medical include environmental measures at the company’s airports and requirements due to illness or other circumstances. In 2017 several facilitating the development of electric aircraft and of jet biofuels schemes were implemented for the employment of people with for use in aviation. disabilities and reduced occupational opportunities. The company will be a competitive and preferred supplier in a Avinor’s strategy plan for 2014-2020 entails considerable restrucfuture competitive market, and it will make the necessary adjustturing. Co-operation between the Group’s management and ments to achieve this goal. It is an objective for Avinor to maintain the employee representatives is considered to be constructive. competitive fees compared to other airports in Europe. Continuous improvement is a strategic focus area for Avinor, The Board would like to thank all the employees and partners for their efforts in 2017. Oslo, 4 April 2018 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chairman of the Board Vice Chairman Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 16 AVINOR AS Corporate Governance The aim of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance is to ensure that companies that are listed on regulated markets in Norway practice corporate governance that clarifies the role of the shareholders, the board of directors, and the day-to-day management beyond what follows from legislation. This statement has been prepared in accordance with the framework ·· The company’s operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance dated and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibil30 October 2014, with the adjustments that are required due to the ity for all groups of travellers. fact that Avinor is a wholly state-owned limited company. In addition ·· The company must be self-financed to the greatest possible to the general provisions of the Limited Liability Companies Act, extent through its own revenues from its primary activities and special provisions apply to state-owned limited companies. commercial activities in connection with the airports. Financially profitable units shall finance financially unprofitable units interThe basic premise for Avinor’s operations is that safety is paranally within the company. mount and is prioritised ahead of any other considerations. After ·· Operations may be run by the company itself, by wholly owned safety, the greatest emphasis is placed on providing effective sersubsidiaries, or by other companies that the Group has interests vices to customers and society. in or co-operates with. The owner determines whether the overall operation of an airport can be outsourced to others on the Avinor Group’s vision is that we must create valuable relationships. basis of a contract and whether such an airport is to be exempt Individuals, companies, and society must receive clear advantages from joint financing. from what the business delivers. Our values include our behaving in ·· The company shall carry out the duties imposed by society a way that is open, responsible, dynamic, and customer-oriented. as stipulated by its owner. The Group’s ethics guidelines were most recently revised in the The company’s Articles of Association are available at spring of 2017. The ethics guidelines apply to Board members, www.avinor.no. employees, contracted personnel, and others who work for the Group. The guidelines provide basic rules for personal behaviour Avinor is responsible for operating a unified system of 46 airports and business practices, and will help us to make the right choices and the joint air navigation service in Norway. The business is based in the face of ethical dilemmas, whether faced by an individual on fulfilling and building on key social obligations in all parts of the member of staff or faced by the company as a whole. Furthermore country, and it must be operated with safety as a high priority and the guidelines express the Group’s attitudes in its interaction with with an emphasis on environmental considerations. To meet the customers, suppliers, colleagues, and the wider community. owner’s demands, strategic primary objectives have been established within economics and finance, society and the environment, The ethical guidelines are available at www.avinor.no. aviation safety and HSE, customers and partners, and personnel and organisation. Avinor has signed up to the UN Global Compact. The Group’s reports are prepared in accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (Standards/Core). EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. The company’s share capital is NOK 5,400,100,000, divided into 540,010 shares, each with a par value of NOK 10,000. The company’s equity must correspond to at least 40 per cent of the sum total of BUSINESS the company’s recognised interest-bearing long-term loans and equity at any given time. Avinor is a group of companies that operates in the Norwegian transport sector. The parent company, Avinor AS, is wholly owned Avinor AS is a wholly state-owned limited company. The shareby the Norwegian state, represented by the Ministry of Transport holders’ rights are safeguarded by the responsible cabinet minister and Communications. The Group’s head office is in Oslo. The comor their deputy at the General Meeting. The General Meeting is pany’s operations are described in its Articles of Association. not bound by the distribution of dividends proposed by the Board of Directors. Dividends are declared each year. The Office of the ·· The company’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, Auditor General monitors the management of the Norwegian state’s and developing a national network of airports for the civilian interests and can carry out any inspections that it deems necessary. aviation sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 17 The Board of Directors does not have the authority to increase the will be convened. Notice of the meeting must be issued at least share capital. one week prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting; cf. the Limited Liability Companies Act Section 20-5, cf. Section 5-10. Equal treatment of shareholders and transactions with close associates The Annual General Meeting is held each year by the end of the Avinor AS has one class of shares. The shares are not listed on a month of June. In accordance with the Articles of Association, stock exchange and there are no transactions involving the shares. the Annual General Meeting must approve the annual report and financial statements, including the distribution of dividends. It also Intra-group agreements are entered into pursuant to the arm’s considers approval of the auditor’s remuneration, determines the length principle on ordinary commercial terms. All such agreeremuneration of the Board for the upcoming period, provides a ments are made in writing. declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration to senior executives, appoints shareholder-elected members of the Transactions with close associates Board, and considers any other matters that, according to law or the The Board is not aware of any transactions during 2017 between Articles of Association, must be dealt with by the General Meeting. the company and its shareholders, Board members, executive employees, or their close associates that may be characterised as The members of the Board of Directors, CEO, and auditor who not immaterial transactions. audited the previous year’s financial statements are be invited to the Annual General Meeting. The Chair of the Board and the CEO Board members and executive employees are required to submit an are obligated to attend the General Meeting. The other Board memannual statement concerning close associates. bers, as well as the auditor and the Office of the Auditor General, are entitled to attend the meeting. Guidelines for Board members and executive employees The Group’s ethics guidelines contain a separate point on how to The agenda is set by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. handle conflicts of interest. This point states that an employee must never participate in or attempt to influence a decision if they have The minutes of the General Meeting are available to the public. a conflict of interest or if questions may be raised about the employee’s impartiality. Group employees can take on second jobs or direcNomination Committee torships in addition to their main employment in Avinor provided The General Meeting of Avinor AS consists of the Norwegian state that these do not conflict with the employee’s duty of loyalty and represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The impartiality or with the proper performance of their duties. General Meeting has not appointed a nomination committee. The guidelines also contain provisions on impartiality. If there is Corporate assembly and Board of Directors doubt whether the person concerned is impartial, the issue must be – composition and independence discussed with the most immediate manager. The company does not have a corporate assembly as agreed with the employees. The state as shareholder Avinor is wholly owned by the Norwegian state. The Norwegian The corporate democracy committee has approved a corporate Ministry of Transport and Communications convenes quarterly scheme whereby employees of Avinor AS and its subsidiaries may meetings with the company. During these meetings, the company be elected to the Board of Directors. Elections by and from among updates the owners about operations, financial developments, how the employees take place every second year. social responsibility is exercised, and other conditions considered to be relevant to the owner at that time. No decisions are reached At the Annual General Meeting for 2017, the number of Board at these meetings, and the company does not receive any guidelines members was reduced from ten to eight. Subsequently, five Board for how it must respond to individual issues. members are elected by the general meeting and three are elected by and from among the Group’s employees. Freely negotiable shares There are no provisions in the Articles of Association that entail any The Chair of the Board is elected by the General Meeting. All Board limitations on the negotiability of the company’s shares.. members are elected for a term of two years. The Ministry of Transport and Communications does not have its GENERAL MEETING own Board members, but in accordance with the Norwegian state’s principles of good corporate governance, all Board members are The Minister of Transport and Communications constitutes the expected to seek to safeguard the common interests of the comcompany’s General Meeting and is the company’s highest authority. pany and shareholders. The composition of the Board of Directors In accordance with Section 20-5 of the Limited Liability Companies is such that, in aggregate, it can safeguard the owner’s interests Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communications convenes and the company’s need for skills, capacity, and diversity. Executive both Annual and Extraordinary General Meetings. The Ministry of employees are not members of the Group’s Board of Directors, and Transport and Communications also determines how the meetings they do not own shares in the company. 18 AVINOR AS The owner has a meeting with each Board member once a year. At the turn of the year 2017/2018 the committee consisted of: At the turn of the year 2017/2018, the Board of Directors ·· Eli Skrøvset (Chair) consisted of: ·· Herlof Nilssen ·· Heidi Sørum ·· Chair since 2010, Ola Mørkved Rinnan, 68 years old ·· Vice Chair since 2012, Ola H. Strand, 60 years old The Board of Directors has also established a remuneration com·· Board member since 2011, Eli Skrøvset, 52 years old, mittee to act as a preparatory subcommittee in matters relating to CFO Eksportkreditt Norge remuneration of executive employees of the company. The commit·· Board member since 2015, Herlof Nilssen, 59 years old, tee must prepare guidelines for and cases concerning the remunerCEO Helse Vest ation of executive employees, as well as assessing and monitoring ·· Board member since 2016, Linda Bernander Silseth, 55 years old the Group’s policy in this area on an ongoing basis. The Board has ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2011, jointly established a set of directives for the committee’s work. Heidi A. Sørum, 50 years old These directives are reviewed annually and updated as required. ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2015, The committee met on three occasions in 2017. Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen, 58 years old ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2017, At the turn of the year 2017/2018 the committee consisted of: Olav Aadal, 50 years old ·· Ola H. Strand (Chair) Information on the individual Board members is available at ·· Herlof Nilssen www.avinor.no. ·· Olav Aadal Nine Board meetings were held in 2017. The meetings were fully The Board of Directors has also established an HSE committee to act attended, with only very few exceptions. as a preparatory subcommittee in matters relating to health, safety, and the environment. The committee is responsible for evaluating relevant conditions in the Group’s operations related to HSE at a general WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS level. The committee will support the Board of Directors in its responsibility for internal control, the Report of the Board of Directors and The Board of Directors follows the requirements stipulated for Annual Report, and the overall HSE risk situation. The Board has the management and supervision of the company pursuant to the jointly established a set of directives for the committee’s work. These Limited Liability Companies Act. In accordance with the Articles of directives are reviewed annually and updated as required. The comAssociation, the Board of Directors must ensure that the company mittee met on three occasions in 2017. is socially responsible. The Board of Directors’ tasks are stipulated in separate directives. These directives are reviewed annually and At the turn of the year 2017/2018 the committee consisted of: updated in the event of changes to the relevant regulations or otherwise as required. The Board of Directors sets out an annual ·· Linda B. Silseth (Chair) agenda for its work, with a special focus on goals, strategies, and ·· Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen their implementation. The Board of Directors assesses its work and ·· Risk management and internal control competence on an annual basis. In order to ensure the cohesive management of the company, a The governance directives contain a separate section on imparseparate management system has been established, which consists tiality in which it is stated that the individual Board member is of management documents, contingency plans, safety procedures, responsible for informing the Board as to the circumstances of a and processes for the management and control of operations. conflict of interest and must refrain from participating in deliberations or decisions where the member has a conflict of interest. An annual risk assessment of the Group’s activities is conducted, In case of doubt the matter must be submitted to the Chair of the and measures to manage the risk situation are evaluated and Board. The minutes of the Board meetings must reflect when one of implemented. The Board of Directors reviews the company’s risk the Board members is disqualified due to a conflict of interest in a management and internal control on an annual basis. particular case. As part of the Group’s internal control system Avinor has established New Board members are sent relevant information about the coman internal audit function. The Group’s internal audit function works pany and the work of the Board. This information is also available in accordance with a mandate adopted by the Board and pursuant to through an electronic board portal. standards laid down by the Institute for Internal Auditors. The CEO’s responsibilities and duties are defined in directives laid The company’s appointed auditor must review the management’s down by the Board of Directors. These directives are reviewed and dispositions annually. updated as required. Systems for internal control and risk management related to the The Board has established an audit committee as a preparatory financial reporting process and advisory body for the Board of Directors with respect to its responsibility for financial reporting, auditing, internal control, and Avinor’s ethics guidelines and core values establish the foundation overall risk management. The Board has jointly established a set of for a good internal control environment with respect to financial directives for the committee’s work. These directives are reviewed reporting together with the company’s organisation, management annually and updated as required. The committee met on five fora, and reporting lines. occasions in 2017. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 19 Business and support processes that are essential to financial INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION reporting have been identified. These include processes related to investment projects, revenues, financial items, closing of financial Public information on the Group is provided by the Group’s statements, and IT systems that support these processes. Overall management. Each year the Group prepares a financial calendar risk is managed and assessed centrally, while transaction manindicating the dates for the publication of financial information. agement is subject to both centralised and decentralised controls. This financial calendar is available on the company’s website and Considerable importance is attached to the thorough documentathe Oslo Børs website. Financial information is published in the tion and assessment of important valuation items. form of a stock exchange notice before it is made available on www. avinor.no. Control measures are carried out in the ongoing production of financial statements and through continuous financial monitorThe Group presents a complete set of annual financial statements ing. Systems for the evaluation/monitoring of the internal control together with the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and related to the financial reporting process is under development and the Annual Report at the end of the month of March. Accounting assessed on a continuous basis. figures are reported quarterly. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors must submit a plan for the business, including subsidiaries, to the Minister of Transport and Communications each year. The General Meeting and its subcommittee determines the The contents of the plan must include the following: remuneration of the Board of Directors. Remuneration is not based on performance and no options are issued to board members. ·· Description of the status of the market and the Group, including Shareholder-elected Board members generally do not perform any the development of the Group since the last plan was published. special tasks for the company beyond their position on the Board ·· The highlights of the Group’s operations for the coming years, of Directors. Remuneration of the Board members is specified in a including any major restructuring, development, and disconnote to the annual financial statements. tinuation of existing operations, or the development of new operations. Remuneration of the Board members amounted to NOK 2,156,916 ·· The Group’s investment level, important investments, and financin 2017. The remuneration is broken down as follows: The Chair ing plans. of the Board received NOK 434,500, the Vice Chair received ·· Assessments of the financial development during the plan NOK 263,000, and other Board members received NOK 216,500. period. Alternates receive NOK 11,000 for each meeting they attend. ·· Report on measures and results of the company’s role in society, social obligations, and corporate social responsibility. Members of the audit committee received remuneration totalling NOK 150,833 in 2017, comprising The Board of Directors must submit any major changes to plans that have previously been submitted to the Minister of Transport NOK 66,000 to the Chair and NOK 39,500 to the other two members. and Communications. Members of the remuneration committee received remuneration totalling NOK 21,500 in 2017, comprising NOK 11,500 to the Chair TAKE-OVERS and NOK 5,000 to the other two members. Avinor AS is wholly owned by the Norwegian state as represented by Members of the HSE committee received remuneration totalling the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Accordingly this point NOK 21,500 in 2017, comprising NOK 11,500 to the Chair and NOK in the Code of Practice is not regarded as relevant to the company. 5,000 to the other two members. AUDITOR REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES Avinor has an independent external auditor appointed by the The Board of Directors appoints the CEO and stipulates the CEO’s General Meeting based on a recommendation from the Board of salary following preliminary consideration by the remuneration Directors as a whole. The auditor submits a plan for the auditing committee. The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO’s work and work to the Board of Directors annually. Each year the auditor salary terms on an annual basis following preliminary consideraprepares a letter to the Board of Directors (Management Letter) tion by the remuneration committee. summarising the audit of the company and the status of the company’s internal control. The CEO informs and recommends to the remuneration committee the remuneration for executive employees who report to the CEO. The auditor has an annual meeting with the Board of Directors without managerial presence. The auditor also has an annual meetThe Board of Directors prepared a statement on the determination ing with the audit committee without managerial presence. The of salaries and other remuneration of executive employees. The auditor is entitled to attend the company’s General Meeting. statement is to be discussed at the Annual General Meeting. The auditor’s remuneration is broken down into statutory auditing The remuneration of executive employees is specified in note 6 to and other consulting services, and it is specified in note 8 to the the annual financial statements. financial statements. The General Meeting must approve the auditor’s remuneration. 20 AVINOR AS Corporate social responsibility Avinor’s corporate social responsibility has four primary areas: ensuring good aviation services for the whole of Norway; being a driving force in climate and environmental efforts; being a professional and good employer; and ensuring that we run our business responsibly. The Group’s strategy for its efforts relating to corporate social All stakeholders agree that dialogue with Avinor is good, but that responsibility is established by way of close dialogue with the local stakeholders should be given more priority. Group’s key stakeholders and is an integral part of Avinor’s overall strategic planning. The Group’s Board of Directors plays an active Several stakeholders point out the conflict between traffic growth role in the development of the strategy and ensures that corporate and environmental and climate considerations, and that Avinor’s social responsibility is safeguarded in the Group’s assessment of social obligations emphasise traffic growth, which may conflict individual matters. with national climate goals and international climate obligations. There is concern regarding the unavailability of technological improvements to enable targets to be met for reduced emissions DIALOGUE WITH AVINOR’S STAKEHOLDERS and expected traffic growth in the foreseeable future. This dilemma is emphasised as a major challenge to Avinor’s role as a socially Dialogue with those who depend on Avinor’s services or who, in responsible player in the years to come. various ways, are affected by our operations is essential for Avinor to fulfil its social obligations in a sustainable and responsible way and to prioritise those things that best serve our stakeholders and ARENAS FOR DIALOGUE the country. There are a number of formal and informal fora for dialogue with Avinor’s stakeholders and the areas that are most important to airlines. A co-operation forum that meets four to six times a year them are relatively stable over time. The most important stakehas been established as the highest level of forum. This is where holders are Avinor’s customers – both airlines and their passenAvinor’s executive management meets with the management of gers – politicians, airport partners, local and central businesses, the airlines. A separate committee – the AOC (Airline Operators the Norwegian Armed Forces, research environments, and special Committee) – that also meets regularly has been established at the interest groups. Regular stakeholder analyses and systematic diabiggest airports. Climate and environment issues, fees, and traffic logue are conducted to ensure that we have a current picture of our development and airport capacity are all key topics in Avinor’s stakeholders’ expectations and priorities in respect of Avinor. Safety, dialogue with airlines. finances, capacity, reliability, service at the airports, accessibility and universal design, and how the Group deals with the challenges Dialogue with passengers takes place primarily through regular cusfaced by aviation in relation to the climate and environment are tomer surveys. Passengers are especially concerned about punctualimportant topics for all of Avinor’s stakeholders. ity and regularity, airport services, parking, and ground transport. Dialogue at the highest political level takes place primarily STAKEHOLDER ANALYSES through Avinor’s owner, the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications, in the Norwegian parliament, and through the Avinor conducts regular stakeholder analyses, both at a general Transport and Communications Committee in consultation with level and in relation to large projects and specific areas. In the the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Stakeholder diaspring of 2017 an extensive stakeholder analysis was conducted in logue at the political and government levels takes place primarily relation to efforts pertaining to the Group’s strategy plan for the by way of fixed meetings. Dialogue takes place under the auspices period 2018 to 2023. The purpose was to gain insight into stakeof the Group’s executive management and the Board of Directors. holders’ experiences, opinions, and expectations of developments In addition there is extensive dialogue with the political and adminin Avinor. A key impression from this analysis is that Avinor is istrative management at the local, municipal, and county levels. perceived as an energetic group that has developed in a positive Avinor is working to strengthen and systematise this dialogue. direction in recent years. Although there is a full endorsement of the Avinor model, which involves the transfer of funds from profitBusiness policy committees have been established in a number able airports to those that are not profitable, there is some concern of municipalities and counties where Avinor is represented. Local regarding costs in the Group. Stakeholders commend Avinor’s political stakeholders are also represented here. Once a year, a joint effective handling of capacity challenges during the major and meeting is arranged between the county councils and Avinor’s mansuccessful terminal projects at Oslo airport and in Bergen. agement. The primary focus is capacity and route development, as COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 21 well as how Avinor can help to support the development of local ·· Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and commerce. environmental challenges within aviation ·· Avinor shall be a good and professional employer Dialogue with suppliers of Avinor’s goods and services takes place ·· Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly. by way of formal meetings, through negotiations, and through contract follow-up. There is a particular focus on the competitive Avinor’s corporate social responsibility efforts are based on the basis, as well as templates and procedures relating to processes and expectations set forth for corporate social responsibility in Avinor’s deliveries. Efforts to combat corruption and ensure that working Articles of Association and in the Norwegian Accounting Act and conditions are in line with universal human rights and current are based on the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business. Avinor agreements applicable in the workplace are a key element in the signed up to the UN Global Compact in 2014. This report has been dialogue. prepared in accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (Standards/Core). Within the Group, the model of co-operation between employee representatives and management is being further developed in The Executive Vice President for Communications and Markets order to ensure good working conditions, stable operations, and is responsible for monitoring and reporting on Avinor’s corporate cost-effectiveness throughout the Group. Three of the eight represocial responsibility efforts and for ensuring that efforts relating to sentatives on the Board of Directors of the Avinor Group represent individual themes are in line with this. Avinor has no own staff for Avinor’s employees. The Board of Directors of Avinor Flysikring AS corporate social responsibility. also has employee-elected Board members. FOUR KEY THEMES IN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS Through stakeholder dialogue and systematic stakeholder analyses, Avinor has identified four key themes for its efforts relating to corporate social responsibility: ·· Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway, and perform our role in society in a safe, efficient and environmentally-friendly manner 22 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 23 Goals and results for corporate social responsibility in 2017 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway GOAL RESULTS Punctuality: 88 per cent within 15 minutes 85 per cent Regularity: 98 per cent 98 per cent All airports must be certified in accordance with In 2017, Avinor’s environmental management and operations were certified in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Fourteen airports are now covered by Avinor’s joint certification. An additional 18 airports underwent their first certification audit at the end of 2017, and the remaining airports will be phased into the certification in 2018. Air transport must be accessible by everyone The survey under the supervisory authority of the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority is due for completion in the summer of 2018. All of Avinor’s airports will be universally designed during their planning in accordance with technical regulations. Avinor must streamline, modernise, and invest in ·· The modernisation programme is on track. increased capacity ·· Oslo and Bergen airports were opened as planned. ·· The development of technology for remote-controlled control towers is on track. ·· A prototype driverless snow plough will be tested in 2018. ·· A new airport in Bodø is being planned. ·· Narvik airport has been decommissioned. Avinor must to work to improve the customer ·· The ASQ (Airport Service Quality) survey shows that satisfaction among our passengers has experience never been higher. ·· The customer centre in Bodø has been expanded. ·· A new version of our digital travel buddy has been launched. Avinor must prevent undesired incidents and No aviation accidents in which Avinor was a contributing party. Three serious incidents without ensure good emergency preparedness injuries in which Avinor was a contributing party. 24 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation GOAL RESULTS Avinor’s must halve its own total verifiable ·· Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations increased f in 2017, greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared approximately 600 tonnes compared with 2012. with 2012 levels ·· Biodiesel used for Avinor’s own vehicles in Trondheim, Bergen, and Oslo. ·· Ten new vehicles, of which six are electric and three are hybrid. ·· Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Kristiansand, and Stavanger airports accredited by the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme. Avinor must help to reduce emissions from ground ·· All airlines that refuel at Oslo and Bergen airport can buy jet biofuel. In 2017 125,000 litres transport and air traffic of jet biofuel was mixed in. ·· For the second year in a row, there was a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from both international and domestic traffic. ·· Oslo airport has the highest proportion of public-transport-based ground transport in Europe at 70 per cent. ·· Together with NLF, in 2017 Avinor ordered Norway’s first battery-powered electric aircraft. Avinor must reduce purchased energy by 25 ·· Avinor’s energy consumption increased from 2016 to 2017. per cent by 2020 compared with the energy ·· Origin-guaranteed electricity has been purchased for all of Avinor’s airports. consumption of its buildings and facilities in 2012 ·· All carpark lighting is being changed to controlled LED lighting. This is due for completion in 2018. ·· A solar power facility is being developed in Svalbard. Avinor must sort at least 60 per cent of its waste ·· Avinor currently sorts 57 per cent of its waste. Activities at Avinor’s airports must not result in any ·· More de-icing chemicals than permitted at 11 airports. new ground contamination or worsening of water ·· Measures implemented to remove PFOS from both the ground and the water. quality Avinor will work actively to reduce the impact of ·· 5,350 curved approaches at Oslo airport in 2017. noise from aircraft and helicopter traffic for residents ·· Compliance with the new departure corridor at Oslo airport exceeded 95 per cent in 2017. at 10 (Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Ålesund, Brønnøysund, Kirkenes, Florø) ·· Altered approach and departure procedures at Bergen and Stavanger airports reduced the of Avinor’s noisiest airports by 2020 impact of noise from helicopters. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 25 Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer GOAL RESULTS Create a Group-wide culture of improvement ·· Established training framework. ·· Efforts to ensure that all airport managers are approved pursuant to the new requirements of the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority, including a new programme for Operational Maintenance Managers (airport managers). ·· 12 new internship places in 2017, making a total of 24. Sickness absence of 4.5 per cent or lower 4.5 per cent LTI rate 3.0 1.4 Reduce breaches of working hours provisions ·· 27 per cent reduction in the number of breaches of working hours provisions. ·· 0.5 per cent reduction in the use of overtime. Avinor aims to increase its percentage of women ·· In 2017 the percentage of women among permanent employees has been 22 per cent employees to 25 per cent in 2020 As an Inclusive Working Life company, Avinor ·· In 2017, Avinor had adapted work agreements in place with approximately 30 employees emphasises the prevention of exclusion from work to enable them to maintain their employment with the company Avinor shall contribute to higher employment of ·· In 2017 several schemes were implemented for the employment of people with disabilities people with disabilities and reduced occupational and reduced occupational opportunities. The experience from this has been positive opportunities Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly GOAL RESULTS Employees, suppliers, and partners must be familiar ·· 90 per cent of all employees have completed the course on Avinor’s ethics guidelines. with and comply with Avinor’s ethics guidelines ·· Established anti-corruption programme with focus on prevention and control activities. ·· Co-operation initiated with Skatt Øst to strengthen efforts to combat crime in the workplace. ·· Avinor’s notification committee received 200 notifications, all of which were addressed. 26 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway Avinor’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, and developing a national network of airports for the civilian aviation sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. Operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers. Avinor’s social obligations are important, and Avinor is in a good Avinor is a recognised and respected company perceived as being position to address it. The company has limited competition and modern, energetic, and proactive, and where safety and stable is in a growing industry. Through our systematic customer surveys operations always have the highest priority. The company ensures and stakeholder analyses, Avinor receives positive feedback from the financing of a network of small and large airports throughout the wider community. The government’s ownership report to the country and has the authority to take important initiatives to the Norwegian parliament in 2017 clearly states the following: ensure the sustainable development of Norwegian aviation. The COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 27 Avinor model is often cited as an example to be followed in the transport sector. Over a long period, Avinor has built world-leading expertise in its development and operation of a network of many small and large airports in a challenging climate and topography. This specialist expertise provides a competitive advantage and serves as a good basis for a more robust Avinor. The basic operational business is the most important foundation for the company’s activities and is being continually developed. In order to meet the requirements and expectations of customers and society, as well as new challenges in the wider community, four primary objectives have been prioritised: ·· contributing to the sustainable growth of Norway and its regions MANY AWARDS TO AVINOR OSLO AIRPORT ·· creating valuable experiences for passengers and visitors ·· developing competitive airports At the travel industry’s annual awards ceremony, Grand Travel ·· maintaining a proud and improvement-oriented corporate Award, in January 2018, New Oslo airport was named Newcoculture mer of the Year. This is the tenth prize that Norway’s primary airport has won since it officially opened in April 2017: ·· Prosjekt Norge’s Project of the Year prize was awarded MAJOR MILESTONES IN OSLO AND BERGEN to Avinor Oslo airport for the new terminal The opening of the new Oslo airport in April and the new termi·· Norsk Bergindustri’s natural stone prize was awarded to nal at Bergen airport, Flesland, in August 2017 were two major Avinor Oslo airport for the floor of the new terminal milestones in efforts to modernise and improve the efficiency of ·· The prize for best airport terminal design was awarded to Norwegian aviation and to pave the way for the future. Both proNew Oslo airport in conjunction with the Future Travel jects were delivered on time and under budget. Experience Global Congress in the US Challenging work has been underway at our two largest airports ·· It was named Best International Project by the UK’s for several years, without any notable impact on the public. High leading professional magazine for the construction industry rates of punctuality and regularity were maintained throughout the at the 2017 Building Awards in London construction period. The feedback on the new terminals from both ·· The DOGA label for design and architecture was awarded airlines and passengers is very positive. to Avinor Oslo airport for the “learning journey” training programme, which was conducted at Oslo airport for 22,000 employees in 2016/2017 OWNERSHIP REPORT AND NATIONAL TRANSPORT PLAN ·· The HSMAI prize Internal Event of the Year was awarded to WITH KEY CLARIFICATIONS Avinor Oslo airport for the new terminal experience event The government’s ownership report regarding Avinor and the ·· Avinor Oslo airport won bronze at the Best Event Awards National Transport Plan (NTP) for 2018 to 2029 were adopted by 2017 in the Education category for the new terminal the Norwegian parliament in June 2017. experience event ·· Avinor Oslo airport was nominated in the Les Trophées de Plan for a third runway at Oslo airport l’Evénement awards in the Exceptional Event category for The ownership report clarified that Avinor must continue to plan a the new terminal experience event and the new terminal third runway east of Oslo airport in the municipality of Ullensaker. service test Work is underway on zoning plans, new noise measurements, and ·· Avinor Oslo airport was also nominated in the SABRE dialogue with relevant stakeholders. The Ministry of Transport and Awards in the Employee Communications category for Communications will take a position on the matter of the constructhe communication and training concept related to the tion of a third runway at Oslo airport once Avinor has submitted a commissioning of the new terminal licence application pursuant to the Aviation Act. New Bodø airport The Norwegian parliament has approved the construction of a new airport in Bodø and stressed that this must take place as quickly 28 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 29 as possible – in the first part of the NTP period. NOK 2.2 billion in additional funding will be granted to the project in the first half of the NTP period, in addition to NOK 0.2 billion for the public rescue helicopter service. New airport in Mo i Rana The majority of the Norwegian parliament was also in favour of the construction of a new airport in Mo i Rana, and the current airport structure must be retained. This means that neither Mosjøen airport airport, nor Sandnessjøen airport will be decommissioned. Financing is not yet fully clarified. In order to get started quickly, the government aims to start work by way of local funding during the first part of the plan period. The government’s contribution to the project of NOK 1.47 billion (at 2017 prices) must be appropriated by parliament. On 1 April Narvik airport closed, after 42 years. Separate air navigation services from Avinor and subject control tower services to competition are universally designed in accordance with technical regulations. In the ownership report, the government clearly states its intention These measures are currently in the planning stage. to separate air navigation services from Avinor, and it aims to complete the process in the course of 2018. Efforts to establish Avinor’s standards for terminal and operations buildings, which also cover universal design, are now well The ownership report also clearly signals the introduction of comunderway. These standards will set guidelines for how Avinor’s petition in relation to control tower and approach control services construction projects are to take universal design into account. at Avinor’s airports. Furthermore, the government is paving the way The universal design requirements of both technical regulations for Avinor to be able to compete for control tower and approach and Standards Norway are to be incorporated, and a consultation control services internationally. has taken place with the Norwegian Federation of Organisations of Disabled People (FFO), the Norwegian Association of Disabled The government gave Avinor its support to further develop and (NAD), and the Norwegian Association of the Blind. include additional airports in the remote tower concept where this will result in greater savings than a competitive tendering. Furthermore, universal design guidelines will be implemented at airports in connection with new construction or major reconstrucSubject the operation of Haugesund tion projects. This will primarily cover terminal buildings, as well as airport to competition other buildings taking into account Avinor’s employees. This is conAt Haugesund airport, the government will hand over all operations ducted by way of specific project principles that describe universal to a party other than Avinor by way of competitive tendering, which design and that are followed up by the project manager. Avinor’s is known as a service concession model. This means that Avinor project implementation system, AviPro, ensures this. cannot submit a tender but will still own the airport. In the future, Avinor’s airports will nevertheless have different Decommissioning of Narvik airport standards with regard to universal design. For example, universal Narvik airport was decommissioned on Friday, 1 April 2017. This design has been taken into account in all aspects of the conwas adopted in the National Transport Plan for 2014 to 2023. struction and fitting-out of the new terminals at Oslo and Bergen airports. For some older terminal buildings built in another time under other regulations, it will take time before universal design is ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL – UNIVERSAL DESIGN implemented in accordance with current standards. Everyone must be able to plan and carry out their journey in a way Boarding solutions will also differ. At Avinor’s smaller airports, there that suits their needs. Air transport must, therefore, be universally are no airbridges between the terminal and the aircraft. At these designed, and Avinor must ensure that travelling by plane is preairports electric stair climbers adapted to the aircraft type will be dictable and seamless. Consequently, Avinor works to comply with provided. For medium-sized and large airports, priority will be given universal design requirements in close co-operation with organisato airbridges. tions for those with disabilities. Emphasis is placed on close co-operation with national and regional user fora, which has had positive A service that coincides with universal design is Avinor’s assistance results. Co-operation takes place through the Flygruppa forum, service. This covers passengers with reduced mobility. Avinor which represents organisations in major construction projects, as carries out around 150,000 assistance assignments each year, well as through other fora. covering passengers from their arrival at the airport until their safe embarkation. Pursuant to the Regulations on the universal design of airports and the rights of disabled people in relation to air transport of 16 July 2013, Avinor will soon complete a monitoring process EFFORTS TO IMPROVE THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE with the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority as the supervisory authority. The process will be completed during the summer of Avinor’s passenger strategy has a clear objective of ensuring pas2018. Universal design mapping has demonstrated a need for sengers have a simple journey, regardless of any situation that may planned and co-ordinated measures so that all of Avinor’s airports occur at our airports. 30 AVINOR AS also separate activities for children and young people under the ASQ OVERALL SATISFACTION – AVERAGE 8 LARGEST AIRPORTS auspices of Church City Mission, with which Avinor employees Score for customer satisfaction on a scale 1-5, where the score 4 has the description very good are involved. This year’s Christmas present went to Church City 4.2 PassengerSupplies from Mission’s “Gled en som gruer seg til jul” (Make someone happy who strategy adopted passenger-strategy is dreading Christmas) campaign. 4.0 3.8 Environmental organisations Zero and Bellona receive financial support from Avinor and give Avinor professional assistance in, for 3.6 example, efforts relating to the development of biofuel. 3.4 New New Oslo Bergen 3.2 Airport Airport PUNCTUALITY AFFECTED BY ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS 07-2012 01-2013 07-2013 01-2014 07-2014 01-2015 07-2015 02-2016 05-2016 08-2016 11-2016 02-2017 05-2017 08-2017 11-2017 The rate of punctuality at Avinor’s airports as a whole averaged 85 Oslo Airport Bergen Airport Weighted average per cent in 2017. This is down 2 per cent on 2016. Avinor’s Groupwide targets for punctuality (departure within 15 minutes of scheduled departure) is 88 per cent. Achieving this target depends on the concerted efforts of the airports, airlines, and providers of Airport Service Quality (ASQ) airport-related services. The weather also plays a role. The lower We regularly measure passenger satisfaction and take part in the rate of punctuality in 2017 is primarily due to adverse weather global ASQ (Airport Service Quality) survey which belongs to and conditions in January and December. is implemented by Airport Council International. According to this survey, Avinor’s passenger satisfaction has never been higher (see For regularity – which measures the percentage of scheduled flights graphic). There has been a steady increase over the last ten quarters. that actually operate – Avinor has a target of 98 per cent. In 2017 the rate of regularity for all the airports exceeded 98 per cent. This 2017 saw the opening of the new Oslo airport and a new passenger figure has hardly changed in recent years. terminal at Bergen airport, Flesland. The feedback from airlines, passengers, and employees at the airports has generally been very Airline data regarding cancellations and diversions provided positive. Both airports have seen significantly increased customer through the traffic information system ALTi serves as the basis for satisfaction. After the opening of its new terminal, Bergen airport Avinor’s official punctuality and regularity statistics. jumped from having the lowest level of customer satisfaction among Avinor’s airports in the ASQ survey to the airport with the most satisfied customers. AVIATION SAFETY AND SECURITY Customer service centre in Bodø The regulatory requirements in the area of flight safety and security Our hospitality role has been in the spotlight over the past year. Our follow from Norway’s international obligations through the EEA customer centre in Bodø now has longer opening hours in order to and ICAO (the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation). help customers when they need assistance. We handle enquiries The Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority implements provisions by phone and on social media and try to help customers even if that Avinor is required to comply with based on these obligations. their enquiry relates to one of our airport partners. New tools and Avinor plays an active role in international efforts, such as in the procedures on Facebook have resulted in faster response times and development of new aviation-related regulations in Europe and no enquiry going unanswered. airport regulations in particular. Digital travel companion Flight Safety is Avinor’s highest priority and the primary objective is In 2017 Avinor launched a new and improved version of its digital to prevent undesired events and ensure good emergency prepartravel companion, “Avinor” which not only makes passengers’ edness. Efforts are underway to identify additional measures to supjourneys easier but also provides simpler access to personalport this objective. Avinor’s flight safety efforts are an integral part ised and relevant services and offers. The app is one of the most of quality management at Avinor and are adapted to the manageimportant channels for customer communication. Half a million ment structure established in the management system. customers have registered a profile with Avinor in order to gain access to digital services and personalised and relevant customer In connection with the requirements of new EU regulations, Avinor communications. must have an overview of hazards and risks. Following the completion of the description of the process for operational risk management, the development of methodology and procurement, as well AVINOR’S SPONSORSHIPS as the adaptation of tools for recording operational risks, 2017 saw the establishment of operational risk analyses at airports. The safety Avinor’s sponsorships are primarily targeted at local measures and and environment of the Group’s staff has been bolstered by the airactivities for children and young people in the areas surrounding ports through the implementation of operational risk management our airports, many of which made contributions in 2017. pursuant to the applicable regulations. As at the end of the year, nineteen airports had implemented operational risk management. At our head office in Oslo, Avinor works with Church City Efforts will continue in 2018. Mission through the Neighbour Co-operation project. There are COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 31 Dashboards enabled simpler, more efficient, and more cohesive Drones management information in 2017. New monthly reports were estabThe level of drone activity increased in 2017. The quality of the lished by way of automated dashboards and are used in local and dataset is, however, still too uncertain for being able to determine central safety meetings. These include the airports’ operational risk whether and, if so, to what extent this activity has had an impact on analyses which are submitted as each analysis is completed. This safety levels. gives us a more accurate and more standardised overall picture, from airport level to Group level. During the year Avinor’s RPAS (Remotely Piloted Aircraft System) team has participated in the Ministry of Transport and A new reporting regulation (376/2014) came into effect in Communications’ working group in the preparation of a national Norwegian law in 2016 and was fully implemented during the drone strategy. This will be published in the first quarter of 2018. course of 2017. In January 2017 a non-compliance reporting portal In addition, there is close co-operation with the Norwegian Civil (avvik.avinor.no) was established for our suppliers and partners. The Aviation Authority on the implementation of new European regulareports we receive help us to form a better overview of the overall tions on the use of drones. Furthermore there is co-operation with risk and flight safety picture. the industry’s own interest group, UAS Norway, to help ensure the safe use of drones. Directives on the processing of applications to fly All undesirable incidents of a certain severity are followed up. Based drones at airports are being harmonised. The objective is to ensure on the aviation incidents reported using the non-compliance tool, that the operation of pilotless aircraft is safe and consistent at both in 2017 Avinor Flysikring AS focused in particular on runway incurcontrolled and non-controlled airports. sions and the late detection of conflicts. A number of measures have been implemented. There is considerable demand from various stakeholders regarding the tools and equipment that can be used both by airports and by Safety management is now risk-based, which has seen the estabthe air navigation service in this field. lishment of proactive safety indicators and the use of reactive methods as a basis for proactive efforts. The reporting culture in Audits the Group is good, with a result of 4.96 per full-time equivalent. The The Group works systematically to maintain a good safety culture target was 4.5. The reports submitted deal with potential or minor and a high level of flight safety. One of several measures is the regusituations that facilitate learning and improvement. The follow-up lar audit of units and specific areas to verify the Group’s compliance of nonconformities is a high priority in all parts of the Group. This with relevant laws and regulations. includes the closure of non-compliance incidents by a deadline, which can be a challenge with respect to high levels of production In addition, suppliers are regularly audited to ensure the proper and day-to-day operations. quality of their deliveries in relation to the applicable agreements. Audit frequency is governed by the criticality of the deliveries. The management system, including safety management, was Suppliers providing services that Avinor is certified for are closely expanded and improved in 2017 and this will continue in 2018. monitored by way of audits. This ensures that these services are The Central Safety Review Board has approved the establishment provided within the framework of Avinor’s certificates. of an investigative and risk analysis pool, which will be established in 2018. Audit findings help to verify that Avinor is maintaining an overview of the requirements applicable to the company and that our Accidents and serious aviation incidents governance ensures compliance with these requirements. Avinor’s There were no aviation accidents with or without personal injury audit programme incorporates the requirements of the Aviation in Norwegian aviation in which Avinor was a contributing party in Act, EU/2008/2016, the Working Environment Act, the Security Act, 2017. There were three serious aviation incidents in which Avinor and the regulations associated with these. This is in addition to relewas a contributing party. The Group-wide target is two or fewer. vant ISO standards, as well as regulations and standards within the Two events concerned the non-observance of minimum airspace external environment. distances at Kjevik and Bodø, while the third concerned a car on the runway during the departure of an aircraft at Bodø. Audit programmes are in place for one year at a time and are approved by the CEO. The findings of the audits are recorded as non-compliance in our non-compliance management tool and ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AVIATION INCIDENTS 2015-2017 followed up by the entity defined as the risk owner. Findings recorded at external parties are followed up by the contract manager or named AVIATION AVIATION contact through Avinor’s non-compliance management tool. ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS NOT SERIOUS AVIATION INVOLVING INVOLVING INCIDENTS PERSONAL INJURY PERSONAL INJURY 14 Avinor airports are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 2017 3 0 0 (environmental certification requirements). Efforts are ongoing to get all airports certified. 2016 0 1 0 2015 2 0 0 Certification audits were conducted by an external certification company in November 2017. An additional 18 airports were covered Serious aviation incidents, aviation accidents not involving personal injury, and aviation accidents involving personal injury where Avinor was a contributing party. by the certification audit. The terms “serious aviation incident” and “aviation accident” follow the definitions in Regulation (EU) No. 996/2010. In connection with the implementation of environmental management for these additional airports and in preparation for the 32 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 33 external certification audit, 33 internal implementation audits/ COMMUNITY SECURITY AND EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS document reviews were conducted. These audits were carried out as both remote audits and on-site internal audits. In 2017 Avinor worked closely with the Norwegian Armed Forces in preparation for the NATO Trident Juncture exercise in 2018 and In addition to external environment implementation audits, 28 took part in several introductory exercises and briefings. Emphasis internal audits were conducted under the direction of Avinor AS was placed on the establishment of secure communication in 2017. These audits were conducted as systems audits of process channels and management tools for use in crises and emergency areas (top-down) or as traditional airport audits. The findings of situations. Avinor maintained a high level of internal exercises and the audits are recorded as non-compliance in our non-compliance implemented internal training to ensure a high level of capability management tool. These are followed up by the defined risk owner. during crisis events. Findings recorded at external parties are followed up by the contract manager or Avinor’s named contact. Avinor’s non-compliance management tool manages these as well. CERTIFICATION OF AVINOR’S AIRPORTS Supplier monitoring In May 2016 Avinor was certified as an airport operator for civil Stakeholders that work at or supply products and services to aviation in accordance with pan-European legislation prepared by Avinor’s airports are also monitored by way of audits. Audit the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The CEO is Avinor frequency is governed by the criticality of the deliveries. Avinor AS’s Accountable Manager. conducted 15 audits of external parties in 2017. During the course of 2016 and 2017, all the airports were included So-called “prior audits” are conducted for some new deliveries in Avinor AS’s operator certificate and each received a certificate before an agreement is concluded to ensure that there are no stating that the airport complies with European regulations. instances of serious non-compliance/defects at the supplier. EU and Norwegian authorities stipulate this type of monitoring and auditing. PROJECTS, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT The increased use of suppliers and the outsourcing of services In 2017 Avinor Flysikring AS continued its co-operation in the funcset high standards for Avinor’s compliance-monitoring system. tional NEFAB airspace block (Norway, Estonia, Latvia, and Finland) Consequently there are ongoing efforts to improve the process, through the Borealis Alliance (which, in addition to NEFAB, develop methods, and educate and maintain resources to ensure includes the airspace blocks of UK/Ireland and Denmark/Sweden). that these deliveries are always provided within the scope of the Efforts are underway to develop Free Route so that it applies to all laws and requirements that Avinor is obliged to comply with. areas in the Borealis Alliance. Work relating to remote towers is continuing at full pace. As part of SECURITY CONTROL a project in partnership with Kongsberg and Indra, Avinor is planning to control 15 towers remotely from Bodø by the end of 2020. Threat levels are the same as in previous years. As previously, the Avinor AS is also playing an active role in SESAR 2020 (a major use of readily available weapons and cars remains a challenge. In EU research and development programme in aviation and part of 2017, Avinor conducted analyses to identify security-related vulnerHorizon 2020) together with other partners and stakeholders in the abilities at all its airports and is now implementing tailored security sector. Avinor’s expertise helps to increase security, capacity, and measures. This work will continue in the years to come so that predictability, as well as to reduce the environmental footprint of security measures reduce the adverse impact of incidents and make Europe’s aviation network. it more difficult to carry out actions that can inflict major damage at our airports. Innovative projects are being implemented at the airports, such as robotic mowers along the runways, which benefit both the enviIn 2017, Avinor embarked on new projects to update its security ronment and flight safety. Driverless plough vehicles were tested control equipment. In addition to investments in security scanners at Fagernes airport in 2017 and a full-scale prototype test will be and new security control areas at Oslo and Bergen airports, screenconducted at Bodø airport in the first quarter of 2018. ing equipment for checked-in baggage was upgraded at 19 airports. Avinor is working to deliver cost-effective services that ensure good Avinor is participating in several research and development security, low costs, and good experiences. projects relating to the development of sustainable biofuels for aviation, including in collaboration with SINTEF, BI Norwegian Business School, and the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. The HUMAN TRAFFICKING development of electric aircraft has picked up pace, and Avinor is playing a very active role in these efforts. Avinor also participates Avinor has no proprietary systems for reporting human trafficking. in Klima 2050, a research centre focusing on extreme weather and Such incidents are recorded in a crime case management system gradual climate change, as well as the climatic adaptation of buildand are processed by the relevant authorities, such as the police ings and infrastructure. and customs. These are in place at Avinor’s largest airports, and the airports are reporting good co-operation. Avinor encourages all employees to report situations which are unclear and in which they suspect that human trafficking is taking place. 34 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation Avinor shall focus on long-term goals with regard to the four main environmental challenges of operating airports: climate, energy, noise, and emissions into water and ground. Effective and systematic environmental management is needed to this is the increased use of runway de-icing chemicals and the manage these challenges. Consequently, environmental management increased use of heating oil in 2017 due to a technical error at Oslo efforts have seen a boost in recent years. Centralised environmental airport’s energy centre. We saw a slight increase in emissions in management has now been implemented locally at all of Avinor’s 2017, despite the introduction of approximately airports. In 2017, Avinor’s environmental management and operations were certified in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. 200,000 litres of biodiesel to our vehicles and the use of 60,000 litres Fourteen airports are now covered by Avinor’s joint certification. of bio heating oil. Emissions from Avinor’s operations depend heavAn additional 18 airports underwent their first certification audit at ily on the weather in the winter due to the need for snow ploughing, the end of 2017, and the remaining airports will be phased into the heating, and the use of de-icing chemicals. certification in 2018. In 2017 Avinor chose to buy origin-guaranteed electricity for the first time. Consequently emissions relating to electricity are nil. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In addition, in 2017 the decision was made to deduct electricity consumption from climate targets and instead add this to Avinor’s Avinor’s Group-wide climate targets: By 2020, Avinor must energy targets, since it is better to measure reductions in kWh than halve its total controllable greenhouse gas emissions as CO2 when it comes to electricity consumption in Norway. To enable compared with 2012 and help to reduce emissions from the comparison of greenhouse gas emissions year to year, we have ground transport and air traffic. therefore decided to deduct electricity consumption from our 2012 target figure. This has also been done for all years displayed in the The biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions at airports is table of key figures so that the same sources of emissions are comaircraft landing and taking off, followed by ground transport pared in the emissions total. Electricity consumption is presented (i.e. greenhouse gas emissions generated by passengers getting in GWh under “Key figures”, page 46. to and from the airport). Greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations Avinor’s own greenhouse gas emissions relate to the operation of the airports and are relatively small compared with the greenhouse gas emissions produced by aircraft and ground transport. Avinor’s biggest source of emissions is the consumption of fuel for its own vehicles, followed by energy consumption and business travel. Svalbard airport stands out in particular in Avinor’s climate accounts since the airport’s heating and electricity are both provided by a coal-fired power plant. A gradual transition to solar power is underway. Other sources of Avinor’s own controllable emissions include the discharge of chemicals for runway de-icing and firefighting exercises. Avinor produces climate accounts in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and purchases climate quotas in order to In Stavanger 16 electric robotic mowers charged by solar panels helped to keep the grass cut in the summer. The solar panels and batteries help offset its own emissions. In 2017 Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse to ensure that the mowers always have power. They have a capacity of gas emissions from airport operations totalled approximately 16,300 20 square kilometres, which is necessary along the 2.5-kilometre-long tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which is an increase of approximately main runway. 600 tonnes compared with 2012. The primary reason for COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 35 Avinor’s goal is to halve its own emissions by 2020. An important runway de-icing chemicals produced from fossil-free carbon sources. measure in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Avinor’s own This is not a product that is currently available on the market. operations is the introduction of advanced biodiesel, since around half of Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions come from its fleet of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) is an industry organisation vehicles. Advanced biodiesel was used at Trondheim, Bergen, and that airport operators can accredit themselves within. The purpose Oslo airports in 2017. The mixture ratio of advanced biodiesel (HVO) of the scheme is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from airports at Oslo airport was over 20 per cent. The objective is to introduce worldwide. In 2017 more than 200 airports were part of the scheme. biodiesel at a further four airports in 2018. Advanced biodiesel is used This means that around 40 per cent of global passenger traffic in vehicles that cannot be easily electrified, such as snow blowers and passes through ACA-accredited airports. Within Avinor, Oslo sweepers. The biodiesel used by Avinor does not contain palm oil or airport, Trondheim airport, and Kristiansand airport have been palm oil derivatives and conforms to EU sustainability criteria. accredited in the scheme since its inception in 2009. Bergen airport and Stavanger airport have participated since 2014. Airports particWhen procuring vehicles, an assessment must always be made as ipating in the scheme must set binding targets for emission reducto whether a vehicle powered by fossil fuel can be replaced with tions, prepare detailed climate accounts, and adopt action plans. an electric vehicle. In 2017 Avinor purchased ten new administrative vehicles, of which six were electric and three were hybrids. In Greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic addition, efforts are underway to increase the number of charging Since 2007 Avinor has co-operated with airlines and the Federation points in Avinor’s parking facilities. The charging infrastructure will of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO Luftfart) to facilitate be further improved in 2018 and a project has been set in motion to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic. Three roll out an additional 800 charging points within Avinor, which will reports 1) have been published outlining emission-reducing measures be completed in 2018. and comparing the effect of these with expected traffic development. According to projections, greenhouse gas emissions from To reduce Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions it is also necessary domestic aviation – taking into account expected energy efficiento ramp up the introduction of bio heating oil where possible at cies – will be roughly the same in 2030 as in 2016, despite significant individual airports and to switch to renewable energy. Other meastraffic growth. Emissions for international aviation may increase as a ures that are essential for reducing energy consumption at Avinor’s result of the significant increase in traffic if sustainable biofuels, and airports are discussed in the section on energy. subsequently electric and hybrid-electric aircraft, are not introduced. The use of runway de-icing chemicals has increased considerably in The most important emission-reducing measures are related to recent years due to climatic changes. Consequently, in the years to fleet renewal, increasing the efficiency of airspace, sustainable biocome it will be important to consider opportunities for obtaining fuel, and the introduction of electric and hybrid-electric aircraft. 1) Sustainable and socially beneficial aviation – Report, 3 August 2017. 36 AVINOR AS Airspace efficiency improvements GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS FROM NORWEGIAN AVIATION Airspace efficiency improvements coupled with the optimisation 1990-2016 of landings and take-offs are important measures through which Tonnes of CO2-equiv. Avinor can exercise considerable influence. Free Route Airspace 3 000 000 was implemented in 2016, and improved navigation technology 2 500 000 facilitates more accurate and flexible approach and departure procedures. Since Avinor commenced a project for satellite-based 2 000 000 approaches at Oslo airport, several thousand curved approaches 1 500 000 have been carried out. The advantage of these approach procedures 1 000 000 is that flights can pass around densely populated areas close to the airport, reducing noise for the airport’s neighbours. In addition, 500 000 aircraft can fly shorter routes thus reducing their fuel consump0 tion and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2017 the pilot project was 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 completed and the procedures were approved by the Norwegian International emissions Domestic emissions Total emissions Civil Aviation Authority, so they are available to anyone who would like to apply for approval. The procedures for curved approaches have been implemented at several Avinor airports, and several more airports will implement them in the years to come. According to Statistics Norway, greenhouse gas emissions from all domestic civil aviation in 2016 (most recent official figures) correJet biofuel sponded to 2.25 per cent of total domestic emissions (1.2 million Biofuel was certified for use in civil aviation in 2009. Since then, sevtonnes out of a total of 53.3 million). It is these emissions which are eral thousand scheduled civilian flights have been carried out using covered by the Kyoto Protocol and which are reported in Statistics biofuels, and the development of various technologies for the producNorway’s statistics on greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian tion of biofuels has picked up pace. According to both the industry territory. This principle is used in all countries. and the International Civil Aviation Organization, the introduction of biofuels for aviation is considered to be a very important measure in Greenhouse gas emissions from international traffic (i.e. from reducing greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. Norwegian airports to the first overseas destination) equated to 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 2016. These emissions The first flights using jet biofuel in Norway were conducted by SAS are reported annually by the Norwegian Environment Agency to and Norwegian in November 2014. In January 2016, Oslo airport – the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in collaboration with AirBP, Neste, SkyNRG, Lufthansa Group, KLM, (UNFCCC). and SAS – became the first international airport in the world to supply biofuel for all airlines refuelling there. 1.25 million litres of Total greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel for civil purposes sustainable jet biofuel were used in Norway in 2016. This corresold at Norwegian airports in 2016 (most recent official figures) is sponded to 0.1 per cent of all jet fuel sold in Norway. This scheme equivalent to around 5 per cent of Norway’s total emissions, in the was expanded in August 2017 to include Bergen airport, Flesland. order of 2.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. For the second year There was very limited availability of jet biofuel in the market in in a row, there was a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2017, resulting in the mixture of only 125,000 litres of jet biofuel durboth international and domestic traffic. Between 2015 and 2016 ing the year. The biofuels sold to airlines in Norway are produced the reduction was roughly 4 per cent. This reduction in greenhouse without palm oil or palm oil products. gas emissions is primarily due to the use of aircraft that are more energy efficient and fewer aircraft movements. Avinor has set aside up to NOK 100 million for a ten-year period (2013-2022) for measures and projects contributing to the According to IATA,2) total CO2 emissions from global aviation were introduction of jet biofuel in Norwegian aviation. Together with 811 million tonnes, or about 2 per cent of total global CO2 emissions airlines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO (36 billion tonnes) in 2016. In addition, the fact that some of the Luftfart), Avinor has explored the potential for establishing the emissions occur at high altitudes increases their climatic impact. large-scale production of biofuels for aviation using biomass from CICERO estimates an additional factor of between 0.8 and 2.5, with the Norwegian forestry industry. The conclusion is that this can be a model average of 1.8. Only a limited amount of domestic traffic in realised between 2020 and 2025. Jet biofuel can also be imported Norway occurs at these altitudes 3). from abroad. Avinor has worked with a number of stakeholders on the production of jet biofuel for aviation in Norway. In addition, Greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation Avinor supports several research projects related to this, including Airlines are continuing their energy efficiency and fleet renewal in collaboration with SINTEF, BI Norwegian Business School, and efforts. SAS’s and Norwegian’s fleet renewal is ongoing, and both the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. operate only the latest generation aircraft. More energy-efficient engines, improved aerodynamics, lower weight, and more seats In June 2017 the Norwegian parliament stipulated that from 2019, mean that the new Boeing 737 aircraft use around 30 per cent less 1 per cent of jet fuel in Norway must be biofuel, increasing to 30 fuel and have lower greenhouse gas emissions per seat-kilometre per cent by 2030 if such fuel is available. The Norwegian Ministry than previous generation aircraft. The introduction of the Airbus of Transport and Communications and the Norwegian Ministry of A320 NEO and Boeing 737 Max began in 2016. Both provide a furClimate and Environment are now considering how this transition ther reduction of around 15 per cent per seat-kilometre. can be implemented in practice. 2) http://www.iata.org/publications/economics/Reports/Industry-Econ-Performance/Central-forecast-end-year-2017-tables.pdf 3) Lund, Marianne T, Borgar Aamaas, Terje Berntsen and Jan S. Fuglestvedt (2016): “Luftfart og klima En oppdatert oversikt over status for forskning på klimaeffekter av utslipp fra fly” [Aviation and the Climate: an updated overview of the status of research into the climate effects of aircraft emissions], CICERO Report 2016:5. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 37 The large-scale Norwegian production of biofuel for aviation and Avinor’s investment in the electrification of aviation has attracted heavy road transport may be crucial in achieving Norwegian cliconsiderable attention nationally and internationally, and aircraft mate targets, but this depends on long-term, predictable conditions manufacturers are looking at Norway as a viable first market for that do not reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation. such aircraft. Avinor will strengthen its electrification efforts in 2018. Electrification of aviation Ground transport There is considerable interest in and a good deal of activity surIn order to boost the range of services to passengers, reduce greenrounding the development of electric aircraft. A number of stakehouse gas emissions, and improve local air quality, Avinor wants holders, including Boeing, Airbus, Siemens, Rolls Royce, and NASA, to be a driving force behind enabling as many journeys as possiare working with and can see the commercial potential of electric ble to and from the airports to be made by public transport. The and hybrid-electric aircraft. In Norway, Avinor is playing an active challenges relating to ground transport have to do with both the role in these efforts. Together with the Norwegian Association of transport network and the modes of transport. Settlement patterns Air Sports (NLF), Avinor has established a long-term project for the in the airports’ catchment areas also mean that it is not possible introduction of electric aircraft in Norwegian aviation. The project to offer a full range of public transport to everyone. Nevertheless, is supported by the government, and the project partners are a generally high proportion of journeys made to and from Avinor’s Widerøe, SAS, and the climate foundation ZERO. airports are made by public transport. For example, Oslo airport has the highest such proportion in Europe. The proportion of such jourTogether with NLF, in 2017 Avinor ordered Norway’s first batneys has increased in recent years, and the goal is further growth. tery-powered electric aircraft. The aircraft, which will be used for demonstration and training purposes, is produced by Pipistrel of The increase in the proportion of public transport in ground Slovenia and is due to be delivered before the summer of 2018. transport is affected by the range of parking facilities and public transport services, as well as the composition of air traffic. The most Norway is in a unique position to utilise electric aircraft thanks to its important distinction for public transport is between those who established local network using small aircraft, great interest in translive in the airport’s catchment area and who have access to their port electrification and almost 100 per cent renewable electricity. own car, and inbound passengers who do not have access to their Based on the information Avinor has obtained, a realistic expectation own car. When inbound traffic increases more quickly, so does the is that the first electric or hybrid-electric aircraft will enter passenger proportion of public transport. The proportion of cars increases if service in Norway by around 2025. Avinor has commenced work locally generated traffic increases more quickly. to map current and future capacity with a view to charging electric aircraft at the company’s airports. Avinor has been commissioned by For Oslo airport, the high proportion of public transport among the government to develop a programme that paves the way for the domestic travellers has a positive impact. A greater proportion of introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation. international traffic is outbound, hence the higher proportion of Electric or hybrid electric aircraft in passenger traffic in 2025? 38 AVINOR AS car use. Since 2013, however, the increased proportion of foreignapplied for in Stavanger for charging electric taxis at three locations, ers in international traffic has resulted in an increase in the use of one of which is Stavanger airport. The provision of three charging public transport, which is the preferred means of transport for this points at Oslo airport’s taxi rank was approved in 2017. passenger group. Oslo, Bergen, and Trondheim have seen a positive development in One passenger group that poses a particular environmental chalthe use of public transport as a means of ground transport since lenge for society are those known as “Kiss & Fly”, who drive to the 2009. Depending on how the situation develops, Avinor will set its airport to drop off or pick up passengers, then drive back home. sights higher heading towards 2030. The target for Oslo airport has Avinor wants to encourage this group to use public transport. already been set at 75 per cent by 2030. The Bergen light railway Number-plate recognition being introduced at all airports in 2018 started serving Bergen airport in April 2017 and has reduced the will charge vehicles that wait for longer than a very limited permitnumber of people parking their cars there. ted time, which will help to encourage passengers to take public transport instead of being dropped off and picked up at the airport. SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT AVINOR'S FOUR LARGEST AIRPORTS Most measures for increasing the use of public transport fall outside of Avinor’s areas of responsibility and require co-operation SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT with a number of other stakeholders. Avinor’s most important AIRPORT 2009 2015 2017 TARGET 2020 TAXI 2017 contribution will be to provide infrastructure at the airports and information about services to passengers. At Bergen airport, bus Oslo 64 71 70 70 4 service information is now displayed on digital displays. In 2018, Stavanger 14 18 21 30 20 Oslo airport will work to provide better information regarding bus Bergen 27 42 43 50 16 transport. At the Group level, active efforts are underway with Norway’s largest airport bus operators at the four largest airports. Trondheim 42 52 49 50 10 The aim of this co-operation is to identify strategies for increasing Source: Air passenger surveys (RVU) market share for bus companies at the expense of private cars. In its co-operation with airport bus operators, Avinor has developed specific measures to increase market share for bus operators. These CO2 tax and emissions trading efforts will continue in the years to come. Avinor would like to use Norway is one of the few countries in the world to impose a CO2 this knowledge to facilitate the increased investment in public tax on domestic aviation. In 2017 this amounted to NOK 1.10 per transport at smaller airports. litre of jet fuel, or NOK 431 per tonne of CO2 (+ 10 per cent VAT). In accordance with international agreements, a CO2 tax cannot be Avinor is collaborating with Hordaland County Council to introimposed on international traffic. duce rapid charging points at Bergen airport. Funding has been COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 39 Since 2012 civil aviation has been part of the EU’s emission trading EMISSIONS TO WATER AND GROUND system, in line with the energy and industry sectors. Around 75 per cent of flights within and from Norway are covered by the EU’s Many activities at the airports involve the use of chemicals that emission trading system. The EU’s goal is that emissions in sectors may result in discharge. Avinor’s corporate social responsibility subject to quotas be 43 per cent lower in 2030 than in 2005. Airlines includes constantly seeking to reduce chemical use, sourcing the must apply for and are allocated a certain number of free quotas most environmentally appropriate alternatives, and monitoring the based on their production in 2010. They must then either reduce impact of airport operations on the surrounding environment. their emissions or buy quotas for excess emissions. The quota price 4) has varied between NOK 235 per tonne of CO2 in July 2008 In recent winters, Avinor’s use of de-icing chemicals has generally and NOK 21 per tonne of CO2 in April 2013. As at February 2018, the increased. This is primarily with regard to aircraft de-icing chemiquota price was roughly NOK 90 per tonne. The EU is expected to cals due to more inclement weather. Aircraft de-icing chemicals are reduce the scope of available allowances in the lead up to 2030 to used more particularly when there is precipitation in the winter, in ensure that targets are achieved. This will increase quota prices and, order to prevent the formation of ice on aircraft. During the course in the longer term, result in higher costs for Norwegian aviation. of 2017, 11 of Avinor’s 45 airports used more de-icing chemicals than permitted. A passenger tax was introduced for all departures from Norwegian airports on 1 June 2016. In 2017 this was NOK 82 per passenger. Oslo airport is one of the airports that exceeded its discharge permit for de-icing chemicals in 2017. Discharge permits are recipient The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has set based, which means that there is no specific limit to the amount of a target of carbon-neutral growth in international aviation from chemicals we can use in our de-icing activities. However, the con2020. At the ICAO general meeting in October 2016, it was agreed dition is that the recipient – a water source or the ground – must to introduce a quota system for greenhouse gas emissions from not be damaged as a result of discharge. In the winter of 2016/17, international aviation, which, along with other measures, will four discharge permit breaches occurred in relation to a waterhelp to reach the target. The first six-year phase of the mechanism course by the airport. In 2017 there were a total of nine discharge through to 2021 will be voluntary for the states. So far, 73 states, permit breaches in relation to groundwater. Consequently, efforts including Norway, have voluntarily participated in this phase. Air are underway to assess the long-term effects on the ground and traffic between these states accounts for almost 90 per cent of groundwater as a result of de-icing chemicals spread along the international air traffic. runways and taxiways. Insufficient oxygen has limited the breakdown of the chemicals in the most critical areas. In light of this, 65 Climate adaptation wells have been drilled to supply the ground and groundwater with In Norway, it is expected that climate change will result in a air. The project was launched in 2016 and has had a positive effect warmer, more volatile, and wetter climate with wide regional and through the increased breakdown of the chemicals. local variations. Extreme weather events and natural disasters will be more frequent, and if we cannot adapt our infrastructure In 2017 Avinor received new discharge permits for Kirkenes, and to cope with these, there will be serious material and economic a permission to use the firefighting exercise areas at Alta airport consequences. for an extended time. For Røst, Rørvik, Førde, Sogndal, Svalbard, Bodø, Trondheim, and Tromsø airports new discharge permits were Since 2001, Avinor – together with the Norwegian Public Roads applied for. Administration, the Norwegian Coastal Administration, and the Norwegian Railway Directorate – has assessed the impact of Avinor’s environmental target for the period 2016 to 2020 is that climate change on Norwegian transport infrastructure through its no new ground contamination or worsening of water quality may efforts relating to the National Transport Plan. In addition, Avinor occur at any of its airports. Although neither occurred in 2017, two has conducted its own risk and vulnerability analyses and impleincidents were recorded that posed a risk of permanent contamimented a number of measures relating to its own infrastructure. nation of the water and/or ground. At Bodø airport, leaks occurred Avinor’s climate adaptation efforts also extend to co-operation with in two large tanks containing formatebased de-icing chemicals. In the ICAO and Airport Council International (ACI). both cases, the leaks were caused by manufacturing faults in the welds, which are the supplier’s responsibility. At Sogndal airport, Avinor is involved in Klima2050, a centre for research-based water containing glycol leaked from a glycol holding tank in the innovation run by SINTEF, and is contributing with pilot projects de-icing area when a discharge valve on the tank was not put in in, for example, the improved filtration of run-off from runways the winter position. This resulted in water containing glycol being and the improved maintenance and climate adaptation of existing discharged into marshland north of the operations building. This is buildings. Through the establishment of standards for buildings in being monitored closely. Avinor, new building and infrastructure projects will have a greater emphasis on climate adaptation. A lot of terrain work was conducted at several of Avinor’s airports in 2017. There is considerable emphasis on potential ground conAn example of this is project planning work for the new airport in tamination, and many trials have been conducted to determine Bodø, which started in 2017. To ensure high levels of regularity and the correct processing methods for excavated earth. The focus on punctuality throughout the airport’s life, climate adaptation is a ground contamination is also incorporated into the development of key element of detailed planning and must be taken into account a master plan for each airport. Liability related to old/new contamwhen selecting materials and conducting assessments in relation to ination is also being addressed in the preparation of templates for drainage capacity. new lease contracts. 4) Page 46 of Prop 1 LS 2015-2016: Tax, duties, and customs 2016. 40 AVINOR AS At Førde airport, in the autumn of 2017 the decision was made to Avinor is continually monitoring PFAS contamination at its construct a new operations building and an ancilliary snow facility, airports, and sampling for PFAS analysis has been incorporated as well as to improve and increase the capacity for holding water into the annual environmental monitoring programmes. In 2017, containing glycol from the de-icing platform and snow depot/facilin addition to the regular monitoring of water at outflow points ity. In addition to the improved management of glycol run-off from and recipients, fish sampling in recipients was conducted at de-icing operations, it will be necessary to process earth containing several airports (Svalbard, Narvik, Harstad/Narvik, Fagernes, and PFAS in connection with excavations for the new buildings. The Bergen). Some of the sampling is related to orders by environmental outcome is expected to be an airport with cleaner ground and a authorities, while other sampling has been carried out on Avinor’s smaller impact on the surrounding environment. own initiative. A purification facility for groundwater containing PFAS is in operation at Oslo airport, and measures are being evaluated at other airports. At Harstad/Narvik airport the Norwegian PFAS Environment Agency has ordered Avinor to implement measures to clean contaminated water from a stream from a decommissioned Until 2011, Avinor used various types of perand polyfluoroalkyl subfirefighting exercise area. Avinor is maintaining positive dialogue stances (PFAS) in fire-extinguishing foam in its firefighting exercise with the Norwegian Environment Agency regarding the PFAS issue. areas. The most common compound, PFOS, was phased out in 2001. Since it has been documented that several PFAS compounds are At Oslo airport, efforts are underway to reduce the discharge of toxic and heavily biodegradable, Avinor has switched to fluorine-free PFAS from contaminated ground in the firefighting exercise area. fire-extinguishing foam. However, several years of using fluorinated Before this began, the quantity of PFOS remaining in the ground fire-extinguishing foam has led to ground contamination in several and groundwater was estimated to total 80 kilograms. In 2017, of Avinor’s firefighting exercise areas, as well as in other areas used measures were implemented to remove PFOS from both the ground for exercises in the past. This contamination means that some types and the water. Groundwater, drainage water, and waste water are of PFAS are still leaking out into the natural environments around cleaned continuously by way of three carbon filter purification the airports. Avinor has been working on this issue for several years facilities that were commissioned in 2015 and 2016. In 2017, earth ( figure A) and is keen to take responsibility for the contamination contaminated with PFOS (2275 tonnes) was excavated and discaused by airport operations, although this must be proportionate posed of, in addition to on-site efforts to decontaminate the earth. from a socio-economic cost/benefit perspective. This decontamination process works by passing a steady amount of clean water through the earth contaminated with PFOS so that Earth contaminated with PFAS poses a challenge to Avinor in its the PFOS are released from the surface of the soil particles and development projects, be they big or small. Avinor has established transferred into the water. This water is then collected and purified an internal limit (concentration) for when special consideration in the carbon filter facilities. must be given to excavation works involving earth contaminated with PFAS. This limit is stricter than the authorities’ requirements It was estimated that between the implementation of the meas(applicable standard value). The processing of earth contaminated ures and the end of 2017 a total of 16.2 kilograms of PFOS would with PFAS is a challenge that Avinor is working to overcome, as be removed from the firefighting exercise area. This corresponds only a small number of processing centres can take soil contamito around 20 per cent of the total volume of PFOS. Of these 16.2 nated with PFAS. kilograms, 7.5 kilograms were removed by way of the excavation Analysis of living organisms. Norwegian Avinors changed Food Safety Authority to fluorine-free analyzing fish and Cleaning 3M production of fire-extinguishing shellfish at 5 airports. measures starts at Cleaning measures orders PFOS until 2003 foam at all airports No restrictions Oslo Airport at Harstad/Narvik airport 2001-2007: Avinor uses Plan for foam without PFOS, but measures ordered with other PFAS at Svalbard aiport 2001 2003 2007 2008 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Until 2001 Avinor used PFOS regulations Mapping and risk Plan for implementing Reports from New analyses fire-extinguishing foam evaluation of PFOS ordered by Norwegian 18 airports of fish around containing PFOS at all contamination at all Environment Agency several airports airports Avinor Airports at Kristiansand airport 2011/2012 PFOS first time found at Plan for implementing measures Norwegian Food Safety firefighting exercise areas ordered by Norwegian Environment Authority analyzing fish at Oslo airport Agency at Harstad/Narvik. around several airports. Norwegian Food Safety Authority Restrictions at evaluates several airports. Fagernes airport Restrictions at Sogndal airport The timeline shows important events in connection with the PFAS case. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 41 and disposal of earth. The remaining 8.7 kilograms were removed One of Avinor’s key areas of intervention in the external environthrough the purification of groundwater and drainage water conment is noise from aircraft and helicopters on account of its importaining PFOS. tance to the local environment around airports. Avinor is working actively to limit the impact of noise from civilian aircraft and helicopter traffic on those living in the vicinity of airports. Regular AIR QUALITY noise surveys have been conducted at all airports, and flightpaths at the major airports have been monitored. The air quality in and around airport areas is determined by local and regional emissions, weather conditions, and topography. The most important tool for mitigating increased exposure to aircraft noise in residential areas is aircraft noise maps that Locally at airports, emissions from airport operations have the bigprovide long-term predictability by visualising noise footprints. gest bearing on air quality, with aircraft and vehicles as the primary Municipalities are required to use these maps in their area planning. sources of emissions. Outside of the airport areas, emissions from Aircraft noise exposure depends on aircraft types, traffic volume, road traffic have the biggest bearing. runway use, choice of flight path, and traffic distribution throughout the day. In 2001, NILU was commissioned by Oslo airport to conduct a large-scale survey of local air quality. Calculations and measureApart from noise maps, Avinor’s most important tool is traffic ments were made at various locations around the airport. management and the adjustment of approach and departure procedures. NILU’s report concluded that air quality in and around the airport is much better than in urban areas. In 2015 it was decided that this In May 2016 revised noise regulations developed by the Norwegian report should be updated. The results are now available. Civil Aviation Authority came into force for Oslo airport. These regulate things like runway use and which local areas around the The report looks at four areas: an air quality survey of the area airport can be flown over. The regulations permit the permanent around Oslo airport; odour problems that sometimes occur; use of curved approaches as the flightpaths are located away from whether homes around Oslo airport have been discoloured by airdensely populated areas. More than 5,350 curved approaches took craft emissions; and whether surface tension in reservoirs and tarns place in 2017. has been reduced due to aircraft emissions. The report shows that the concentration of nitrogen oxides is well under current threshold The regulations also specify an adjusted departure corridor for values and that there is no reason to believe that this results in departures from the airport’s north-east corner. Compliance with health problems. the new departure corridor exceeds 95 per cent for the whole of 2017. This adjustment makes it possible to maintain departure Even if jet fuel can be smelt, this is caused by a very small amount capacity at the airport while avoiding flying over densely populated that is well under the concentrations that would pose a risk to areas around the airport. health. The introduction of the Sikorsky S92-type helicopter for offshore In addition, there is no indication that the discolouration of homes transport has resulted in a significant increase in the impact of around Oslo airport has been caused by emissions from aircraft. aircraft noise at some airports. Newer aircraft noise maps show The surveys were conducted at Avinor’s busiest airport. There are that helicopter traffic is increasing the size of the red aircraft noise no indications that results would be hugely different at any of the zone where, in practice, it is forbidden to build schools, preschools, other airports operated by Avinor. homes, and cabins. Helicopter traffic also has a considerable impact on the size of the yellow aircraft noise zone under which development can take place but only if such development involves NOISE FROM AIRCRAFT AND HELICOPTERS noise-mitigation measures. In 2012, Avinor took the initiative to establish a national helicopter noise committee consisting of repAvinor’s Group-wide noise targets: Avinor will work actively to resentatives from Avinor, oil companies, helicopter operators, and reduce the impact of noise from aircraft and helicopter traffic the administrative management of the affected municipalities. The for residents at 10 5) of Avinor’s noisiest airports by 2020. committee co-ordinates measures that seek to reduce the impact of noise. Around 2 per cent of Norway’s population lives in an area where there is outdoor noise from aircraft that exceeds Lden 50 dBA.6) At Bergen and Stavanger airports a system for monitoring radar data from air traffic was implemented in 2014. This was followed This mainly includes people exposed to noise from military jets, as in 2015 by partnerships with affected municipalities to estabwell as those living close to the largest civilian airports and airports lish amended approach and departure procedures to reduce the with considerable volumes of helicopter traffic. Since 1999, the number of people exposed to noise from offshore helicopter traffic. number of people exposed to aircraft noise has remained relatively Preliminary adjustments supported by the flightpath registration constant, in spite of the sharp increase in traffic. This is because system have been well received by neighbours and are now in the newer aircraft engines are quieter. process of being implemented permanently. 5) Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Ålesund, Brønnøysund, Kirkenes, Florø. 6) Lden = an A-weighted equivalent noise level for the day-evening-night with a 5dB/10 dB addition for the evening/night. The Lden level is calculated as the average noise impact over one year. Lnight = an A-weighted equivalent level for an eight-hour night-time period from 23:00 to 07:00. 42 AVINOR AS ENERGY In 2017, all airports started to introduce energy management and energy monitoring systems. In addition, comprehensive evaluations Avinor’s environmental strategy 2016-2020: Avinor must of energy measures have been conducted at all airports. There is reduce purchased energy by 25 per cent by 2020 compared still some work to do before work is complete in 2018. Energywith the energy consumption of its buildings and facilities in saving measures have been implemented at the airports, including 2012. switching to LED lighting, upgrading heating and ventilation equipment, retrofit insulation, and improved demand management. A Measures to reach this target include active energy management at plan has been developed for the phasing-out of fossil-based heating airports, energy measures, the phasing-out of fossil-based energy oil at all airports, and efforts are due to commence with the largest sources, and an increased share of self-produced energy. consumers in 2018. The energy that supplies Avinor’s building stock and infrastructure The solar panel system at Svalbard airport was further expanded primarily derives from purchased electricity. Some airports are in 2017. A further expansion is planned for 2018, as is a study into connected to the district heating network. In addition, there are a few the potential for using wind turbines. Stavanger airport started airports that produce their own energy from wood chips, seawater, work on a concept study for innovative energy and environmental geothermal energy, and solar power. Energy is primarily used for heatsolutions in buildings, areas, and energy systems, supported by ing, cooling, lighting, runway facilities, and other technical equipment. Enova. Twenty autonomous mowers have also been installed to cut the grass along Stavanger’s runway. These are charged using solar A decision has been made to establish separate targets within panels. Avinor’s environmental strategy with regard to the reduction of energy consumption. This will be achieved through active energy management, beneficial energy measures, switching from elecWASTE tricity to water-borne heating, and an increased share of self-produced renewable energy. In 2017, origin-guaranteed electricity was Airport operations generate waste from public areas such as secupurchased for all of Avinor’s airports, which covers Avinor’s total rity control, food outlets, shops, and waiting areas, as well as from electricity consumption. workshops, garages, offices, the cleaning of aircraft, and, not least, construction projects. Total energy consumption at Avinor increased somewhat in 2017 compared with 2016, but less than expected considering the comAvinor and Oslo airport have implemented systematic efforts with pletion of the major construction projects and the increase of floor regard to waste sorting and the proper handling of hazardous space, particularly in the new terminal buildings at Bergen and Oslo waste. Avinor produced a total of 13,195 tonnes of waste in 2017. airports. This is a 35 per cent increase on 2016. This increase is due to the disposal of large amounts of earth contaminated with PFOS, and Several energy-saving measures covering things like runway to some extent to increased activity at Oslo airport following the lighting, indoor lighting, and heat recovery were implemented at opening of the new terminal, which has resulted in increased Oslo airport in 2017. A major project involving changing all carpark cardboard and food waste. Avinor’s recycling rate was 57 per cent. lighting to controlled LED lighting was initiated in 2017. The project A total of 381 tonnes of hazardous waste was disposed of in 2017. is due for completion in 2018 and is expected to result in major reductions in power and electricity consumption. Oslo airport is As of 2016, waste figures have been adjusted in accordance with the also investing in self-produced energy. In 2017/18 a pilot project is definitions of NS9431 Classification of Waste. The figures for Oslo being carried out involving drilling for geothermal energy at depths airport for 2016 and 2017 cover Avinor Oslo airport but no other of up to 1,500 metres. This is twice as deep as previous drilling operstakeholders at the airport. Consequently the figures for the last ations into Norwegian bedrock. If successful, this will help to supply two years cannot be easily compared with figures for earlier years. Oslo airport with heat in the years to come. WASTE SORTED BY MAIN TYPES (NS9431) WASTE SORTED BY FINAL TREATMENT Bio-waste and Sludge Energy recycling Paper, cardboard and Recycling of materials and paper board bio-processing Glass Landfill Metals EE-waste Masses and inorganic material Plastic Rubber Hazardous waste Mixed waste Medical waste COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 43 44 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 45 Avinor is in the process of ISO14001-certifying the operations Avinor is a participating member of Green Dot Norway, a of all airports. In 2017, central environmental management and packaging recycling scheme. We demand that our Norwegian 14 airports will be part of Avinor's common ISO 14001 certificate. suppliers are members of their packaging recycling scheme. The remaining airports will be included in the certificate in the course of 2018. Going forwards, Avinor will continue to optimise the sorting of PROCUREMENT AND THE ENVIRONMENT waste pursuant to the opportunities available to each airport. Avinor is continuing its co-operation with professional partners to Avinor procures products and services worth considerable amounts ensure the optimal and safe handling of waste. This includes assisof money. Procurement totalled NOK 7,164 million in 2017, of which tance in developing local waste management plans adapted to the NOK 4,130 million relates to investments in major construction airports’ needs and the recipients’ opportunities, as well as in order projects such as terminal expansions and runway extensions. NOK to minimise the number of journeys for transporting waste and 3,033 million relates to operating purchases. their distance. Avinor is focusing on the safe and proper handling of hazardous waste. Avinor has an ambitious environmental strategy with Group-wide targets in areas relating to water, the ground, the climate, and noise. In order to succeed, it is essential that environmental consideraBIODIVERSITY tions are integrated into day-to-day operations, the procurement of products and services, and the planning and execution of projects. Many of Avinor’s airports are located in or around areas rich in Procurement is an important tool for realising the strategy. biodiversity. These areas include conservation areas with rare or endangered species, salmon rivers, and salmon fjords. Avinor has the opportunity to steer suppliers in several sectors in a more eco-friendly direction. Furthermore, environmental In order to maintain a good overview of the natural values of requirements in procurement are an important part of Avinor’s Avinor’s properties and of areas that can be affected by airport operenvironmental policy. Standardised requirements for environmenations, Avinor has conducted biodiversity surveys at its airports. tal management systems are integrated into the templates used for For each airport a survey report has been prepared that contains all Group procurements where relevant. In addition, the environdescriptions and management advice. The results of the reports are ment is weighted heavily in award criteria for procurement that is followed up and incorporated into both operations and projects. deemed to be of great importance to the external environment. In addition, the results are used in things like environmental risk analyses, environmental monitoring programmes, and the planning Avinor has a centralised procurement unit in order to strengthen of development and construction activities. the professional procurement environment and establish clear interfaces with other professional areas, including the environment. Management plans for the hayfields at Kristiansand airport, Kjevik The environment department is working closely with the central were revised in 2017 pursuant to new information about managprocurement departments to assist with specific procurements ing hayfields. The management plans will be amended to prevent as well as to provide general advice on environmental conditions overgrowth in the fields and to ensure good conditions for insects relating to procurement. Avinor’s project management system must and flowering plants. cater for the external environment in building and construction projects. Environmental monitoring plans are drawn up for the exeThe surveys are updated or supplemented as required. In 2017 a cution of major building and construction projects to cater for the supplementary survey of insects with a special emphasis on bumexternal environment in the planning and construction phases, as blebees was conducted at Oslo airport. well as to ensure that the environment is taken into account when choosing solutions. The great yellow bumblebee (listed as seriously endangered) was found both within and outside the airport boundary. The redshanked bumblebee (listed as almost endangered) was found within the airport boundary. There were 12 species of bumblebee within the boundary and 11 species outside. This is in addition to a number of other species. There is a wealth of flowers both within and outside the boundary that are well suited to a wide range of insects. 46 AVINOR AS Key figures climate and environment 2012-2017 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1) 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Avinor monitors tonnes CO2-equiv. 16 300 15 100 15 500 15 120 15 700 Avinor monitors/passenger g CO2-equiv./passenger 308 297 310 302 338 ENERGY 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Electric Power GWh 245 230 231 223 216 District heating GWh 25 22 12 15 27 Oil heating GWh 6.0 2.8 2.8 1.7 3.3 Reserve power GWh 0.8 0.9 1.7 2.3 1.8 Total GWh 276 256 248 242 248 VEHICLES – FUEL AND OTHER ENERGY 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Diesel litre 2 598 254 2 464 308 2 669 237 2 625 548 2 647 035 Petrol litre 59 460 60 805 65 619 76 255 104 608 Biodiesel litre 199 730 81 767 9 280 Electric vehicles km 58 595 72 472 85 134 Hydrogen vehicles km 10 914 21 833 16 773 WASTE 2017 2) 2016 2) 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Sorted waste tonnes 7 542 4 687 7 999 8 407 7 370 Mixed waste tonnes 5 654 5 058 5 793 6 087 5 560 Total amount of waste tonnes 13 195 9 745 13 792 14 494 12 930 Sorting grade % 57 48 59 58 57 Hazardous waste tonnes 381 285 385 515 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 47 FIRE/ACCIDENT CHEMICALS 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Jet fuelA1 / Paraffin litre 73 852 68 470 72 225 72 965 100 952 Diesel / Petrol litre 2 560 767 3 333 5 656 2 478 Propane kg 4 064 2 028 3 837 2 662 3 324 Fire-fighting foam litre 25 916 23 886 27 356 20 785 36 209 Training foam litre 1 006 1 762 1 610 Fire-fighting extinguishing powder kg 19 563 19 973 23 719 17 247 19 274 Technical alcohol litre 872 1 545 1 156 721 869 Kindling wood kg 3 892 6 744 5 397 2 427 1 272 DE-ICING CHEMICALS 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Aircraft de-icing chemicals 100 % ethylene glycol litre 3 646 921 2 716 432 2 412 346 2 287 775 2 353 921 Runway de-icing chemicals Formate (liquid form) 3) litre 4 313 719 3 622 010 3 552 317 2 591 111 2 470 872 Formate (solid) 3) kg 742 529 477 530 443 850 210 275 264 303 Environmental impact measured as COD 4) tonnes O2 731 565 580 693 563 887 385 208 382 003 NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL STOPPAGES DUE TO AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING CONDITIONS 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 Aircraft de-icing number 11 5) 10 5) 3 4 8 Runway de-icing number 1 5) 1 5) 1 1 0 NUMBER OF EMISSIONS WITH DANGER OF WATER AND LAND POLLUTION 2017 2016 2015 2014 BASELINE 2012 New incidents of water and land pollution number 2 2 Some of the key figures from previous annual reports may be corrected due to quality assurance of recorded data, as well as the adjustment of annual emission factors. 1) For 2017, a change of data for greenhouse gas emissions has been made since CO2 emissions from electricity consumption have been deducted for all years and only stated as Gwh. 2) Waste data from 2016 and 2017 is not comparable with previous years as the sample is different. OSL only has numbers from OSL, not from all other companies operating at LH. 3) Indicated as amount of product, not concentrate. 4) COD = Chemical oxygen demand. This is the amount of oxygen required to break down the chemical that is used. 5) For OSL, the stoppage is due to aircraft and/or runway de-icing (recipient-based permission). 48 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer Avinor’s objective is to create valuable relationships. This is reflected in a value platform which provides clear requirements for employee performance, both internally in the workplace and in dealings with customers, business contacts, and others who are affected by our operations. Our 2017 employee survey showed that 70 per cent of our employrepresentatives, and safety personnel have been given the requisite ees are highly or very highly committed to their job. training in the restructuring and communication, and this will continue going forwards. Avinor has used voluntary agreements and ·· Avinor has a good working environment scheduled departures to avoid making redundancies. ·· Job satisfaction is high ·· 80 per cent perceive Avinor to be an attractive workplace CO-OPERATION RESTRUCTURING Avinor has a high level of trade union membership. Avinor AS and Avinor Flysikring AS have collective agreements with their Avinor implemented a restructuring process in 2016 as a result respective unions. The employee representatives are instrumental of the Group’s modernisation programme. Some restructuring in achieving the Group’s targets. In 2017 Avinor maintained close efforts continued into 2017. A significant proportion of the Group’s and constructive co-operation with employee representatives, employees are affected by the restructuring, as well as by other with respect to ongoing administrative procedures as well as to changes. Avinor stresses the importance of implementing changes more extensive change processes. One goal is to further develop in a professional and orderly manner, with employee representathis model of co-operation between employee representatives and tives and safety co-ordinators as important partners. The Group management to ensure good working conditions, stable operations, must take good care of its employees in all change processes, and cost-effectiveness throughout the Group. be they major or minor. Consequently, managers, employee COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 49 Three of the eight representatives on Avinor’s Board of Directors are being implemented in practical operational leadership, both represent Avinor’s employees. In addition, representatives are systematically and as required. elected by and from among employees to the Board of Directors of Avinor Flysikring AS. The focus on projects as a means of working in Avinor is supported by Avinor’s project school. The project school enables employees to undertake formal further education in the field of project manageCONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT ment and methodology. Continuous improvement is a strategic focus area for Avinor, the Avinor has its own internship programme that runs during the aim being to create a shared culture for improvement throughout summer and allows students to write their bachelor’s or master’s the Group. In 2017 Avinor commenced efforts to establish a Grouptheses in co-operation with the Group. In addition, Avinor arranges wide framework for training for use throughout the organisation. A workshops with students where together we solve specific chalcomprehensive range of courses has been developed offering a broad lenges that Avinor faces in its project portfolio. spectrum of training tailored to various target groups. The foundation primary course for all employees can be supplemented with Avinor established 12 new internship places in 2017 (at Oslo, more specialised training. Tailored training for managers and close Stavanger, Trondheim, Ålesund, Tromsø, and Lakselv airports) in interaction with other management development measures ensure addition to those begun in 2015 and 2016. Avinor had 24 interns a broad anchoring in improvement efforts. Oslo airport has worked in 2017, compared with its target of 33. The reason for this was the systematically with continuous improvement for several years, with limited number of candidates, as well as the limited number of very good results. Elements of continuous improvement are used at challenges that met varied practice requirements and enabled us to other Avinor airports as part of improvement efforts. Tailored assisoffer internship places. Through co-operation with other stakeholdtance is provided in order to implement improvement efforts within ers at the airports and other businesses in the local area, Avinor is individual units as required. Improvement activities and processes working concertedly to offer more internship and work experience are incorporated in Avinor’s SMART management system. places. Avinor’s own resources have been set aside centrally to strengthen our internship scheme efforts. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT INCLUSION AND EQUALITY Employees with the right skills are essential to Avinor’s success. In addition to efficiency improvements, developments in technology Avinor is working actively and purposefully to promote equal and digitalisation result in new forms of learning and collaboration. opportunities and prevent discrimination. Employees must enjoy This necessitates a comprehensive boost in skills throughout the equal opportunities in the Group, irrespective of gender, age, disaGroup. Skills stipulated by the authorities constitute a significant bility, ethnicity, or cultural background. portion of Avinor’s training activities, with constant updates and new certifications. A major project commenced in 2018 to design Avinor has systematized and formal conversations with the and implement a modern and future-oriented training organisaemployees that ensure neutral salary and career development. The tion. Avinor worked intensively in 2017 to ensure that all airport Group’s recruitment policy contains specific guidelines that ensure managers are approved pursuant to the new requirements of the the objective measurement of qualifications in interview situations. Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority. In connection with this, a new Many positions in Avinor have statutory non-negotiable requireprogramme for Operational Maintenance Managers (airport manments with regard to health, physical condition, conduct, and agers) has been developed, which will also form the basis for future security clearance. This may limit Avinor’s adaptation opportunities. skills development for this group. Avinor is a male-dominated business. Over time the Group has Effective management is fundamental to Avinor’s business and focused on increasing the proportion of women employees. The employee relationships, and the Group is investing widely in manpercentage of women among permanent employees is 22 per cent. agement development. Digitalisation skills, commercialisation, and The proportion of women in managerial positions is approximately continuous improvement will be vital for meeting future challenges. equal to the proportion of women in the company, with 20 per cent The development of part two of Avinor’s management platform in the Group as a whole, 33 per cent in the executive management, commenced in 2017, which managers are due to start using in 2018. and 37.5 per cent on the Board of Directors. This is a continuation of Avinor’s management platform which was used by 450 managers, key personnel, safety co-ordinators, and The Group had a low staff turnover rate of 3 per cent in 2017. employee representatives between 2013 and 2017. In part two of the Consequently, increasing the proportion of women through new platform, Avinor will supplement traditional management develemployees is protracted. In addition, few women train in the profesopment with digital communication and interaction tools. This sions that Avinor recruits for, such as airport operations, firefightis cost-effective and develops managers’ digital skills. Efforts are ing, rescue, and air traffic control. The Group aims to increase its being strengthened and supplemented through the development percentage of women employees to 25 per cent in 2020, and this of an effective management team. In addition, a number of courses is being monitored closely. Avinor’s recruitment policy contains 50 AVINOR AS clear guidelines that promote a gender balance, from the design of ·· Systematic development of HSE skills among management, recruitment adverts to the interview and selection process. Equal contract managers, and safety personnel. opportunities for men and women in management are a focus ·· Mapping of Avinor’s HSE risk outlook. area in all of Avinor’s management and employee development ·· Co-ordination of HSE work with other airport stakeholders, both programmes. Employee surveys to confirm that employees feel that in operations and development projects. they have equal opportunities regardless of their gender, and there ·· Systematic efforts to reduce sickness absence. is a high level of commitment in the Group. Seven injuries were suffered by Avinor Group employees that As an Inclusive Working Life company, Avinor emphasises the resulted in absence in 2017, six of which occurred in Avinor AS and prevention of exclusion from work and has schemes in place one in Avinor Flysikring AS. The Group’s LTI rate (the number of especially for employees who no longer meet physical and medical injuries resulting in lost time per million hours worked) as at 31 requirements due to illness or other circumstances. In 2017 Avinor December 2017 was 1.4, which is a reduction from 4.0 recorded at had adapted work agreements in place with approximately 30 the end of 2016. The target of 3 or lower was thus achieved. employees to enable them to maintain their employment with the company. Avinor also receives reports of personal injuries among passengers and employees of other stakeholders. A total of 76 personal injuries In 2017 several schemes were implemented for the employment were reported among these groups in 2017. of people with disabilities and reduced occupational opportunities. Partners in these efforts include NAV, Helt Med, Church City Safety organisation Mission, and social enterprises. Experiences have been positive Avinor is divided up into specific safety areas, with a safety co-ordioverall. The plan going forwards is to allocate resources centrally to nator responsible for each area. Although all airports must have at implement 10 to 12 adapted measures per year. This makes it easier least one safety co-ordinator, many airports have several. Working for the units to include people with special challenges. environment committees have been established at the central, division, and local levels. The committees consist of safety co-ordinators and representatives from among employees and management. BREACH OF WORKING HOURS PROVISIONS Avinor’s occupational health service, chemicals committee, and the cooperation with AKAN (advisory centre for issues relating to It is important that Avinor does not breach the working hours proalcohol, drugs and addictive gambling and gaming) also form part visions of the Working Environment Act. The Group systematically of Avinor’s safety organisation. monitors how working hours are used. Training among managers and shift planners has been implemented.. Systematic efforts to reduce sickness absence Avinor has good sickness absence procedures. Efforts relating to After many years of significant reductions in breaches of the sickness absence are in the spotlight, with effective, systematic working hours provisions of the Working Environment Act, this efforts being made throughout the organisation to maintain a low trend stagnated in 2016. Efforts were intensified in 2017, which has level of sickness absence. A final report from a sickness absence yielded good results. The total reduction in the number of breaches project was submitted in the spring of 2017. The report outlined of working hours provisions for the Group was 27 per cent from findings and proposed measures that are being followed up on for 2016 to 2017. The use of overtime in the Group fell by a total of 0.5 efforts to further improve sickness absence. per cent in 2017. An Inclusive Working Life committee was established in Avinor on 1 January 2018. The committee is representative and seeks to HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) EFFORTS facilitate inclusion and support the objectives of the “Memorandum of Understanding concerning more Inclusive Working Conditions” Avinor’s overall objective in the field of HSE is to ensure that the in Avinor. This enables the establishment of preventative measures Group’s strategies and overall plans are in accordance with laws throughout the organisation. This means that the management, and agreements, and that these are complied with and followed up. employee representatives, and safety co-ordinators convene to The long-term goal is to avoid personal injury and HSE non-complidiscuss fundamental issues relating to the primary and secondary ance by bolstering health, safety, and environment efforts, as well as objectives of the Inclusive Working Life agreement. to ensure that HSE is clearly integrated into the day-to-day work of the entire line organisation. Avinor’s partnership with Norges Bedriftsidrettsforbund Aktiv Bedrift (Norwegian Association of Corporate Sport Active Responsibility for HSE efforts is shared between the Group Team for Business) continued in 2017. The objective is to motivate employees Safety and Quality and the Group Team for HR. Primary responsito engage in physical activity. Attendance has been very good, with bility lies with the former. The HSE group has been reorganised dur1,380 employees getting active during the year. Avinor is working ing the course of the year, and new employees have been recruited. systematically, by way of internal regulations, skills development, and awareness, to mitigate the harmful effects of drugs. An action plan for HSE efforts has been drawn up with the following core areas: Sickness absence was 4.5 per cent in 2017. This matches Avinor’s target. ·· Improvement of reporting chain for HSE non-compliance and personal injury, including a regime for internal investigations following personal injury. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 51 AVINOR’S EMPLOYEES – KEY FIGURES 2017 2016 2015 Permanent employees as at 31 December 3 098 3 074 3 157 Temporary full-time equivalents 7) 209 200 153 Average age of permanent employees 46.6 46.0 44.4 Total turnover 8) 3.0 % 4.9 % 2.2 % Percentage of women 9) 22.0 % 22.1 % 24.1 % Percentage of women in managerial positions 20.1 % 17.9 % 21.5 % Percentage of women in executive management 33.3 % 25.0 % 18.0 % Percentage of women on the Group’s Board of Directors 37.5 % 50.0 % 50.0 % Absence due to illness 4.5 % 4.7 % 4.6 % LTI rate 10) 1.4 4.0 3.3 Avinor as an attractive company (scale 1-5) 4.0 4.0 4.1 BOARD OF EXECUTIVE PERMANENT AGE DISTRIBUTION DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES TURNOVER <30 0.0 % 0.0 % 6.3 % 0.5 % 30-50 20.0 % 33.3 % 51.9 % 2.4 % 50< 80.0 % 66.6 % 41.8 % 4.2 % 7) Including air traffic controllers. 8) Including all reasons for termination of employment, excluding final agreements. 9) The percentage of women among permanent and temporary employees. 10) Number of work-related accidents resulting in absence per 1,000,000 working hours. 52 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly Avinor is working systematically to combat all forms of corruption, discrimination, environmental crime, and harassment. The Group’s ethics guidelines are compulsory for management, employees, suppliers and partners. ETHICS GUIDELINES COMBATTING ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR The Group´s Board has established ethics guidelines that apply Avinor is subject to public procurement regulations. Group-wide to the Board and all members of staff. More than 90 per cent of guidelines have been established to supplement the regulations to employees have completed Avinor’s ethics guidelines course, which ensure competition in the conclusion of individual contracts. covers the prohibition of corruption, bribery, and anti-competitive behaviour in violation of competition rules. In 2017 Avinor developed additional ethical dilemmas and concluded an agreement SUPPLIER MONITORING with an external supplier for training all management groups and other personnel exposed to risk. A scaled-down version of the trainAvinor’s supply chain ing is being rolled out to other employees. The course is mandatory A set of contractual terms and conditions was introduced in 2015 for all employees and hired personnel. that ensures that suppliers with which Avinor concludes contracts have ethics guidelines and take their corporate social responsibility seriously. These requirements stipulate all of Avinor’s principles ANTI-CORRUPTION relating to human rights, working standards, HSE, and forbidden business practices. The claims are aimed at suppliers, and Avinor has a zero-tolerance policy in relation to corruption. An an overview is maintained of all the Group’s suppliers that have anti-corruption programme has been developed with a focus on signed agreements regarding responsible business practices. The prevention and control activities. Measures are established based provisions of the agreements allow for audits of each supplier to be on a risk assessment of the relevant area. Governing documents conducted. A material breach of an agreement regarding responhave been developed relating to these efforts and there is a consible business practice entitles Avinor to terminate all applicable stant focus on the continued development of the anti-corruption agreements with the supplier if critical conditions are not followed programme. Avinor is a member of Transparency International up satisfactorily. Norway. As a member, Avinor contributes to joint efforts relating to transparency, integrity, and responsibility in society to prevent corScreening of new suppliers ruption and fraud both nationally and internationally. In addition, Suppliers who wish to compete for a contract with Avinor must we undertake to exercise zero tolerance of all forms of corruption in undertake to comply with our principles for responsible supplier Avinor and to put in place appropriate anti-corruption measures. behaviour. We require, for example, that international human rights are respected and that our suppliers are not complicit in their violation. Furthermore, the supplier must ensure that its workers’ IMPARTIALITY salaries meet minimum wage requirements, that their working hours are in accordance with applicable national legislation, that The Group’s Board members and executive personnel submit their workers have the opportunity for adequate rest, and that an annual self-declaration of close associates, with information employment contracts are written in a language that the workers regarding any transactions between the parties. An external auditor understand. conducts annual reviews of the formal relationships between the executive management, Board of Directors, and suppliers in the Avinor has concluded a co-operation agreement with Skatt Øst Avinor Group. Any relationships are documented and reviewed (Norwegian tax administration) regarding the intensification with the relevant parties primarily in order to confirm the inforof efforts to combat violations of labour market legislation. The mation provided in the self-declarations. This annual review is in purpose of the agreement is to establish ongoing collaboration that addition to the assessments that must be made when issues arise reinforces and develops the effect of the parties’ action combat over an employee’s impartiality in relation to various procurements, violations of labour market legislation. The agreement must ensure tenders, enquiries, participation in decision-making processes that all of Avinor’s suppliers and subcontractors in building and related to commercial interests, etc. construction, as well as in cleaning, fulfil their statutory obligations, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 53 including the Working Environment Act, regulations relating to represented throughout the country and has a broad sphere of conpay and working conditions in public-sector contracts, and tax trol. This is a factor that further increases the risk of corruption and legislation. misconduct. Various control and prevention activities have been established, which together are intended to reduce the Group’s risk Monitoring of existing suppliers of being involved in or exposed to corruption and misconduct. Avinor’s agreement on responsible supplier behaviour entitles it to review a contractual party’s follow-up and compliance with Avinor notification institute all of the points in the contract. Avinor’s co-operation agreement Avinor has appointed a committee to handle notifications of with Skatt Øst enables Avinor to gather information from the tax reprehensible conditions in all parts of the organisation. authorities during the term of each contract in order to verify that Notifications can be submitted regarding inadequate safety procethe supplier and any subcontractors are still registered in the proper dures, bullying and harassment, careless administrative procedures, registries and are adhering to their obligations in relation to the working conditions that contravene the Working Environment Norwegian tax authorities. Act, or corruption and other financial misconduct. The person submitting the notification can choose to remain anonymous. The committee has established routines for the proper processing of RESPONSIBLE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA notifications. The committee has also developed procedures and technical solutions that make it possible for external actors to Avinor has appointed a data protection officer tasked with assisting notify Avinor of reprehensible conditions. These notifications must people registered with the business (such as in customer databases) be handled according to the same procedures as notifications from and employees in matters relating to Avinor’s processing of peremployees of the Group. Avinor has received a dispensation from sonal data. In addition, the data protection officer must notify the the Norwegian Data Protection Authority to process personal data management of breaches of the Norwegian Personal Data Act and received by way of its notification scheme. be the company’s contact for enquiries from the Norwegian Data Protection Authority. Avinor has established a system for internal The committee received around 200 notifications in 2017, all of control pursuant to the regulations of the Norwegian Personal which were fully addressed. In some cases there were grounds to Data Act. In addition, Avinor has established a privacy policy and conclude that the matter was critical in nature. Follow-ups take drawn up a privacy declaration to inform users about the use of place at the relevant level in the organisation. Responses and sancinformation on our website. We have concluded data processing tions (where appropriate) depend on the incident and its severity. agreements with subcontractors that process personal data on our It is important that the lessons learnt in each incident benefit the behalf. business as a whole so as to avoid similar incidents elsewhere in the organisation. In 2017 Avinor established a Group-wide project to enable the business to comply with new privacy regulations that come into effect in May 2018. Avinor has not received any complaints concerning breaches of its customers’ privacy. NOTIFICATIONS AND OTHER MEASURES TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION AND GUIDELINES Compliance function Avinor’s compliance function monitors the Group’s compliance with external and internal regulations relating to corruption, misconduct, and ethics rules. In addition, the function defines the substance of Avinor’s responsibility to combat violations of labour market legislation, stipulate requirements, propose relevant measures, monitor how Avinor follows up on its responsibilities, and establish sanctions in the event of non-compliance. Avinor has initiated several expansion projects in recent years. The building and construction sector has been the subject of a number of incidents relating to corruption and price fixing in Norway. Consequently Avinor’s risk exposure to corruption and misconduct has increased as a result of these investment programmes. Avinor is 54 AVINOR AS Overview of GRI indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards/Core. Avinor's annual accounts (company accounts and consolidated accounts) for 2017 have been audited by Ernst & Young AS. The auditor's report is reproduced on pages 121-124. A detailed account of the reporting standard and the various indicators can be found on GRI's web pages: www.globalreporting/standards About Avinor and Avinor’s work regarding corporate social responsibility STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-14 Foreword p. 8 ORGANIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-1 Name Avinor as 102-2 Product p. 6-7 102-3 Main offices Oslo 102-4 Presence Avinor has only operations in Norway 102-5 Ownership p. 6-7 102-6 Markets p. 7 102-7 Size p. 4 102-8 Employees p. 51 102-48 Collective agreements p. 48 102-9 Supply chain p. 45 102-10 Changes No significant changes 102-11 Conditions p. 34 102-12 Support for the CSR Initiative p. 5, 30, 45, 52 102-13 Interest-org. Spekter: Transportation Sector Council National Programme of Supplier Development: Partner COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 55 PRIORITIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-45 Overview, Company p. 12 The report concerns activities that the Group manages in airport operations and flight safety, but not activity in other subsidiaries. 102-46 Define report-content p. 20-21 102-47 Prioritization p. 21 103-1 Delimitation All topics that have been considered important are relevant to all Avinor operations. 102-48 Modified reporting p. 34 102-49 Modified measurement methods DIALOGUE WITH PARTNERS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-40 List of partners p. 20-21 102-42 Selection-basis p. 20-21 102-43 Description of dialogue p. 20-21 102-44 Topics p. 20-21 ABOUT THE REPORT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-50 Applies to 2017 102-51 Previous report 2016 102-52 Interval Annual 102-53 Contact post@avinor.no 102-54 Type of GRI-report GRI Standards/Core 102-55 GRI indicator overview p. 54-59 102-56 Revision The annual report has been audited by ERNST & YOUNG AS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-18 Corporate governance and p. 16-19 company management ETHICAL GUIDELINES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-16 Ethics guidelines p. 52 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/konsernet/visjon-og-verdier 56 AVINOR AS Corporate social responsibility – performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 11-15 (The Board of Director’s report) 103-2 p. 16-19 (Corporate governance and company 103-3 management) 201-1 Financial performance p. 72-120 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 26-29 103-2 103-3 203-1 Infrastructure-investments p. 26-29 203-2 Indirect economic impact p. 26-29 ENERGY GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34, 41-42 103-2 103-3 302-1 Energy consumption p. 46 302-4 Energy conservation p. 41-42 BIODIVERSITY GRI-INDIKATOR INDIKATORSTIKKORD SIDENUMMER ELLER NETTADRESSE 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34, 42-43 103-2 103-3 304-1 Property adjoining areas with high biodiversity value p. 42-43 304-2 Impact of biodiversity p. 42-43 304-3 Improvement – habitat p. 42-43 AIR EMISSIONS GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34-39 103-2 103-3 AO5 Air quality p. 40-41 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 46 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 46 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 46 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 57 EMISSIONS AND WASTE GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34-42 103-2 103-3 306-2 Waste p. 42 306-3 Accidental emissions p. 47 AO6 De-icing fluid p. 47 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION – ENVIRONMENTAL GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34 103-2 103-3 307-1 Fines/sanctions No fines or similar NOISE GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 34, 41 103-2 103-3 AO7 Noise p. 41 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/ENVIRONMENT GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Monitoring of suppliers/environment p. 45 103-2 103-3 308-1 Screening leverandører p. 45 308-2 Oppfølging eksisterende leverandører p. 45 HSE IN AVINOR GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 50 103-2 103-3 403-1 HSE-organization p. 50 403-2 Sick leave/H-value p. 51 403-3 Particularly vulnerable employees-groups p. 50 58 AVINOR AS INTERNAL COMPETENCE BUILDING GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 49, 52 103-2 103-3 404-1 Who is offered training? p. 49 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN AVINOR GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 49 103-2 103-3 405-1 Equal opportunity on the Board, in management, among employees p. 49-50 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/WORKING CONDITIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 48 103-2 103-3 NOTIFICATION CHANNELS GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-2 Policy/management system p. 53 NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 49 103-2 103-3 406-1 Discrimination-cases No cases LOCAL COMMUNITY GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 20-21, 26-30 103-2 103-3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 59 CORRUPTION PREVENTION MEASURES GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 52-53 103-2 103-3 205-2 Anti-corruption training initiatives p. 52 205-3 Corruption cases No cases ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PREVENTION MEASURES GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 52-53 103-2 103-3 206-1 Cases, violation of regulations No cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – FINANCES AND SOCIETY GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 52-53 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases PRODUCT LIABILITY – SAFETY GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 30-33 103-2 103-3 416-1 Product safety survey p. 30-33 416-2 Violation of regulations p. 31 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – PRODUCT LIABILITY GRI-INDICATOR INDICATOR KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 30-33 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases 60 AVINOR AS Executive management DAG FALK-PETERSEN ANDERS KIRSEBOM ØYVIND HASAAS ASLAK SVERDRUP CEO Managing Director Airport Director Airport Director Avinor Flysikring AS Oslo airport Bergen airport, Flesland LEIF ANKER LORENTZEN MARIT HELENE STIGEN MARGRETHE PETTER JOHANNESSEN Airport Director Airport Director SNEKKERBAKKEN Executive Vice President Stavanger airport, Sola Trondheim airport, Værnes Division Director Regional economy, finance and IT Airports JON SJØLANDER EGIL THOMPSON MARI HERMANSEN STINE RAMSTAD WESTBY Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President strategy and development communication and marketing HR, legal and business support operations and infrastructure COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 61 Board of Directors OLA MØRKVED RINNAN OLA HENRIK STRAND LINDA BERNANDER HERLOF NILSSEN Chairman Vice Chairman SILSETH Board member Consultant CEO, BluWrap Board member Managing Director, Helse Vest RHF ELI SKRØVSET BJØRN TORE MIKKELSEN HEIDI ANETTE SØRUM OLAV AADAL Board member Board member, Board member, Board member, CFO, Eksportkreditt, Norge employee representative employee representative employee representative Team leader, Kirkenes airport Head safety deputy Supervisor, Værnes TWR/APP Avinor Flysikring AS 62 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 63 Financial statements and notes 64 AVINOR AS INCOME STATEMENT All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2017 NOTE 2017 2016 Operating income 4 150.2 4 337.3 Traffic income 4, 5 5 472.8 5 143.0 5 257.4 5 712.2 Sales and rental income 4, 5 6 038.5 5 636.8 157.6 169.8 Other operating income 4, 5 14.7 8.2 9 565.2 10 219.3 Total operating income 11 526.0 10 788.0 Operating expenses 350.3 450.5 Raw materials and consumables used 4 497.6 394.3 1 990.8 2 085.7 Employee benefits expense 4, 6, 9 3 483.1 3 326.1 4 082.4 4 570.4 Other operating expenses 4, 8, 9 4 016.7 3 565.8 -19.7 170.1 Other expenses 4, 10 402.2 -18.9 6 403.8 7 276.7 Total operating expenses 8 399.6 7 267.3 3 161.4 2 942.6 EBITDA 3 126.4 3 520.7 1 633.7 1 744.6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 9, 13 1 889.1 1 762.9 1 527.7 1 198.0 Operating profit/(loss) 1 237.3 1 757.8 114.0 1 068.6 Finance income 11 88.1 36.2 425.3 692.3 Finance costs 11 685.6 419.8 -311.3 376.3 Net finance costs -597.5 -383.6 1 216.4 1 574.3 Profit before income tax 639.8 1 374.2 311.1 138.8 Income tax expense 12 140.5 345.6 905.3 1 435.5 Profit for the year 499.3 1 028.6 Attributable to 905.3 1 435.5 Owners of the parent 499.3 1 028.6 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 65 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2017 NOTE 2017 2016 905.3 1 435.5 Profit for the year 499.3 1 028.6 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -324.5 -385.9 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 16 -901.8 -548.5 81.1 92.6 Tax effect 12 216.3 137.1 -51.2 -58.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -72.9 -62.7 -294.6 -351.9 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax -758.4 -474.1 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 38.3 -109.4 Cash flow hedges 14 -97.3 66.9 -9.6 26.3 Tax effect 12 23.4 -16.9 28.7 -83.1 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax -73.9 50.0 -265.9 -435.0 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -832.3 -424.1 639.4 1 000.5 Total comprehensive income for the year -333.0 604.5 Attributable to 639.4 1 000.5 Owners of the parent -333.0 604.5 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 AVINOR AS BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 NOTE 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 ASSETS Non-current Assets Intangible assets: 1 172.2 1 151.7 Deferred tax assets 12 1 511.2 1 358.7 39.9 35.4 Other intangible assets 13 112.8 108.8 0.0 0.0 Assets under construction, intangible 13 245.1 122.0 1 212.1 1 187.1 Total intangible assets 1 869.1 1 589.5 Property, plant and equipment: 27 827.7 32 481.6 Property, plant and equipment 13 34 142.9 29 501.8 6 250.9 2 473.2 Assets under construction 13 2 948.0 6 595.1 34 078.6 34 954.8 Total property, plant and equipment 37 090.9 36 096.9 Financial assets: 1 086.9 1 141.5 Investments in subsidiaries 19 0.0 0.0 140.0 120.0 Loans to group companies 23 0.0 0.0 504.0 1 215.7 Derivative financial instruments 14 1 215.7 504.0 390.6 260.1 Other financial assets 14 260.1 390.7 2 121.5 2 737.3 Total financial assets 1 475.8 894.7 37 412.2 38 879.2 Total non-current assets 40 435.8 38 581.1 Current Assets 12.6 12.9 Inventories 23.6 22.6 1 468.4 1 214.5 Trade and other receivables 14 1 400.1 1 483.4 1.0 4.1 Derivative financial instruments 14 4.2 1.0 938.1 2 071.8 Cash and cash equivalents 14 2 071.8 949.1 2 420.1 3 303.3 Total current assets 3 499.7 2 456.1 39 832.3 42 182.5 Total assets 43 935.5 41 037.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 67 BALANCE SHEET All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 NOTE 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity: 5 400.1 5 400.1 Share capital 20 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 Total restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Retained earnings: 7 717.7 8 173.1 Other equity 15 8 653.4 9 536.5 7 717.7 8 173.1 Total retained earnings 8 653.4 9 536.5 13 117.8 13 573.2 Total equity 14 053.5 14 936.6 Provisions and liabilities Provisions: 1 651.7 2 265.3 Retirement benefit obligations 16 4 025.9 2 588.2 158.4 183.5 Other provisions 17 189.1 167.4 1 810.1 2 448.8 Total provisions 4 215.0 2 755.6 Non-current liabilities: 2 527.3 2 083.0 State loan 14 2 083.0 2 527.3 14.7 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 25.6 50.7 14 413.8 19 553.7 Other non-current liabilities 14 20 097.1 15 009.5 16 955.8 21 636.7 Total non-current liabilities 22 205.7 17 587.5 Current liabilities: 1 400.0 0.0 Commercial papers 14 0.0 1 400.0 620.5 439.6 Trade payables 521.3 685.4 65.5 43.2 Tax payable 12 115.4 136.6 102.4 208.1 Public duties payable 313.3 211.0 0.9 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 4.9 2.8 967.6 579.0 First annual instalment on long-term liabilities 14 631.3 1 019.8 4 791.7 3 253.9 Other current liabilities 17, 18 1 875.1 2 301.9 7 948.6 4 523.8 Total current liabilities 3 461.3 5 757.5 26 714.5 28 609.3 Total liabilities 29 882.0 26 100.6 39 832.3 42 182.5 Total equity and liabilities 43 935.5 41 037.2 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. Oslo, 4 April 2018 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chairman Vice-chairman Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 68 AVINOR AS STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS SHARE CAPITAL OTHER RESERVES OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2016 5 400.1 -140.6 3 312.3 8 571.8 Profit for the year 905.3 905.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -243.4 -243.4 Cash flow hedge 28.7 28.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -1.7 -49.5 -51.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -216.4 855.8 639.4 Transactions with owners: Merger 25.2 4 381.4 4 406.6 Demerger -45.8 -58.5 -104.3 Non-cash share capital contribution 45.8 58.5 104.3 Dividends relating to 2015 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 25.2 3 881.4 3 906.6 Balance at 1 January 2017 5 400.1 -331.8 8 049.5 13 117.8 Profit for the year 1 435.5 1 435.5 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -293.3 -293.3 Cash flow hedge -83.1 -83.1 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -9.9 -48.7 -58.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -386.3 1 386.8 1 000.5 Transactions with owners: Merger 5.1 5.1 Demerger -6.0 -55.5 -61.5 Non-cash share capital contribution 6.0 55.5 61.5 Dividends relating to 2016 -550.0 -550.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -544.9 -545.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 5 400.1 -718.1 8 891.3 13 573.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 69 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP SHARE CAPITAL OTHER RESERVES OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2016 5 400.1 3.6 9 428.3 14 832.1 Profit for the year 1 028.6 1 028.6 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -411.4 -411.4 Cash flow hedge 50.0 50.0 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.6 -58.1 -62.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -366.0 970.5 604.5 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2015 -500.0 -500.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -500.0 -500.0 Balance at 1 January 2017 5 400.1 -362.4 9 898.8 14 936.6 Profit for the year 499.3 499.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post employment benefit obligation net of tax -685.5 -685.5 Cash flow hedge -73.9 -73.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -15.8 -57.1 -72.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -775.2 442.2 -333.0 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2016 -550.0 -550.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -550.0 -550.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 5 400.1 -1 137.6 9 791.0 14 053.5 For specification of other reserves, see note 15. The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 70 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2017 NOTE 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities 3 012.7 2 318.2 Cash generated from operations 1) 3 740.6 3 401.4 35.9 58.2 Interest received 59.4 36.2 -276.5 -82.3 Income tax paid -147.5 -337.2 2 772.1 2 294.1 Net cash generated from operating activities 3 652.5 3 100.4 Cash flow from investing activities -4 267.4 -3 045.6 Investments in property, plant and equipment (PPE) 13 -3 414.0 -4 497.3 16.0 15.9 Proceeds from sale of PPE, including assets under construction 16.3 20.1 0.0 20.0 Group loans 0.0 0.0 -37.3 -26.3 Group interests 0.0 0.0 50.7 1 000.0 Net group contribution/dividend 0.0 0.0 -57.0 -57.3 Change in other investments 19.9 -83.5 -4 295.0 -2 093.3 Net cash used in investing activities -3 377.8 -4 560.7 Cash flow from financing activities 1 899.9 4 439.5 Proceeds from borrowings 14 4 439.5 1 899.9 -943.3 -964.7 Repayment of borrowings 14 -1 016.9 -995.5 1 000.0 -1 400.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) 14 -1 400.0 1 000.0 -619.4 -543.2 Interest paid -575.9 -655.2 -6.5 -48.7 Other borrowing charges -48.7 -6.5 -500.0 -550.0 Dividends paid to owner -550.0 -500.0 830.7 932.9 Net cash generated/used in financing activities 848.0 742.7 -692.2 1 133.7 Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 1 122.7 -717.6 1 630.3 938.1 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 14 949.1 1 666.7 938.1 2 071.8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 2 071.8 949.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 71 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK 1) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2016 2017 2017 2016 1 216.4 1 574.3 Profit before income tax 639.8 1 374.2 1 633.7 1 744.6 Depreciation 1 889.1 1 762.9 -12.7 -0.3 (Profit)/loss on disposals of non-current assets -0.5 -12.6 -28.0 -4.4 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (unrealised) 0.2 -34.9 311.3 -376.3 Net finance costs 597.5 383.6 83.1 -158.7 Change in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables -161.2 123.9 -51.3 228.0 Difference between post employment benefit expense and amount paid/received 536.6 92.4 -259.0 267.5 Change in other working capital items 239.1 -288.1 119.2 -956.5 Change in group receivables and payables 0.0 0.0 3 012.7 2 318.2 Cash generated from operations 3 740.6 3 401.4 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise: 3.3 15.6 Net book amount 15.8 7.5 12.7 0.3 Profit/(loss) on disposals of PPE 0.5 12.6 16.0 15.9 Proceeds from disposal of PPE 16.3 20.1 The notes (note 1 to 24) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 72 AVINOR AS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Financial risk factors 4 Segment information 5 Operating income and other income 6 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations 7 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees 8 Other operating expenses 9 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project 10 Other expenses 11 Finance income and costs 12 Income tax expense and deferred income tax 13 Intangible asstes, property, plant and equipment 14 Financial assets and liabilities 15 Other reserves 16 Pension obligation 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 Other short-term liabilities 19 Subsidiaries 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results 21 Contingencies 22 Commitments 23 Related-party transaction 24 Events after the reporting period COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 73 NOTE 1 General information Avinor AS and its subsidiaries (together 'the group') own, manage the group's main business,including commercial development. and develop aviation infrastructure and systems by facilitating The Avinor group's headquarters are located in Oslo, Dronning safe and efficient aviation. The group also renders services Eufemias gate 6. within the same areas together with other activities that add to NOTE 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these For the airport operation unit, the group's economic model is based consolidated financial statements are set out below and in each on the assumption that there is full cross-subsidisation between note to the financial statement. These policies have been consistprofitable and unprofitable airports as well as all areas of operaently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. tions (overall system). The group has a distinct expressed objective to develop, within the overall system, commercial activities in The accounting policies set out below do also apply to the order to provide capital for unprofitable activities (social considerapreparation of the financial statements of Avinor AS. tions/responsibilities) and reduce the level of traffic charges.Due to this the group assess that a solution where the group's operations, exclusive of the Air Navigation Services, are evaluated as a whole, BASIS OF PREPERATION presents a true and fair view of the operations. The consolidated financial statements of Avinor AS and Avinor The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Group have been prepared in accordance with International requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. requires managment to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the group's accounting policies. Areas involving a higher The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) recognised statements are disclosed in particular. partly at fair value through profit or loss and partly (cash flow hedges) in other comprehensive income. The company's most significant accounting estimates and judgements are related to the following items, specified further in The consolidated financial statements encompasses Avinor AS and each individual note: all entities over which Avinor AS has control. ·· Deferred taxes The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has ·· Estimated impairment of property, plant and equipment rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity ·· Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over ·· Net pension obligation the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsoliChanges in accounting policy and disclosure dated from the date that control ceases. New and amended standards adopted by the group There are no relevant amendments or new standards adopted by As at 31 December 2017 all subsidiaries are wholly owned. the group for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2017. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains/ losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. New standards, amendments and Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necesinterpretations not yet adopted sary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after Shares in subsidiaries are recognised at cost at the acquisition 1 January 2018, and have not been applied in preparing these date and are classified as a long-term investment. The shares consolidated financial statement. are assessed whether there is any indication that their carrying amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale. Avinor has chosen not to early implement any of these standards. The whole of Avinor group's operations are defined as two cash-genIFRS 9 'Financial instruments' replaces IAS 39 and addresses the erating unit (CGU), one air navigation service unit and one airport classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and operation unit including property development and hotels. financial liabilities and introduces new rules for hedge accounting. 74 AVINOR AS IFRS 9 require financial assets to be classified into three case of financial lease and a profit or loss is recognized. The measurement categories: amortised cost, fair value through other classification of operational and financial leases are described in comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The note 13 (Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment). determination is made at initial recognition.The classification depends on the entity's business model for managing its financial The standard is effective from 1 January 2019. The plan is to instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the implement it according to a modified retrospective method instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of (No restatement of earlier comparative periods in the year-end the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in cases where accounts of 2019). the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of fair value change due to an entity's own credit risk is recorded in The group’s preliminary assessment is that IFRS 16 will mainly other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, have an impact on rental agreements. This includes HQ Oslo, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. Bodø airport and miscellaneous agreements connected to machines, equipment etc. The new hedging rules align hedge accounting more closely with the group's risk management practice. As a general rule it will be The total obligation as at 1 January 2019 is estimated to about easier to apply hedge accounting going forward as the standard MNOK 500 for the group (MNOK 450 for Avinor AS). introduces a more principles based approach. The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes The estimated rental obligation is calculated based on the net in presentation. present value of expected rental payments over the rental period. The expected rental payments are index adjusted where it is The new standard have no practical consequences for the group relevant. The discount rate used is equal to the group’s marginal beyond the new rules for hedge accounting which are assessed to debt interest rate. The estimated rental obligation is based on have little effect on the group’s own hedging arrangements. preliminary estimates. Final figures at the time of recognition at the 1st of January 2019 may deviate from this. The standard will be effective from 1 January 2018, and will be adopted by the group at the same time. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretation that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the group. IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' deals with revenue recognition and replaces all existing IFRS revenue requirements. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue is recognized FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction. The standard applies with a few exceptions to all revenue contracts with customers and provides a model for the recogMonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies nition and measurement of sales of some non-financial assets are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet (e.g., disposals of property, plant and equipment). The group also date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical assess the clarifications to IFRS15 issued by IASB in April 2016. cost denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets IFRS 15 will have an effect on the accounts from the 1st of and liabilities measured at fair value denominated in foreign January 2018, and will be implemented retrospectively. IFRS 15 currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the balance will not have any material effect on the accounting treatment of sheet date. revenue on the effective date, and it is not expected to have any impact on the future accounting treatment. Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. The functional currency of the group companies is NOK. A description of the accounting treatment of the principal types of income, which are affected by IFRS 15, is listed in a table in note 5. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to receivables, liabilities, cash and cash equivalents are considered to be operIFRS 16 'Leases' replaces IAS 17. ational and have been classified as changes in value and other IFRS 16 addresses the principles of recognition, measurement, losses/(gains) net, presented within 'other expenses'. presentation and disclosure of lease agreements for both parties in the agreement, the customer (lessee) and the offerer (lessor). The new standard demands that the lessee recognise assets and obligations for the majority of lease agreements, which is a material change from today’s rules. For the lessor the accounting treatment will mainly remain unchanged, which implies that the asset is derecognized in the COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 75 NOTE 3 Financial risk factors The group’s activities exposes it to a variety of financial risks: for the payment of luggage handling systems, navigation equipMarket risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, ment, vehicles and others. Foreign exchange rate derivatives do cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity not normally qualify for hedge accounting. risk. The group’s overall rsik management programme seeks to minimise the volatility of the group’s financial performance. The The group has issued bond loans denominated in EUR. The group uses derivative financial instruments in addition to borloans is hedged by a combined interest rate and forward foreign rowings with fixed interest rates to hedge certain risk exposures. exchange contract in which Avinor receives coupon payment and principle amount in EUR and pay a predetermined amount in Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury NOK at the same point in time. department under policies approved by the board of directors. Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks As the foreign exchange risk in overall is assessed to be limited, in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. The board the group has not estimated any sensitivities. For the notional provides written principles for overall risk management, as principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts, well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign see note 14. exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. (ii) Interest rate risk The group are exposed to interest rate risk through its financial For details about financial assets and liabilities including activities (see note 14). Parts of the borrowings are issued at hedging, see note 14. variable rates, which means that the group is influenced by the changes in the interest rates. MARKET RISK The objective of the group’s interest rate management is to keep the volatility of future interest costs within acceptable limits. (i) Foreign exchange risk Group policy is to interest rate hedge all long-term loans till at least The group and Avinor AS are exposed to foreign exchange risk 60 per cent of total debt at all time is hedged for at least 12 months. with respect to the value of NOK against currencies caused by income and expenses in foreign currency. The group uses forward The group manages its effective interest exposure risk by using contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk in cash flow nomvarious interest rate swaps. inated in foreign currency. The group and Avinor AS are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to EUR. At 31 December 2017 approximately all interest rate swaps are adopted to the terms of specific loans and other conditions. The group’s income from en route charges is exposed to foreign When the interest rate swaps are taken into consideration, the exchange risk. For Avinor Flysikring AS the risk is connected group has 85 per cent of its long-term borrowings at a fixed rate to the transfer of the revenue to Norway. The period from the of interest for at least 12 months. determination of the exchange rate to the actual payment is about three months. At 31 December 2017 the group had interest rate swaps at a face value of MNOK 9,459 (2016: MNOK 5,680), where the group Revenue in foreign currency is sold forward to the extent that it is receives a variable rate and pays a fixed average rate of 3.20 per not hedged by cash outflow in the same currency. The group also cent of face value. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge has foreign exchange risk connected to contractual payments in against volatility in the P&L reportings as a result of changes in foreign currency the interest levels. Avinor AS has as part of the hedging of larger aquisitions, entered All interest swaps are made as a hedge against financial risk into forward foreign exchange contracts in connection with the caused by cash flow interest rate risk. All interest swaps are development of the airpirt terminals. These are contracts in EUR carried at their fair value in the balance sheet. 76 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s sensitivity to a defined interest rate shift as at 31 December. The simulation take into consideration all interest rate derivatives. CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR AS LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2017 +50 -8.0 -48.3 -50 8.0 48.3 2016 +50 -7.9 -16.5 -50 7.9 16.5 CHANGES IN INTEREST IMPACT ON PREIMPACT ON EQUITY AVINOR GROUP LEVELS IN BASIS POINTS TAX PROFIT (MNOK) (MNOK) 2017 +50 -8.7 -45.1 -50 8.7 45.1 2016 +50 -8.7 -7.7 -50 8.7 7.7 Based on the financial instruments at 31 December 2017, the simulation shows that if the interest rate had been 0.5 per cent higher, pretax profit for the group for the year would have been MNOK 8.7 lower (2016: MNOK 8.7). The average yield on financial instruments were as follows: 2017 (%) 2016 (%) Overdraft NA NA State Loan 1.64 1.79 Debenture Loan 3.13 3.52 Bank Loan 3.30 3.62 The figures include interest hedging derivatives. At 31 December 2017 Avinor AS had total borrowings amounting to MNOK 22,208.1(2016: MNOK 19,288.2) in addition to a overdraft of MNOK 0.0 (2016: MNOK 0.0). (iii) Power price risk The group is a consumer of electrical power. Avinor AS has entered into financial power contracts via Nasdaq OMX to hedge parts of it’s power consumption. At 31 December 2017 approximately 71 per cent of 2018’s estimated consumption is covered by such contracts. The group does not apply hedge accounting to these contracts. Power purchases are made in EUR. The fair value of power contracts is estimated at MNOK -3.8 (2016: MNOK – 0.7) based on the exchange rate at year-end. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 77 Sensitivity analysis of electrical power contracts at 31 December (impact on pre-tax profit (MNOK) as a consequense of a 20 per cent increase in power price): AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP MARKET VALUE 31 DECEMBER IMPACT ON PRE-TAX PROFIT 2017 3.8 21.2 2016 -0.7 21.2 CREDIT RISK The group’s credit risks are mainly connected to airlines and air traffic-related industries. The grouphas credit risks attached to three main customers. The group assesses the risk that customers cannot fulfil their obligations as moderate. The group has guidelines to limit exposure to possible losses. The group has not made any third-party guarantees. Maximum risk exposure is illustrated by the carried amount of the financial assets, including derivatives in the balance sheet. Since the opposite party in derivatives trading is normally banks and the power trade exchange, the credit risk connected to derivatives is assessed as small. The group’s assessment is that the group’s maximum credit exposure is illustrated by the carried amounts of trade receivables and other short-term assets (see note 14). The group does not have any material overdue trade receivables (see note 14). The group’s main bank connexion has external credit rating A-1 (short term) and A+ (long term) (Standard & Poors). Creditworthiness in trade receivables and intra-group accounts in detail Credit risk in non-due financial instruments which have not been written down, may be evaluated by external sources (if available) or based on previous negative credit records. Classification of historical information (unimpaired trade receivables): Group 1 – new customers/related parties (in the last six months) Group 2 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with no history of default Group 3 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with a history of default. All amounts have been paid in full after the default. All intra-groups accounts and the major part part of customer receivables are classified in group 2. No financial assets have been renegotiated during the last financial year. No part of the loans to related parties is overdue or impaired. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations when they are due. The group strategy is to meet the risk by having sufficient funds available at anytime to be able to fulfil the financial obligations when they are due, both under normal or extraordinary circumstances, without risking unacceptable losses. The group shall have a liquidity reserve sufficient, at anytime, to maintain business for at least twelve months without raising new loans. Unused credit facilities are described in note 14. 78 AVINOR AS The table below analyses the maturity structure of the group’s financial obligations, based on contracual undisconted cash-flow. In the case where the opposite party may demand an earlier payment, the amount is presented in the earliest period the payment may be demanded. If payment may be demanded on request, the obligations are included in the first column (less than 1 month): REMAINING PERIOD 1) LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER AVINOR AS 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2017 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 5.7 221.3 963.3 9 277.3 15 032.8 25 500.4 Other commitments 0.6 1.2 2.2 183.5 0.0 187.5 Trade payables 294.5 145.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 439.6 Other current liabilities 212.5 104.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 317.1 Total 513.3 472.2 965.5 9 460.8 15 032.8 26 444.6 31 December 2016 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.1 106.9 865.4 10 165.6 10 060.0 21 207.0 Other commitments 1.7 3.3 14.9 158.6 0.0 178.5 Trade payables 415.7 204.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 620.5 Other current liabilities 311.9 153.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 465.5 Total 738.4 468.6 880.3 10 324.2 10 060.0 22 471.5 1) Derivatives included REMAINING PERIOD 1) LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN OVER AVINOR GROUP 1 MONTH 1 3 MONTHS 3 12 MONTHS 1 5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2017 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 14.8 225.3 1 030.3 9 550.4 15 399.1 26 219.9 Other commitments 1.0 2.0 9.3 189.1 0.0 201.4 Trade payables 349.3 172.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 521.3 Other current liabilities 221.4 109.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 330.4 Total 586.4 508.4 1 039.6 9 739.5 15 399.1 27 273.0 31 December 2016 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 46.3 208.9 959.8 10 590.7 10 588.2 22 393.9 Other commitments 2.7 5.5 24.7 167.3 0.0 200.2 Trade payables 459.2 226.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 685.4 Other current liabilities 320.6 157.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 478.5 Total 828.8 598.5 984.5 10 758.0 10 588.2 23 758.0 1) Derivatives included See note 14 for information about long term loans. In addition to refinancing of the borrowings described above, the group will, the next few years, require financing of new infrastructure in the form of capacity expansion measures. The gross financing requirement includes refinancing of existing borrowings as described above and other plenned investment activities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 79 OTHER INFORMATION The fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments is presented as a current asset/short-term debt or financial asset/longterm debt depending upon the maturity date of the corresponding hedged item. The interest swaps have terms between 0.2 and 9.1 years. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EQUITY The main objective of the group’s management of capital structure is to ensure that the group’s main business objectives are reached within sound financial limits. The paramount financial objectives (sound financial limits) are the following: 1. Equity ratio: 40 per cent (according to article 5 of the company's Articles of Association) 2. Net asset value shall minimum be equal to the carried value of equity The group manages its capital structure and makes necessary adjustments based on a continuing evaluation of the existing economic business climate and the outlook in the shortand medium-term. Article 5 of the company's Articles of Association lays down the following financial limitation: Long-term borrowings for the funding of long-term assets may only be raised within a limit which ensures that the group's equity does not fall at any time below 40 per cent of the carrying amount of the group's long-term interest-bearing debt plus equity. Existing borrowings have covenants regarding amount of equity. There are no equity requirement for the bonds. The loan agreements with EIB and NIB requires equity of minimum 30 per cent of equity pluss net interest-bearing debt. AVINOR AS 2017 2016 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 20 999.9 18 819.0 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 938.1 Net interest-bearing debt 18 928.1 17 880.9 Equity 13 573.2 13 117.8 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 32 501.3 30 998.7 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 41.8 % 42.3 % AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 21 621.3 19 504.6 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 949.1 Net interest-bearing debt 19 549.5 18 555.5 Equity 14 053.5 14 936.6 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 33 603.0 33 492.1 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 41.8 % 44.6 % 1) Equity as a percentage of total equity and net interest-bearing debt. According to article 5 of the company's Article of Association. 80 AVINOR AS FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and financial power forward contracts is based on market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of all interest rate swaps is confirmed by the financial institutions which are the company's opposite party in the financial contracts entered into. The carrying amount of cash and bank overdrafts is approximately equal to the fair value of these instruments as they fall due in a short period of time. Similarly, the carrying amount of receivables and payables is approximately equal to fair value as they are entered into under normal conditions. The fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on the interest rates for debt with corresponding terms and similar credit margin. The fair value of commercial papers equals principal amount. Below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of Avinor AS and the group's interest-bearing debt. 2017 2016 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR AS AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt State loan 2 527.3 2 551.5 2 971.7 2 999.6 Bonds 13 946.3 14 560.5 8 674.7 9 214.1 Bank borrowings 5 734.5 6 267.2 6 241.8 6 879.2 Commercial papers 0.0 0.0 1 400.0 1 400.0 2017 2016 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR AVINOR GROUP AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt State loan 2 527.3 2 551.5 2 971.7 2 999.6 Bonds 13 946.3 14 560.5 8 674.7 9 214.1 Bank borrowings 6 330.2 6 949.0 6 889.7 7 579.0 Commercial papers 0.0 0.0 1 400.0 1 400.0 The table below shows financial instruments at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: ·· Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1). ·· Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). ·· Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 81 The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2017: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.4 Power contracts 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 1 215.7 0.0 1 215.7 Total assets 3.8 1 216.1 0.0 1 219.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 4.9 0.0 4.9 Bonds 0.0 1 460.2 0.0 1 460.2 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 25.6 0.0 25.6 Total liabilities 0.0 1 490.7 0.0 1 490.7 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 551.5 0.0 2 551.5 Bonds 0.0 14 560.5 0.0 14 560.5 Bank borrowings 0.0 6 949.1 0.0 6 949.1 Total 0.0 24 061.1 0.0 24 061.1 There were no transfers between levels during the year. 82 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2016: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 504.0 0.0 504.0 Total assets 0.0 505.0 0.0 505.0 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.8 0.0 0.8 Power contracts 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.7 Bonds 0.0 1 436.8 0.0 1 436.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 52.0 0.0 52.0 Total liabilities 0.7 1 489.6 0.0 1 490.3 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 999.6 0.0 2 999.6 Bonds 0.0 9 214.2 0.0 9 214.2 Bank borrowings 0.0 7 579.0 0.0 7 579.0 Commercial papers 0.0 1 400.0 0.0 1 400.0 Total 0.0 21 192.8 0.0 21 192.8 There were no transfers between levels during the year. Interest-bearing debt and derivatives in level 2. The fair value estimation of derivatives is collected from the groups treasury system and checked against fair value estimates from the main bank connections. The fair value estimation of interest-bearing debt is collected from the groups treasury system and is estimated based on the difference between the coupon/fixed rate of interest on the interest-bearing debt compared with relevant NIBOR interest rate swaps and and implicit funding spread from the market. NOTE 4 Segment information All amounts in MNOK Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the group management. The Avinor group operates 45 airports in Norway including Oslo airport. Operations also include air traffic control towers, control centres and technical infrastructure for aircraft navigation. The operating segments are determined based on the reports used by the group management to evaluate presentations and profitability at a strategic level. The segment information shows the operating profit/ (loss) distributed according to the internal organising of the group. For management purpose the group is organised in one air navigation service unit and one airport operation unit according to the group’s cash generating units. To better the evaluation of the airport operation unit, the management has choosen to present the airports in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and the rest inn addition to property development and hotels separately. Property develpments and hotels consists of office buildings and hotels. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 83 The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2017 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31.12.2017 OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER TOTAL AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS AIRPORTOPERATIONS Traffic income 2 100.7 548.7 408.8 368.3 924.0 4 350.5 Sales and rental income 3 730.1 558.8 439.7 324.4 645.2 5 698.2 Inter-segment income 17.0 2.8 5.3 2.7 85.6 113.4 Total income 5 847.7 1 110.3 853.8 695.4 1 654.9 10 162.1 Employee benefits expense 534.9 137.9 100.7 88.0 784.4 1 645.9 Depreciation and amortisation 862.1 238.8 116.7 96.2 402.5 1 716.4 Other operating expenses 1 938.2 312.5 175.3 136.3 1 021.3 3 583.5 Inter-segment expenses 339.4 137.9 115.9 89.2 682.0 1 364.4 Total expenses 3 674.7 827.1 508.6 409.7 2 890.2 8 310.3 Operating profit/(loss) 2 173.0 283.1 345.2 285.7 -1 235.3 1 851.9 Assets 17 753.6 5 190.6 1 798.3 1 773.4 6 052.0 32 567.9 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONTINUED TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 350.5 1 122.3 0.0 0.0 5 472.8 Sales and rental income 5 698.2 148.8 109.2 97.0 6 053.2 Inter-segment income 113.4 814.2 21.0 600.5 -1 549.1 0.0 Total income 10 162.1 2 085.2 130.2 697.5 -1 549.1 11 526.0 Employee benefits expense 1 645.9 1 368.6 0.0 468.6 3 483.1 Depreciation and amortisation 1 716.4 90.3 36.4 46.1 1 889.1 Other operating expenses 3 583.5 593.2 10.4 729.4 4 916.6 Inter-segment expenses 1 364.4 105.0 -1.0 80.6 -1 549.1 0.0 Total expenses 8 310.3 2 157.1 45.8 1 324.7 -1 549.1 10 288.8 Operating profit/(loss) 1 851.9 -71.9 84.4 -627.2 0.0 1 237.3 Assets 32 567.9 705.0 830.1 152.7 34 255.7 The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2016 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31.12.2016 TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 1 955.1 537.2 413.3 361.6 892.0 4 159.2 Sales and rental income 3 364.0 541.2 450.9 320.0 620.6 5 296.7 Inter-segment income 67.2 16.1 47.0 31.3 57.4 219.0 Total income 5 386.3 1 094.5 911.1 712.8 1 570.0 9 674.8 Employee benefits expense 519.6 121.6 100.5 87.5 784.3 1 613.6 Depreciation and amortisation 864.1 125.2 104.7 93.5 393.0 1 580.5 Other operating expenses 1 736.1 247.2 165.9 129.0 911.7 3 189.9 Inter-segment expenses 352.1 140.7 145.4 112.5 565.5 1 316.3 Total expenses 3 472.0 634.8 516.5 422.5 2 654.5 7 700.2 Operating profit/(loss) 1 914.3 459.7 394.7 290.4 -1 084.5 1 974.6 Assets 16 487.6 2 017.6 1 616.4 1 775.2 6 021.9 27 918.7 84 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31.12.2016 CONTINUED TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 159.2 984.7 0.0 -0.8 5 143.0 Sales and rental income 5 296.7 201.5 106.0 40.9 5 645.0 Inter-segment income 219.0 804.6 40.5 641.5 -1 705.7 0.0 Total income 9 674.8 1 990.8 146.5 681.6 -1 705.7 10 788.0 Employee benefits expense 1 613.6 1 319.7 0.0 392.8 3 326.1 Depreciation and amortisation 1 580.5 81.8 37.0 63.6 1 762.9 Other operating expenses 3 189.9 355.7 5.6 390.0 3 941.2 Inter-segment expenses 1 316.3 103.7 22.8 263.0 -1 705.7 0.0 Total expenses 7 700.2 1 861.0 65.5 1 109.3 -1 705.7 9 030.2 Operating profit/(loss) 1 974.6 129.9 81.0 -427.7 0.0 1 757.8 Assets 27 918.7 673.8 863.0 155.1 29 610.6 Sales between segments are carried out at arm's length. The revenue from external parties reported to group management is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement. Revenue of approximately 2.5 billions, 1.6 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.6 billions (2016: NOK 2.4 billions, 1.6 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.4 billions) and 49 per cent (2016: 50 per cent) of total operating income are derived from three main customers. Revenue from the first customer is attributable to Oslo airport, Bergen airport, Stavanger airport and Trondheim airport. Revenue from the two other customers are attributable to all segments. NOTE 5 Operating income and other income All amounts in MNOK Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivables for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the group's activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the group. Revenue is recognised as follows (most of the group's revenues consist of civil aviation fees and rent from property leases): Sale of traffic and real estate services Revenue from traffic services is recognised in the period the services are provided. Revenue from property leases with fixed lease payment is recognised in the period the services are provided, using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Revenue from property leases with revenue-based lease payments is recognised when it is earned. Revenue from sale of real estate property is recognised when the risk and control of the object is transferred to the buyer, normally at the time of disposal. Sale of goods Revenue from sale of goods are recognised in the period the goods is delivered. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 85 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Traffic income Takeoff charges 1 120.0 1 147.3 1 123.7 1 149.7 Terminal charges 1 238.5 1 301.3 1 242.6 1 304.2 En route charges 0.0 0.0 1 122.3 984.7 Security charges 1 390.2 1 154.0 1 395.6 1 156.8 Terminal navigation charges 588.6 547.6 588.6 547.6 Total 4 337.3 4 150.2 5 472.8 5 143.0 Sales and rental income Duty free 2 663.2 2 552.0 2 663.2 2 552.0 Parking 938.6 868.8 938.7 868.8 Other 2 110.4 1 836.6 2 436.6 2 216.0 Total 5 712.2 5 257.4 6 038.5 5 636.8 Other operating income Intercompany services 156.3 150.4 0.0 0.0 Other 13.5 7.2 14.7 8.2 Total 169.8 157.6 14.7 8.2 Total operating income 10 219.3 9 565.2 11 526.0 10 788.0 Sales and rental income from duty free and parking are mainly rental income. Recognition and measurement of income A substantial part of Avinor’s commercial income consists of sales and rental income. Rental income is covered by IAS 17 and so is thus not covered by IFRS 15. The table below outlines Avinor Group’s primary income types that are considered to fall under IFRS 15. When analysing IFRS 15, significant delivery obligations for each income type are identified, and the basis for the measuring and accrual of income in the Group’s accounts is assessed. No significant changes were identified in the implementation of IFRS 15 for any income types of either the Parent Company or the Group. TYPE OF INCOME (PERCENTAGE OF THE GROUP’S TOTAL INCOME) SIGNIFICANT DELIVERY OBLIGATIONS Terminal charges (11 %) Essential infrastructure and provision of services to passengers on arrival, at departure, during transit, or corresponding flight services at Avinor’s airports, including document control and baggage handling. Security charges (12 %) Essential services/infrastructure for carrying out security checks at Avinor’s airports in line with applicable regulations. Takeoff charges (10 %) Essential services/infrastructure for operating a departure from one of Avinor’s airports. En-route charges (10 %) Essential services provided during the in-flight/en-route stage of the flight (between take-off and landing) including communications, navigation, and monitoring services. Terminal navigation charges (5 %) Essential services/infrastructure relating to monitoring and control during take-off, landing, and movements to/from the gate (before and after the en-route stage), including information and alarm services. 86 AVINOR AS NOTE 6 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Salaries and personnel costs Salaries 1 507.2 1 468.5 2 521.0 2 456.6 Payroll tax 230.2 213.4 377.5 363.5 Pension costs 271.8 239.5 460.0 387.3 Other personnel costs 76.5 69.4 124.6 118.7 Total 2 085.7 1 990.8 3 483.1 3 326.1 Reduction of total salaries and personnel costs: Salaries and personnel costs recognised in the balance sheet 50.3 78.2 128.6 138.4 Average number of man-years employed 2 128 2 012 3 185 3 115 Group management: The group management consists of the group CEO and the managing director of each division and the largest subsidiary in addition to the managing directors of each corporate staff. 2017 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 764 454 26 551 752 481 3 543 487 Øyvind Hasaas 0 2 216 518 29 234 669 043 2 914 795 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 807 918 16 202 265 140 2 089 259 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 708 024 22 364 345 686 2 076 073 Lasse Bardal (until 11.08.2017) 0 1 716 722 23 534 390 697 2 130 953 Thomas Wintervold (from 11.08.2017) 0 1 211 550 10 160 226 278 1 447 987 Mari Hermansen 0 1 709 300 27 369 428 943 2 165 612 Petter Johannessen (leave of absence from 20.08.2017) 0 1 828 981 33 490 480 666 2 343 137 Thomas Rønning Øyn (acting CFO from 20.08.2017) 0 1 221 851 10 160 221 758 1 453 770 Anders Kirsebom 0 2 047 973 20 458 405 654 2 474 085 Jon Sjølander 0 1 872 016 14 634 436 582 2 323 232 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 884 101 16 446 458 075 2 358 622 Egil Thompson 0 1 717 910 27 234 429 159 2 174 303 Stine Ramstad Westby 0 1 698 541 19 832 291 659 2 010 032 Total 0 25 405 858 297 670 5 801 820 31 505 348 Board Ola Mørkved Rinnan 430 750 0 0 0 430 750 Ola H. Strand 278 000 0 0 0 278 000 Tone Merethe Lindberg (until 29.05.2017) 112 250 0 0 0 112 250 Herlof Nilssen 261 500 0 0 0 261 500 Linda Bernander Silseth 223 000 0 0 0 223 000 Eli Skrøvset 280 500 0 0 0 280 500 Per Erik Nordsveen (until 26.09.2017) 147 583 751 373 5 768 88 602 993 326 Grete Ovnerud (until 26.09.2017) 168 666 979 045 5 417 251 437 1 404 566 Olav Aadal (from 26.09.2017) 2 500 1 530 170 5 417 181 691 1 719 778 Heidi Anette Sørum 237 000 745 047 10 160 127 844 1 120 050 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 219 750 962 332 10 160 234 444 1 426 686 Total 2 361 499 4 967 968 36 922 884 018 8 250 406 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 87 2016 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 661 688 25 029 721 816 3 408 533 Øyvind Hasaas 0 2 026 203 18 223 623 381 2 667 808 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 619 179 26 244 243 446 1 888 870 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 619 129 13 923 284 640 1 917 692 Lasse Bardal 0 1 676 121 14 199 319 115 2 009 435 Mari Hermansen 0 1 667 835 26 508 414 218 2 108 561 Petter Johannessen 0 1 778 461 8 686 450 384 2 237 531 Anders Kirsebom 0 1 998 914 22 589 366 216 2 387 719 Jon Sjølander 0 1 805 188 17 002 373 450 2 195 640 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 841 481 17 007 436 001 2 294 489 Egil Thompson 0 1 685 238 27 106 405 696 2 118 040 Stine Ramstad Westby (from 15.03.2016) 0 1 518 042 18 992 285 276 1 822 310 Total 0 21 897 480 235 509 4 923 641 27 056 629 Board Ola Mørkved Rinnan 421 500 0 0 0 421 500 Ola H. Strand 260 500 0 0 0 260 500 Mari Thjømøe (until 29.06.2016) 122 500 0 0 0 122 500 Tone Merethe Lindberg 221 250 0 0 0 221 250 Herlof Nilssen 234 500 0 0 0 234 500 Linda Bernander Silseth (from 29.06.2016) 109 000 0 0 0 109 000 Eli Skrøvset 274 500 0 0 0 274 500 Per Erik Nordsveen 212 500 772 703 5 967 98 166 1 089 336 Grete Ovnerud 248 500 923 463 5 516 276 506 1 453 985 Heidi Anette Sørum 215 000 864 731 10 359 142 521 1 232 611 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 215 000 939 823 10 359 273 785 1 438 967 Total 2 534 750 3 500 719 32 201 790 978 6 858 648 On termination or changes in conditions of employment or board appointment no obligations exist to give the group management or the board any distinct compensation, beyond what is stated in note 7. Nor are there any arrangements concerning bonuses, profit sharing or share-based payments. No loans or guarantees have been given to the members of the group management or the board. None of the members of the group management have received any remunerations or economic benefits from other companies in the group, other than shown in the table above. There is no additional remuneration to executives for special services other than normal operations, see note 7. 88 AVINOR AS NOTE 7 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' DECLARATION ON ·· Jan Østby, Director Remote Services THE DETERMINATION OF SALARIES AND OTHER ·· Marisa Luisa Ruiz Retamar, Director HR and Competence REMUNERATION FOR THE CEO AND OTHER EXECUTIVE ·· Kresten Lyngstad, CFO EMPLOYEES OF THE AVINOR GROUP – 2017 ·· Anne-Kr. Aagaard Chavez, Director Safety and Quality ·· Geir Ove Heir, Director Remote Tower Center According to article 8 of the company's articles of association, the Board of Directors shall prepare a declaration concerning the Svalbard Lufthavn AS: determination of salaries and other remuneration for the senior ·· Morten Ulsnes, Managing Director management. This declaration shall be included as a note in the annual accounts. The declaration shall contain the contents 2. Declaration's validity specified in section 6-16a of the Public Limited Companies Act, The declaration applies for the coming financial year, ref. article and shall in addition give an account of how the 'Government's 8 of the articles of association and section 6-16a (2) of the Public policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned Limited Companies Act. The Group's Board of Directors will enterprises and companies' is followed up in the company's use the principles described in this declaration as the basis for wholly owned subsidiaries. The declaration shall be handled at determining the remuneration of the CEO and in its assessment the company's ordinary general meeting. Reference is made to and monitoring of the CEO's determination of remuneration of section 5-6 third paragraph of the Public Limited Companies Act executive employees. and the Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned enterprises and companies, as set out by 3. The main principles of the Group's executive employee the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015. remuneration policy Avinor's executive remuneration policy has to comply with the 1. Employees covered by the declaration Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel This declaration covers executive employees of the Group; Avinor in state-owned enterprises and companies (as set out by the AS and the wholly owned subsidiaries Avinor Flysikring AS and Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2016). Svalbard Lufthavn AS. At 1 January 2018 , the Group's executive Executive remuneration in the Group should comprise a competimanagement team comprised the following employees, who are tive but not leading salary when compared to similar companies. covered by this declaration: 3.1 Salary Avinor AS: The main element of the Group's remuneration packages must be ·· Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO a fixed basic salary. ·· Thomas Øyn, acting CFO ·· Petter Johannessen, CFO 3.2 Directors' remuneration ·· Mari Hermansen, Executive Vice President HR, Legal and No remuneration is paid for board appointments in other Business support companies in the Avinor Group. ·· Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Communications, Brand and Public Relations 3.3 Benefits in kind ·· Jon Sjølander, Executive Vice President Strategy Executive employees shall receive the benefits in kind that are ·· Tarald Johansen, Executive Vice President Safety and common for comparable positions. These may include a car Environment allowance, free newspapers/magazines, free phone, laptop, ·· Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President Regional printer and free broadband service. and Local Airports Division ·· Øyvind Hasaas, Airport Director Oslo airport In the CEO's agreement, a car allowance may be replaced with a ·· Thomas Wintervold, acting Airport Director Trondheim company car within the framework set by the Board. airport Værnes ·· Leif A. Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger airport Sola 3.4 Performance pay ·· Aslak Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen airport Flesland A performance pay scheme may be established for executive ·· Stine R. Westby, Executive Vice President Operations and employees based on individual targets. There must be a clear Infrastructure correlation between performance pay targets and the Group's targets. Any scheme will be structured in accordance with the Avinor Flysikring AS: guidelines specified in the owner’s statement. ·· Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director ·· Jan-Gunnar Pedersen, Director Business Area En-Route 3.5 Extraordinary lump sum payment ·· Snorre Andresen, Director Business Area Tower and Approach for exceptional performance Services A lump sum payment may be awarded to executive employees ·· Ellen Lystad, Acting Director System Operations following exceptional performance beyond what may be expected ·· Håkan Olsson, Acting Director Development and Projects in the relevant position, in connection with defined activities of ·· Tor-Øivind Skogseth, Assistent Managing Director and major strategic importance. The criteria for a lump sum payment Director Customers and Public Relations shall ordinarily be agreed in advance, and always be presented COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 89 to the Board of Directors for approval. The lump sum payment to be a member of the Group’s general pension plan. As at must be approved by the group’s Board of Directors following 31.12.2017 this apply to only one member of the Group executive nomination by the CEO. General guidelines must be established management. for the scheme. Annual disability pension amounts to (100 per cent disability) 4. Options and share programmes 38.4 per cent of salaries between 12G and 27G. The full annual No options or similar schemes will be established in the comdisability pension presupposes that insured at retirement will get pany. No share programme involving share-based remuneration a time period of at least 20 years. If the length of services is less, will be established in the company. the disability pension will be reduced proportionally. 5. Pension plans 6. Termination and severance pay Executive employees shall participate in the Group's general There is a three-month notice period applicable to both parties pension plan. The basis for calculating pension entitlements shall calculated from the first day of the month after notice is given. not exceed 12G (where G = National Insurance Scheme's basic Notice shall be given in writing. amount). The terms shall be similar to the terms that apply for other company employees. The age limit is 70 years. For executive The CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries have waived employees, members of the Group's executive management and their employment protection under the Norwegian Working Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS the age limit is 67 Environment Act. For these people severance pay equivalent to years. In the Agreement with the Group,s executive management 12 months' fixed salary may be agreed, including the salary of and Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS concluded before any notice period. Severance pay is calculated on the basis of the the guidelines from 15.2.2015, a defined-contribution retirement employee's regular monthly salary at the time of termination. No pension scheme for salaries exceeding 12G have been estabholiday pay is accrued on the basis of the severance pay beyond lished, inclusive a disability pension scheme. the salary during the notice period. For this group the retirement pension is contribution-based The severance package, for those employed after 01.01.2015, will for salaries exeeding 12G with different rates dependent on age be reduced by a proportional amount calculated on the basis of and are administered through the company's operating budget the new annual income in the event of appointment to a new until further notice. Current personnel are divided into four age position or if an income is received from an enterprise of which groups. The pension basis for contributions is the agreed fixed the employee concerned is an active owner. salary, and payment will commence once the retirement age has been reached in accordance with the individual agreement. The employee is only entitled to severance pay in excess of their Payment of the supplementary pension is executed by Avinor's salary during the notice period if they accept the termination, payroll department monthly once the age limit of 67 is reached. A leave at the request of the employer, and do not submit any claim condition of payment is that the employee has resigned from their in relation to the rules of the Norwegian Working Environment position in the company. If the employee retires from the Group Act with regard to protection against dismissal, etc. before reaching their pensionable age, the severance agreement is to include a date for when payment of the pension is to start. Severance pay may be withheld if there are ground for dismissal, or if irregularities or omissions are found during the period in The following contribution plan applies: which severance pay is to be given, which may result in liability for damages or the employees being prosecuted for violation of For senior executives aged 60 and over: the law. ·· 30 per cent av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and ·· 25 per cent av pensionable income over 18G The CEO has concluded such an agreement dated 14 January 2011. A notice period of three months and a severance payment For senior executives aged 55 to 60: of 12 months have been agreed, which become payable upon ·· 25 per cent av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination by the Company. The agreement contains provisions ·· 20 per cent av pensionable income over 18G for the deduction of income from a new employer, and ceases if the employee is entitled to a disability benefit or retirement penFor senior executives aged 50 to 55: sion under the agreement. The CEO is not entitled to pay after ·· 20 per cent av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and termination of employment if the employment is terminated due ·· 15 per cent av pensionable income over 18G to circumstances which may result in grounds for dismissal For senior executives aged up to 50: Members of the Group’s executive management have agreed final ·· 15 per cent av pensionable income from 12G to 18G and remuneration figures in their contracts of employment should ·· 10 per cent av pensionable income over 18G their employment be terminated by the employer. For the majority of the members of the Group’s executive management, this has When moving up to a new rate following a birthday, this takes been defined as 12 months of their regular fixed salary. For one effect from the first date of the month following the birthday. member of the Group’s executive management, remuneration has been defined as “reasonable final remuneration determined The employer has the full right to manage their pension scheme at the time of termination” based on their regular monthly salary. for salaries exceeding 12G. Final remuneration will only be paid if the director accepts the termination and does not commence proceedings under the Executive employees appointed after 13.2.2015 are only entitled termination regulations of the Norwegian Working Environment 90 AVINOR AS Act, etc. For other executive employees, an advanced agreement The total cost of the contribution-based pension scheme for for severance pay with finally determined compensation at retiresalary exceeding 12G for senior personnel before 13 February ment, can not be entered into. Instead, an advance agreement 2015 was NOK 2,429,093 in 2017. with a reasonable severance pay may be agreed on, effective only if the employee is not contesting dismissal. These agreements The scheme is administered by Avinor through day-to-day apply correspondingly to the agreements applicable to the CEO operations. The premium is not taxable and dutiable. The scheme and Managing Directors of subsidiaries. is closed for new senior personnel after 13 February 2015. 7. Executive remuneration policy and implementation The individual's total pension cost is stated in the notes to the of the guidelines in the preceding year financial statements. The salary policy for executive employees in 2017 has been conducted in accordance with the above guidelines and the Lump sum payments of NOK 150,000 have been awarded for guidelines discussed at the Annual General Meeting on 29 May exceptional performance and results in connection with the T2 2017. This applies both to Avinor AS, Avinor Flysikring AS and and T3 projects. These concern Øyvind Hasaas and Aslak Sverdrup. Svalbard Lufthavn AS. The Board's declaration concerning the determination of salaries In connection with the wage settlement, the CEO's fixed salary and other remuneration was published for the first time in was adjusted by 2.4 per cent. The basic salary of other senior the 2011 financial year. Executive remuneration packages are personnel in Avinor AS was adjusted in average by 2.4 per cent. reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Executive remuneraThe base salary of the Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS tion agreements entered into before this point in time shall not was adjusted by 2.4 per cent. Other senior personnel in Avinor be negatively affected by this declaration. Flysikring AS was adjusted in average 4.5 per cent. The wage settlement is based on evaluation of performance. The fixed salary of The remuneration and other benefits received by executive the managing director of Svalbard Lufthavn AS was adjusted by employees in 2017 are provided in note 6 of the annual financial 2.4 per cent. statement for 2017. NOTE 8 Other operating expenses All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other operating expenses Rent buildings/land 72.2 73.5 58.4 57.8 Management/maintenance buildings 745.5 600.1 791.9 642.6 Repairs, maintenance operational materials 400.2 373.6 450.6 413.1 Control/security/guard services 939.1 971.6 945.5 975.0 Meteorological services 3.2 3.1 43.3 41.9 Consulting services 310.9 235.2 345.5 261.8 Other external services 695.9 565.9 724.2 591.8 Other operating expenses 1 403.4 1 259.4 657.3 581.8 Total 4 570.4 4 082.4 4 016.7 3 565.8 For accounting policies concerning operating leases, see note 13. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Auditor's fees Auditor's fee fixed charge (VAT not included): Statutory audit fee 1.4 0.9 1.8 1.3 Other auditors's fees charged to profit and loss (VAT not included) Other attestation services 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.9 Tax advisory services 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other services 0.7 0.0 0.7 0.0 Total 1.2 0.6 1.3 0.9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 91 NOTE 9 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project All amounts in MNOK As a result of the development of Oslo airport (Terminal 2 project) the income statement includes charges for extra costs related to the maintenance of normal operations during the construction period, as well as costs related to the scrapping of assets, including higher depreciation as a result of a re-assessed economic life. Part of the charges for extra costs is based on estimates. SPECIFICATION 2017 2016 Employee benefits expense Payroll and other personnel expenses for operating personnel 20.6 40.1 Total 20.6 40.1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Higher depreciation as the result of scrapping portions of the terminal 4.5 80.6 Total 4.5 80.6 Other operating expenses Operational coordination 35.9 86.6 Security 5.4 38.2 More bussing 0.8 15.2 Consulting services 1.2 2.0 Staff/support 27.5 44.6 Demolishing expenses existing plant 35.3 53.7 Additional contract costs related to maintenance of normal operations during the construction period 29.2 67.6 Other 0.4 7.9 Total 135.7 315.8 Total 160.8 436.5 NOTE 10 Other expenses All amounts in MNOK The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/gains net' or within 'finance cost'. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other expenses Pension see note 16 170.0 0.0 415.0 0.0 Changes in value and other losses/gains net 0.1 -19.7 -12.8 -18.9 Total 170.1 -19.7 402.2 -18.9 Changes in value and other losses/gains net Changes in value unrealised (note 14) -4.4 -28.0 0.2 -34.9 Changes in value realised energy contracts 2.8 7.6 2.9 8.0 Foreign currency translation gains/losses 1.7 0.7 -15.9 8.0 Total 0.1 -19.7 -12.8 -18.9 92 AVINOR AS From the 1 January 2018 the financing of deferred pension rights for employees who leave these organisations will be transferred from the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund to the organisation in question. The change extends the groups basis of liability as an employer and the increase in pension obligation is therefore charged to the income statement. NOTE 11 Finance income and costs All amounts in MNOK Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Accounting principles regarding finance items are described in note 14. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2017 2016 2017 2016 Finance income Interest income on short-term bank deposits 58.3 35.4 59.7 35.8 Interest income on loans to group companies 6.2 3.0 0.0 0.0 Group contributions and dividends received 1 000.0 75.2 6.0 0.0 Gains on financial instruments 4.1 0.4 22.4 0.4 Total 1 068.6 114.0 88.1 36.2 Finance costs Interest expense on bank borrowings 650.1 567.2 680.4 601.0 Interest expense on loans from group companies 28.0 40.6 0.0 0.0 Interest expense on others 3.8 34.5 4.2 34.7 Other borrowing expenses 37.2 26.7 37.3 27.8 Borrowing costs capitalised (note 13) -38.2 -235.3 -47.7 -235.3 Foreign currency translation gains/losses -3.2 -1.0 -3.2 -1.0 Net fair value gains/losses on bank borrowings including derivatives -14.5 59.8 -14.5 59.8 Fair value loss on financial instruments (note 14) interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges, transfer from equity 14.6 -7.4 14.6 -7.4 interest rate swaps: fair value hedges 14.5 -59.8 14.5 -59.8 Total 692.3 425.3 685.6 419.8 Finance income/(costs) net 376.3 -311.3 -597.5 -383.6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 93 NOTE 12 Income tax expense and deferred income tax All amounts in MNOK The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets are assessed against future taxable income and are evaluated separately. Net deferred tax asset The group has significant temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and its tax base. This has resulted in a significant deferred tax asset. An analysis made of the group's tax position shows that it is probable that this asset may be utilised by the group. Loss carried forward Svalbard Lufthavn AS have a loss carried forward of MNOK 140,0. The tax effect of the loss is not included owing to the uncertainty regarding the utilization of the loss. Change in tax rate The tax rate was changed from the 1st of January 2018 from 24 per cent to 23 per cent. Correspondingly, the change from 2016 to 2017 was from 25 per cent to 24 %. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income tax expense Current tax on profit for the year 42.7 65.5 115.4 136.6 Current tax on adjustments in respect of prior years 10.8 0.0 10.8 -0.2 Current tax on group contributions 4.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax, adjustments prior years 0.0 2.1 0.0 3.5 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences 89.2 245.9 21.7 212.2 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -8.5 -2.4 -7.4 -6.5 Total 138.8 311.1 140.5 345.6 Effective tax rate reconciliation 24 (25)% of profit before tax 377.8 304.1 152.1 342.5 Effect of adjustments prior years -4.2 2.1 -7.7 1.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -8.5 -2.4 -7.4 -6.5 Group contribution received (not subject to tax ) -235.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Dividends received 0.0 0.0 -1.4 0.0 Permanent differences 24 (25)% 9.0 7.3 4.9 7.9 Income tax expense 138.8 311.0 140.5 345.6 Effective tax rate 8.8 25.6 22.2 25.2 94 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS: SPECIFICATION DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ ADAPTED TO CHARGED/ CREDITED TO ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT NEW ANNUAL TAX RATE AT 31 MERGER/ THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER TAX RATE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2017 DECEMBER 2017 Receivables 0.0 0.0 -1.8 0.0 -1.8 -1.7 Non-current assets -689.4 0.3 125.3 0.0 -563.8 -540.3 Borrowings -121.2 0.0 -199.7 0.0 -320.9 -307.5 Provisions -74.3 0.0 24.4 0.0 -49.9 -47.8 Pension benefits -396.4 -0.1 -54.6 -92.7 -543.8 -521.1 Profit and loss account -8.5 0.0 -6.0 0.0 -14.5 -13.9 Derivative financial instruments 117.4 0.0 201.6 -26.2 292.8 280.6 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 172.2 0.2 89.2 -118.9 -1 201.7 -1 151.7 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 48.8 50.1 Presented as: Equity reduction 0 0.0 Other comprehensive income expense 51.2 58.6 Profit and loss expense -2.4 -8.5 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY MERGER/ THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2016 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2016 Receivables 0.2 0.0 -0.2 0.0 0.0 Group contributions (receivables) -98.8 80.0 18.8 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets -692.4 -168.6 142.9 0.0 -718.1 Borrowings -171.6 0.0 45.4 0.0 -126.2 Provisions -120.8 -17.8 61.3 0.0 -77.3 Pension benefits -271.3 -73.3 12.8 -81.1 -412.9 Group contributions (payables) 1.5 0.0 0.0 -1.5 0.0 Profit and loss account -3.8 -6.3 1.3 0.0 -8.8 Derivative financial instruments 152.2 -5.1 -36.4 11.6 122.3 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 204.7 -191.1 245.9 -71.0 -1 221.0 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 382.8 -1 215.4 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -49.5 -74.3 -1 432.3 -1 289.6 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 280.6 117.4 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.0 280.6 117.4 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 151.7 -1 172.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 95 AVINOR GROUP: SPECIFICATION DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CHARGED/ ADAPTED TO CHARGED/ CREDITED TO ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT NEW ANNUAL TAX RATE AT 31 THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER TAX RATE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 STATEMENT INCOME 2017 DECEMBER 2017 Receivables -0.1 -2.0 0.0 -2.1 -2.0 Non-current assets -635.8 130.0 0.0 -505.8 -484.7 Borrowings -121.2 -199.7 0.0 -320.9 -307.5 Provisions -80.9 27.7 0.0 -53.2 -51.0 Pension benefits -620.5 -128.4 -216.4 -965.3 -925.1 Profit and loss account -8.6 -6.3 0.0 -14.9 -14.3 Derivative financial instruments 108.3 200.4 -23.3 285.4 273.5 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 358.7 21.7 -239.7 -1 576.8 -1 511.2 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 56.3 65.5 Presented as: Equity reduction 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income expense 62.7 72.9 Profit and loss expense -6.5 -7.4 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2016 STATEMENT INCOME 2016 Receivables 0.1 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Non-current assets -817.8 154.1 0.0 -663.7 Borrowings -171.6 45.4 0.0 -126.2 Provisions -153.4 69.1 0.0 -84.3 Pension benefits -486.2 -23.0 -137.1 -646.3 Profit and loss account -10.5 1.5 0.0 -9.0 Derivative financial instruments 130.6 -34.7 16.9 112.8 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 508.9 212.2 -120.2 -1 416.9 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 797.5 -1 453.2 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -53.0 -81.1 -1 850.5 -1 534.3 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 339.3 175.6 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.0 339.3 175.6 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 511.2 -1 358.7 96 AVINOR AS NOTE 13 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment All amounts in MNOK INTANGIBLE ASSETS Separately acquired intangible assets are shown at historical cost. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Internally generated intangible assets, with the exception of development costs that are recognised as intangible assets, are recogised as an expense as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an intangible asset when all the criterias in IAS 38 are met. The useful life of an intangible asset is either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised using the straightline method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives. Method of amortisation and estimated useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in method and/or estimated useful life is accounted for as changes in estimates. Computer software Costs associated with purchasing new computer software are recognised as an intangible asset, unless it is a part of the acquisition of hardware. Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life, normally 5 years. Cost associated with maintaining computer software programs or maintaining future usage of computer software programs are expensed unless the changes enchance the future usage of the program. AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AIRSPACE ORGANIZATION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2016 Cost 77.8 299.6 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -36.1 -182.4 Net book amount 41.7 117.2 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 41.7 117.2 Additions 2.7 4.1 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Amortisation charge -4.4 -12.5 Closing net book amount 39.9 108.8 At 31 December 2016 Cost 80.5 303.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -40.5 -194.9 Net book amount 39.9 108.8 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 39.9 108.8 Additions 0.0 17.2 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Amortisation charge -4.5 -13.2 Closing net book amount 35.4 112.8 At 31 December 2017 Cost 80.5 321.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -45.0 -208.1 Net book value 35.4 112.8 Estimated useful life 10 years 10 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 97 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Each material component of an asset is evaluated separately for the object of depreciation. The materiality is assessed from the cost of a component in relation to the cost of the whole asset. Land and housing are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Buildings 10 50 years Infrastructure 5 40 years Runways and other related assets 15 50 years Vehicles 10 20 years Other non-current assets 5 15 years The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. LEASES The group as a lessee Finance leases: Leases where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. The group have no Finance leases. Operating leases: Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. The group as a lessor Operating leases: A substantial part of Avinor’s commercial income consists of rental income , which are accounted for according to IAS 17. The rental income consists of fixed amounts as well as revenue based parts, which are recognized based on the time of delivery during the period of the lease. The group presents rental assets as non-current assets in the balance sheet. GOVERNMENT GRANTS A government grant is recognised at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions attached to it, and that the grant will be received. Government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants related to assets are presented in the statement of financial position by deducting the grant to arrive at the carrying amount of the asset. IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The difference between the carrying amount and recoverable amount is recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. For the purpose of assessing impairment the whole group is defined as two cash generating units (CGU’s), see note 2. The assessment requires a great degree of professional judgement. Among other things, an assessment has to be made of how long a period of time the impairment may last and the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount, in addition to the financial position and expected development in the market, including operating and financing cash flows. 98 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2016 Cost 1 099.0 5 183.3 6 041.3 855.0 2 278.6 727.9 16 185.1 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -1 582.2 -1 276.4 -349.7 -1 422.1 -315.7 -4 947.8 Net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.5 412.2 11 237.4 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 1 097.3 3 601.1 4 764.9 505.3 856.5 412.2 11 237.3 Additions 77.2 10 419.4 4 231.3 289.1 1 721.2 1 484.8 18 223.0 Disposals 0.0 -1.4 0.0 -1.1 -0.8 0.0 -3.3 Depreciation charge 0.0 -684.4 -378.8 -59.4 -356.0 -150.7 -1 629.3 Closing net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 At 31 December 2016 Cost 1 176.2 19 141.0 12 246.7 1 319.3 6 065.7 3 017.1 42 966.0 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -5 806.3 -3 629.3 -585.4 -3 844.8 -1 270.8 -15 138.3 Net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 Additions 26.7 3 979.8 754.6 108.5 1 166.4 373.9 6 409.9 Disposals -0.4 -4.6 -0.3 -2.3 -8.3 0.0 -15.9 Depreciation charge 0.0 -681.2 -404.3 -65.5 -464.2 -124.9 -1 740.1 Closing net book amount 1 200.8 16 628.7 8 967.4 774.6 2 914.8 1 995.3 32 481.6 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1 202.5 23 114.2 12 988.7 1 389.1 7 137.2 3 334.0 49 165.7 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -6 485.5 -4 021.3 -614.5 -4 222.4 -1 338.7 -16 684.1 Net book amount 1 200.8 16 628.7 8 967.4 774.6 2 914.8 1 995.3 32 481.6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 99 AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2016 Cost 1 735.5 13 708.9 11 090.9 1 283.9 5 949.7 2 177.4 35 946.3 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -4 975.3 -2 788.1 -588.4 -4 218.9 -867.3 -13 439.2 Net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 1 734.3 8 733.6 8 302.8 695.5 1 730.8 1 310.1 22 507.1 Additions 102.9 5 980.8 662.2 136.4 1 390.9 479.4 8 752.6 Disposals 0.0 -2.1 -0.1 -1.1 -4.2 0.0 -7.5 Depreciation charge 0.0 -725.6 -381.9 -63.2 -428.2 -151.5 -1 750.4 Closing net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 At 31 December 2016 Cost 1 838.4 19 633.8 11 752.6 1 401.6 7 283.5 2 656.9 44 566.8 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -5 647.1 -3 169.6 -634.0 -4 594.2 -1 018.9 -15 065.0 Net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 Additions 26.7 4 001.6 754.6 112.6 1 262.1 375.3 6 532.9 Disposals 0.0 -4.6 -0.3 -2.7 -8.3 0.0 -15.9 Depreciation charge 0.0 -724.0 -409.5 -70.2 -546.4 -125.8 -1 875.9 Closing net book amount 1 863.9 17 259.7 8 927.8 807.3 3 396.7 1 887.5 34 142.9 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1 865.1 23 628.8 12 494.7 1 473.3 8 440.1 2 975.2 50 877.2 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -6 369.1 -3 566.9 -666.0 -5 043.4 -1 087.7 -16 734.3 Net book amount 1 863.9 17 259.7 8 927.8 807.3 3 396.7 1 887.5 34 142.9 Estimated useful life 10 50 years 15 50 years 10 20 years 5 15 years 5 40 years Method of depreciation NA Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line 100 AVINOR AS ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2016 Cost 3 343.0 10 615.2 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 3 343.0 10 615.2 Merger/demerger 6 915.4 0.0 Additions 4 610.1 4 854.7 Reclassification -8 617.6 -8 752.8 Closing net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 At 31 December 2016 Cost 6 250.9 6 717.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 Additions 2 632.2 3 008.9 Reclassification -6 409.9 -6 532.9 Closing net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 At 31 December 2017 Cost 2 473.2 3 193.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 Classified as intangible 0.0 245.1 Borrowing costs less cost to sell and its value in use. The group estimates both Property plant and equipment includes borrowing costs when fair value and value in use based on the present value of future the construction period of major asset is longer than one year. cash flows. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to MNOK 47.7 in 2017 and derived from existing assets (without improving or enhancing the MNOK 235.3 in 2016. performance of these assets). The average capitalisation rate for 2017 was 2.69 per cent (2016: The group operates in its entirety in Norway and the present 3.49 per cent). value of future cash flow is therefore estimated in NOK. The future cash flow is then discounted based on an weighted average Security discount rate relevant for the group's type of operations. The rate Under Avinor AS's Articles of Association, assets from basic of return is based on 10-year Norwegian government securities operations cannot be pledged as security. adjusted for the group's business risk. The expense related to the debt ratio part of the weighted average rate of return is based Basis for the measurement of recoverable amount on the average market rate for the group. In the present value Due to the materiality of the group's assets and a future high estimate for 2017 the discount rate is 6.7 per cent before tax. investment level, impairment tests are carried out regularly. As at 31 December 2017 the measurement of recoverable amount The whole of Avinor group's operations have been defined as two for the whole group is estimated based on fair value less cost cash-generating units (CGU’s), see basic principles note 2. to sell. Fair value is estimated based on future cash flows from operations, including future capacity increasing activities such as An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of OSL Terminal 2 and expansion of the terminals at Flesland, Sola the group's assets is less than its carrying amount. The recoveraand Værnes. ble amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 101 The valuation is based on several assumptions. The main assumptions used in the estimation of recoverable amount are (2016 figures in brackets): ALL FIGURES IN PER CENT 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Passenger growth (%) 3.8 (3.1) 3.9 (3.3) 3.5 (3.2) 4.0 (2.2) 2.4 (2.4) 2.4 (2.1) Consumer price index (%) 2.0 (2.1) 2.0 (2.0) 2.0 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2033 Passenger growth (%) 2.3 (2.1) 2.3 (2.1) 2.2 (2.0) 2.2 (2.0) 2.2 (2.0) 2.0-2.2 (1.7-2.0) Consumer price index (%) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) There is close correlation between GDP (Norwegian mainland) and passenger growth. The estimates are based on real growth in expenses. The estimates include expected investments based on the group's long-term investment plan, including existing public regulations. The expected value of operations past fifteen years is determined as a terminal value. The terminal value is based on the assumption of a constant growth of 0.0 per cent and an estimated normalised investment level. As at 31 December 2017 there are no indications that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. NOTE 14 Financial assets and liabilities All amounts in MNOK FINANCIAL ASSETS at fair value through profit or loss. Thereafter they are carried at amortised cost. Classification The group classifies its financial assets in the following categoFinancial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss ries: At fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables. are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecassets were acquired. Management determines the classification ognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investof its financial assets at initial recognition. ments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives Impairment of financial assets with a positive fair value. Assets in this category are classified as The group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of of the reporting period. financial assets is impaired. An impairment loss is recognised when the loss is material and assumed to last for a longer period Loans and receivables of time. Do not apply to financial assets at fair value through Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed profit and loss. or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, excepts for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS classified as non-current assets. The group's loans and receivables AND HEDGING ACTIVIES comprise 'trade and other receivables' in the balance sheet. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivRecognition and measurement ative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or on the trade-date the date on which the group commits to loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging purchase or sell the assets. Investments are initially recognised at instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried 102 AVINOR AS The group designates certain derivatives as either: Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives (a) Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or a that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised firm commitment ( fair value hedge) in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within (b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or 'net finance costs'. liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge) Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss The group documents at the inception of the transaction the in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss ( for relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertakgain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps ing various hedging transactions. The group also documents its hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of statement within 'finance costs'. whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge hedged items. no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-currecognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised rent asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. The group normally defines derivatives related to borrowings as FINANCIAL LIABILITIES hedging derivatives and as designated and qualified for hedge accounting. The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following categories: At fair value through profit or loss and other financial The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the liabilities. The classification depends on the purpose for which purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward the financial liabilities were incurred. Management determines energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivahedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is tives with a negative fair value. Derivatives are initially recognised related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/ income statement. Assets in this category are classified as gains net' or within 'finance cost'. current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Other financial liabilities qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, Other financial liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The group only active market. Other financial liabilities are recognised intially at applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of effective interest method. They are included in current liabilities, interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The gain or loss of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income These are classified as non-current liabilities. statement within 'changes in value and other losses/(gains) net'. Changes in the fair value of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within 'finance costs'. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 103 Categories of financial instruments in the balance sheet: AVINOR AS ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2017 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 172.1 172.1 Derivative financial instruments 4.1 1 215.7 1 219.8 Other financial assets 260.1 260.1 Trade receivables 942.1 942.1 Other receivables 176.8 176.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 2 071.8 Total 3 622.9 4.1 1 215.7 4 842.7 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 083.0 2 083.0 Loans and payables to group companies 1 613.2 1 613.2 Other long-term liabilities 19 553.7 19 553.7 Trade payables and other liabilities 1 335.7 1 335.7 Total 0.0 0.0 24 585.6 24 585.6 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2016 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 371.5 371.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 504.0 505.0 Other financial assets 390.6 390.6 Trade receivables 798.0 798.0 Other receivables 409.4 409.4 Cash and cash equivalents 938.1 938.1 Total 2 907.6 1.0 504.0 3 412.6 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 527.3 2 527.3 Loans and payables to group companies 2 753.3 2 753.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 14.3 15.6 Other long-term liabilities 14 413.8 14 413.8 Trade payables and other liabilities 3 453.6 3 453.6 Total 1.3 14.3 23 148.0 23 163.6 104 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2017 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 4.2 1 215.7 1 219.9 Other financial assets 260.1 260.1 Trade receivables 1 153.7 1 153.7 Other receivables 193.5 193.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 2 071.8 Total 3 679.1 4.2 1 215.7 4 899.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 083.0 2 083.0 Derivative financial instruments 4.9 25.6 30.5 Other long-term liabilities 20 097.1 20 097.1 Trade payables and other liabilities 1 483.0 1 483.0 Total 4.9 25.6 23 663.1 23 693.6 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2016 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 1.0 504.0 505.0 Other financial assets 390.7 390.7 Trade receivables 1 009.5 1 009.5 Other receivables 420.7 420.7 Cash and cash equivalents 949.1 949.1 Total 2 770.0 1.0 504.0 3 275.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 2 527.3 2 527.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 52.0 53.5 Other long-term liabilities 15 009.5 15 009.5 Trade payables and other liabilities 3 583.7 3 583.7 Total 1.5 52.0 21 120.5 21 174.0 For information about the credit quality of financial assets see note 3. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 105 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 MOVEMENT 2017 2016 MOVEMENT Assets Interest rate swaps 1 215.7 504.0 711.7 1 215.7 504.0 711.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 1.0 -0.7 0.4 1.0 -0.6 Forward energy contracts 3.8 0.0 3.8 3.8 0.0 3.8 1 219.8 505.0 714.8 1 219.9 505.0 714.9 Liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.0 14.3 -14.3 25.6 52.0 -26.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.6 -0.6 4.9 0.8 4.1 Forward energy contracts 0.0 0.7 -0.7 0.0 0.7 -0.7 0.0 15.6 -15.6 30.5 53.5 -23.0 Net movement 730.4 737.9 Details of net movement: Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (note 10) 4.4 -0.2 Interest rate swaps recognised in other comprehensive income -109.4 -97.3 Interests rate swaps changes in value 835.5 835.5 All interest rate swaps, with the exception of one fair value hedge, are designated as cash flow hedges. Forward foreign exchange and energy contracts are not defined as hedge accounting and are classified as a current asset and/or liability. Interest rate swaps are defined as hedge accounting instruments and the fair value of the hedging instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement. The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2017 was MNOK 200 (2016: MNOK 198). The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward energy contracts at 31 December 2017 was MNOK 102 (2016: MNOK 107). The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swaps contracts at 31 December 2017 were MNOK 9,459 (2016: MNOK 5,680). At 31 December 2017, the fixed interest rates vary from 1.11 per cent to 5.56 per cent (2016: 1.69 per cent to 5.96 per cent). The main floating rate was NIBOR and fixed Euro interest rate. Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income (note 15) on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2017 will be continuously released to the income statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. 106 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other financial assets Other non-current receivables 260.1 390.6 260.1 390.7 Total 260.1 390.6 260.1 390.7 Other non-current receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments that are not quoted in an active market. Fair value of other financial assets are substantially identical with book value. TRADE RECEIVABLES, OTHER SHORT TERM RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Trade receivables 950.4 799.7 1 163.1 1 011.6 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables -8.3 -1.7 -9.4 -2.1 Trade receivables net 942.1 798.0 1 153.7 1 009.5 Receivables written off during the year 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 The fair value of trade receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. Loss on trade receivables is classified as other operating expense in the income statement. MOVEMENT IN THE PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT OF TRADE RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 At 1 January 1.7 0.6 2.1 1.0 This years provisions for receivables impairment 8.3 1.7 9.4 2.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible -0.4 -0.3 -0.4 -0.3 Unused amounts reversed -1.3 -0.3 -1.7 -0.7 At 31 December 8.3 1.7 9.4 2.1 Credit risk and foreign exchange risk are described in note 3. AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE COMPANY'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2017 950.4 734.2 133.0 7.8 2.7 72.7 2016 799.7 641.5 129.0 6.8 7.4 15.0 AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE GROUP'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2017 1 163.1 942.7 136.0 7.9 2.7 73.8 2016 1 011.5 847.1 130.9 6.8 7.4 19.3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 107 SPECIFICATION OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Trade receivables 942.1 798.0 1 153.7 1 009.5 Intra-group accounts 52.1 231.5 0.0 0.0 Accrued income 148.4 235.2 149.3 235.5 Prepaid expenses 43.4 29.7 52.9 53.2 Other short-term assets 28.5 174.0 44.2 185.2 Total 1 214.5 1 468.4 1 400.1 1 483.4 Fair value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY IS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Euro 0.0 0.0 104.8 86.3 Total 0.0 0.0 104.8 86.3 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and bank overdrafts. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash and bank at hand 2 071.8 938.1 2 071.8 949.1 Short-term bank deposits 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2 071.8 938.1 2 071.8 949.1 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 938.1 2 071.8 949.1 Bank overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 2 071.8 938.1 2 071.8 949.1 Avinor AS has a credit facility of MNOK 4,000 and a overdraft limit of MNOK 600 in a bank. Group bank account system The Avinor bank accounts are organised as a group bank account system. Avinor AS is the formal holder of the bank account. The bank accounts of all subsidiaries are therefore formally receivables from Avinor AS, and these companies are jointly responsible for the withdrawals that the Avinor group has made. 108 AVINOR AS BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for borrowings hedged with a derivative fair value hedge, which is also carried at fair value in subsequent periods. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current borrowings State loan 2 083.0 2 527.3 2 083.0 2 527.3 Bonds 13 946.3 8 674.6 13 946.3 8 674.6 Bank borrowings 5 607.4 5 734.5 6 150.8 6 330.3 Others 0.0 4.6 0.0 4.6 Total long-term 21 636.7 16 941.0 22 180.1 17 536.8 Current borrowings Commercial papers 0.0 1 400.0 0.0 1 400.0 First year instalment on long-term debt 579.0 967.6 631.3 1 019.8 Total current 579.0 2 367.6 631.3 2 419.8 Total current and long-term borrowings 22 215.7 19 308.6 22 811.4 19 956.6 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Movement in borrowings Opening net book amount at 1 January 19 308.7 13 968.7 19 956.6 18 489.7 Merger 0.0 3 820.9 0.0 0.0 Proceeds from borrowings 4 439.5 1 899.9 4 439.5 1 899.9 Repayment of borrowings -964.7 -943.3 -1 016.9 -995.5 Net change financial lease obligation 0.0 -256.0 0.0 -256.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) -1 400.0 1 000.0 -1 400.0 1 000.0 Changes in value 832.2 -181.5 832.2 -181.5 Closing net book amount at 31 December 22 215.7 19 308.7 22 811.4 19 956.6 EFFECTIVE INFORMATION ABOUT STATE LOAN AND BANK BORROWINGS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE State loan NOK 1.64 % Bonds, inclusive commercial papers NOK/EUR 3.13 % Bank borrowings NOK 3.30 % The figures include interest hedging derivatives. The effective interest rate is calculated as a weighted average depending the relative size of the borrowings. See note 3 for a description of interest risk. INSTALMENT PROFILE 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 THEREAFTER TOTAL State loan 444.4 444.4 444.4 444.4 249.6 55.9 2 083.0 Bonds 700.0 450.0 2 948.0 0.0 0.0 9 848.3 13 946.3 Bank borrowings 439.3 499.3 499.3 499.3 579.3 3 634.2 6 150.8 Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 109 State loan The loan is divided into six equal debentures with different interest terms. Debentures one to five have interest rates equal to the interest rate used by the State when lending to public sector enterprises (average interest rate on five-year government bonds in the period October-September) plus 30 basis points. The interest on one of the debentures is renewed each year. The interest on the last debenture is set at three, six or twelve months NIBOR plus 20 basis points. The interest is payable in arrears at 31 December. The loan had originally a payment period of 20 years starting 2002. The term of the loan has subsequently been extended so that the final maturity date is in 2024. The first instalment was paid 30 June 2002. Bonds The loans, as at 31 December 2017, are as follows: ·· Face value MNOK 450, maturity date 8 May 2020, interest rate 3.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 2,000, maturity date 8 May 2028, interest rate 4.45 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 20 March 2021, interest rate 1.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 700, maturity date 30 October 2019, interest rate 3 months NIBOR pluss 0.37 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 29 April 2025, interest rate 1.00 per cent ·· Face value MEUR 500, maturity date 9 February 2027, interest rate 1.25 per cent Bank borrowings Bank borrowings in Avinor AS, as at 31 December 2017, are as follows: ·· Loan of NOK 1.5 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in December 2011, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. ·· Loan of MNOK 1,525.3 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in June 2012, has a term of 16 years and is irredeemable for 4.5 years. ·· Loan of NOK 1.0 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in November 2016, has a term of 20 years and is irredeemable for 8 years. ·· Loan of MNOK 1,899.9 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in April 2017, has a term of 12 years and is irredeemable for 3 years. In addition there are bank borrowings in the subsidiaries operating within real estate. Flesland Eiendom AS, Værnes Eiendom AS, Sola Hotel Eiendom AS, Hotell Østre AS and Flyporten AS have issued a negative pledge clause. According to its Articles of Association the company is not allowed to pledge assets connected to the core business of the group as security. Drawing rights The group has an unused bank credit facility of MNOK 4,000 at a floating interest rate, expiring in 2020. The group can request a prolonged term, this require acceptance from all participating banks. The group also has an unused bank overdraft limit of MNOK 600 at a floating interest rate. This overdraft facility is part of the group’s cash management agreement. 110 AVINOR AS NOTE 15 Other reserves All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2016 -102.2 -38.5 -140.6 Merger/demerger 27.0 -1.8 25.2 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -324.5 -324.5 Tax effect 81.1 81.1 Fair value change cash flow hedge 38.3 38.3 Tax effect -9.6 -9.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -1.6 -0.1 -1.7 At 31 December 2016 -320.2 -11.7 -331.8 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -385.9 -385.9 Tax effect 92.6 92.6 Fair value change cash flow hedge -109.4 -109.4 Tax effect 26.3 26.3 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -8.7 -1.2 -9.9 At 31 December 2017 -622.2 -96.0 -718.1 AVINOR GROUP PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2016 92.0 -88.2 3.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -548.5 -548.5 Tax effect 137.1 137.1 Fair value change cash flow hedge 66.9 66.9 Tax effect -16.9 -16.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -4.4 -0.2 -4.6 At 31 December 2016 -323.8 -38.4 -362.4 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -901.8 -901.8 Tax effect 216.3 216.3 Fair value change cash flow hedge -97.3 -97.3 Tax effect 23.4 23.4 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -14.2 -1.6 -15.8 At 31 December 2017 -1 023.5 -113.9 -1 137.6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 111 NOTE 16 Pension obligation All amounts in MNOK The pension schemes are generally funded through payments to Defined benefit plan Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension The group is required by law to have a pension plan. The pension Fund, SPK), determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The plan of the group satisfies these requirements. group has a defined benefit plan. A defined benefit plan is a The pension plan encompasses pension benefits in accordance pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an with the act relating to the Norwegian Public Service Fund employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more (SPK). The benefits are retirement pension, disability pension factors such as years of service and compensation. and dependent pension. In addition, the calculations do include a contractual pension right, which is a tariff-regulated early The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined retirement scheme from 62 years of age. benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit The benefits are coordinated with the National Insurance Scheme obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of and any previous membership periods with service pensions fund plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually within the public sector. The pensions have a guaranteed level of by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. gross payment independent of the National Insurance Scheme. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined About 52 per cent of the employees have an ordinary retirement by discounting the estimated future cash outflow using interest age of 62 or 65 years. rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or long-term treasury From the 1 January 2018 the financing of deferred pension rights bonds) that are denominated in the currency in which the benefor employees who leave these organisations will be transferred fits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating from the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund to the organisato the terms of the related pension liability. tion in question. The increase in the pension liablity in the scond quarter was as a consequence charged to the Group's profit and Changes in assumptions, basic data and the benefits of the penloss account in 2017 (MNOK 415 for the group, MNOK 170 for the sion plan which have as an effect an accounting loss or gain will parent). be set off against equity through other comprehensive income in the period they occur. Actuarial loss in 2017 (MNOK 901.8 for the group and MNOK 385.9 for the parent) were mainly caused by changes in financial A change in the benefits which refers to previous periods of earnassumptions and changes regarding assumptions connected ing implies a change in the pension plan which is a cost related to the actuarial conditions for the early retirement pensions. to previous periods of earning. A negative cost occurs when the Changes in the assumptions for early retirement have by itself benefits are changed in such a way that the present value of the resulted in an increase in the pension obligation of the group of projected benefits are reduced. NOK 385.5. The pension scheme is not directly funded. The pension payThe tariff K2013 have been used for calculating life and mortality ments are guaranteed by the Norwegian government (Section expectancy, while the tariff K1963 multiplied by 200 per cent have 1 of the Pensions Act). Administration of the allocated fund been used for determination of disability risk. ( fictitious fund) is simulated as if the funds were placed in long-term government bonds. Five per cent of the fund related to Avinor Flysikring AS is simulated as placed in the Government Pension Fund Global. The pension scheme is not movable in the same way as private pensions schemes and it is assumed that the pension scheme will be continued in SPK. In the simulation it is assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension fund is therefore estimated at nominal value plus the return on the fund. Net pension obligation The value of net pension obligations is determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. These include, among others, the discount rate, future salary increases, regulation of pensions and demographic assumptions about disability and mortality experience. The assumptions are based on verifiable market prices and the historical development in the company and in the rest of society. Changes in the assumptions will have material effect on the estimated pension obligation-/cost. Changes in the the National Insurance Scheme are implemented from 1 January 2011. A new proposal concerning the National Insurance Scheme have been presented, see note 24 Events after the reporting period. 112 AVINOR AS LIFE EXPECTANCY MORTALITY EXPECTANCY DISABILITY EXPECTANCY AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 20 81 85 0.023 % 0.009 % 0.115 % 0.172 % 40 82 86 0.058 % 0.034 % 0.264 % 0.524 % 60 84 87 0.428 % 0.288 % 1.406 % 2.404 % 80 89 91 4.304 % 2.947 % NA NA The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current service cost 369.7 199.0 737.9 328.0 Interest cost 135.1 129.1 218.4 198.7 Return on plan assets -98.0 -99.2 -156.5 -155.9 Contribution from the employees -27.6 -27.4 -45.8 -44.9 Administration fee 4.8 4.7 7.9 7.8 Payroll tax, employers contribution 57.7 33.3 113.0 53.6 Total pension cost (Note 6, 10) 441.8 239.5 874.9 387.3 Pension obligation and plan assets: AVINOR AS 2017 2016 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation Obligation at 1 January 5 158.3 24.2 5 182.5 3 806.9 14.1 3 821.0 Current service cost 372.2 2.3 374.5 201.4 2.4 203.8 Interest cost 135.1 0.0 135.1 129.1 0.0 129.1 Merger/demerger 8.7 0.0 8.7 936.4 7.7 944.1 Actuarial losses/(gains) 306.2 0.0 306.2 245.0 0.0 245.0 Benefits paid -162.7 0.0 -162.7 -160.5 0.0 -160.5 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 5 817.8 26.5 5 844.3 5 158.3 24.2 5 182.5 Change in pension funds Fair value at 1 January 3 727.9 0.0 3 727.9 2 865.7 0.0 2 865.7 Expected return on plan assets 98.0 0.0 98.0 99.2 0.0 99.2 Merger/demerger 8.2 0.0 8.2 698.1 0.0 698.1 Employer contributions 213.6 0.0 213.6 257.1 0.0 257.1 Actuarial (losses)/gains -32.1 0.0 -32.1 -87.7 0.0 -87.7 Gains on realisation of assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 56.0 0.0 56.0 Benefits paid -162.7 0.0 -162.7 -160.5 0.0 -160.5 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 3 853.0 0.0 3 853.0 3 727.9 0.0 3 727.9 Net pension obligation 1 964.9 26.5 1 991.3 1 430.4 24.2 1 454.5 Payroll tax, employers contribution 272.9 1.1 274.0 196.2 1.1 197.3 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2 237.7 27.6 2 265.3 1 626.6 25.3 1 651.8 Actual return on plan assets last year 65.5 65.5 72.2 72.2 Expected employer contribution next year 202.6 202.6 263.3 263.3 Expected payment of benefits next year -165.1 -165.1 -162.9 -162.9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 113 AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Change in gross pension obligation Obligation at 1 January 8 195.5 25.6 8 221.1 7 368.2 23.1 7 391.3 Current service cost 743.3 2.5 745.8 333.7 2.5 336.2 Interest cost 218.4 0.0 218.4 198.9 0.0 198.9 Aquisition 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.4 0.0 8.4 Actuarial losses/(gains) 743.4 0.0 743.4 468.4 0.0 468.4 Benefits paid -193.9 0.0 -193.9 -182.1 0.0 -182.1 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 9 706.7 28.1 9 734.8 8 195.5 25.6 8 221.1 Change in pension funds Fair value at 1 January 5 943.5 0.0 5 943.5 5 675.8 0.0 5 675.8 Expected return on plan assets 156.5 0.0 156.5 155.9 0.0 155.9 Employer contributions 336.5 0.0 336.5 291.4 0.0 291.4 Aquisition 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.1 0.0 8.1 Actuarial (losses)/gains -47.3 0.0 -47.3 -61.6 0.0 -61.6 Gains on realisation of assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 56.0 0.0 56.0 Benefits paid -193.9 0.0 -193.9 -182.1 0.0 -182.1 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6 195.4 0.0 6 195.4 5 943.5 0.0 5 943.5 Net pension obligation 3 511.4 28.1 3 539.5 2 251.9 25.6 2 277.5 Payroll tax, employers contribution. 486.4 0.0 486.4 310.7 0.0 310.7 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 3 997.8 28.1 4 025.9 2 562.6 25.6 2 588.2 Actual return on plan assets last year 102.3 102.3 106.4 106.4 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 340.1 340.1 384.2 384.2 Expected payment of benefits next year -196.8 -196.8 -184.4 -184.4 Movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Obligation at 1 January 1 454.5 955.3 2 277.5 1 715.5 Pension cost charged to the income statement 411.6 233.4 807.9 379.0 Employer/employee contribution -218.4 -261.7 -344.4 -299.2 Administration fee 4.8 4.7 7.9 7.8 Merger/demerger 0.5 246.1 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 338.3 332.7 790.7 530.4 Gains on realisation of assets 0.0 -56.0 0.0 -56.0 Liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 1 991.3 1 454.5 3 539.5 2 277.5 Actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations Actuarial (gains)/losses 338.3 332.7 790.7 530.4 Payroll tax on actuarial (gains)/losses 0.0 -56.0 0.0 -56.0 Effect change in payroll tax rate 47.7 47.8 111.2 74.1 Total actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations 386.0 324.5 901.8 548.5 The calculation of pension cost and net pension obligation are made on the basis of a set of assumptions. The determination of the discount rate to be used is made on the basis of Norwegian covered bond interest rates. The pension obligation's weighted average duration is 24 years. Assumptions regarding future salary and pension increases in addition to official pension benefit adjustments are made on the basis of updated recommendations from the The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board (NASB). 114 AVINOR AS 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.40 % 2.60 % Future salary increases 2.50 % 2.50 % Future pension increases 1.50 % 1.50 % Early retirement scheme 15.00 % 15.00 % Average turnover rate (under 50 years of age) 3.00 % 3.00 % Average turnover rate (over 50 years of age) 0.20 % 0.20 % Determination of premium levels The determination of premium levels and the calculation of provisions for pension obligations are based on ordinary actuarial principles. PENSION OBLIGATION SENSITIVITIES: 2017 2016 CHANGE IN PENSION OBLIGATION AS A RESULT OF ONE PERCENTAGE POINT CHANGES IN WEIGHTED FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS +1 -1 +1 -1 Discount rate -1 541 2 055 -1 361 1 814 Future salary increase 744 -853 702 -802 Pension regulation 905 -984 750 -843 NOTE 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges All amounts in MNOK PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. When the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. AVINOR AS EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2016 5.3 16.6 96.6 0.0 118.5 Merger/demerger 0.0 1.4 68.2 0.0 69.6 Additional provision 2016 0.4 30.0 0.0 0.0 30.4 Reversed 2016 0.0 -1.4 0.0 0.0 -1.4 Used in 2016 -1.8 -28.4 -8.5 0.0 -38.7 At 1 January 2017 3.9 18.2 156.3 0.0 178.5 Additional provision 2017 0.0 1.1 40.0 0.0 41.1 Reversed 2017 -0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9 Used in 2017 -1.2 -16.0 -14.0 0.0 -31.2 At 31 December 2017 1.8 3.3 182.3 0.0 187.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 115 AVINOR GROUP EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2016 5.3 44.4 166.9 0.0 216.6 Additional provision 2016 0.4 38.5 0.0 1.2 40.1 Reversed 2016 0.0 -1.4 0.0 0.0 -1.4 Used in 2016 -1.8 -43.8 -8.5 -1.0 -55.1 At 1 January 2017 3.9 37.7 158.4 0.2 200.2 Additional provision 2017 0.0 6.3 40.0 0.0 46.3 Reversed 2017 -0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9 Used in 2017 -1.2 -28.9 -14.0 -0.2 -44.3 At 31 December 2017 1.8 15.1 184.4 0.0 201.4 The short-term part of provisions for other liabilities and charges are included in other short term liability. See note 3. Severance pay On 4 December 2003, the board of directors approved a substantial restructuring of the group, called Take-off-05. One of the consequences of this decision was a substantial cut in the workforce. Part of the cut was carried out by use of redundancy pay. According to the terms laid down for the establishment of the company, the employees of Avinor AS were entitled to redundancy pay until 31 December 2005. Redundancy pay is covered by the company. The period of time for the right to redundancy pay depends on age and seniority at time of resignation. The provision for redundancy pay is based on expectations about the redundancy pay period based on the above-mentioned rules. Early retirement pay air navigation management The group has entered into individual early retirement pay agreements covering 72 per cent of normal wages in the period 60-62 years. After this period the individuals will be covered by ordinary pension plans. Early retirement pay others This include optional retirement pay in accordance with the group's adjustmentpolicy. Environmental pollution A provison is made for surveys and identification, in addition to costs related to the clean-up of polluted ground (see note 21). NOTE 18 Other short-term liabilities All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Holiday allowance 176.2 170.4 299.7 291.7 Advance from customers 126.1 113.7 130.7 136.4 Wages and social security 58.5 55.7 95.9 101.6 Accruals 962.8 1 233.1 1 018.5 1 293.7 Intra-group liability 1 613.2 2 753.3 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liability 317.1 465.5 330.4 478.5 Total 3 253.9 4 791.7 1 875.2 2 301.9 116 AVINOR AS NOTE 19 Subsidiaries All amounts in MNOK The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries: TOTAL HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY PROFIT/ DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.17 LOSS 2017 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 132.3 18.4 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 271.1 -26.6 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 670.0 1 100.9 8.3 Total 1 141.5 1 504.3 0.1 TOTAL HOME BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK EQUITY PROFIT/ INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES: COUNTRY OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.17 LOSS 2017 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 108.0 140.9 7.2 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 132.5 102.7 1.2 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 86.7 110.0 5.2 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.6 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 231.5 24.9 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 84.3 11.2 Total 584.7 688.0 50.0 Oslo Lufthavn Tele & Data merged with Avinor AS, as from 1 July 2017. At the same time, land was demerged from Avinor AS to Flesland Eiendom Tomteselskap AS, Sola Hotel Tomteselskap AS and Værnes Eiendom Tomteselskap AS. The above mentioned companies was later merged with recepetively with Flesland Eiendom AS, Værnes Eiendom AS,and Sola Hotel Eiendom AS. NOTE 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results All amounts in MNOK SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM RESERVE Ordinary shares are classified as equity. DIVIDEND DISTRUBUTION Dividend distribution to the company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the group's financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the company's shareholders. NUMBER OF SHARES FACE VALUE SHARE-CAPITAL Ordinary shares 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 Total 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 117 The company has paid the following dividend on ordinary shares: 2017 2016 NOK 925.9 per share in 2015 500.0 NOK 1018.5 per share in 2016 550.0 Total 550.0 500.0 Proposed dividend for approval in the general assembly (Not presented as a liability at 31 December): 2017 2016 NOK 1018.5 per share 550.0 NOK 462.3 per share 249.7 Total 249.7 550.0 All shares are owned by the Norwegian State, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. NOTE 21 Contingencies Norwegian Defence Air stations owned by the Defence A cooperation agreement exists between Norwegian Defence and The Storting has resolved that Bodø's main air station, shall be Avinor with corresponding local agreements concerning sharing closed down, while Evenes will be the advanced base for fighter responsibilities and expenses for airports where both parties have planes in the north. . Bodø airport shall function as an advanced activities. base after the close-down of Bodø main air station. This will be an intermediate solution until the new fighter planes are operational Based on a mandate from the Ministry of Transportation and the and have replaced the existing planes.This is estimated to come Ministry of Defence a new agreement has been entered into. The into effect in 2022. agreement was approved by the government in February 2011, with effect from 1 January 2010. The agreement establishes principles Avinor have taken over the responsibility of the operation of for the basis of allocation of investmentand operational expenses Bodø airport from 1 August 2016. The takeover will have financial between the parties. The practical implementation of the agreeconsequences for Avinor with regard to future investments in ment has not been completed. A settlement have been reached property, plant and equipment and running operating expenses. for the period 2010-16 for Avinor’s use of the airports owned by The cost picture could also be influenced by a prospective conthe Norwegian Defence.The involved parties have been in contact struction of a new airport in Bodø, which is included in the new regarding the local agreements, without reaching an understanding. National Transport Plan 2018-2029 in the first six year period. There is still no agreement regarding the form of or payment The Storting has resolved on 15 November 2016 that the military level regarding the use of the airports owned by Avinor by the activities on Andøya air station shall be closed down of when the Norwegian Defence. This has as a consequence that there is P-3 Orion surveillance planes have been phased out and a new uncertainty regarding the payment from the Norwegian Defence main air base for surveillance/advanced base for fighter planes to Avinor from 2010 and onwards. shall be established at Harstad/Narvik airport, Evenes. This is estimated to come into effect in 2022. The external environment Environmentally hazardous additives in fire extinguishing This will involve changes in the operational responsibilities at foam which have spread to the natural environment have Andøya and at Bardufoss. been detected at several airports. Risk assessments have been conducted into the potential harm to persons and the external The change in operational responsibilities implies that the environment from these pollutants. Work is currently being conNorwegian Defence will not any longer be accountable manager ducted to clarify the scope of the measures that will need to be and airport operator. This implies that the running of the airport implemented. The economic consequences of this depend on the must be handled by another party. This must be an civilian party. extent of the localities that require measures to be implemented, The consequence is that the party, which get the responsibility for as well as the authorities' requirements and the measures availthe running of the airport, also get the economic responsibility. able. The Norwegian Environment Agency has issued an order This implies a risk of an increased economic loss in the airports for measures at Evenes and Oslo airport, as well as ordering to in question, and as such increased costs for the operators in prepare action plans at Kristiansand and Svalbard airports. It is civilian aviation. It is probable that Avinor will be charged with likely that there will be issued an overall order for the preparation the responsibility. of action plans for the remaining airports. 118 AVINOR AS NOTE 22 Commitments All amounts in MNOK The parent company and the group have contracted for capital expenditure not yet incurred at the end of the reporting period as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2016 2017 2016 Property, plant and equipment 564.7 522.5 611.0 672.4 Total 564.7 522.5 611.0 672.4 NOTE 23 Related-party transactions All amounts in MNOK The Ministry of Transport and Communication As the sole owner of Avinor AS the Norwegian State represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (SD) is a related party. SD has the principal authority regarding the structure of the airport network and the traffic charges. Any closing down of an airport or other material changes in the airport structure shall be presented to SD. The final decision is made by the Storting. The charges regulation which decides the setting of air traffic charges shall be sanctioned by SD. Group companies Outstanding accounts between companies in the group: AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 SVALBARD AVINOR AVINOR FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS UTVIKLING AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 120.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 6.1 24.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 126.1 24.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other short-term intra-group liability 24.1 526.4 519.1 113.2 62.6 Total 24.1 526.4 519.1 113.2 62.6 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 120.0 Intra-group receivables 0.0 0.0 17.6 4.0 52.1 Total 0.0 0.0 17.6 4.0 172.1 Other short-term intra-group liability 94.4 17.0 177.8 78.6 1 613.2 Total 94.4 17.0 177.8 78.6 1 613.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 119 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 SVALBARD AVINOR AVINOR OSLO LUFTHAVN FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS UTVIKLING AS TELE & DATA AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 140.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 6.5 196.1 0.0 4.3 0.3 0.3 Total 146.5 196.1 0.0 4.3 0.3 0.3 Other short-term intra-group liability 30.9 755.2 1 510.7 0.0 74.4 55.4 Total 30.9 755.2 1 510.7 0.0 74.4 55.4 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 140.0 Intra-group receivables 0.2 0.0 17.5 6.3 231.5 Total 0.2 0.0 17.5 6.3 371.5 Other short-term intra-group liability 76.0 16.7 183.7 50.3 2 753.3 Total 76.0 16.7 183.7 50.3 2 753.3 NOTE 24 Events after the reporting period New information after the reporting period about conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period is recognised in the financial statement. Events after the reporting period affecting the group's future financial position are disclosed if material. On 2 March 2018, labour market parties agreed a new occupational pension scheme for public sector employees. The agreement will be sent for approval by the various associations, which will have four months to make their decision. If all associations approve, the Norwegian government will present a new bill before the Norwegian parliament as quickly as is practicable. If the agreement is adopted, it will be due to take effect from 2020. The agreement involves a gradual transition from a performance-based pension scheme whereby the pension is based on the employee’s final salary at the point of retirement, to a scheme based on the approximate accrued pension pot. This will have consequences for how Avinor’s pension expenses and obligations are calculated in its accounts. However, at this moment in time there is an insufficient basis for calculating the impact. The impact on the accounts will have to be taken into account from when the new scheme is adopted. 120 AVINOR AS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO We confirm, to the best of our knowledge that the financial statements for the period 1 January to 31 December 2017 have been prepared in accordance with current applicable accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the entity and the group taken as a whole. We also confirm that the Board of Directors' Report includes a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the entity and the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the entity and the group. Oslo, 4 April 2018 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Ola Mørkved Rinnan Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chairman Vice Chairman Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 121 Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Avinor AS Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Avinor AS, which comprise the financial statements for the parent company and the Group. The financial statements for the parent company and the Group comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, income statement, statements of comprehensive income, the statements of cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2017 and their financial performance for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for 2017. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. Pensions The parent company and the Group have significant pension obligations recognized in the balance sheet. At the end of the accounting year, gross pension obligations amounted to MNOK 2 265.3 and MNOK 4 025.9, respectively, for the parent company and the Group. The valuation of the pension obligations requires a considerable degree of judgment and technical competence, including the use of an external actuary to calculate the obligations. Even small changes in the most important assumptions applied in the valuation of the Group’s pension obligations including salary growth, inflation, discount interest, mortality and withdrawals from the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special age arrangement can significantly impact the calculation of the obligation. Hence, this issue has been a key audit matter. 122 AVINOR AS Our audit of the parent company and Group’s treatment of pensions has included assessments of assumptions used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations, control procedures of input data and an evaluation of external expertise used in the estimation of the obligations. We have, in particular: ► verified that assumptions related to inflation, discount interest and mortality are based on external and publicly available data from acknowledged organizations ► compared assumptions related to salary growth against the Group’s historical and expected future development ► assessed changes in assumptions for withdrawals of the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special age arrangement against historical information and expected future development ► considered the basis for increase in pension obligations related to future pension regulations and the accounting treatment of this change ► reviewed the data components used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations ► evaluated the competence and objectivity of the Group’s external actuary ► considered whether the recognition of pensions complies with the relevant framework for financial reporting (IAS 19). Note 16 to the financial statements has additional information. Other information Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board and Chief Executive Officer (management) are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 123 As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control; ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern; ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS 124 AVINOR AS Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility concerning the financial statements, and the going concern assumption, and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management has fulfilled its duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. Oslo, 4 April 2018 ERNST & YOUNG AS Jan Wellum Svensen State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) Independent auditor's report Avinor AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 125 MORE ABOUT AVINOR Interim reports and annual reports Avinor publishes reports about its operations annually and quarterly. The interim reports present key figures and the financial statements, as well as a brief report on financial conditions. Avinor’s interim reports and annual reports are available on Avinor’s website. The Section 10 plan Section 10 of Avinor’s Articles of Association states that each year the board of directors must prepare a report to the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications about the company’s overall operations, which include its plans for the future. The document is publicly available and is known as the Section 10 plan. At least once per parliamentary term (usually four years) Avinor’s Section 10 plan serves as the basis for a report to the Norwegian parliament on Avinor’s operations. The last report to parliament about Avinor was submitted in April 2017. Avinor’s contribution to the National Transport Plan The National Transport Plan (NTP) presents the Norwegian government’s transport policy. It lays the foundation for comprehensive political assessments, the efficient use of tools, and improved interaction between the different modes of transport. Aviation infrastructure forms part of the report. Around one year before the NTP is presented to the Norwegian parliament, Avinor and the transport agencies submit their joint foundation document to the Norwegian government. The NTP is discussed by the Committee for Transport and Communications, which presents its opinion to parliament. The NTP for the period 2018 to 2029 was discussed in parliament in the spring of 2017 and can be found at www.ntp.dep.no. Photo: Margrethe Myhrer, Nils Olav Mevatne, Catchlight Fotostudio, Varde media, Eivind Krey Nitter, Avinor Design and production: Artbox AS Avinor is responsible for the 45 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation in Norway. This network links Norway together – and links Norway to the world. Avinor is a driving force in environmental work in aviation and a driving force to reduce the combined greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. The company has a leading role in the work on developing and delivering biofuel for aircraft and the electrification of aviation. Every year, Avinor contributes to conducting safely and efficiently more than 50 million flights. About one half travel to and from Oslo airport More than 3,000 employees are responsible for planning, developing and operating airports and air navigation services. Avinor is funded by aviation fees and commercial sales at the airports. AVINOR AS Org.nr. 985 198 292 Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo Postboks 150 2061 Gardermoen avinor.no
