CSR Report 2017 About the CSR Report This website covers CSR initiatives implemented by Seven & i Holdings, our Contents holding company, and its operating companies. There is comprehensive reporting on initiatives each operating company has taken in regard to the Top Message 2 material issues and CSR activities overseas. Moreover, the SDG logo appears on Seven & i Group initiatives aimed at achieving the Sustainable DevelopBasic Policies of CSR Initiatives 4 ment Goals (SDGs)* adopted by the UN Summit in 2015. Stakeholder Engagement 6 * The international community's shared goals for attaining the sustainable development of society, the economy, and the environment by 2030, in order to ensure all people enjoy peace and Corporate Governance  9 prosperity. Compliance 12 Report Coverage Human Rights Initiatives 18 The Report mainly covers the following organizations. Information on each company is also available on the following websites. (URLs are for CSRCSR Management 21 related pages or the top pages of each company's website). Seven & i Holdings' Material Issues 30 Sales of reporting organizations 34 Material Providing Social Infrastructure for  as a percentage of overall sales  95.2% Issues 1 an Aging Society and Declining Population 46 Material Providing Safety and Reliability through  Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd.  Issues 2 Products and Stores http://www.7andi.com/csr/index.html Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd 67 http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Material Non‒Wasteful Usage of Products,   Issues 3 Ingredients and Energy Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ Supporting the Active Role of Women,  Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 92 Material  Issues Youth and Seniors across the Group and  http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html 4 in Society York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. Building an Ethical Society and  121 http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html Material  Issues Improving Resource Sustainability Together  York Mart Co., Ltd. 5 with Customers and Business Partners http://www.yorkmart.com/company Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Social Contribution Activities 136 Seven Bank, Ltd. Overseas Initiatives 140 http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/corp/csr/ Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties 168 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. http://www.akachan.jp/company/csr/ Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement 171 7-Eleven, Inc http://corp.7-eleven.com/corp/corp-social-responsibility SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII, INC. Data Section http://www.7elevenhawaii.com/home Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. 172 SEVEN-ELEVEN(BEIJING) CO., LTD., SEVEN-ELEVEN(TIANJIN) CO., LTD. http://www.7-11bj.com.cn/ Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. 173 SEVEN-ELEVEN(CHENGDU) Co., Ltd. Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 176 http://www.7-11cd.cn/ Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 179 Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. http://www.iy-cd.com/ York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. 184 Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. York Mart Co., Ltd. (in Japanese)  187 http://www.ht-store.com/d/index.do Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. 190 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. 194 Period of the Report This website covers our activities during the fiscal year ended February 28, Seven Bank, Ltd.  197 2017 (March 2016 to February 2017). Some of our activities in the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018 are also included. References GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ISO 26000 Current Report September 2017 Disclaimer The data shown in this website are based on information as of the time of writing. Actual activities and results may differ depending on future social changes. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 1 The Seven & i Group aims to be a sincere company in line with its corporate creed*1, earning the trust of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, shareholders, local communities, employees, and franchisees. Japan today is seeing various social changes such as population decline, a falling birthrate and aging of society, smaller households, an increase in working women, a decline in retail stores and social centers, and labor and personnel shortages. These have given rise to a host of challenges. In recent years, global challenges have become more acute in areas such as climate change, resource President and depletion, poverty and inequality, and human rights. There has been a response at the national level Representative Director through the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*2and the conclusion of the Paris Agreement. In addition, the public also has extremely high expectations and demands of companies to take action on resolving these global issues. At the same time, in management strategies that factor in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) aspects, investment has been growing rapidly as a way of increasing sustainable corporate value and reducing risk. Recently, Japan's Stewardship Code was formulated, and Japan's Corporate Governance Code has been implemented. In addition, 2015 saw the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), the world's largest, become a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and in 2017 it commenced passive investment tracking ESG indices for Japanese equities at a scale of \1 trillion. These developments show that ESG information is highly significant for discerning the long-term growth potential of a company. Given these social issues and environmental changes, we are utilizing the Group's strengths in valuable products and services, as well as human resources and stores, to provide solutions. The Group is practicing the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact*3, having signed it in 2012. In addition, we have clarified our direction on CSR and are working to maximize Group synergies by promoting activities to address our Five Promises (material issues). In doing so, we strive to actively disclose relevant ESG data. We are also promoting initiatives for Creating Shared Value (CSV)*4, a process for resolving social issues while increasing our corporate value. In 2016, we established the Social Value Creation Subcommittee under the CSR Management Committee. The new subcommittee is planning and examining new business models originating from social issues to be addressed through core businesses. Looking ahead, the Seven & i Group will respond to various social and environmental changes in a spirit of reliability and sincerity, using the strengths it has developed in business infrastructure, expertise, and other areas and leveraging management resources to work through a PDCA cycle to realize sustainable growth in corporate value over the medium to long term. *1 Corporate creed: We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. *2 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): The SDGs were adopted by all of international society in a unanimous vote of 193 member countries at the UN Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015. There are 17 goals and 169 targets comprising priority issues on a global scale and making clear a vision for the world in 2030. *3 UN Global Compact: This is a voluntary participation initiative within a global framework whereby companies or organizations act as good members of society by displaying responsible and creative leadership to realize sustainable growth. There are ten principles in four fields (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption) recognized by global society and globally adopted and agreed upon as universal values. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 2 *4 Creating Shared Value (CSV): A management model and framework, along with associated activities, proposed by US economist Michael E. Porter in 2011 for achieving both resolution of social issues (social value) and economic value by companies (corporate value). Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 3 Seven & i Holdings conducts its business activities based on its corporate creed of aiming to be a sincere company trusted by all stakeholders. We have stated the actions for realizing that creed in our Corporate Action Guidelines. Furthermore, the Corporate Action Guidelines are in accord with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization, ISO 26000, the Global Reporting Initiative, and the UN Global Compact. We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. Corporate Action Guidelines Basic Policy Code of Corporate Conduct 1. Provision of Safe and High-Quality Products and 1. Compliance (Legal Compliance) Services 2. Relationship with Customers 2. Maintenance of Fair and Transparent Transactions 3. Relationship with Business Partners 3. Cooperation with Local and International Communities 4. Relationship with Shareholders and Investors 4. Respect for Human Rights 5. Relationship with Local and International Communities 5. Respect for Diversity and Improvement of Job 6. Relationship between the Company, and Directors, Satisfaction Officers and Employees 6. Preservation of the Assets and Information of the 7. Preservation of Global Environment Company 7. Contribution to a Sustainable Society 8. Dialogue with Stakeholders 9. Efforts Regarding Social Issues Quality Policy Environmental guidelines and environmental rules Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration Fundamental Policies Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming Basic Policy on Sustainable Procurement Business Partner Action Guidelines Basic Policy on Social and Cultural Contribution, Social and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 4 Seven & i Holdings supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, a worldwide framework for achieving sustainable growth, and carries out CSR activities through its core businesses to fulfill these principles. UN Global Compact Addressing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Seven & i Holdings is working to solve social issues through its business activities, with a view to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals* adopted at a United Nations summit held in 2015. * The international community's shared goals for attaining the sustainable development of society, the economy, and the environment by 2030, in order to ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Sustainable Development Goals Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 5 Since its foundation, Seven & i Holdings has aimed to be a sincere company, trusted by all of its stakeholders, including customers, business partners, shareholders, local communities, and employees. We believe it is important to strive to understand the requirements and expectations that stakeholders have of the Company and the Group, and to respond to these. For this reason, Seven & i Holdings and its Group companies will strive to respond quickly to feedback from our stakeholders— the opinions, desires, areas of dissatisfaction, requests, and so forth, that we receive through our dialogue with them. We will reflect this feedback in our management decision making process and business activities. We constantly think of things Daily operations Provide products and services from the customer's standpoint, Inquiries to the customer that enrichen customers' lives and to earn our customers' trust feedback department Improve products and services we value communication, and will and ensure safety Customer questionnaires continue to respond to their Website community that Label accurately in an easily feedback. invites customers to understandable manner participate Manage personal information appropriately Promote universal design Our products and services could Product development Development of products and not be supplied without the meetings services through team cooperation of our business Quality improvement meetings merchandising partners. We will rigorously Rigorous fair trade practices Informal gatherings with observe laws and regulations and business partners Compliance with laws and internal rules relating to fair CSR audits of business regulations through the supply trade as well as build partners chain and consideration for relationships of trust with human rights and the business partners to ensure Business Partner Help Line environment maintenance of safety and Business partner security and accounting for questionnaires human rights and the environment. We will work together with them to carry out our social responsibilities. Our operations are underpinned General Shareholders' Meeting Maximization of shareholder by the investments of our Financial results presentations value and return profits shareholders and investors. To Proper accounting procedures Meetings with investors respond to their trust, we and timely disclosure of Information website for emphasize highly transparent information investors and organization management and communication newsletter Highly transparent and fulfill our duty of management accountability through Accountability toward disclosure. beneficiaries Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 6 We aim to play an indispensable Regional Comprehensive Provision of products and role in our local communities. To Economic Partnerships with services matching regional this end, by providing products local governments characteristics and services matching the Participation in community Consideration for living lifestyles in local communities, activities environments in regional areas encouraging local production and Dialogue through industry Contribution to regional local consumption and coexisting groups development with communities, we will Resolution of social issues in promote activities that collaboration with NGOs, contribute to community NPOs and others development. Safe and reliable urban development in collaboration with administrative authorities Support for local production and local consumption, dietary education, child‒raising, the elderly, and people with disabilities Provision of products after the occurrence of natural disasters and support for affected areas Participation in volunteer activities Seven‒Eleven Japan (SEJ) Regular OFC visits to stores Strengthening of management believes that relationships of Product exhibitions structure trust with owners of franchise Strengthening of store Training and workshops by stores is the core of its operation capabilities region business, and these relationships Owners' organization Strengthening of partnerships should be mutually beneficial. newsletter Construction and ongoing Through dialogue with improvement of a highly Operations Field Consultants competitive franchise system (OFCs) we build good relationships based on strong mutual trust and contribute to realizing comfortable and more prosperous lives for customers. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 7 We aim to realize workplaces Management policy briefings Respect for human rights, where employees can participate Employee opinion survey diversity, and individuality actively and find satisfaction in Creation of discrimination‒ Employee training their work. To this end, we will free workplaces that consider Self‒check systems and create working environments human rights individual meetings that are fair, just, and Utilization of diverse human considerate of human rights. We Internal portal website and resources will also create environments Group newsletter Occupational health and that protect privacy and safety, Employee Help Line safety and prevention of while helping workers to develop workplace accidents their capabilities and facilitate their work. Achievement of work‒life balance Preventative care for mental health Promotion of employee health Transparent and fair evaluations Respect for rights, such as the right for employees to engage in collective bargaining Support for development of employee abilities Our business is dependent on Inquiries to the customer Reduced CO2emissions the blessings of the earth's feedback department Reduced energy consumption environment. Therefore, we will Dialogue with product and Environmental awareness provide products and services packaging materials suppliers among employees taking into account the Dialogue with national and Compliance with sustainability of the environment, local governments, NPOs and environmental legislation while cooperating with NGOs, and residents of store customers, business partners, Installation of energy saving neighborhoods and employees to reduce the and environmentally friendly Dialogue with equipment and equipment environmental impact throughout maintenance companies the entire supply chain. Water‒saving measures Waste disposal companies Reduction of waste and promotion of recycling Reduction of packaging materials Preservation of biodiversity Environmentally considerate products and services Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 8 The mission of Seven & i Holdings, as a holding company that oversees and controls its operating companies, is to strengthen corporate governance and maximize the enterprise value of the Seven & i Group. Seven & i Holdings has adopted the Audit & Supervisory Board system for implementing management oversight. The Board of Directors comprises 13 members, of whom 4 are Outside Directors. Through the use of multiple Outside Directors who maintain their independence and have advanced management knowledge and experience, Seven & i Holdings protects the interests of general shareholders and enhances the quality of decision-making in business execution. To ensure appropriate reflection of the wishes of shareholders, the term of Directors has been set at one year. To facilitate prompt decision-making and business execution, the Company has introduced the executive officer system. Under this system, the Board of Directors is able to focus on the formulation of management strategies and the oversight of business execution, while the executive officers can focus on business execution. The Audit & Supervisory Board comprises five members, including three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members who maintain their independence and have specialized knowledge in such areas as legal affairs and financial accounting. Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member fulfills such tasks as attending meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, exchanging opinions with the Representative Directors, periodically receiving reports from Directors and others regarding business execution, and actively exchanging information with the Auditing Office. Through these activities, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members audit the Directors’ execution of their duties. In addition, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members actively exchange information with the independent auditor to maintain close ties with it with respect to financial audits. * The number of people is as of the end of May 2017. All of the Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Seven & i Holdings are independent from the Company. Independent Directors and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members are defined as Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members who have no potential conflicts of interest with general shareholders of the Company. In the event that an Outside Director or an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member is likely to be significantly controlled by the management of the Company or is likely to significantly control the management of the Company, that Outside Director or Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member is considered to have a potential conflict of interest with general shareholders of the Company and is considered to lack independence. In accordance with this fundamental approach, the Company uses the independence criteria established by the financial instrument exchange as the independence criteria for the Company’s Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. These Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members hold periodic meetings, as necessary, with the Board of Directors, Representative Directors, and individual Directors to exchange opinions regarding such matters as the Group’s management and corporate governance. In addition, Seven & i Holdings assigns employees to assist the Outside Directors and the Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Company has established a support system that facilitates smooth information exchange and close interaction with the other Directors and the other Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 9 (As of September 18, 2017) Seven & i Holdings has established the Nomination and Compensation Committee with an Independent Outside Director as the Chair to be an advisory committee to the Board of Directors. The committee deliberates on the nomination and compensation of Representative Directors, Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and executive officers to utilize the knowledge and advice of Independent Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. By ensuring procedural objectivity and transparency in deciding on officer nomination and compensation, the committee enhances the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors and further substantiates corporate governance functions. Seven & i Holdings has established the CSR Management Committee, Information Management Committee, and Risk Management Committee, which report to the Representative Director. Each committee cooperates with the operating companies to determine Group policies and to manage and supervise their dissemination and execution with an eye to strengthening corporate governance. In the Group corporate creed and the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines, etc., Seven & i Holdings and its Group companies have made a public commitment to implementing ethical corporate activities, strictly observing laws, regulations, and social norms, and fulfilling their corporate social responsibilities to continue to be trusted and known for integrity. On that basis, Seven & i Holdings shall establish and utilize compliance systems, centered on the CSR Management Committee. The CSR Management Committee endeavors to maintain compliance with the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines, following the corporate creed of We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust with respect to its various stakeholders. The committee works to contribute to resolving social issues through business activities and aims for society and the Group to achieve sustainable growth. To achieve these objectives, four subcommittees (Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, Environment Subcommittee and Social Value Creation Subcommittee) have been established under the CSR Management Committee. Each subcommittee prioritizes main issues to be addressed from the standpoint of the Group's business characteristics, and then develops and implements measures for achieving solutions. In addition, greater efforts are being exerted to be thorough with compliance, including the establishment and operation of an independent, external helpline, promotion of fair trade, and establishment and dissemination of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and guidelines for each company. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 10 Seven & i Holdings, in accordance with the basic rules for risk management, establishes, maintains, and utilizes comprehensive risk management systems, centered on the Risk Management Committee, in order to properly analyze and evaluate, and appropriately respond to risks associated with each business, with consideration for changes in the management environment and risk factors relevant to the Company and its Group companies. The Risk Management Committee regards all phenomena that threaten continuation of our businesses and hinder sustainable growth as risks, and works to strengthen comprehensive and integrated risk management. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, the committee worked to reduce the Company's overall risk by advancing and supporting measures to identify the inherent risk issues for each Group company and examine measures for resolving them. This was done by strengthening collaboration with each Seven & i Holdings’ division responsible for risk, and by bolstering the feedback system for risk-related information between Seven & i Holdings and the operating companies, with a view to reinforcing risk management. The Information Management Committee is in charge of initiatives to strengthen corporate governance and information security based on gathering and managing information. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, in regard to the system for reporting of Group companies to Seven & i Holdings, the committee strengthened its system for gathering important information from each company in an appropriate and timely manner and collaboratively addressing the information, while enhancing the system for centrally managing that information and reporting it without omission or delay to management and relevant departments. In response to heightened social interest in protection of personal information and to ensure that customers can use the Group's integrated portal website, omni7 safely and securely, all business sites within the Group that handle the personal information of customers have acquired ISMS certification (ISO 27001) , an international standard for information security management. In parallel, the committee formulated information security standards to be achieved by the Group and worked to strengthen information security by promoting initiatives compliant with PDCA cycle methodologies based on the ISMS certification throughout Group companies. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, the committee will continue working to strengthen the system for gathering and managing information. It will also strive to bolster security by working to maintain and expand ISMS-certified sites. Seven & i Holdings has worked to enhance its internal control systems to achieve the required conditions of internal control: 1) operational effectiveness and efficiency; 2) reliability in financial reporting; 3) strict compliance with laws and regulations in operating activities; and (4) appropriate preservation of assets. The Board of Directors responded to the enforcement of the Companies Act of Japan in May 2006 by passing a resolution concerning the Company’s “Basic Policy on Internal Control Systems.” The Board of Directors continually monitors the establishment of various rules as well as the status of risk management. In February 2009, as one facet of initiatives implemented in response to the introduction of the internal control reporting system under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Company formulated the “Rules for Establishing Internal Control Concerning Financial Reporting” and the “Rules for Evaluating Internal Control Concerning Financial Reporting.” In accordance with these rules, in March 2009 the Company established the position of internal control evaluation director in the Auditing Office. The internal control evaluation director implements evaluations of internal control concerning financial reporting for the Group as a whole. In addition to this type of system enhancement, the Company has prepared an Internal Control Handbook. The Company is working to ensure that all of the Group’s employees understand the objectives and importance of internal control. Moreover, following revisions to the Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act in May 2015, the Company established systems for ensuring appropriate operations within the corporate group formed by Seven & i Holdings and Group subsidiaries and enhanced and clarified the regulations relating to systems for supporting audits and so forth. Further details about corporate governance can be found here: Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 11 Seven & i Holdings places absolute priority on compliance with laws and regulations and social norms. The Company also strives to ensure that sound corporate governance is functioning and secured by management. The Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines present the behavior that each employee should practice in order to realize the spirit of reliability and sincerity expressed in the Group's corporate creed. The guidelines call for employees to comply with laws, regulations, and social norms, to uphold laws and regulations such as the Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade, as well as internal rules, and conduct business under appropriate conditions in line with sound trading practices, and not to have any contact with antisocial groups. Details of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines can be found here Provision of safe, high‒quality products and services Compliance (Legal Compliance) Maintenance of fair, transparent transactions Relationship with Customers Cooperation with local and international communities Relationship with Business Partners Respect for human rights Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Respect for diversity and improvement of job satisfaction Relationship with Local and International Communities Preservation of the assets and information of the Relationship between the Company, and Directors, Company Officers and Employees Contribution to a sustainable society Preservation of Global Environment Dialogue with stakeholders Efforts regarding social issues Seven & i Holdings has a CSR Management Committee, chaired by the President, and three subcommittees—the Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, the Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, and the Environment Subcommittee. These subcommittees work together with each Group company to promote the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and to rigorously enforce compliance. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 12 Seven & i Holdings has set up the Groupwide Help Line and the Business Partner Help Line to prevent conduct that could result in loss of public credibility and to ensure early detection, early remediation, and recurrence prevention. The Groupwide Help Line is for receiving reports from employees of Group companies in Japan, and the Business Partner Help Line is for reports from business partners. Both help lines have a consultation desk operated by a third party under a service contract and a non‒disclosure agreement to protect the privacy of people consulting or whistleblowing, and ensure that the content of their reports are not disclosed publicly or leaked. The consultation desk accepts reports via e-mail, telephone or post. (Reports via telephone are only accepted during service hours.) When the Company receives a report, it quickly confirms the facts, corrects any violations that are found, and strives to prevent a recurrence. To create an environment that facilitates reporting, reports can be made anonymously, while both employees and business partners are bound by operating regulations not to subject whistleblowers to disadvantageous treatment for having made a report. The person is contacted four weeks after completion of the case by the third‒party consultation desk to check that they have not suffered retaliation or disadvantageous treatment. Seven & i Holdings' CSR Department keeps track of the number and nature of the reports for each Group company, as well as the status of responses, to ensure that the actions taken by the operating companies are appropriate. In the event of a serious violation or other such incident, a report will be provided immediately to the Representative Director, responses will be discussed with the relevant divisions and companies, and the necessary response measures will be taken. In addition, the CSR Department reports on the operational status of the internal reporting system to Seven & i Holdings' CSR Management Committee and the Board of Directors. The Groupwide Help Line serves employees, Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and retirees and their families. To ensure that all employees are aware of the system and its contact points, it is explained in employee training and posters are put up in every workplace and store. Additionally, employees' awareness of the Groupwide Help Line is surveyed as part of the Employee Opinion Survey administered once every two years. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 13 The Business Partner Help Line is provided for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, employees, and former employees of Group companies' business partners. To ensure that business partners are fully aware of the help line system and its points of contact, we explain it at briefings for business partners and distribute information in pamphlets. Seven & i Holdings and Group companies endeavor to promote and foster understanding of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines among all employees. To this end they have prepared specific guidance for employees on how to put the guidelines into practice in line with the business characteristics of each company. In addition, when undertaking tier-specific group training for organizational levels ranging from new recruits to management, Seven & i Holdings provides training based on the themes of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and compliance. From the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, compliance seminars have been held every year for executives, beginning with the presidents of Seven & i Holdings and each Group company. In addition, in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, training via elearning (certain employees watched DVDs) was undertaken for Group employees in Japan. Seven & i Holdings conducts the Employee Opinion Survey, an anonymous biennial survey designed to gauge the extent of understanding of the Corporate Creed and compliance awareness among employees. The survey includes questions that measure job satisfaction and the degree of acceptance of performance reviews. Group-wide initiatives are implemented to address common issues across the Group that have been identified by the survey results. Along with this, Group companies devise measures to tackle the issues faced by each company and strive to make improvements accordingly. For more details of the Employee Opinion Survey, please visit: Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 14 Seven & i Holdings has established the FT (Fair Trade) Information Sharing Committee, made up of personnel in charge of fair trade at each Group company, under the Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee. In this project, the members strive to prevent noncompliance by sharing information on the latest laws and regulations concerning business practices, cases of unfair business practices at Group companies or other companies in the industry, and measures for improvement. If a case of an unfair business practice occurs, or is suspected, the FT Committee and the CSR Department work together to check the facts with the department and business partners concerned. If any issues are found to exist, they are dealt with appropriately according to administrative guidance. Each Group company has a division to rigorously ensure fair trading practices, such as the FT Committee headed by the company president. These divisions are responsible for training the personnel responsible for procurement as regards the laws and regulations related to contracts, such as the Antimonopoly Act and the Subcontract Act. The status of legal compliance at each Group company is confirmed through a monitoring survey of each Group company conducted by the FT Information Sharing Committee. In the final stage of negotiations with each business partner, to ensure there are no later disagreements between the personnel in charge of purchasing at each company and the representative of the business partner, the matters determined as a result of their discussions are recorded in a standardized format, with each party retaining a copy. Moreover, the Seven & i Group conducts individual employee interviews led by the employee's supervisor once every six months. At the individual interviews of personnel in charge of purchasing, their compliance with fair business practices is evaluated and reflected in their compensation package. From the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, the Seven & i Group has conducted questionnaire surveys of business partners to confirm whether the speech and behavior of employees toward business partners follow the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines. In these surveys, business partners reply to questions anonymously. In May 2017, a total of 8,700 representatives of business partners responded to questionnaire surveys issued by Group companies. Seven & i Holdings has established the Basic Policy on Protection of Personal Information and the Basic Policy on Information Security. As a sincere company trusted by its stakeholders, Seven & i Holdings has made it mandatory for officers and all employees to protect the personal information handled by the Group and appropriately secure the safety of information assets as a material management and business issue and a social responsibility. At the same time, the Company aims to ensure appropriate business execution through the protection of personal information and the use of information assets by complying with relevant laws and regulations such as the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and internal rules. Privacy Policy can be found here Basic Policy on Information Security can be found here Based on the Seven & i Holdings Global Tax Policy, Seven & i Holdings has a tax strategy that corresponds with its management strategies, and carries out uniform Companywide tax management. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 15 Seven & i Holdings has a basic policy of establishing high‒quality corporate governance systems at the Company and its Group companies, including overseas subsidiaries. The systems are designed to ensure sound, sustainable growth and to uphold public trust. To provide appropriate countermeasures for tax‒related risks, including changes in the tax governance environment in Japan and overseas, reputational risk, brand value degradation, and corporate social responsibility, we have a tax strategy that corresponds with our management strategies, and we will carry out uniform Companywide tax management. In line with the above, Seven & i Holdings has adopted the following global tax policy. Seven & i Holdings and its Group companies, including overseas subsidiaries, always comply with the taxation laws in the countries where they operate. Moreover, they also respect the intention of such laws by paying taxes appropriately as a way of contributing to the economic development of the countries. To ensure that our compliance with tax‒related laws and our tax management are appropriate, we follow the guidelines for developing internal controls for financial reporting to build and develop internal control systems that ensure appropriate accounting procedures and financial reporting. We also operate these systems appropriately and have inside and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members check and assess the effectiveness of the controls. Seven & i Holdings and its Group companies, including overseas subsidiaries, provide timely and appropriate disclosure of management data and tax payment status in accordance with the laws of each country where they have operations. Moreover, the Company and its Group companies, including overseas subsidiaries, do not engage in tax avoidance practices, which seek to excessively reduce tax payments, and transactions between operating companies are conducted according to the arm's length principle. Seven & i Holdings and its Group companies, including overseas subsidiaries, strive to ensure transparency and reliability with regard to their tax obligations by responding in good faith to the tax authorities in the countries where they operate and international tax authorities. Seven & i Holdings has evaluated the impact of tax obligation risks on future value creation. As a result, we recognize the risk from changes in accounting standards and tax systems such as transfer pricing taxation as a financial risk, and the risk associated with M&A and business reorganizations as a business risk. The Group could encounter unforeseen introductions of new accounting standards or taxation systems, or changes to existing systems, which could affect its business performance or financial position. The Group develops new businesses and reorganizes its Group businesses through M&As, business alliances with other companies, establishment of joint ventures, and so forth. However, if the Group's strategic investments do not achieve the initially anticipated effect and cannot meet their targets, its business performance and financial position could be affected. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 16 (Millions of yen) Tax payment 125,128 14,916 750 Operating income 299,251 65,548 -238 Revenues from operations 4,032,803 1,690,713 113,475 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 17 In accordance with the Seven & i Group Corporate Action Guidelines, the Seven & i Group complies with the international code of conduct and engages in initiatives aimed at respecting the human rights of all stakeholders. The Seven & i Group has cultivated a culture of always respecting human rights, and never discriminating against, or allowing discrimination against anyone, including customers, business partners, people in local communities, and employees. We recognize that respect for human rights is an extremely important social responsibility as a part of our business activities, and we respect basic human rights as provided for in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international proclamations. The Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines stipulates that no person shall be unfairly discriminated against or harassed based on their social status, nationality, race, family lineage, creed, age, gender, sexual orientation*, gender identity*, existence of physical or mental disability, or other traits. We work to ensure that all employees understand these Guidelines. Furthermore, we believe that the cooperation of our business partners is necessary to advance our initiatives on respecting the human rights and the dignity of all people involved in our business activities. We have established the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines and work to ensure that our business partners understand and comply with them. As a sign of our respect for human rights, Seven & i Holdings is also a signatory and supporter of the UN Global Compact comprising 10 principles related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. *Sexual orientation: A person’s sexual nature determining the gender(s) to which he or she feels attracted *Gender identity: The recognition and sense of which gender an individual feels they belong to Basic Policy 4. Respect for Human Rights 2. Respect for Human Rights Seven & i Holdings has established the Human Rights Education Center as a dedicated entity for overseeing and promoting the Group’s efforts with respect to human rights education and normalization. The Human Rights Education Center coordinates with the human resources and compliance departments of each Group company, and carries out a variety of educational and awareness activities. In addition, the Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee under the CSR Management Committee regularly shares the progress on efforts related to human rights education, and advances activities aimed at having all employees of Group companies correctly understand and recognize human rights, along with fostering a corporate culture free of discrimination or prejudice. With respect to human rights initiatives in the supply chain, the Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee under the CSR Management Committee takes the lead role in encouraging human rights awareness among business partners. Seven & i Group offers a variety of educational activities and employee training with the aim of creating a corporate culture in which everyone respects the human rights of all customers, business partners, people in local communities, and colleagues, and in which people are aware of all types of discrimination and prejudices and do not discriminate against others or tolerate such behavior. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 18 Seven & i Group companies provide a variety of human rights awareness training to employees, including part-time employees. For example, Ito-Yokado holds level-specific human rights awareness training when employees join the company and at other times, with training content matching job responsibilities. Employees come to recognize that human rights issues are an intricate part of everyday life, and the training includes specific examples as well as new developments and issues so that employees can apply what they learn to their daily activities. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, a total of 84 training sessions were held, and a total of 2,457 people received training. In order to further support Group companies’ training, in February 2017 Seven & i Holdings published Human Rights – Let’s Start by Learning, a handbook used for human rights awareness. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, we are enhancing these initiatives, including training to promote an understanding of LGBT issues. Human rights training handbook To create a corporate culture in which each employee’s human rights are respected in accordance with the Corporate Action Guidelines, each year the Seven & i Group solicits proposals for human rights slogans from all employees, including part-time employees, and their family members. By coming up with slogans, employees are encouraged to think about human rights, which raises their awareness of human rights issues. The most excellent slogans submitted are published in the Group’s internal newsletter and intranet, and receive prizes. The contest was held for the 26th time the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, and 73,721 proposals were received, the highest number in the history of the contest. Poster calling for the submission of human rights slogans Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 19 Seven & i Group conducts an employee awareness survey targeting Seven & i Holdings as well as Group companies every second year to check that human rights are being respected. The survey includes questions asking people if they have seen or heard about harassment or discrimination in the workplace. The survey conducted in May 2017 targeted a total of approximately 45,000 employees working at 29 Group companies. More details of the Employee Opinion Survey can be found here Seven & i Group has established the Groupwide Help Line as a consultation service for Group employees, their family members, and former employees to consult about or report on any human rights problems in the workplace. The consultation service is operated by a third party under a service contract and a non‒disclosure agreement to protect the privacy of people who contact it. When a report or consultation is received, the facts are investigated as necessary having obtained consent from the person who made the report. In addition, the rules of the consultation service stipulate that people who contact the service as well as those who cooperate with the investigation of facts shall not be subject to disadvantageous treatment. Further information about the Groupwide Help Line can be found here To ensure that business partners understand the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines, Seven & i Group administers a self-check sheet for business partners that explains all of the specific requirements for compliance. The selfcheck sheet contains 61 questions, including human rights-related questions. For example, the questions ask whether or not factory employees have access to consulting desks and whether or not the company requests that its own suppliers comply with the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines. Responses are entered into a database, and the data are used in the process for determining whether to continue doing business with specific business partners. Further information about the self-check sheet for business partners can be found here In addition, Seven & i Group conducts CSR audits of end manufacturing plants of the business partners who produce Seven Premium private brand products as well as Ito-Yokado’s overseas direct import suppliers. The audits ascertain their level of compliance with the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines. An outside audit agency conducts the audits in line with Seven & i Holdings’ original audit, which covers topics such as human rights and the work environment (16 categories and approximately 140 check items). This was prepared by making reference to sources such as the ISO 26000 standard, the Japanese Business Federation’s Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Further details about CSR audits of business partners can be found here Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 20 Seven & i Holdings works toward solving social issues in its core operations through promotion and development of businesses such as products and services. At the same time, we aim for sustainable development that creates value for both companies and society. Seven & i Holdings seeks to promote Group‒wide CSR activities that are effective and efficient. To this end, we hold regular, twice‒yearly meetings of the CSR Management Committee, which is chaired by the President and Representative Director. At these meetings, we offer guidance and make improvements based on reports received from the four subcommittees. The meetings also help to strengthen the framework of collaboration between the holding company and operating companies. The Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee conducts initiatives to ensure compliance and create fulfilling workplaces for Group employees. In our initiatives to ensure compliance, we are making everyone aware of the Corporate Creed and the Corporate Action Guidelines. Moreover, in September 2016 we revised the Corporate Action Guidelines in response to changes in the social environment both in Japan and overseas. In our initiatives to create fulfilling workplaces, we are working to improve work environments, beginning with rectifying long working hours, along with making progress on promoting active roles for diverse human resources, including women and people with disabilities, and helping employees balance work and family care responsibilities. In addition, we are encouraging employees to take days off on holidays and acquire leave. To enable timely verification of progress at each company in relation to these initiatives, a biennial opinion survey has been conducted among Group employees since 2013. Group companies share information on the progress and accomplishments of measures to improve the issues identified by this survey at meetings of the Work Satisfaction Improvement Committee, which are attended by the relevant personnel of each Group company. Through these efforts, we seek to improve on those issues. For details about the Seven & i Group Corporate Action Guidelines The Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee aims to improve product quality and ensure safety in the products and services handled at Group companies. It also strives to disclose appropriate and clear information that helps customers to select and use products. To improve product quality and ensure safety, the Subcommittee aims to establish and strengthen its own quality levels and control systems for each Group company based on Group‒wide quality policies. In disclosing appropriate and clear information, purchasing staff at each Group company are notified of the latest work‒related information, such as changes in laws, and regularly receive training and education. Furthermore, to ensure that we meet our social responsibilities regarding products and services across the entire supply chain, we ask business partners to understand and implement the Seven & i Group Business Partner Action Guidelines, and regularly confirm and assess their compliance. Additionally, to ensure fairness and transparency in our relationships with business partners, we have enhanced employee training and set up a dedicated external contact for business partners in an effort to ensure legal compliance and fair trade practices. For details about the Seven & i Group Business Partner Action Guidelines Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 21 The Environment Subcommittee works through business activities to reduce CO2 emissions and make effective use of limited resources, among other goals. In reducing CO2 emissions, we assess environmental loads at each stage of the supply chain from product development through production, shipment, sales, and consumption, and take steps to reduce CO2 emissions. We also strive to ensure compliance with laws and regulations related to the environment, such as those dealing with chlorofluorocarbons. To make effective use of limited resources, we promote foodstuff recycling and reduction of waste, effective use of forest thinning and recycled materials, preservation of diversity and procurement of sustainable raw materials. In addition, the Seven & i Group possesses social infrastructure in the form of store networks in various regions. In this respect, we are utilizing the Seven & i Group's business characteristics as a social infrastructure to expand commercial recharging services for environmentally conscious automobiles such as electric vehicles and plug‒in hybrids, to advance the environmental business in response to customers' needs. To promote these initiatives within the Group, we are engaged in various activities to raise employees' awareness. For example, we conduct regular environmental education for Group employees, work to raise awareness through events in Environment Month in June, promote acquisition of the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test), and undertake conservation activities at Seven Forest. The Social Value Creation Subcommittee was newly established in June 2016 for the purpose of creating businesses that solve social issues (based on the concept of CSV=Creating Shared Value). Aiming to realize a sustainable society, the Seven & i Group has identified five material issues that it must address through engagement with various stakeholders. In response, the Social Value Creation Subcommittee is working to plan, examine, and formulate new businesses originating from social issues to be addressed through core businesses by leveraging business characteristics and management resources, including the Group's business infrastructure and expertise cultivated to date. Moreover, it has created internal promotional frameworks by setting up conference structures similar to the Social Value Creation Subcommittee at each Group company. In addition, it will hold regular study sessions for subcommittee members and relevant personnel from each Group company to foster an understanding of CSV and social issues. Apart from this, the subcommittee will strive to deepen initiatives with a view to fostering external collaboration with NPOs, business partners, social entrepreneurs and other partners. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 22 ○: Achieved, △: Almost achieved, ×: Far from achieved ① Thoroughly ensuring compliance Create e-learning course Created two types of e-learning △ Conduct e-learning on CSR and materials on the three CSR course materials: (1) the human rights (harassment) to items making reference to Corporate Creed and Founding foster a stronger awareness of initiatives of the Corporate Principles, and (2) CSR CSR and compliance among Ethics and Culture Implemented the e-learning employees, in response to the Subcommittee, existing CSR course on the Corporate Creed revision of the Seven & i training materials at Group and Founding Principles in Holdings Corporate Action companies and CSR trends, November 2016. Guidelines in 2016 etc., in Japan and overseas. Begin using the materials from the second half of the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018 Hold joint Group intellectual Invited an external lecturer and ○ Continue to implement property rights training held a seminar on the theme of awareness-raising activities for regarding one risk from among intellectual property in June 2016 employees through such means the identified risks to which the Approximately 900 attendees as incorporating intellectual existing organization cannot from the product, sales property into Groupwide erespond. promotion and certain other learning and the existing training departments of 25 Group curricula of each company companies ② Creating fulfilling workplaces [Employee opinion survey] ○ Establish the Professional Established the Professional Conduct the third employee Liaison Meeting to regularly Liaison Meeting opinion survey report progress on revised Held three meetings in March, Hold meetings to discuss issues plans incorporating issues July, and November 2016. and devise improvement raised in the opinion survey. Confirmed progress on measures, with the goals of The meeting is to be held every improvement activities of each verifying the results of activities four months to drive operating company and shared and identifying new issues in improvement activities and examples of activities. response to the results of the expand beneficial initiatives to employee opinion survey other companies Rename the Professional Liaison Meeting as the Work Satisfaction Improvement Committee and continue to confirm the progress of improvement activities and share examples of activities Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 23 [Promoting normalization] ○ Support operating companies Interviewed and provided advice Strengthen support for operating that permanently employ more on hiring for operating companies companies that permanently than 101 workers in hiring concerned employ at least 101 workers in people with disabilities Conducted education using hiring people with disabilities, Conduct education using normalization education DVD ahead of the reduction of the normalization education DVD regarding people with hearing statutory employment rate for regarding people with hearing disabilities people with disabilities from April disabilities 1, 2018 Achieved employment rate for Maintain or exceed the people with disabilities of 2.51% Conduct education using the statutory employment rate for (Groupwide) Human Rights Awareness people with disabilities at the Handbook booklet and DVD five applicable Group companies Maintain or exceed the statutory employment rate for people with disabilities at the five applicable Group companies [Promoting normalization] ○ Continue cognitive impairment Certified approximately 23,000 Continue cognitive impairment supporter training courses at cognitive impairment supporters supporter training courses at operating companies, aiming to Groupwide on a cumulative basis operating companies, aiming to have around 20,000 supporters at the end of February 2017 have around 26,000 supporters Groupwide (Certified approximately 6,300 Groupwide individuals in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017) Implement employee health Conducted stress checks in ○ Launch the MY HEALTH WEB promotion measures and mental accordance with laws smartphone app service health strategies to help Provided healthy, low‒sodium Continue to conduct stress achieve the targets of Health dishes at the employee cafeteria checks Declaration 2018 Held health campaigns Continue to provide healthy, low‒ sodium dishes at the employee cafeteria Continue to hold health campaigns ③ Diversity Promotion Project Continue to hold seminars Percentage of female managers ○ Strengthen training of female aimed at improving the (Section manager or higher candidates for management management abilities of female positions): 23.0% (February 28, positions managers 2017) Implement measures to foster Held four seminars aimed at career ambition among female improving the management employees involved in childcare abilities of female managers Presented message from the president to employees returning to work from after taking paid childcare leave Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 24 Implement measures to change Continued to hold diversity ○ Continue to conduct awarenessawareness among management management seminars (four raising activities targeting the for managing diverse seminars with 1,640 attendees) executives and managers of subordinates and innovating Use of childcare leave among Group companies work styles male employees—Seven & i Promote use of childcare leave Promote use of childcare leave Holdings: 44 employees; SEJ: 461 among male employees among male employees and employees; IY: 498 employees continue holding Ikumen seminars Promote knowledge and Produced and utilized the ○ Disseminate basic knowledge on awareness of systems for Handbook for Helping Employees balancing work and family care balancing family care with work to Balance Work and Family Care responsibilities Responsibilities Held two family care seminars and two care community events Continue to distribute internal Posted articles on role models ○ Continue to distribute internal notices for raising awareness of (women, men involved in notices related to diversity diversity promotion and work childcare, bosses that encourage promotion and work style style innovation childcare, family care) in the innovation Aggressive external monthly internal newsletter Conduct awareness-raising communication Chosen as a Nadeshiko Brand for activities regarding LGBT issues 2017 Aggressive external Obtained the highest L-Boshi communication ranking of Level 3 as a genderadvanced company based on the Act on the Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Ranked second place overall for the second straight year in the 100 Best Companies Where Women Play an Active Part ranking by Nikkei Woman Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 25 ① Improving product quality and ensuring safety Apparel and Household Goods ○ Respond to regulation of azo Responded to regulation of azo Advance the development of a dyes that generate specified dyes: Requested business Groupwide quality control system aromatic amines partners to submit Pledge of a.Develop the foundations of Respond to revision of laundry Non-Use and Proof of quality control departments at care labels Analysis and related documents, each company (personnel and held briefings for related structure and business domains) Formulate guidelines on departments of Group companies b.Establish reporting lines for ingredients labeling (production Responded to revision of laundry use in the event of incidents history guarantee) care labels: Conducted training (establish reporting procedures) for procurement officers and c.Formulate guidelines for sales floor supervisors, and responding to incidents increased awareness of Risk management training customers (Implement training to enhance Formulated guidelines on specialized skills for quality ingredients labeling: Issued control managers) guidelines on confirming the factual basis and using suitable expressions when promoting the source regions of raw materials, etc. Apparel and Household Goods ○ Plan to conduct basic, Participants in training for Plan to conduct basic, intermediate, and advanced apparel products: 391 employees intermediate, and advanced training for apparel products Participants in training on laundry training for apparel products (400 (400 employees) care labels: 440 employees employees) Conduct training on laundry QC test: 8 employees passed Continue to offer QC test and care labels for apparel product TES qualification: 21 employees TES qualification purchasing staff (440 passed employees) Continuously to offer QC test and TES qualification Food ○ Strengthen information sharing Participated in monthly Advance the responses of Group through participation in Group conferences on production and companies to compulsory company quality control shared information through HACCP implementation managers in meetings regarding projects Address in-store food manufacture of Seven Premium Imparted knowledge of plant preparation items audit items and implemented Address manufacturing plants Have Group companies check plant checks by quality control from a supply chain perspective quality control systems at managers manufacturing plants Checked food product labeling of Check food product labeling Seven Premium products at prior to store delivery Group companies Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 26 ② Establishing fair business practices With regard to legal and Held four FT Project meetings, ○ Share information, identify issues regulatory compliance, hold sharing information and and implement remedial meetings as necessary to implementing remediation measures by holding meetings as actively gather and share measures necessary information within the Group, and strengthen management systems at Group companies Continue to conduct twiceHeld group training for newly ○ Conduct group training in March yearly group training for newly appointed managers in March and and October appointed product development October. Training was attended Conduct e-learning on product managers by 195 employees from 16 labeling in June, the Act against Conduct e‒learning and training companies. Unjustifiable Premiums and at each Group company on the Held e-learning on the Misleading Representations in Antimonopoly Act and Antimonopoly Act (abuse of September, and the Subcontracting Act for dominant bargaining position) and Antimonopoly Act (abuse of employees involved in Subcontracting Act in March and dominant bargaining position) and negotiating with business November. 5,472 employees from Subcontracting Act in November partners, including the 23 companies Group-wide abovementioned managers participated in e-learning. Conduct business partner Surveyed the product, systems, ○ Conduct at 27 Group companies survey to ensure regulatory and construction, and certain other legal compliance in dealings departments of five companies with business partners and (IY, SEJ, Sogo & Seibu, Seven & i boost ethicality Food Systems and Seven & i Holdings). 5,534 responses were received, and remedial measures were implemented at each department and company. ① Understanding and reducing environmental impacts Continue to calculate Scope 3 Continued to calculate for 10 ○ Implement third-party trials at emissions for 10 Group Group companies Category 1 for SEJ, which has a companies large amount of Scope 3 emissions Install test machines at four 7In addition to the four 7-Eleven 〇 Expand stores installing small Eleven stores using the Ministry stores undertaking the Ministry machines for convenience stores of Environment's trial project on of Environment's trial project, in the fiscal year ending February automatic PET bottle recovery tests of small machines for 28, 2018 by using the Ministry of machines convenience stores were Environment's trial project initiated following installation at five stores in total. Move the four companies to the Finished moving the four ○ revised standard 2015 version companies of ISO 14001 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 27 ② Forest conservation activities Conduct activities with Seven Forest preservation △ Begin Nagano Seven Forest consideration for diversity, activities had 83 participants in preservation activities at a new aiming to have at least 120 the spring and 97 participants in location in Nagano, following the participants in both the spring the autumn expiry of the agreement for the and autumn Nagano Seven current Nagano Seven Forest Forest preservation activities Use environmentally friendly Used environmentally friendly ○ Use environmentally friendly packaging (products) in at least packaging materials in 150 items packaging materials in 740 Seven 100 Seven Premium items Premium items ③ Raising environmental awareness/sharing information Aim to have 1,000 employees 1,255 employees took the ○ Aim to have 1,700 employees take the Certification Test for Certification Test for pass the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists, with Environmental Specialists Environmental Specialists 700 passing for a cumulative 983 employees passed the total of over 2,000 qualified Certification Test for personnel Environmental Specialists Cumulative total of qualified personnel: 2,364 employees ① Promote understanding of CSV Disseminate the CSV approach Communicated information Create opportunities to promote through the Company newsletter understanding of CSV and other means Held study sessions led by CSV experts invited to serve as instructors from outside the Company, in order to instill a firm understanding of CSV ② Promote understanding of social issues Monitor the impact of the Held study sessions led by Create opportunities for Company on the environment instructors invited from two employees to gain a deep and society NPOs and other companies understanding of the social involved in solving social issues, issues underlying the five in order to gain a deep material issues that the Group understanding of social issues should address ③ Create new CSV businesses Establish promotional Internal promotional frameworks Plan, formulate, and execute new frameworks at operating were established by 19 operating businesses originating from social companies companies with a view to issues at Group companies creating businesses originating Consider collaborations led by from social issues Group companies and external collaborations with NPOs and business partners Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 28 Seven & i Holdings provides employees with CSR training via group training when they join the company or are appointed to a new position through promotion or advancement in rank, in addition to using such means as the Company newsletter, quarterly reports, and the CSR Report. Study groups, seminars, and the like are held regularly for specialized fields including compliance, diversity, and the environment, and information about volunteering is communicated to employees through the intranet. Additionally, in the fiscal year ending February 28, 2017, we plan to conduct CSR training via e-Learning for all employees at domestic Group companies. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 29 Seven & i Holdings has conducted dialogues with various stakeholders and in 2014 determined material issues that should be addressed so that the entire Group can respond to the expectations and demands of stakeholders. We will introduce the determination process here. Concentrate on key issues that Seven & i Holdings should address in particular, and respond appropriately as the scope of its business expands and related social issues and social demands become more diverse. Clarify the direction towards CSR for the entire Group and maximize Group synergies. Implement CSR management and information disclosure in line with global standards. To determine the material issues, we identified social issues that should be considered. In addition to the Group's Corporate Action Guidelines and other policies, global frameworks such as GRI Guidelines G4, ISO 26000, and Millennium Development Goals; issues facing Japan, such as those debated by the Japanese government; and survey items of CSR rating agencies were also taken into consideration to identify social issues that should be addressed. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 30 An interview survey in a questionnaire format was conducted with customers, business partners, shareholders and investors, and employees to understand the future expectations and demands of all stakeholders for the Group for the identified social issues. An assessment was made of how much of a priority the Group should place on each issue. Based on the expectations of each stakeholder, the importance of the social issues was evaluated based on the two axes of the importance to each stakeholder and the importance to our Group business. Furthermore, after consolidating these axes to evaluate the overall level of importance, we prepared candidate material issues for the entire Group. Based on our candidate material issues, we conducted dialogues with experts to discuss what issues Seven & i Holdings should focus on. These dialogues were held between members of the management of Seven & i Holdings and core operating companies, including the President and Representative Director. Opportunities were established to discuss the entire Group and to discuss each business area as opinions were exchanged with experts. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 31 We reviewed the importance of the various candidate material issues based on the opinions of stakeholders and experts and summarized them anew. Having sorted the candidate material issues by importance, we integrated the items of greatest importance for stakeholders and the Group's business into five areas that took into account their various associations. The CSR Management Committee, chaired by the President, decided on the material issues that Seven & i Holdings should address as a Group. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 32 More More More More More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 33 Seven & i Holdings is working to enhance the convenience of shopping while leveraging the unique aspects of its business and some 20,000‒store network as a form of social infrastructure to support consumers inconvenienced by shopping and to respond to changes taking place in society. These changes include Japan's decrease in population brought on by a declining birthrate and aging society, the advancement of women in society, and the declining number of retail stores, among others. We recognize that fulfilling these diverse needs of our customers is one of our most important and unwavering roles in society. We will continue to tackle these issues as our most importance issues. Japan is experiencing an aging society and declining population. By the year 2060, the country's population will dip below 90 million and nearly 40% will be seniors*. The number of seniors living alone continues to increase each year, with the number expected to rise 1.5‒fold from the level in 2010 by 2030. Meanwhile, the hollowing out of lifestyle hubs following the declining population stands as one of Japan's major social issues. Forecasts suggest that the number of seniors living alone without walkable access to a supermarket with fresh produce and meat will double by the year 2030. * Source: FY2013 Population Estimates, Statistics Bureau, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications In response to this material issue, the CSR Management Committee, led by the president, and its subordinate Social Value Creation Subcommittee, work together with the Group companies and related departments to develop various services as initiatives to resolve social issues through business activities, as well as monitoring the progress of activities and promoting new initiatives. These activities are supervised by the Seven and i Holdings executive officer in charge of Corporate Communication. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 34 By addressing these material issues, Seven & i Holdings is providing social infrastructure such as public services to a variety of people, including the elderly, and contributing to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals 9 and 11. We are working to create new shopping support services We are developing and selling cooked meal products based to assist customers for whom shopping is an on the concept of individual servings, small volume, and inconvenience. simplicity for those who find meals inconvenient or difficult. More More We are expanding services and supporting shopping to enable all customers to visit and shop at our stores with We are providing public services to alleviate inconvenience ease and peace of mind. for those whose lifestyles are affected by the decline in neighborhood social infrastructure. More More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 35 Seven & i Holdings will support people for whom shopping is an inconvenience by utilizing the infrastructure it has developed, such as store networks and logistics and information systems, to create new products and services for shopping support. The Seven & i Holdings Group is working to realize an Omni-Channel where customers can order any of the Group's products and choose to pick them up from a local Group store or have them delivered to their homes, as well as return unwanted items. In addition to sales at stores, customers can also order products using their PC or smartphone. For those who are not used to operating a PC, store staff will offer assistance. They will also check in on customers who cannot easily leave home to ask about their needs. In this way, we aim to realize shopping styles that allow customers to purchase what they want in the most convenient way for them. Shopping Support When Delivering Products SEJ offers the Seven RakuRaku Delivery service, which provides home delivery for nearly every product sold in its stores. Orders can be placed in advance by telephone or through other means. The service operates a fleet of some 800 COMS ultrasmall electric vehicles and SEJ is also moving forward with the introduction of around 2,600 power assisted bicycles (as of March 31, 2017). Seven RakuRaku Delivery Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 36 IY operates Net Supermarket at 136 stores (as of February 28, 2017) to provide scheduled deliveries of products ordered by customers using PCs or smartphones. Net Supermarket delivers from nearby stores in as little as four hours. The service deals in food and household goods, and pharmaceutical products were added in November 2013. In December 2014, we started offering a service to help parents raising children. With this service, parents who present and register a maternity notebook issued within the last four years can receive deliveries at a fee of only ¥100 (including tax) for four years from the maternity registration date. Net Supermarkets SEJ operates the Seven Anshin Delivery mobile store service at 38 stores in 22 prefectures. This service utilizes proprietarily developed light trucks equipped with store facilities, which go to areas that are inconvenient for daily shopping and where many residents are seniors who have trouble securing means of transportation. Customers are able to purchase a range of foods and beverages, including frozen foods, using this service. Plans call for this service to be expanded further in the future to fulfill the needs of customers. IY also uses its own specially developed trucks equipped with store facilities to provide the Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery mobile store service at five stores in Nagano Prefecture, Sapporo City, Tama City, Hanamaki City, and Iwaki City (as of May 31, 2017). Seven Anshin Delivery Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 37 Seven & i Holdings is developing and selling cooked meal products based on the concept of individual servings, small volume, and simplicity for those who find meals inconvenient or difficult to respond to customer demand for saving time and reducing the hassle of housework. SEJ provides the Seven-Meal home delivery service at some 15,000 of its stores (as of May 31, 2017). The service provides nutritionally balanced meal sets for those who want to eat healthily. Meals are ordered by customers such as seniors and stayat-home parents who feel inconvenienced by daily meal preparation. Moreover, SEJ has concluded senior support agreements with local governments, under which local stores in prefectures and municipalities check on the security of seniors and look out for them when delivering their meals. In this way, we are promoting Seven-Meal as lifestyle infrastructure that goes beyond the scope of a simple service. Delivering Food to the Home Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 38 SEJ's Seven Premium private brand is also developing products that are easy to prepare and reduce the hassle of housework to meet the needs of customers. The products include simple dishes that can be served directly or need only to be cooked, as well as easy-to-use frozen foods that can be cooked in the microwave. SEJ is also pursuing retention of tastiness and developing a menu of items that can be preserved for a long time and prepared for eating simply by heating in the microwave. Product Development in Collaboration with Manufacturers and Vendors Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 39 Seven & i Holdings works in collaboration with local governments to provide public services to alleviate inconvenience for those whose lifestyles are affected by the decrease in social infrastructure such as local government offices, banks, and retail stores. The Seven & i Group is promoting regional revitalization by concluding comprehensive alliance agreements with local governments in a wide range of fields, including local production for local consumption, senior support, health promotion, and environmental protection. Moreover, we are also moving ahead on concluding guardian angel agreements with local governments to look out for the likes of elderly people during regular store operating hours or through delivery services and collaborating with local governments to respond if irregularities are detected, as well as to promote employment of senior citizens, train cognitive impairment supporters and take other measures. In other developments, we have also concluded supply-support agreements to prepare for rapid regional support in the event of disasters, and we are also promoting agreements for supporting people who cannot return home after a disaster where we provide tap water, access to restrooms, and local information wherever possible. As of February 29, 2016 As of June 30, 2017 56 81 19 33 6 8 3 5 1 1 Ceremony to mark conclusion of a comprehensive alliance agreement with Toyama Prefecture For information regarding support during disasters, click here Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 40 The Seven & i Group makes use of comprehensive alliance agreements to promote various regional revitalization initiatives with respective local governments. SEJ recognizes the importance of local flavors and food cultures by developing products that use local ingredients. IY, Sogo & Seibu, York Mart and other Group companies propose menus using local products and ingredients, helping to support regional revitalization by promoting the appeal of the local area. 7-Eleven stores in the Shikoku area sell Kochi Prefecture-Grown Ginger Rice and Chicken Soboro Rice Balls ) featuring ginger grown in Kochi Prefecture. Fukui Specialty Food Fair Held at Seibu Fukui Store 7-Eleven stores offer a service for issuing copies of residence certificates and seal registration certificates using in-store multifunctional copier machines. As of May 31, 2017 agreements for this service were in place with 417 municipalities. This service is currently being expanded, as family register certificates can now be issued for 253 municipalities and tax certificates for 254. (Individual number cards are required to use the service) This service for individual number card holders is easily operable and can be used even late at night and on holidays, simply by waving the individual number card over a scanner. Private information is given high security protection by a sophisticated dedicated network and special printing prevents forgery and manipulation. Various certificates can be issued using the multi-function copier machines 7-Eleven stores became the first in the industry to offer motorcycle and bicycle insurance enrollment and insurance premium payment services where customers can enroll in insurance 24 hours a day by entering the necessary personal information on the multi-functional copier machine screen in store and paying their premium at the register. (The service is for motor scooters and motorcycles with an engine displacement of 250 cc or less, which do not require a warrant of fitness.) Since September 2015, 1 DAY Insurance providing automotive insurance coverage in 24-hour intervals has been on sale at 7Eleven stores. Through sales of this insurance, 7-Eleven supports customers' motoring activities and contributes to the realization of a safe and secure motorized society. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 41 IY and Sogo & Seibu provide facilities within stores to be used free of charge for use as polling booths in cooperation with local governments to provide voters with easily accessible polling booths that are handy to shopping facilities. Local governments seek to increase the voting rate due to the reduction in number of polling booths and decline in voting rate due to the merger of municipalities, in addition to the enactment of the revised Public Offices Election Act, which lowered the voting age to 18. The booths are used to provide easy access to voters while they are shopping. During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, polling booths were set up in 23 stores and election promotion activities were carried out within stores, such as displaying posters, instore announcements and printing the election date on receipts. A polling booth set up in a store Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 42 Seven & i Holdings is expanding services and supporting shopping to enable easy use by all customers, including senior citizens, people with disabilities, and tourists from overseas, whose numbers are increasing yearly. Seven & i Holdings supports the creation of neighborhoods where local residents who suffer from cognitive impairment and their families can live with security. To this end, we are encouraging our employees to attend cognitive impairment supporter training courses. Each Group company holds training courses, and the number of supporters Groupwide had increased to about 23,000 as of February 28, 2017, achieving the target of 20,000. We will continue to strengthen our efforts to develop cognitive impairment supporters. Cognitive impairment supporter training Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 43 Ito-Yokado is developing the Anshin Support Shop at 107 stores, which carries a full lineup of apparel, daily essentials, and foods, including products that support the health and lifestyles of seniors and care products (as of May 31, 2017) About 40% of products sold are original products developed together with business partners, and sales are conducted by sales staff with specialized qualifications who are also able to deal with consultations regarding nursing care and welfare issues in general. In addition, Sogo & Seibu has teamed up with the Caring Design Association to establish a permanent Living Design Salon at the Seibu Ikebukuro Store for supporting living and home design for customers aged in their 50s and above. The facility proposes appealing homes that casually incorporate care and support features for the physical changes that occur with age, aiming to enable people to live in their own way even as they grow older. Anshin Support Shop The Seven & i Group launched tax-free services at certain stores within every Group company in December 2014, after the range of consumption tax-exempt items for foreign visitors was expanded to cover all items. Moreover, Seven Bank ATMs offer cash withdrawal services on overseas-issued cards, while stores also offer free in-store WiFi services Seven Spot in response to strong demand from overseas travelers. Tax-free service section Seven Bank provides an overseas remittance app available in nine languages for customers who make use of overseas remittance services. In 2016, we started concluding agreements for promoting multicultural coexistence with local governments in areas with high concentrations of foreign residents. The agreements are mainly intended to disseminate local information through the app. Information about living in these areas, disaster information, and so forth is disseminated in multiple languages through the app to residents, providing support for customers so that they can live safely and conveniently in Japan. As of May 31, 2017, we have concluded agreements with five local governments, and we plan to continue expanding this initiative. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 44 Seven Bank is making daily progress on the ATM functions and services so that all customers can use them with confidence. With the voice guidance service, which is mainly for customers with visual disabilities, users can make a transaction by following voice guidance delivered through an intercom phone installed on the ATM to operate the buttons. Customers with the cash cards of around 540 affiliated partner financial institutions* can also use this service. This voice guidance system was developed after soliciting feedback from people with visual disabilities and testing various solutions. Furthermore, ATMs in 7-Eleven stores now feature cane and drink holders to make them easy for anyone to use. * Banks, credit unions, credit cooperatives, labor banks, JA banks, JF Marine banks, and securities companies that are partners with Seven Bank. This service is not offered for insurance companies or credit card companies, even if they are a partner of Seven Bank. Voice guidance service ATM with cane / drink holder installed Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 45 The Seven & i Group handles about 3 million product items at its stores at each company, and also develops a variety of private brand products. Because of this, we place the utmost importance on ensuring the quality of our products, including their safety and reliability. We also recognize the material issue of our role as a social infrastructure that can be used with peace of mind, even in emergencies such as natural disasters. Quality Policy With the globalization of food and the occurrence in recent years of incidents and accidents that threaten food safety and security food, there is a growing interest in food safety, including the issues of controlling raw materials, food additives, and residual agrichemicals. In particular, answers to a survey by the Cabinet Office showed that about 70% of people feel uneasy about food safety and want companies to be required to further strengthen their quality control systems. In recent years, floods and landslides due to heavy rain occur frequently, driven by climate change and other factors. Also, many natural disasters such as large‒scale earthquakes continue to occur in connection with the location of the Japanese archipelago. In Japan, especially, where many people suffer due to natural disasters, social infrastructure, such as the provision of the goods and services necessary for daily life, plays an important role when a large‒scale disaster occurs. The Company is expected to ensure business continuity to provide a safe and secure base. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 46 In response to this material issue, the CSR Management Committee, led by the president, and its subordinate Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, work together with the Group companies and related departments to provide safety and reliability through products and stores. The Group is also working to ensure information security under the Group Information Management Committee. These activities are supervised by the Seven and i Holdings executive officer in charge of Corporate Communication. By tackling this priority issue, Seven & i Holdings will provide living bases that ensure people's safety and security in the event of natural disasters due to climate change, and will contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals 9 and 13. We are working to adopt international management system We proactively disclose product traceability information standards and management techniques concerning quality (distribution history) in all processes from the procurement and hygiene in order to provide safe and reliable products of raw materials to sales. to customers. More More In light of customers' increasing health consciousness, we We have set up a customer consultation desk at each are working to reduce the use of food additives and Group company to obtain opinions, requests, and other provide nutritionally well balanced food. feedback from customers and respond promptly, in order to improve products and services from the standpoint of More customers. More We are implementing information security measures based We strive to label products accurately and clearly in order on the belief that appropriately securing and managing the to provide an appropriate selection of product and service safety of information assets handled by the Seven & i options for customers, while taking care to avoid any Group is a vital responsibility. misleading labeling. More More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 47 We endeavor to reopen stores promptly and keep stores open in the event of a disaster to fulfill our mission as a We cooperate with community crime prevention efforts in lifeline for communities. order to ensure that customers can visit and shop at our stores safely and reliably. More More Leveraging our strengths as a retailer, we are proactively procuring goods from business partners in the afflicted areas and selling them to customers across Japan. More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 48 Seven & i Holdings is working to introduce international management system standards and management methods regarding quality and hygiene in order to provide safe and reliable products to customers. Seven & i Holdings is working to establish quality control systems, recognizing that a product incident at one Group company affects the entire Group. Product control officers at the development division for the Seven Premium private brand, 12 Group companies that handle food products and 11 that handle apparel and household items meet regularly to share their policies and information. These activities are designed to prevent incidents and strengthen the Group's ability to respond rapidly when incidents occur. Specifically, Group companies are working to establish the following foundation for quality control. Establishing a Foundation for Quality Control A structure with a dedicated department that can respond to incidents objectively. A structure for reporting major incidents quickly to the top management. Guidelines for judging whether to recall products or continue sales if a serious incident occurs. SEJ has adopted the (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) HACCP*1 method since 1997 as a method to manage food hygiene. In addition, for review and certification of the quality control status of dedicated plants, we check their compliance with a safety standard of approximately 140 check items based on HACCP. Based on the results of this check, high-quality plants recognized to be above a certain level are certified under our NDF-HACCP Certification System. A third party is commissioned with the inspection, and the results are inspected and certified by the Nihon Delica Foods Association (NDF)*2. Moreover, Seven-Eleven JapanSEJ is conducting audits to maintain the level of quality management even after the acquisition of certification. *1 HACCP: A process management system that analyzes hazards at each step of production, from ingredient acceptance through to product finalization, and provides continuous monitoring and recording of critically important hazard prevention processes. *2 Nihon Delica Foods Association (NDF): The NDF was formed in 1979 to improve hygiene quality management levels at deli product manufacturing facilities and to eliminate region-based quality differences. For more details about SEJ initiatives (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 49 For our private brands Fruits and Vegetables with Traceability at Ito-YokadoY, we are working to acquire the Japan Good Agricultural Practice certification, recommended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, in order to further improve the level of our quality management. JGAP sets standards that should be implemented in day-to-day agricultural management to improve safety and protect the environment. Certification has been acquired for 17 20 locations as of February 2928, 20162017, and efforts will be made for further certification going forward. For more details about Ito-Yokado initiatives (Japanese Only) At Seven & i Food Systems, the QC Office that serves as the hygiene management division has acquired the ISO 9001 international standard concerning quality management (application scope consisting of food hygiene management system standards and provision at stores). Utilizing this system, efforts are made to improve hygiene management at stores and educate employees. In hygiene management, an emphasis is put on easy-to-understand freshness management that can be implemented by anyone. A dedicated internal department conducts checks at stores, and random checks of store hygiene are also conducted by a thirdparty hygiene inspection agency (wipe inspection). For more details about Seven & i Foods Systems initiatives (Japanese Only) In response to an increase in inquiries since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Seven & i Holdings Group has received voluntaryvoluntarily conducts inspections and confirmations to complement the monitoring survey of radioactive materials that was carried out by the government and we have posted details on our website. The Radioactivity Project was established as an internal organization at YB to enable customers to shop with confidence by complementing the monitoring surveys on radioactive substances implemented by the government. We install equipment for measuring radioactive substances at key points within the area where we have established stores, and an internal organization conducts regular inspections. The inspection results are announced on the company's website. For the case of our private brand Three-Star Fruit and Vegetables, we endeavor to sell products that meet the criteria by having buyers visit production sites and conduct soil inspections and independent inspections on samples. Inspections for radioactive substance are also conducted for IY's Foods with Traceability and the results are published on the company's website. For more details about IY initiatives (Japanese Only) For results of the inspection at York-Benimaru (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 50 The Seven & i Group proactively discloses traceability of products as an initiative to emphasize the safety and reliability of its products at all stages from raw materials procurement through to sales. IY sells products under its private brand Foods with Traceability, where we achieve an accurate understanding of production sites, production methods, and distribution channels and communicate these to customers. For these products, our procurement officers check with producers at the production sites to ensure that they are using appropriate cultivation and stock-raising management. Before the products are sold, various tests are conducted, including agricultural chemical residue tests, as well as soil, feed, and water quality tests, and third-party confirmation is obtained. Furthermore, radioactive substances are also inspected under stringent standards that are stricter than the statutory standards. Customers can confirm producer and inspection-results information for Foods with Traceability products on the IY website using a PC or smartphone. As of February 28, 2017, 229 items are handled under the Foods with Traceability brand, covering all fresh foods including vegetables, fruits, meat, eggs, and fish. Also, York-Benimaru has established a section called York-Benimaru Products with Visible Production Areas on its website, providing information on the production site, characteristics, production process, producers, and other aspects of the fresh food that the company has carefully selected. Customers can input the production number displayed the product label to display its production history. As of February 29, 2016, we are handling about 30 product items under this system. For more details about IY initiatives (Japanese Only) For more details about York-Benimaru initiatives (Japanese Only) (Example of IY) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 51 SEJ uses an average of 40 different food materials (including seasonings) per daily food product item, which includes rice and side dishes. To manage these individual products and correctly grasp which production facilities produced them and which materials have been used in which regions, SEJ manages information from all its approximately 160 dedicated plants using a database system and links this to the point-of-sale data at its stores to precisely manage the production history of its products, from the production region of the materials used to the stores where the products are sold. This enables any problems that arise in connection with food materials, for example, to be addressed immediately. Further, to make absolutely sure about the products it sells, SEJ also verifies whether products contain any additives or allergens. In addition, SEJ is also able to precisely track the volume of food materials, packaging and containers used at every plant, which helps it reduce waste by limiting excess production, for instance. Moreover, the company voluntarily conducts DNA testing on rice to prevent the admixture of other varieties as well as testing for radioactive substances. For more details about SEJ's initiatives (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 52 Amid increasing public interest in health and nutrition, including the problems of obesity, diabetes, metabolic syndrome and nutritional deficiencies, Seven & i Holdings is responding to a stronger health orientation among customers by working to reduce the use of food additives and provide food products with a good balance of nutrients. Seven & i Holdings is taking steps to reduce the use of additives in food products as a step towards providing health conscious products. For example, 7-Eleven's original daily foods, numbering around 2,000 items including rice balls and boxed lunches, and IY's delicatessen items, boxed lunches, and sushi produced in-store are all free from synthetic coloring agents and preservatives. Further, since 2007 SEJ has eliminated phosphates, from approximately 30 varieties of ham and sausage products used in original sandwich products, as excessive consumption of phosphates may block the absorption of calcium. In addition, the company is continuing its own initiatives with food manufacturers to reduce trans fatty acid, which is said to increase the risk of heart disease. Based on the Guidelines on Trans Fatty Acid Labeling issued by the Consumer Affairs Agency, SEJ discloses information on its website on levels of saturated fatty acid, trans fatty acid, and cholesterol contained in its main food products. (Example) Amount per 100 g of Ajiwai Koppe (Strawberry Jam & Margarine) 2005 2007 2012 2017 1.86g 0.18g 0.15g 0.10g For more details about SEJ initiatives (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 53 Seven-Meal, SEJ's home delivery service, delivers healthy meals with a good balance of nutrients adjusted for calories and sodium content, with physicians and managing dieticians supervising menu development, nutrient content, and other aspects of the meals. The service strives to develop products with authentic, home-cooked flavor that pursue enduring tastiness without the use of preservatives or synthetic coloring agents. Average calories 560kcal Average sodium 2.7g or less Protein 20g or more Vegetables Used 100g or more *Including potatoes, mushrooms, and beans. *Uncooked weight Seven-Meal Omakase Gozen (Daily boxed lunch) Seven & i Holdings manufactures its Seven Premium private-brand products using an integrated system from raw material procurement through to product development and quality control. In development of Seven Premium products, the optimal supplier and Group product development division form a team for the product, and specialists from both sides contribute their information and expertise in a process called team merchandizing. The teams include suppliers who have nutrition and health experts or R&D centers of their own. We have established seven key points for development of Seven Premium products. One of them is health conscious, and accordingly, we are developing products that support healthy lifestyles for our customers. In April 2017, we launched the Health Project within the Seven Premium Improvement Committee, to start new initiatives. Safe and reliable Manufactured in hygienic factories using rigorously selected materials. Delicious Tastes that will appeal to everyone. Regional flavors The taste of home cannot be beaten. Cutting-edge technologies Jointly developed with manufacturers using the latest technologies. Universally designed Labels and designs that are easy to read and understand. Health conscious Calorie counts are printed on the front of the products. Reasonably priced Provided at reasonable everyday prices. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 54 List of Health Food Products Seven Premium Sonomama Nomeru Tansansui Plus 490 ml Food for specified health use containing 5 g indigestible dextrin (as dietary fiber) Seven and i Holdings strives to provide proper labeling of nutritional components for its private brand Seven Premium. In addition to displaying nutritional components* such as energy, protein, fat, carbohydrates, and salt equivalents, for certain products we also display components such as saturated fatty acids, trans fatty acid, and cholesterol. Calorie counts are printed on the front of most products to make it easier for customers to find when selecting a product. The Seven & i Group strives to provide customers with clear product labelling so that people with allergies are also able to select products with confidence. Both products purchased from suppliers and products prepared in-store are labeled for allergen content, and the labels list allergens mandated under the Food Sanitation Act as well as items that are recommended for labeling. For example, information on use of specified raw materials and equivalent items in products prepared in-store at 7-Eleven (hot snacks, oden, Chinese steamed buns) and in menu items at Denny's restaurants is provided on our website. In addition, in September 2017 we revised our menu to provide allergy information on the use of seven designated ingredients in all menu books in every time slot. Furthermore, in addition to posting information on our website, from July 2017 we have installed tablets in all stores to enable searches of allergens (specified raw materials and equivalent items), in each menu item, and these enable easily operable confirmation of detailed information when ordering. *Excluding certain items for discretionary labeling that have small surface area. Nutritional labeling for Seven Premium Seven Bread (Six slices) For more details about SEJ's initiatives (Japanese only) For more details about Denny's initiatives (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 55 IY conducts reservation sales of rice flour and soy milk cream cakes containing no specified raw materials to allow people with food allergy concerns to enjoy cake on Christmas or their birthdays with complete peace of mind. For such products, all raw materials and products are managed by lot and inspections are also conducted by external agencies. In addition, at 79 stores (as of the end of February 2017), special areas have been set up within the food products sales area for products catering to customers with food allergies. The areas are stocked with allergy-conscious product lines from seasoning and food product manufacturers. At the Denny's restaurant chain managed by Seven & i Food Systems, there is a low-allergen menu for children that does not include any of the seven specified allergens (eggs, milk, wheat, buckwheat, peanuts, shrimp, and crab), created out of consideration for children who have food allergies. When the meals are prepared at the restaurants, employees cook and arrange the food in an area separate from the regular cooking line, and the tableware is individually washed and stored to prevent secondary contamination by allergens. For more details about IY's initiatives (Japanese only) For more details about Denny's initiatives (Japanese only) Rice Flour and Soy Milk Cream Cake Low allergen menu Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 56 The Seven & i Group quickly responds to comments and requests provided by email or phone through customer consultation desks set up at each Group company in order to improve products and services from the customer's perspective. Given the need to protect privacy in connection with feedback received from customers, all personal information is deleted, and the feedback is then categorized by content and communicated to departments and stores for use in making improvements. Information on customer feedback at 7-Eleven stores can be found here (Japanese Only) Information on customer feedback at IY stores can be found here (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings holds a monthly information and liaison meeting of the Seven & i Group's customer consultation desks, which is attended by customer service desk supervisors at each Group company, in order to reduce the factors that cause customer dissatisfaction and raise satisfaction levels throughout the Group, not just at individual Group companies. Measures taken in response to comments and requests received from customers are shared on a regular basis and the information is incorporated into products and services. Annual training is also held for customer consultation desk personnel at each Group company with a view to further refining customer service skills. Customer consultation desk personnel training Seven & i Holdings collects feedback from customers who visit its stores on customer service, sales floor setup, product lineups, and other aspects of operations in order to further improve its products and services. For example, at SEJ, a questionnaire is conducted every two years of 10,000 people to ascertain the needs of customers nationwide. In addition, at IY, store surveys are contracted to external agencies certified as consumer affairs advisors to collect feedback from store customers. Based on the results of the surveys, Group companies work to develop products that incorporate the evaluations and opinions of customers. For its's Seven Premium private-brand products, the Group launched Seven Premium Enhancement Committee – a website community for product development that invites participation by customers in 2009. The website features users' evaluations of individual products and original recipes using Seven Premium products. We also use the website to call for participants in product monitor surveys. The information gathered from the website enables us to analyze the ways and scenarios in which customers use our products, and is reflected in product development. For more details about Seven Premium Life Enhancement Committee (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 57 Seven & i Holdings positions the appropriate protection and security of information assets handled by the Group as an important priority and social responsibility of its management and operations and as mandatory for all executives and employees. We strictly manage personal information received from customers in particular and take special care to prevent information leaks and other such incidents. Seven & i Holdings anticipates that points of contact with customers will further increase through our Omni-Channel Strategy. In light of this, just as with food safety, initiatives to ensure the safety and security of information assets themselves constitute the foundation that will support the strategy. Seven & i Holdings has established the Basic Policy on Information Security and Basic Policy on Protection of Personal Information to promote the appropriate protection and use of customer information (personal information) acquired through Omni-Channel initiatives and further promote safe and secure business operations, and we have obtained ISMS certification (ISO 27001) for information security management systems. Through the implementation of a PDCA cycle for our ISMS we continue to develop a high-level information security system. We have also acquired the PCIDSS certification, which is a global security standard, in our Omni-Channel system. Our goal in this is to ensure the safe handling of particularly credit card information, business partners’ information, and business partners. Information security is also regarded as an important risk, and we have established the Information Management Committee to analyze, assess and address this risk. We develop our management systems based on these activities. Specifically, we are working to strengthen our information management and security by establishing information security standards to be achieved by the Group and conducting development in accordance with the PDCA cycle method prescribed by ISMS certification at Group companies. More details about our Basic Policy on Information Security can be found here More details about our Basic Policy on Personal Information Protection can be found here Further information about bases that have acquired ISMS certification and about PCIDS certification acquisition can be found here (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 58 Seven & i Holdings conducted information security training through e-learning and group training programs for all executives and employees of the Group companies in order to raise employee awareness of information security and cyber security. The fiscal year ended February 29, 2016 training was on the theme of internal fraud, and in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 it was focused on targeted cyber attacks. We also provide educational tools for used in morning meetings and departmental meetings to encourage education within departments. All employees at hiring and retirement sign a confidentiality pledge, which also raises awareness of information security. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, there were no information security violations or other cyber security incidents. In employee training through daily operations and regular meetings, all employees are told to promptly report, communicate, and consult about any problems that occur to the person responsible for information management of the respective division, and in e-learning and group training as well, employees are trained to immediately report suspicious occurrences. Reporting lines to upper management have been established depending on the severity of the occurrence. We have also created Reporting Guidelines for Significant Events, and when a significant event occurs that could potentially impact the entire Group, there is an internal reporting line depending on the severity level for reporting to upper management at the Group company where it occurred. There is also a reporting line for reporting the incident to the Information Management & Security Department and upper management of Seven & i Holdings. In creating these two reporting lines, we strive to ensure the accuracy of information conveyed and the promptness of our response. Seven & i Holdings has established the 7&i Computer Security Incident Response Team (7&i CSIRT) to respond to external cyber attacks and minimize their impact and potential damage, particularly from a technical standpoint. The team conducts quick and appropriate containment and other measures in response to information security incidents in an organized manner. In addition, when an information security incident is judged to be a major incident by the 7&i CSIRT (based on the extent of damage, etc.), a response system has been built for mobilizing the 7&i Security Incident Response Team (7&i SIRT) and to deciding on and carry out emergency response measures, standard response measures for system recovery, and externally directed actions, in particular, such how the incident is to be disclosed. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 59 Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines stipulate that We seek to display information that is accurate, easy to understand, and truthful so that customers can make an appropriate selection of products and services. Moreover, each Group company will check the following information and strive to inform customers. Provide beneficial information to customers, taking the customer's perspective, even if the information is negative from the Company's perspective. (For example: Consumption of this produce may be hazardous for health, etc.) For information such as images and recordings distributed as commercials and advertisements, we will use appropriate expressions for the audience. We will provide information that meets or exceeds the legally mandatory level with regard to health, environment, and other sustainability aspects. The Seven & i Group verifies in advance that product and price information listed in advertising media, including newspaper inserts, pamphlets, and television commercials, is accurate and that they contain no information that might mislead customers. For example, IY requires that prior approval be obtained from its Fair Trade Committee Office when listing dual prices with the sales price and a comparison price, or discounts, in newspaper inserts and other media. Seven & i Holdings conducts regular, twice-yearly group training based on laws governing labeling such as the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Food Labeling Act for newly assigned purchasing personnel at Group companies to provide basic knowledge on improper labeling and excessive gifts or giveaways prohibited under laws and regulations. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 4,664 employees from 23 companies underwent this training. Group training on labeling Seven & i Holdings has established the Group Discretionary Guideline on Imprecise Labeling, on product labeling for the Group to prevent the use of expressions that could mislead customers. The guideline is thoroughly taught to and implemented by product development and quality control staff at each Group company. For example, the expression permanent is not used in principle as it is difficult to rationally present the permanent efficacy of a product in the future. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 60 Seven & i Holdings cooperates in local crime prevention initiatives in line with the operational characteristics of each Group company to ensure that customers can use its facilities safely and with confidence. 7-Eleven stores take advantage of the fact that they stay open 24 hours a day every day of the year to conduct Safety Station activities. These involve looking out for the safety and security of the community through such activities as providing a place for women and children to seek assistance, protecting seniors, preventing robberies and shoplifting, responding to accidents and disasters, and helping in the case of a sudden illness. 7-Eleven stores work to promote a healthier environment for young people by not selling alcohol and tobacco products to minors, for example, and SEJ also provides information to raise awareness of compliance and crime prevention at franchised stores through product exhibitions held twice a year nationwide and a bimonthly journal. Using the cash register screen to raise awareness Preventing sales of adult magazines to minors Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 61 Seven & i Holdings strives to quickly reopen its establishments and keep them in operation even during disasters as a part of its mission to serve as a community lifeline and fulfill its role as social infrastructure when disasters occur. The Seven & i Group stores strive to preserve community lifelines during disasters by working quickly to resume and continue operations, as well as providing swift regional relief during disasters along with tap water, restroom facilities, disaster information, and other necessities. For example, at SEJ during the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake that occurred in April 2016, nearly all 7Eleven stores stayed open, even when the power was out and water cut off, which was greatly appreciated by many customers. Head Office also provided support for stores in the form of product supplies and special assistance for staff members. In preparation for a wide range of situations, we work with the community to fulfill our role as important social infrastructure for daily living. In addition, Seven & i Holdings has been concluding agreements on assistance with relief provisions and support for evacuees during disasters with local governments, under which it provides material assistance in line with requests from local governments during disasters. All Group stores conduct fundraising activities to assist people affected by disasters and have launched free Wi-Fi service Seven Spot. In July 2017, three Group companies–Seven & i Holdings, SEJ, and IY–were designated as public institutions under the Basic Act on Disaster Control Measures. As daily initiatives, the stores feature disaster preparedness sections and hold disaster preparedness events and so forth in a bid to raise customers awareness of disasters. (as of June 30, 2017) (No. of Agreements) 115 70 27 8 8 5 233 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 62 Seven & i Holdings allows its free Wi-Fi service Seven Spot, located at approximately 20,000 Seven & i Group stores nationwide, to be used on a special basis during emergencies even by people who have not registered as members so that they can confirm the safety of friends and relatives and serve as a line of communication for those who are unable to return home. SEJ has also set up emergency phones that can be used free of charge (special public phones for use during disasters) at a portion of its stores within Tokyo's 23 wards. Emergency telephone Free In-Store Wi-Fi Service Seven Spot SEJ has established tsunami rescue boats at three 7-Eleven stores in Kochi, Aichi, and Shizuoka prefectures in preparation for tsunami and flooding damage caused by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. These stores are located in where the depth of flooding in the event of a Nankai Trough earthquake is expected to exceed 4.0 m, at which depth buildings are likely to collapse according to announcements by the Cabinet Office. Moreover, there are no points of refuge around the stores and they are expected to suffer considerable damage in the event of a tsunami. The tsunami rescue boats have a capacity of 25 people, and are expected to provide a place of safety for customers, 7-Eleven store staff, and others in the event of a disaster. Tsunami rescue boat Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 63 Seven & i Holdings compiles a range of information within the Group but we have also joined with business partners to develop the 7VIEW*1 system for providing, sharing, and utilizing disaster information more broadly. The system automatically combines various information sources from external organizations such as the Japan Meteorological Agency and L-Alert*2, as well as Group companies, and layers them onto a map to enable a swift and accurate grasp of disaster conditions without placing a burden on disaster areas. We are continuing to develop the system by forming links between companies, as well as with the national and local governments and public research institutions, to help reestablish supply chains as quickly as possible. 7VIEW Screen *1.Visual Information Emergency Web *2.Disaster Information Sharing System One of the important priorities of Seven & i Holdings in the area of business continuity in emergencies is maintaining fuel supply networks in the event of a major disaster. We have established a fuel depot at IY's distribution center in Saitama Prefecture that can be used by product delivery trucks to transport emergency provisions, a first for a Japanese retailer. The depot maintains a permanent supply of 400 kiloliters of fuel, and when a disaster occurs it can be used to deliver emergency provisions and products for up to ten days to evacuation centers in affected regions and elsewhere and to Group stores and establishments in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Fuel for vehicles is stored in underground tanks Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 64 The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 inflicted enormous damage on Tohoku and surrounding regions. The Seven & i Group helps to support the reconstruction by working with employee volunteers and NPOs to conduct a variety of activities, including product sales, while leveraging its position as a retailer to connect consumers with producers. The Seven & i Group has held the Tohoku Kakehashi Project in support of the reconstruction three times a year since November 2011. Our goal is to serve as a bridge connecting the people of Tohoku with people around the country in their desire to support the reconstruction with the cooperation of Fukushima, Miyagi, Iwate and other Tohoku Prefectures and various government agencies. In March 2017, there were 270 sponsor and participant companies and 2,200 items, making the project over 10 times larger than when it first started. Procuring local products from disaster-affected regions helps revitalize the agriculture and fishing industries. In addition, to keep affected regions fresh in the minds of people living outside of them, we purchase products from affected partner companies in Tohoku and the products of major food manufacturers produced in the region. We also hold sales events at approximately 400 stores in total, including IY and York-Benimaru. 1st Round From November 7, 2011 22 Companies Approx. 200 2nd Round From March 5, 2012 58 Companies Approx. 600 3rd Round From July 17, 2012 81 Companies Approx. 800 4th Round From November 19, 2012 109 Companies Approx. 1,000 5th Round From March 4, 2012 123 Companies Approx. 1,200 6th Round From July 9, 2013 160 Companies Approx. 1,300 7th Round From October 9, 2013 188 Companies Approx. 1,400 8th Round From March 4, 2014 219 Companies Approx. 1,500 9th Round From July 14, 2014 239 Companies Approx. 1,710 10th Round From October 6, 2014 247 Companies Approx. 1,800 11th Round From March 2, 2015 250 Companies Approx. 1,850 12th Round From July 14, 2015 257 Companies Approx. 1,900 13th Round From October 5, 2015 259 Companies Approx. 2,000 14th Round From March 7, 2016 267 Companies Approx. 2,200 15th Round From July 12, 2016 260 Companies Approx. 2,000 16th Round From October 17, 2016 270 Companies Approx. 2,200 17th Round From March 6, 2017 270 Companies Approx. 2,200 More details on the Tohoku Kakehashi Project can be found here (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 65 At York-Benimaru, support is provided for PEP Kids Koriyama in Fukushima Prefecture, an indoor, active playground in the city of Koriyama founded on the concept of Play, Learn and Grow, which allows children with fewer opportunities to play outside due to the nuclear accident that occurred with the Great East Japan Earthquake to actively engage in exuberant, physical play. PEP Kids Koriyama An overview of PEP Kids Koriyama (Japanese only) Sogo & Seibu is helping to the women of Iitate Village in Fukushima Prefecture living in temporary housing to achieve autonomy. The women organize Madei wo Matou sales to sell clothes and accessories they have made themselves using kimonos donated from all over Japan, and the company provides venues and assistance with selling. After the Great East Japan Earthquake, Sogo & Seibu held the events ten times in total at its six stores between March 2012 and the ladies' return to their village in March 2017. Seven & i Food Systems conducts the Let's Eat in Support of the Affected Areas Program at stores and the Head Office cafeteria, providing dishes made with ingredients from Shichigahama in Miyagi Prefecture, which was affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and conducting sales of wakame and nori seaweed products. The sorting operation for this wakame and nori is conducted by employee volunteers from Group companies. Employees sorting wakame at Shichigahama Volunteers preparing to sell Shichigama wakame in the employee cafeteria In addition, Seven & i Holdings has participated in the Seven-Eleven Foundation's Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery Project since June 2011 and continues to support recovery and reconstruction in areas that were severely affected. Seven & i Group employees also participate each year in volunteer activities. In the 10th Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery Project held in September 2016, volunteers worked in Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture, where they took part in a beach clean-up activity on Kukunaki Beach and made anchors for oyster farming rafts in the Karakuwa town. For more details about the Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery Project of the Seven-Eleven Foundation (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 66 The Seven & i Group operates around 20,000 primarily retail stores throughout Japan, and deals with numerous products. We believe that reducing the energy consumption and waste material generated by the Group's business activities will make a significant contribution toward realizing a sustainable society. At the same time, such efforts are also of great value to the Seven & i Group as they will additionally help to reduce waste, product and raw material costs, together with energy costs. We have therefore positioned elimination of waste in products, raw materials, and energy throughout the entire value chain one of our most material issues, and we are taking measures to address it. Environmental Guidelines / Environmental Rules Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration / Fundamental Polices Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming Business Partner Action Guidelines Environmental issues are a global concern. .Manifestations of climate change, such as rising sea levels, erratic weather, and damage to primary industries, pose serious threats to future generations. An Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report states that global warming is beyond doubt, and if current trends continue, the worst case is that temperatures will rise by 2°C or more by 2050, with CO2 emissions considered to be the major cause. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 67 In 2014, the global amount of food aid reached approximately 3.2 million tons. The increase in the global population and abnormal weather have given rise to food shortages with one in nine people now estimated to suffer from chronic hunger. By comparison, over 17 million tons of food is wasted every year in Japan. Of this, 6.32 million tons is food loss—food that is likely to be still edible, such as half‒eaten food or food that has passed its expiry date. In response to this material issue, the CSR Management Committee, led by the president, and its subordinate Environmental Subcommittee, work together with the Group companies and related departments to promote initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions and make effective use of limited resources through business activities. These activities are supervised by the Seven and i Holdings executive officer in charge of Corporate Communication. In addressing these material issues, Seven & i Holdings contributes to achieving goals 7, 12, and 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by reducing CO2 emissions and waste of food products and so forth. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 68 In addition to establishing a system of environmental Seven & i Holdings has set CO2 emissions reduction management, Seven & i Holdings is striving to attain a targets and is promoting energy conservation initiatives, proper grasp of its environmental impact through thirdaiming at the realization of a low-carbon society with party audits of CO2 emissions. significantly reduced CO2 emissions, which are a major More cause of global warming. More Seven & i Holdings is promoting the initiatives with the Seven & i Holdings is focusing on initiatives to reduce its important theme of reduction and recycling of food waste. own environmental impact as well as working together with More its business partners to reduce environmental impact across the entire supply chain. More Seven & i Holdings is not only working to reduce waste emissions associated with store operations, but is also Seven & i Holdings is introducing eco-friendly product working with cooperation from customers and business containers and packaging that use recycled materials or partners to reduce container and packaging materials used materials that have a low environmental impact, such as for supplying products, and to reduce and recycle biodegradable materials. container and packaging materials after customers have More used them. More Seven & i Holdings is working to raise the awareness of Group employees by providing them with environmental education and other initiatives. At the same time, it is emphasizing communication with customers, external environmental organizations and so forth. More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 69 To fully implement its initiatives to reduce its environmental impact, Seven & i Holdings is establishing a system of environmental management and striving to attain a proper grasp of its environmental impact through third-party audits of CO2 emissions. Seven & i Holdings aims to reduce its environmental impact. To this end, we are promoting acquisition of the international standard ISO 14001, and we conduct annual internal audits at the operating companies that have the certification. Sogo & Seibu became the first in the department store sector to acquire ISO 14001 certification in 1999, and has maintained it continuously at all business sites. Furthermore, SEJ acquired the certification at the end of February 2015 for its offices and directly managed stores throughout Japan. Seven & i Food Systems also acquired the certification in February 2015, and IY Foods in February 2016. The sales ratio of the operating companies that have obtained ISO 14001 certification is approximately 51% of the Group's net sales. To correctly assess and verify the initiatives taken to reduce environmental impact, Seven & i Holdings has undertaken thirdparty audits of CO2 emissions from store operations at the 11 main Group operating companies*1 every fiscal year. The sales of the 11 audited companies account for about 95% of the Group's total. The CO2 emissions associated with store operations in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 were 122,946 tons for Scope 1, and 236,539 tons for Scope 2. Moreover, in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2018, we are also receiving third-party verification of our data for the Category 1 emissions of SEJ, which accounted for about 44% (9,137,077 tons) of the Scope 3*2 emissions for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, thereby helping to improve the accuracy and reliability of the quantitative data internally and externally. *1. Eleven companies included: SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, SHELL GARDEN, Life Foods, and 7-Eleven, Inc. The data for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2012 comes from 5 companies, the data for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013 from 10 companies, including 7-Eleven, Inc. in the U.S., and the data for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 from 11 companies including Life Foods. *2. Scope 3: CO2 emissions other than those from the company, emitted from its procurement of raw materials and products, transportation, and product use, together with CO2 emissions from waste disposal processes Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 70 Third-Party Verification Report Third-Party Verification Report At each store of the Seven & i Group, in addition to the daily efforts made to conserve water, water-conserving faucets and energy-saving flushing toilets are also being introduced. Furthermore, through utilizing rainwater and so forth, we are working to reduce the volumes of water used. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 71 At Seven & i Holdings stores, devices using CFCs are replaced with ones using CFC alternatives during remodeling and so forth. Moreover, in compliance with the Act on the Protection of the Ozone Layer Through the Control of Specified Substances and Other Measures, which was implemented in April 2015, devices undergo regular inspections and leakage assessments required by the government. Devices using CFCs are disposed of by professional companies in compliance with the law, and stores receive collection certificates from these contractors as proof of appropriate disposal. Substitute CFCs include HCFC (hydro chlorofluorocarbon), production of which is to be banned in advanced countries by 2020. As this will require a changeover to another type of substitute, we also plan to further promote the introduction of non-CFC devices in freezing and refrigeration devices used at our stores. At SEJ, refrigeration devices that utilize CO2 refrigerants have been introduced at 146 stores (as of February 28, 2017), and we are trialing them at 5 IY stores. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 72 Seven & i Holdings is taking steps to reduce CO2, the main cause of global warming, and to realize a low-carbon society with dramatically reduced CO2 emissions. We have set reduction targets for CO2 emissions and are promoting energy saving initiatives. Seven & i Holdings is increasing store numbers as it expands business. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, the Group set a CO2 emission reduction target that represents a 10% reduction from the projected CO2 emissions in the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, under the same level of environmental measures set for the nine Japanese operating companies*1 in the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012※2. ※1. Included companies: SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN ※2. Calculated based on emissions coefficients for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, provided in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Details of CO2 emissions amount data can be found here About 90% of CO2 emitted by Seven & i Group companies is attributable to the use of energy for in-store lighting, store signboards, and air conditioning, which are all indispensable for the operation of its stores. Therefore, we aim to control our environmental impact increase proportionately to the increase in store numbers and size and the enhancement of products and services by installing energy reducing equipment such as LED illumination and solar panels when we open new stores or refurbish existing ones. For example, at 7-Eleven stores, we are promoting environmentally friendly store creation by converting all types of lighting to LED, including store signage, sales area lighting, and sign poles. In 2014, we introduced new specification LED lighting that can further reduce electricity usage by approximately 50%. In addition, we have made progress with installing solar panels, which are now installed at 7,809 stores (as of February 28, 2017). At IY as well, to reduce the load on the environment from store operations, LED lighting has been installed at almost all stores, and solar panels have been installed at 13 stores (as of February 28, 2017). Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 73 LED lights Solar panels 4,504 118 389 45,160 ※Totals for nine companies: SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN Some 7-Eleven stores have had smart sensors installed. A smart sensor is installed on the store’s electricity distribution board, enabling the volume of electricity used by equipment in the store to be monitored in real time. This helps to save energy by enabling staff to visualize which equipment in the store is using electricity, how much is being used, and when, so that they can identify issues with equipment use. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 74 SEJ has signed a comprehensive agreement with Iwatani Corporation regarding the installation of hydrogen stations together with convenience stores. In March 2017, the companies opened a store with a hydrogen station in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, bringing the total number of hydrogen-station stores to three with the existing stores in Ikegami, Ota-ku, Tokyo Metropolis and Kariya City, Aichi Prefecture. Looking ahead, we will install pure hydrogen fuel cells at the 7-Eleven stores with hydrogen stations and conduct a trial test on the environmental impact reduction to verify the potential for the use of fuel cells in stores. The project also aims to promote the creation of close-by, convenient stores that are closely tied to local communities, while creating sites that can serve as social infrastructure able to provide products, services, and clean energy at a single point. 7-Eleven store with hydrogen station at Ota-ku Ikegami 8-chome Seven & i Holdings and NEC Corporation have installed 2,500 chargers for electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHVs) as of February 28, 2017 in parking lots at 48 stores in Japan, including IY, Ario, and Sogo & Seibu department stores to provide a fee-based charging service.Payment for the service is made with a charging card issued by Nippon Charge Service LLC, a joint venture established by four Japanese automakers, as well as credit cards. This project is the largest scale introduction of EV and PHV chargers ever attempted in Japan. The initiative aims to increase the convenience of the commercial facilities and establish a pattern for using EVs and PHVs of charging them while shopping. It also aims to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society by promoting the spread of environmentally friendly, nextgeneration cars. Electric Vehicle Charger Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 75 Seven & i Holdings is affected by various risks related to climate change. These include regulatory risk from tighter regulations in Japan and overseas, physical risk from the occurrence of major disasters, and judgment risk, in which changes in consumer purchasing behavior due to the climate and response to weather fluctuations become the standards for evaluating companies. In particular, the impact from changes in temperature and the occurrence of major natural disasters extends beyond damage to store equipment and distribution networks, restrictions or halts to trading, and sales opportunity loss; it can also affect Group companies’ product suppliers and raw material prices. Climate change is therefore a risk factor for all aspects of operations, from product development and production to distribution, store operations, and product lineups. Seven & i Holdings therefore recognizes that quickly building and implementing a business model that can cope with weather and climate change is important for maintaining growth. Our enduring concern around weather and temperature change is reflected in our daily ordering activities and sales floor formation. In product development and lineups as well, we strive to provide products that meet customers’ needs by establishing a hypothesis based on weather changes over several months. At the same time, we will respond carefully to changes in customers’ purchasing behavior driven by abnormal weather and temperature changes driven by climate change. The Seven Farm environmental recycling‒oriented agriculture initiative of IY buys the entire quantity of harvested produce, including non‒standard items. This enables us to procure and sell vegetables steadily regardless of market trends. In this way, we are also addressing the aspect of stable product procurement. These Seven Farms are located in 12 places throughout Japan, covering approximately 200 ha in total. (As of February 28, 2017). In addition, Seven & i Holdings is establishing systems to prepare for disasters associated with sudden weather phenomena, such as the numerous incidents of heavy rain and landslides that have occurred recently in Japan. For example, we have distributed booklets to regular employees summarizing how to respond in an emergency, and we have also been holding regular simulation drills using teleconferencing systems and so forth. Furthermore, Seven & i Holdings is constructing 7VIEW (Seven Visual Information Emergency Web), a system that enables provision, sharing, and joint use of disaster information. The system gathers together information from within the Group and through cooperation with business partners. Measures to mitigate climate change include various initiatives related to reducing our environmental impact, such as energy conservation and use of renewable energy at stores, along with forest maintenance and related activities throughout Japan. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 76 Seven & i Holdings is focusing on reducing its own environmental impact as well as working together with its business partners to reduce environmental impact across the entire supply chain. For example, we are promoting various initiatives such as working together with original product manufacturing plants and delivery service providers and others to save energy at factories and introduce eco-friendly vehicles. Seven & i Holdings is working to reduce CO2 emissions and evaluate its environmental impact at every stage from the supply chain through to sales and consumption, as stated in its Fundamental Policies Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming. To this end, we have calculated the CO2 emissions ( Scope 3 ) throughout the entire supply chain following the Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Ver. 2.1. of the Ministry of the Environment. For the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 we calculated emissions for 10 major Group companies*2. The results showed that Scope 3 emissions accounted for almost 90% of the Group's overall emissions, and of these, around 80% originated in the raw materials procurement process. We will analyze this calculation result and use it to achieve further reductions of CO2 emissions across the entire supply chain. ※1. Scope 3 : CO2 emissions other than those from the company, emitted from its procurement of raw materials and products, transportation, and product use, together with CO2 emissions from waste disposal processes ※2. SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Seven Bank, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN Scope 1 0.5％ Scope 2 11.3％ Scope 3 Categories 1-15 (total) 88.2％ 100.0% Category 1 (Purchased goods and services) 85.1% Category 2 (Capital goods) 3.5% Category 3 (Fuel-and-energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2) 1.0% Category 4 (Upstream transportation and distribution) 1.6% Category 5 (Waste generated in operations) 0.4% Category 6 (Business travel) 0.1% Category 7 (Employee commuting) 0.2% Category 8 (Upstream leased assets) 0.01% Category 9 (Downstream transportation and distribution) 0.2% Category 10 (Processing of sold products) Category 11 (Use of sold products) 0.5% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 77 Category 12 (End of life treatment of sold products) 6.2% Category 13 (Downstream leased assets) 1.3% Category 14 (Franchises) Category 15 (Investments) Total of Scopes 1, 2 and 3 100.0% At SEJ, Operation Field Consultants, who support franchised store management, use leased vehicles to visit franchised stores. Since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, we have been phasing in hybrid vehicles for these leased vehicles. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, we plan to replace about 1,200 of our leased vehicles with hybrid models, with an anticipated CO2 emission saving of around 1,680 tons. Seven & i Holdings is asking its partners who deliver products to stores to cooperate with efforts to introduce eco-friendly vehicles, improve fuel efficiency, and reduce store delivery frequencies. Furthermore, progress is also being made in fitting trucks with drive-data terminals that record driving status. Data collected from the terminals is used to provide driver instruction and eco-driving seminars. We are replacing delivery vehicles with hybrid trucks at SEJ. These are capable of recuperating energy generated during deceleration and then using it as secondary power to drive motors when pulling away and accelerating. Through this technology, we hope to realize fuel-efficiency improvements and reduced CO2 emissions, etc. There are 5,703 delivery vehicles in the fleet, as of May 31, 2017, and hybrid trucks account for 760 of these. We plan to replace 20% of the total fleet with eco-friendly trucks by 2020. Hybrid Trucks Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 78 SEJ is promoting the introduction of eco-friendly tires with low rolling resistance for delivery vehicles. As of May 31, 2017, we have installed eco-friendly tires on 5,652 delivery vehicles, representing approximately 99% of the total fleet. Moreover, SEJ has also introduced retread tires to 9,449 vehicles*1., as of May 31, 2017. These tires are made from tires that have finished their service life by removing a certain amount of the rubber surface that contacts the road and applying new rubber and tread. In this way, they can be re-used as rear tires for delivery vehicles. SEJ will promote the use of retread tires to contribute to resource conservation and waste reduction by reusing them. *1. Tires may be removed and refitted several times for each vehicle, so the number is the total number of vehicles. Retread tyres SEJ is promoting efforts to reduce wasted power usage at its distribution centers by introducing demand controllers that monitor the electricity usage of each unit of equipment and apply controls to the equipment in use to ensure that the usage does not exceed a certain range. As of May 31, 2017, the controllers have been introduced at 71 of SEJ's 151 distribution centers. SEJ has its original daily products manufactured by several contract manufacturers. These manufacturers have organized the Nihon Delica Foods Association, which reports on the CO2 emissions, waste emissions, and the food recycle rate associated with plant operations. We work to ascertain environmental information shared by our contract manufacturers and hold study seminars in conjunction with the Environment Countermeasures Committee of the Nihon Delica Foods Association, where we share environmental measures such as energy-saving with each manufacturer in an effort to reduce energy use at their plants. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 79 To ensure that it meets its social responsibilities on matters such as human rights, labor issues and the environment, Seven & i Holdings formulated the Business Partner Action Guidelines and asks business partners to understand and implement them. The guidelines cover compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as consideration for climate change, biodiversity, and sustainable procurement. Since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013, we have had CSR audits conducted by third-party inspections organizations at the manufacturing plants of our private brand suppliers in developing countries. The CSR audits include inspections of environmental aspects, such as compliance with environmental laws and regulations, management of effluent and chemical substances, and promotion of energy-saving and environmental protection activities. Further details about the Business Partner Action Guidelines can be found here Further details about CSR audits of business partners can be found here Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 80 At Seven & i Holdings, food products account for a large portion of net sales. With this in mind, we have been advancing measures based on the key themes of reducing food waste and promoting recycling. Our priorities for reducing food waste are to curtail the generation of waste, promote the reuse of waste, convert waste into feed and fertilizer and recover heat. The Seven & i Group is currently conducting initiatives centered on converting waste into feed and fertilizer. For example, IY has been engaged in “recycling-oriented agriculture” since 2008. Under this system, food residue generated by IY stores is composted and used by Seven Farms to grow vegetables. These vegetables are then sold at IY stores. Looking ahead, we will continue to establish these recycling systems in each region, with a view to enhancing the recycling rate. We are also taking steps to curtail the generation of waste, including innovating sales methods and developing products with longer-lasting freshness. Looking ahead, we will continue to advance innovative initiatives to prevent the generation of food waste, such as by developing new products and services. Another crucial priority is to promote the reuse of waste. We will strengthen our hand in this area by considering the use of food banks and other measures. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 81 In order to reduce food waste, the Seven & i Group has been innovating its sales methods, products and other aspects of business in various ways. For example, IY has introduced sales methods such as selling individual loose items and selling by weight, enabling customers to purchase products only in the amounts they need. In addition, SEJ has developed chilled boxed lunches that have longer expiry dates than conventional products, without compromising taste or quality. This has been achieved by revising ingredients, manufacturing processes, and temperature control methods. SEJ is also working to reduce food waste by developing products with longer-lasting freshness in the categories of bread and sozai prepared dishes. In other areas, Seven & i Food Systems has been implementing measures to reduce food leftovers at Denny’s restaurants, such as providing menus offering dishes with smaller servings that can be finished comfortably without leftovers, supplying take-home boxes for any leftovers, and holding a campaign in collaboration with municipalities to encourage people to enjoy eating everything on their plate. At IY, a biodegradable garbage processor system that breaks down garbage using microorganisms was introduced in October of 2011 and has been installed in 24 stores as of the end of February 2017. Through the power of microorganisms, the devices break down into water and CO2 garbage that is ill‒suited to recycling (such as highly fibrous substances, etc.). This process results in reduced CO2 emissions compared to incineration processing, and it offers an effective reduction of waste volumes. Garbage processor SEJ has been promoting Eco Distribution*1 since 1994 as a system for appropriate processing and recycling of waste. Under this system, we work to recycle food products that have passed their sell-by dates into feed and fertilizer. The system is operating in 27 prefectures in Japan. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, the combined recycling rate for products that had passed their sell-by dates and discarded food oil was 53.4%. Certain 7-Eleven stores in Tokyo and Saitama Prefecture have established routes within their supply chains for recycling products with expired sell-by dates discarded from stores into recyclable resources. The expired products are collected from the stores and converted into fried meal, which is used to manufacture formulated feed*2. The formulated feed is fed to chickens at designated poultry farms and the eggs produced are used as a raw material in boxed lunches. *1 Eco Distribution: 7-Eleven's original waste recycling system. A recommended waste disposal provider for franchisees in each region collects all of the waste from 7-Eleven stores for appropriate processing and recycling. *2 The products with expired sell-by dates that are used to manufacture formulated feed are recognized as safe raw materials in Japan because they have been licensed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for use as feed. The feed manufacturers manufacture and sell feed that complies with the BSE Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 82 More details on 7-Eleven initiatives can be found here (Japanese only) In August 2008, with the aim of enhancing the recycling rate and revitalizing local agriculture, IY established Seven Farm Tomisato as an agricultural production corporation in Tomisato City, Chiba Prefecture, thereby becoming the first player in the retail sector to engage in recycling-oriented agriculture. Recycling-oriented agriculture is a system for composting food residues (garbage) generated by IY stores and using it at Seven Farms. The produce that is grown at the farms is then harvested and sold at the stores from which the food residues were generated. In January 2017, the 12th agricultural production corporation Seven Farm in Japan, was established in Ota City, Gunma Prefecture. Seven Farm More details on Seven Farm can be found here (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 83 Depletion of resources such as oil has become an issue. Seven & i Holdings is working to reduce waste emissions associated with store operations, as well as working with customers and business partners to reduce container and packaging materials used for supplying products and to recycle them after they are used by customers. IY is working to curtail the generation of waste and to promote reuse and recycling with a view to reducing waste emissions. For example, in product deliveries, we recommend the use of reusable containers and the use of hangers for delivery of apparel as a way of cutting down on the use of packaging and cardboard. At stores, we promote understanding of recycling, and store employees are encouraged to rigorously sort waste for recycling purposes. Reusable containers for store deliveries When 7-Eleven stores are to be rebuilt or closed, rather than disposing of the product shelving, fixtures, chiller cases, and lights, they are reused at other stores. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 49,409 items of store equipment were recovered and reused. Furthermore, reusable steel frames and recyclable sashes are used in construction of stores to reduce the amount of waste produced during store demolition. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 84 At IY, YB, and York Mart, we have devised sales methods for fresh food and delicatessen items that reduce the use of containers and packaging, such as selling by weight or selling individual loose items. In our delicatessen sales areas, we are increasingly using paper bags rather than plastic containers for selling items such as croquettes and fried chicken. In other areas, some fresh meat sales areas have adopted the method of packing meat for sale in plastic bags without a polystyrene tray. The Seven & i Group promotes the reduced use of disposable plastic bags by asking customers whether they need a bag at the register, displaying posters and POP signs, and holding events to encourage customers to bring their own shopping bags when shopping at stores. Moreover, IY has discontinued the free distribution of plastic bags on the food floors of all its stores and YB has followed suit at around 90% of its stores. SEJ is working to introduce biomass polyethylene shopping bags. The Seven & i Group is promoting an important initiative to recover and recycle empty containers and other materials from its products. Every Group company cooperates with customers and local governments to recover resources such as bottles, cans, polystyrene, milk cartons, and PET bottles at stores in accordance with local waste disposal sorting rules. Recently, some stores of the Group have also been cooperating with local governments to recover small electrical appliances, which have been drawing attention as urban mines. For example, IY's Kasai Store hosted the event Creating Products from an Urban Mine – Medal Project for Everyone held by the Ministry of the Environment in February 2017. Currently, 10 stores have a permanent recycling box for small home appliances (as of February 2017), and are working to increase awareness among local residents and to collect materials. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 85 IY, YB, and York Mart have had automatic PET bottle collection machines installed at stores since 2012. Because PET bottles inserted into the machines undergo an automatic process of foreign-matter removal and volume-reduction (by either compression or crushing), large volumes of bottles for recycling can be sent to recycling plants on each occasion, which reduces the delivery frequency from stores. Moreover, by utilizing Seven & i Holdings logistics routes, more efficient transportation is possible and the volume of CO2emissions resulting from the operations can be reduced. Some of the collected PET bottles are made into new PET bottles for the domestic market. This closed-loop recycling system of recycling PET bottles into new PET bottles is the first attempt by a major retail chain in Japan to be implemented on such a large scale. As of the end of February 2017, collection machines have been installed in 364 stores across the three companies, and approximately 5,952 tons of PET bottles have been collected. We are promoting an initiative to recycle material from PET bottles recovered at stores and use it in packaging for Seven Premium private brand products. Moreover, we have printed a note explaining the process from recovery to recycling on the product packaging. In December 2015, a 7-Eleven store in Koto-ku, Tokyo, became the first convenience store to install an automatic PET bottle collection machine as part of a trial demonstration by the Ministry of the Environment. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 86 Seven & i Holdings is introducing packaging made using materials that have a low environmental impact and recycled materials. With its private brand Seven Premium, the Group seeks to promote the values of taste, quality, and safety and reliability, while at the same time developing products that are environmentally-friendly. So far, the Group has used environmentally considerate packaging such as recycled PET or forest thinning materials in 150 Seven Premium products. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, the Group aims to introduce eco-friendly packaging for 740 products, mainly through the use of plantbased ink, expanding the initiative to all products by the end of the fiscal year ending February 29, 2020. In July 2015, we changed the paper cartons used for Seven Premium alcohol products from the previous aluminum carton material to a non-aluminum carton material. This change enables the cartons to be recycled as paper. Moreover, the volume of CO2 emissions per carton from the raw material procurement and manufacturing process is around 12% lower compared with the aluminum cartons. Furthermore, the CO2reduction effect from this initiative is projected to be 170 tons per year, the equivalent of the CO2 absorbed by approximately 12,000 cedar trees. The identification mark also changed from the Paper Mark to the Paper Carton Mark Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 87 In April 2016, SEJ introduced rice ink for printing the packaging of rice balls sold at its stores. Rice ink is made from rice bran oil, a non-edible part of the plant extracted from rice bran. This ink reduces the company's annual CO2 emissions by around 60 tons compared with conventional oil‒based inks and is therefore expected to help reduce environmental impact. Moreover, the packaging is also contributing to our efforts to promote local production for local consumption by using domestically produced rice bran oil, which is one of the raw materials. In December 2016, SEJ changed to plant-based packaging film and ink for its original bakery products. Compared with the previous oil-based packaging, this is expected to reduce the company's annual CO2 emissions by approximately 108 tons. The Group also started using plant-based ink for all of its Seven Premium brand bakery products in May 2017 and plans to use the ink more extensively going forward. The resin in this ink has been changed from an oil-based to a vegetablebased resin derived from rice bran, which comprises around 50% of the ink coating film. Rice ink is made from the rice bran produced at a rice mill when polishing rice, which is the main raw material for SEJ's products. Certain Seven Premium cup soups and yoghurt drinks have containers made with Seven Forest thinning materials. Japan has a large number of unmaintained man-made forests that have been left unattended. With many such forests currently not fulfilling their potential as carbon sinks, use of forest thinning materials can contribute to the creation of healthy forests and prevention of global warming. Forest thinning materials are also being phased in for use in the outer sleeve section of the hot cups used for SEVEN CAFÉ, which is sold mainly at 7-Eleven stores throughout Japan. Products that use forest thinning materials A SEVEN CAFÉ cup and the Forest Thinning Material Mark See here for further information about Seven Forest (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 88 IY is introducing recycled trays manufactured by suppliers that have received Eco Mark certification. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, approximately 800 types of recycled tray were introduced (an increase of 5% year on year by weight). The introduction of recycled trays reduced annual CO2 emissions by approximately 3,082 tons. Moreover, in packaging for lifestyle household goods such as Seven Premium Refillable Body Soap, the Group has adopted recycled materials such as PET bottles, some of which are recovered at Group stores. Recycled tray Packaging made from recycled PET bottle material In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, SEJ replaced the original Salad Cup Container sold in the chilled cases of its stores with containers that use environmental PET made from recycled or biomass PET rather than oil-based PET. The CO2 emission reduction resulting from the change for that fiscal year was 1,790 tons. IY will also use bioplastics that make partial use of plantbased oil materials for the containers in its cut fruit and boxed lunches. Example of Salad Cup Container using environmentally-friendly PET The Seven & i Group private brand Seven Premium Select Fresh Eggs package label includes CO2-adsorbing material. By using this CO2 adsorbent, consisting of nanovesicle capsules that capture the carbon emitted during combustion as ash, CO2 emissions can be reduced by around 20% compared with ordinary labels. Example of product labels using CO2 absorbing agents Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 89 Seven & i Holdings is working to raise the awareness of Group employees by providing them with environmental education and other initiatives. At the same time, it is emphasizing communication with customers, external environmental organizations and so forth. Seven & i Holdings regularly holds training for new recruits and newly appointed corporate officers in line with the characteristics of each Group company. The aim is to instill basic knowledge and facilitate their understanding of environmental matters. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, the Group has held e-learning for all Group employees, timed to coincide with Environment Month (June). Since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, the Group has been encouraging employees to pass the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) as a training tool for systematically acquiring a broad knowledge about increasingly diverse environmental problems. Each company supports test takers by subsidizing test fees, holding study sessions, and so forth. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 1,255 people took the test, with 983 of them passing (2,364 cumulative test passers since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015). The Group is continuing to promote environmental education, aiming to achieve 12,000 test passers Groupwide by 2020. Seven & i Holdings holds environmental events both within and outside the Company to provide opportunities to raise the environmental awareness of employees. For example, Group employees and 7-Eleven franchisees regularly participate in volunteer activities organized by the Seven-Eleven Foundation. Major activities include events such as forest care operations ranging from tree planting to tree thinning and undergrowth cutting at Seven Forests in 17 locations throughout Japan; marine afforestation initiatives to increase eelgrass, which purifies water and reduces CO2 in Tokyo Bay, thereby enriching the bay's marine environment; and cleanup activities on Mt. Fuji. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, a total of 1,571 people took part in such events, comprising both Group employees and personnel from SEJ franchised stores. Furthermore, in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Seven & i Holdings held environmental study sessions using the Takao Forest and Nature School. York Mart teamed up with its labor union to hold a study tour on the environment for employees and their families. For more details about Seven Forest (Japanese Only) For more details about the Tokyo Bay UMI Project (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 90 Seven & i Holdings continues to make donations to various environmental organizations such as the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund, which promotes wider awareness of biodiversity and supports the nature protection projects of environmental and wildlife preservation group WWF Japan and various NGOs in and outside of Japan. In addition, SEJ has been conducting environmentally themed social contribution activities together with franchised stores through the Seven-Eleven Foundation since 1993. Based on contributions*1from customers collected through collection boxes placed at the counters of 7-Eleven stores, along with donations from SEJ and other funds, the Seven-Eleven Foundation engages in environmental citizenship activity support projects, natural environment protection and conservation projects, publicity projects, and disaster recovery assistance projects. One of the major pillars of the environmental citizenship activities*2 is the funding of NPOs conducting regional environmental activities. The foundation has been calling for applications from NPOs each year since 2001, with the goal of seeing regional donations used to support regional environmental activities. Over the past 15 years in total, the foundation has provided approximately \1,857.34 million in funding for 2,947 activities. The Seven-Eleven Foundation operates the Kusu Furusato Nature School located in Kokonoe Town, Kusu District, Oita Prefecture and the Takao Forest Nature School in Hachioji City, Tokyo based on the principle of Learning from nature: how to promote coexistence and mutually beneficial relationships between people and nature and the natural environment and local communities. The Kujuu Furusato Nature School is engaged in projects to protect and preserve the nature of Kujuu and to create towns where the crested ibis can also live. The school's efforts to promote creation of rice fields that coexist with nature and where living things can thrive has been designated as a project in coordination with the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade of Biodiversity. The Takao Forest Nature School is a collaborative project with the Tokyo metropolitan government, operating in a forest of approximately 26.5 ha owned by Tokyo Metropolis. The school's programs include bird watching, volunteer experiences in the forest, flora observation, and craft work. *1. Storefront donations collected in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 amounted to \441,234,051. The total amount of storefront donations collected since the fiscal year ended February 28, 1995 is \6,617,039,244 *2. Assistance for environmental NPOs through public support in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 (including recipients of ongoing support): 304 support projects; \182,454,549 provided in total Collection box placed on counters in stores Kujuu Furusato Nature School We receive and respond to opinions and requests relating to the environment from customers and civic groups at the customer service offices at each Group company and at the CSR Department of Seven & i Holdings. In 2014, when we identified the material issues that Seven & i Holdings should address, we incorporated the opinions of stakeholders including customers, business partners, shareholders and other investors, as well as those of CSR experts. For more details about the selection process for material issues Seven & i Holdings makes policy recommendations during the drafting of laws and operational rules by participating as necessary in meetings organized by government organizations, central government ministries and agencies, and industry groups, as well as in other forums. For example, in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Seven & i Holdings participated in the Small Electric Appliances Investigation Committee hosted by the Ministry of the Environment. We provided opinions on initiatives for promoting awareness of small electric appliance recycling from a retail business perspective. In conjunction, Group company IY held an awarenessraising event and small electric appliance collection drive for head office employees, among other initiatives. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 91 The Seven & i Group has close to 140,000 employees working throughout the Group. Workplaces also include part-time employees, foreign nationals, and employees working short hours due to childcare and family care responsibilities. With this diverse workforce, we recognize that we have a duty as a corporation to support diverse working formats. We support the careers of our diverse employees and strive to create appealing workplaces that make work worthwhile. This enables us to steadily acquire diverse human resources, and also drives us to incorporate completely new ways of thinking and generate new value. It is therefore a source of competitiveness. Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines In Japan, the birth rate is in decline, and the population is advancing in age, leading the productive-aged population to decline. Over the next 30 years or so, the productive-aged population is projected to decline by over 20 million. For this reason, raising productivity by bolstering employee capacities and developing diverse personnel will help vitalize Japan's economy and society. With the productive-aged population in decline, it is essential to promote active participation by women. However, many women are denied the opportunity to work, for example, because it is not possible to balance work with childcare, or because they have been unable to return to work after childcare. Furthermore, the ratio of women in management in Japan is relatively low by international standards at 12.5% (2015). Creating workplaces where women can play an active role is therefore an important task. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 92 In response to this material issue, the CSR Management Committee, led by the president, and its subordinate Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, work together with the Group companies and related divisions to create environments that allow individual employees to perform to their full potential and promote the development of appealing, fulfilling workplaces. These activities are supervised by the Seven and i Holdings executive officer in charge of Corporate Communication. Though its engagement in this material issue, Seven & i Holdings provides pleasant working conditions for people inside and outside the company regardless of gender or age, thereby contributing to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 4, 5, 8 and 10. We aim to enhance our corporate competitiveness through We have a range of human resource systems in place to active participation of diverse human resources with the help employees to work more easily. We are also working goal of becoming a company with a sustainable competitive to correct long working hours and encourage employees to advantage. take leave. More More We are helping to improve the skills and abilities of every employee by having each Group company develop training We are operating various assessment systems for systems tailored to the business characteristics of each employees to maximize their individual abilities and ensure company and work to develop its human resources. fair assessments free of unreasonable discrimination. More More We are taking a range of measures to maintain safe and We conduct an anonymous employee survey every two comfortable workplaces and promote better health among years in order to gauge employees' workplace satisfaction employees. and their awareness of compliance. More More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 93 We recognize various rights of workers based on We offer various types of assistance related to childcare international norms, such as the right of workers to through our stores and establishments. organize, as we strive to enhance the workplace More environment through dialogue with employees. More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 94 Seven & i Holdings has positioned supporting active roles for women, youth, and seniors as a material issue, and aims to enhance its corporate competitiveness through active participation of diverse human resources, with the goal of becoming a company with a sustainable competitive advantage. Seven & i Holdings established the Diversity Promotion Project in 2012 and has promoted initiatives with a focus particularly on women's participation and advancement, based in part on the thinking that incorporating the perspectives and sensibilities of women into product and service development and sales floor arrangements translates into higher customer satisfaction given that a majority of customers that visit the Group's stores and other establishments are women. As the next steps in the initiative, in 2012 we created a promotion system and in 2013 conducted measures for awareness-raising among women themselves and revised operation of the system. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, we moved to the stage of raising the awareness of management-level employees. In addition, since the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, we have promoted initiatives to support the balancing of work and family care responsibilities, and we will take further measures to achieve our targets for diversity promotion by 2020. At the same time, we have also reviewed working formats for greater productivity, focusing on rectifying long working hours, which have been a barrier to the further advancement of diverse personnel, and on achieving employee work-life balance. By promoting initiatives in line with the business formats at each Group company, including organizing work process improvement teams to raise the efficiency of store operations, visually representing overtime work and leave days used, and establishing noovertime days, we have successfully corrected overtime work and increased the rate of leave taken. Our next step will be to aim for even greater productivity gains while promoting initiatives to enable flexible work styles that allow diverse human resources to play active roles. By 2020 Raise percentage of female managers: 30% Encourage male employees to participate in childcare Eliminate retirements resulting from need to provide family care Improve employee satisfaction Improve external evaluation Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 95 Seven & i Holdings is working to promote active roles for women by conducting community activities and seminars targeting various levels within the Group. Internal interviews conducted in 2012 revealed concern among many female employees about balancing work and childcare responsibilities. In response, in 2012, we started holding Mama's Community meetings to build a network of women involved in raising children. The group uses lunch breaks to hold discussions on balancing work and child-raising. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, a career planning sheet was created and community participants conducted self-analysis of their own strengths and weaknesses and the skills they have acquired and created their own career plans based on life plans, which served to foster greater career awareness. Since April 2017, Mama’s Community has been developed further to host a “Child-Raising Community.” Both male and female employees involved in raising children, as well as pregnant employees, their spouses, and others, share information and hold discussions on balancing work and child-raising. Their activities have led to a review of work styles. Child-Raising Community Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 96 Women's participation and advancement requires that men become more involved in housework and childcare. For this reason, the Ikumen Promotion Program was established in October 2013. It brings in outside lecturers from organizations such as the NPO Fathering Japan, reaffirms the necessity of participation by men in housework and childcare, supports awareness-change among men, and promotes review and revision of existing work formats. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Group company directors, general managers, section leaders, and other responsible male employees held a panel discussion comparing fathers from the mid-20th century with fathers from the late 20th century through to current times, and the fathers of the future. Ikumen Promotion Program The Women's Management Community meetings have been held since October 2012 to create a network of female managers and further refine managerial abilities. The community held a total of 19 seminars through to the end of February 29, 2016 and invited speakers from inside and outside the Company and held seminars on management knowledge and skills needed to advance to a higher position. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, the Company started holding new “Nadeshiko Academy” for developing future managers. Women's Management Community Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 97 The Diversity Management Seminars have been held since June 2014 to change the awareness of managers. The seminars have been held 12 times as of February 2017, and approximately 4,000 people from all Group companies have participated. Led by outside lecturers, the seminars cover such issues as management of diverse staff members, reforming work formats, and leadership. They provide the opportunity for managers to think about diversity from a number of different perspectives. In June 2017, to mark the fifth year since the launch of the Diversity Promotion Project, lecturers were invited from leading companies to “Seven & i Diversity Day 2017.” The event was attended by around 400 CEOs and management team members from every Group company. The Diversity Management Handbook is also distributed to managers at all Group companies to promote communication with staff members working to balance work and childcare or family care responsibilities in order to further train managers to make good use of their diverse personnel to generate results. A Diversity Management Seminar We are working to promote highly capable women and further bolster personnel training to meet the goal of a 30% ratio of female managers by 2020, one of our targets for diversity promotion. As a result of this initiative, female manager ratios, which were 21.3% for team leaders and 14.2% for section managers at the end of February 2012 before the project started, have risen to 30.2% for team leaders and 23.0% for section managers as of the end of February 2017. There has also been progress in changing awareness among female employees and managers in general, and there are now actually numerous managers in the short working hours program. At present, we are working to further train and promote women by holding selective training for managerial roles and management track candidates at Group companies and encouraging them to share career plans with supervisors during individual meetings. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 98 Seven & i Holdings has established specific targets for promoting the active role of women, and the entire Group has worked together to make progress on them. The Group's initiatives and proactive appointment of female managers were recognized in January 2015, when we were awarded the Prime Minister's Award at the Leading Companies Where Women Shine Awards, as well as the Corporate Activity Award from Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. In 2017, we were chosen as a “2017 Nadeshiko Brand” by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. Moreover, we placed No. 2 overall in 2015 and 2016 and No. 3 overall in 2017 in the 100 Best Companies Where Women Play Active Parts, sponsored by Nikkei WOMAN magazine and the Nikkei Womanomics Project. 2017 Nadeshiko Brand Ceremony for the Leading Companies Where Women Shine Awards (January 2015) Since September 2012, Seven & i Holdings has held quarterly diversity promotion liaison meetings with diversity managers at the Group's eight core operating companies (including Seven & i Holdings) to rapidly develop horizontally initiatives proposed for the Diversity Promotion Project at the operating companies. Participation was expanded in 2015 to 12 companies and through the meetings Group synergies continue to be generated. In addition, dedicated diversity teams have been launched at each Group company since September 2013. To achieve the Group's targets, individual targets have now also been set in line with operating company characteristics and initiatives are under way. For example, at SEJ, the training and hiring of women in the sales division has been identified as an issue, and the company is reviewing its hiring practices, improving working conditions, and promoting systematic hiring of women. In addition, IY has identified as an issue the promotion of women to managerial positions and has been working to train female managerial candidates, raise the awareness of managers by holding lectures on diversity management at store manager meetings, for example, and promote greater participation by men in childcare. Sogo & Seibu are having women actively participate in management training for further development and promotion. York Mart is taking steps to improve individual skill and motivation by conducting orientation for employees who have returned to work from childcare leave and exchanging opinions on common issues related to balancing work and family life. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 99 Seven & i Holdings acquired third rank – the highest – in the “L-Boshi” Designation for gender-advanced companies based on the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. We achieved the designation standard in all five evaluation categories: recruitment, career continuation, work style factors such as working hours, management ratio, and diversity of career paths. Similarly, IY, Seven Bank, Seven Card Services, Nissen, and Nissen Life have also obtained third rank, and Seven & i Food Systems has obtained second rank. (As of June 30, 2017) Third rank Second rank “L-boshi” certification mark Seven & i Holdings is assisting people with disabilities to demonstrate their abilities at their workplaces based on its commitment to providing an environment where everyone can play an active role. To this end, all operating companies consult with employees with disabilities to determine the workplaces, jobs and working hours that are suitable in consideration of the level and details of their disability and their own preferences. In this way, people with disabilities work in various divisions. In recruitment, we coordinate with special-needs schools to provide onsite training in stores and participate in job interviews organized by local employment agencies and partner with vocational schools. Furthermore, all Group companies are provided with the Seven & i Holdings Normalization Support Guide, which contains basic knowledge and practical recruitment methods when employing people with disabilities, to ensure that all people who are responsible for recruitment and education at Group companies are aware of considerations regarding disabilities and that they implement them. Furthermore, Terube, Ltd.*1, which is a special subsidiary established to foster the employment of people with severe disabilities, employs 20 people with disabilities as of June 1, 2017. As a result, the Group's employment rate of people with disabilities*2, including those employed by Terube, came to 2.51%. (As of June 1, 2017) *1 Established in 1994 through joint investments from Seven & i Holdings, SEJ, IY, YB, Seven & i Food Systems, and the City of Kitami in Hokkaido Prefecture. The company offers secure, long-term employment for people with disabilities and carries out activities to raise awareness about the concept of normalization. *2 The Group's employment rate of people with disabilities covers the five companies of Seven & i Holdings, Terube, SEJ, IY, and Seven & i Food Systems. Special subsidiary, Terube Ltd. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 100 Seven & i Group companies have a system for rehiring employees after mandatory retirement, providing an opportunity for veteran employees to use their skills and abilities. At IY, for example, a re-employment system that allows people to continue working until age 65 was introduced in 1995 in response to employees who said they wanted to continue working after the mandatory retirement age. Employees can select from three options of working days and hours to suit their wishes, enabling them to work in diverse ways. From April 2006, the Senior Partner System was implemented to allow part-time employees to work until age 65 as well. As of February 2017, 6,095 senior partners are active in the company. The system was also expanded in 2017 to enable people to continue working up to the age of 70. With the birthrate declining, society aging, and the working-age population decreasing, SEJ is creating employment opportunities for seniors who want to work. The company actively participates in joint company presentations on senior employment held by municipalities and promotes the hiring of seniors. For people concerned about working at a convenience store, SEJ strives to provide detailed information and maintain conditions that are conducive to working with confidence. The company also provides training for seniors and non-Japanese people to give them support. Joint company presentation Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 101 Seven & i Holdings is promoting the concept of work-life synergy, which aims to create synergies by utilizing the perspective of a consumer in work while simultaneously leveraging the lessons of work in life. We have a range of assistance systems that exceed minimum legal requirements to enable diverse employees work with peace of mind. To make it even easier for employees to work, we are also taking steps to correct long working hours and encourage the use of paid leave. Since November 2014, the Seven & i Group has implemented various systems that go beyond legal minimums to enable employees, including part timers, to continue working with peace of mind while engaging in childcare or nursing care. For example, at Ito-Yokado, which has some 40,000 employees, the most among the Group's operating companies, there is a childbirth and childcare program and a family care program that can be utilized by employees, both men and women, who have worked at the company for a least a year; the programs are also available to part-time employees. The programs may be freely selected for use by individual employees, and combining a leave program with a reduced work hours plan is also possible. Reduced Employees can work reduced hours until April 15 Employees can work reduced hours for up to three years work hours of the year their child starts junior school. following the initial reason. *Can be combined with other leave programs. *Can be combined with other leave programs, but any leave taken is included in the three-year limit. Work until Full-time employees can end their workday at None 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. until April 15 of the year their child starts junior high school Leave Employees can return to work after taking leave Employees can take up to a one year of leave following for up to two years. the initial reason. The leave can also be split up and taken *Up to three years depending on the circumstances at different times. (Can be combined with short working hours). *Can be combined with short working hours. ReEmployees resigning to focus on childcare are Employees resigning to focus on family care are given employment given priority in hiring for three years. priority in hiring for three years. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 102 Seven-Eleven Japan began the Spot Day Care initiative in October 2016 to support the careers of employees with small children. Seven-Eleven Japan, the franchise chain headquarters, is responsible for providing support for franchised stores, and is involved in distribution and retail operations, so holidays and the New Year's vacation period, which are peak times for retail, are basically working days. However, for employees raising small children, it can be difficult to find day care on holidays, over New Year's and during other extended vacation periods, so this initiative establishes temporary day care facilities in company meeting rooms and at facilities near the company's business offices. It was started on a trial basis at four business offices, and starting in May 2017 it was put into full operation and extended to 21 offices. Further, in May 2017, Spot Day Care was introduced on a trial basis at 14 companies in the Seven & i Group to help create a working environment that sufficiently enables employees to pursue their careers. At a Spot Day Care facility Ito-Yokado has become the first company in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area to receive Platinum Kurumin Mark certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, following a revision of the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextGeneration Children in June 2015. Platinum Kurumin is awarded to companies that have already received Kurumin certification and have advanced use of systems to support balancing work with childcare to a significant degree while implementing measures at a high level. The system was established in 2015 to promote continued initiatives. Ito-Yokado has already received the Kurumin certification twice, and has actively utilized its Re-Challenge Plan, a personnel system for supporting childcare to help workers balance work and childcare. Other initiatives include holding opinion exchange events with employees who are involved in childcare, diversity seminars at store manager meetings, and promoting the taking of annual paid leave by employees, especially part-time workers. These activities were highly rated. Ito-Yokado will make even further efforts to create an environment where employees can work with peace of mind going forward. Corporate certification ceremony (June 2015) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 103 To promote greater participation by men in childcare, a childcare leave program has been phased in at Seven & i Group companies since November 2014. The program provides five special vacation days per year that can be used in one-day increments to employees with pre-school aged children. Since the program was started, it has been used by many employees for various reasons involving their children, such as when their spouse gives birth, or to attend kindergarten entrance and graduation ceremonies or participate in field day events. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 44 male employees took childcare leave at Seven & i Holdings, along with 461 at Seven-Eleven Japan, and 498 at Ito-Yokado. In addition, Seven-Eleven Japan has created a handbook on the childcare and nursing care leave to promote understanding of the programs and encourage their use. It introduces the significance of the programs and how to apply to utilize them in an easyto-understand manner. Moreover, at Ito-Yokado, a community has been established for male employees involved in childcare. It provides participants the opportunity to think about their own work-life balance as well as consider the productivity and working formats of their divisions. Along with promoting active roles for women since the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016, the Seven & i Group also works to help employees balance their jobs with family care responsibilities. In the near future, approximately 70% of employees may be involved in balancing these two responsibilities, so it is expected to become a major issue going forward. Given this expectation, since June 2015 we have conducted regular seminars with outside experts on preparing in advance for family care responsibilities since it is important to be ready before the need for care arises. Employees have been extremely interested in the topic and many have participated in the seminars. Further, a family care community was established in November 2015 for employees engaged in balancing work and family care. It works to eliminate anxiety by identifying issues related to the balance and by building networks. In October 2016, we produced the Handbook for Helping Employees to Balance Work and Family Care Responsibilities, with a view to using it in all Group companies to support the creation of working environments that make it easy to balance these commitments. To support employee participation in local community activities for people with disabilities, family care support, environmental beautification, disaster reconstruction support, and other objectives, Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, and Seven Bank have instituted a volunteer leave system under which employees can take five days off per year for volunteer work. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2017, 33 Group employees took volunteer leave. Seven Bank established a telework system in the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, that allows employees to continue to perform their jobs if they have difficulty commuting due to pregnancy, childcare or family care responsibilities, an injury or other reason. Seven & i Holdings conducts various initiatives throughout the Group to restrict long working hours. The internal newsletter distributed to the Group's approximately 70,000 employees contains a monthly column on working styles to raise awareness, and in our Diversity Management Seminars conducted since 2014, there are lectures by specialists and presentations on progressive initiatives at other companies related to work styles. Around 4,000 employees in total from 28 Group companies have attended the seminars as of the end of February 2017. Many of the seminar participants work to increase communication with their subordinates and take further action to improve working styles. In addition, restricting long working hours requires that measures be taken at the Group business level. Measures are being devised by individual companies to reflect their individual characteristics based on the results of the Employee Opinion Survey. Progress is communicated through the Work Satisfaction Improvement Committee, which is made up of representatives from each company, in order to promote improvement activities. Good examples are also shared with the Corporate Culture and Ethics Subcommittee, which is under the CSR Management Committee, to extend exceptional initiatives to other Group companies. Further details of the Employee Opinion Survey can be found here Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 104 We are working to reduce long working hours while engaging with each individual employee. At sales meetings, talks by the president and other management members on work style reforms are communicated to further raise awareness, and examples of initiatives that were successful in reducing overtime are shared at area meetings. We are also working to reduce overtime by instituting a new attendance management system that can perform real-time monitoring of overtime and use of leave for both managers and staff members. In addition, the Leave-Taking Promotion Day is held six days a year to encourage employees to make use of their annual paid leave. Overtime and paid leave taken at each store is shared each month with all employees to further raise awareness. In addition, working hours, overtime hours and other work records, along with how many holidays and leave days are being taken can be compared and analyzed on an employment management system for each individual, sales floor, and store. When safety and health committees are convened each month at the store level, they use this system to discuss the causes of long working hours and improvement measures. At divisions that have issues, labor and management work together to make improvements to operations. No Overtime Week initiatives are also being conducted to restrict long working hours. Employees personally designate three weeks out of eight weeks as no overtime weeks, and this is incorporated into their work schedules in advance. This creates a follow-up system at the workplace level. Managers with employees that have worked over a certain number of hours of overtime in a given week meet with that employee to discuss how to raise work efficiency starting the next week and share the results with the Labor Division. In this way initiatives are conducted for more highly valuing the private time of employees by reducing their overtime. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 105 Seven & i Holdings conducts human resources development with training systems refined by Group companies to match their respective business characteristics and supports the skill development of each individual employee. For our approximately 110,000 employees working nationwide, the Seven & i Group engages in human resources development through training systems refined by Group companies to match their respective business characteristics. The Group focuses particularly on the essential task of improving the skills of store employees who interact with customers. To this end, we hold regular group training by position and also work to enhance the skills and develop the careers of individual employees, including part-time employees. For example, at IY, new employee training is held for all employees, including part-time employees, to teach job basics and required retail skills and knowledge. Further, training is held to provide basic knowledge of products handled by affiliated division and to improve skills related to customer service and fresh food preparation. In this way, the company assists employees in continuing to upgrade their skills. Additionally, training is also held for everyone from new hires to sales floor staff, sales floor supervisors, assistant store managers, and store managers, to provide knowledge of sales floor management in stages and in line with their respective positions. Training is divided into newly appointed, post-appointment, and career development stage for each position and a training system has been established with a curriculum to match the growth of each individual employee. YB uses target setting charts to clarify the individual employee's current skills and abilities as well as skills to be acquired and training targets between individual employees and their managers. The target setting charts include detailed items necessary for job performance, such as customer service, sales area management, ordering, and food preparation techniques, with the skills and abilities of the employee assessed on a six-step scale from 0 to 5. In the skills version for staff members and part-time employees, items are determined for each division depending on duties, job characteristics and products handled for each analysis item. There is also a management version for store managers, assistant store managers, customer service managers and division managers that is intended to help raise and standardize management abilities. Based on the chart, employees confirm their skill levels with their supervisors and twice a year share the progress they have made with their supervisors and establish the next set of goals. This enables them to check their own growth, helping to boost motivation. Employees in training Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 106 Seven & i Holdings established the Ito Training Center in Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture in March 2012 to support the acquisition of technical knowledge on sales, food preparation, and other areas to match business characteristics. Another function is to communicate the Group's founding spirit and nurture the next generation of human resources. The training center is equipped with meeting rooms as well as skills rooms for personnel that handle fresh fish, meat and produce (including prepared dishes, fresh fish, sushi, processed meat, and produce) cash register practice rooms, and display practice rooms with recreated sales areas. A history room is provided to help communicate the founding spirit and corporate philosophy. There is also an accommodation facility within the training center with 65 rooms for overnight stays, including four universal design rooms that are wheelchair-ready. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 55,000 Group employees received training at the facility, bringing the total number since it was opened to over 300,000. The Ito Training Center Further details about the Ito Training Center can be found here (Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 107 Seven & i Holdings implements an open recruitment system for human resources that encompasses all of its operating companies. The system is designed to respect the will of each individual employee and ensure the right person is placed in the right job to fully leverage their abilities and to invigorate the organization. Group companies have also instituted internal recruitment systems. For example, at IY, employees who have worked at the company for at least two years can become candidates for managerial positions and jobs regardless of business experience or seniority. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 174 people applied through this system and 28 were appointed to their preferred positions or jobs. Going forward, we intend to further enhance the conditions that raise motivation and allow employees to fully demonstrate their abilities. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 108 Seven & i Holdings implements various assessment systems for employees to maximize their individual abilities and ensure fair assessments free of unreasonable discrimination due to social status, birthplace, race, creed, gender, and so forth. The Seven & i Group has instituted a self-check program to maximize individual employee abilities and help ensure fair evaluations. Twice a year at each Group company, employees first assess their own job performance, which is then evaluated by their supervisor. After that, the employee and supervisor meet to discuss the results. This direct dialogue helps the employee to identify their own achievements, strengths, and challenges while also ensuring the transparency and fairness of evaluations. In addition, through individual meetings with supervisors, issues at the workplace related to management levels, knowledge, skills and the like are confirmed, and this leads to further career development. Since it is not a simple one-sided evaluation by the company, employees are more willing to accept the system and find it motivating. The system is helping to steadily improve operational levels. IY has an employee classification system that allows employees to choose which region to work in based on their individual life plans and values. Based on this system, employees are evaluated using a qualifications system, which ranks them by job performance ability and skill, and by job responsibilities, taking into account their current duties and job assignment. In addition, individual evaluations, which are determined based on job achievement, level of contribution and other factors, are directly incorporated into salary and bonus levels. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 109 Seven & i Holdings' operating companies also focus on establishing systems that allow employees to choose various work styles to increase their motivation for work. For example, IY has a program enabling part-timers to choose from diverse working styles. Under this system, part-timers may elect to step up a rank after acquiring a certain level of evaluation and sales skill. There is also a program in place where part-timers designated as highest level can be hired as a monthly salaried permanent employee or contract worker. To date (as of February 28, 2017), 32 part-timers have become monthly salaried permanent employees. A large number of part-timers have also been hired on in managerial roles, such as sales floor manager. This initiative has received formal recognition as IY received the grand prize (Health, Labour and Welfare Minister's Award) at the Awards for Enterprises Promoting Part-time Workers to Play Active Roles at Work, which was established in the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016 by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Award ceremony (January 2016) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 110 Seven & i Holdings conducts a variety of initiatives for maintaining safe and comfortable working conditions and promoting the health of employees, including convening safety and health committees and promoting the Seven & i Health Declaration 2018. Seven & i Holdings convenes safety and health committees at each Group company in accordance with laws and regulations and implements improvements to the workplace environment including working conditions, as well as conducting measures to prevent workplace accidents. For example, at IY, training is conducted on the handling of knives and other implements for employees that work with fresh food products. At Seven & i Food Systems, awareness-raising posters and other campaign materials are posted at stores twice a year to bring attention to the prevention of workplace accidents. At stores where workplace accidents have occurred, interviews are conducted and the causes of the accident and specific prevention measures are shared with other stores. Workplace 0.00 0.04 1.43 0.76 3.64 0.81 0.00 0.00 accident frequency Workplace 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.00 accident severity *No workplace accidents resulted in deaths. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 111 When employees are healthy both mentally and physically, it not only makes their own lives more fulfilling but is also a source of vitality for the Company, and makes management more efficient. Based on this understanding, Seven & i Holdings launched the Seven & i Health Declaration 2018 in October 2014 in partnership with Seven & i Holdings Health Insurance Union. The Health Management Committee, chaired by the President of Seven & i Holdings, was established with members including human resources and labor relations supervisors and labor representatives (labor unions) at each Group company, and it is administered by the Seven & i Holdings Personnel Planning Dept., Health Management Center and Health Insurance Union. Through this promotional organization, the progress of Group company initiatives is confirmed and Group measures are planned and reviewed. The Seven & i Health Declaration 2018 establishes targets in such areas as reducing the risk of lifestyle diseases, reducing the smoking rate, raising awareness of cancers that affect women, and promoting work-life balance. The MY HEALTH WEB Health Management System, a portal website, was created as a support measure for these targets. We also hold mental health training and health-themed events, offer low-calorie, low-sodium menu items at the staff cafeteria, and provide health-related information through internal Group newsletters and other media, and help employees maintain and manage their own health. The MY HEALTH WEB Health Management System in particular allows individuals to browse the past five years of their own diagnostic data on the Internet, and serves as a tool for checking and goal-setting on health status, and for receiving advice on how to improve health. Since it started, the program has covered approximately 60,000 employees and their family members over age 30, and has drawn attention as one of the largest of its kind in the industry. Furthermore, Group companies have taken steps to implement appropriate health and productivity management based on the Industrial Safety and Health Act by ensuring that all employees receive regular health checks and follow up on the results, as well as making sure that stress checks are implemented for everyone. In February 2016, this initiative was highly rate and eight Group companies – Seven & i Holdings, SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, and Seven Card Services – were recognized in the 2017 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization White 500 held by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi:. 2017 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Certificate Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 112 Ratio of People with a BMI over 25 FY2016 Seven & i Group FY2015 National average March 31, 2018 Seven (20 years and older)* & i Group Target Male 35.5% 29.5% 28% or less Female 25.6% 19.2% 18% or less Overall Employee Smoking Rate FY2016 Seven & i Group FY2015 National average March 31, 2018 Seven (20 years and older)* & i Group Target Overall 30.2% 18.2% 24％ or less (Male employees: 41.2%, (Male employees: 30.1%, female employees: 22.6%) female employees: 7.9%) Increase employees receiving breast cancer exams Increase employee knowledge of mental health related issues Help employees with mental health issues recover their health Reduce overtime and make working hours amenable to health and work-life balance Encourage employees to take days off and vacation time for health promotion and reinvigoration *Source: Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare 2014 Health and Nutrition Survey result. *BMI and smoking data are totals for 22 Group companies participating in the Seven & i Holdings Health Insurance Society Providing healthy menu items at the employee cafeteria Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 113 Seven & i Holdings conducts an anonymous survey of employees once every two years on topics such as working conditions and compliance awareness. The employee opinion survey asks questions about penetration of the corporate philosophy, employee satisfaction levels in terms of job satisfaction and growth and development through work, supervisors’ management, and the workplace environment. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, the survey was administered to approximately 44,000 employees at 28 companies in Japan, and approximately 39,000 people responded. To what degree to do you feel satisfied with my work To what degree to do you perform your work in accordance with laws and regulations and rules To what degree does your supervisor manage the work load of team members appropriately To what degree do you think that the Company conducts environmentally considerate business activities? After the survey, human resources and CSR division personnel from Group companies met to analyze their companies' survey results and held special meetings to identify issues and consider and propose improvement measures. Based on advice from outside consultants and discussions among meeting attendees, individual company problems were identified through in-depth analysis of underlying causes, and proposals were made for issues and improvement measures. The proposals were reported back to the management teams at each Group company along with the survey results, and the companies are now individually promoting initiatives to execute the improvement measures. To help promote improvement activities for each Group company, a Work Satisfaction Improvement Committee meeting is held regularly for sharing each company’s progress and on improvement measures and issues. Representatives from each company gather according to their business format to share the implementation status and results of their measures for spreading the corporate philosophy and understanding of compliance, reducing long working hours, and increasing job satisfaction. This provides impetus for solving issues and helps spread best practices among other Group companies. Work Satisfaction Improvement Committee. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 114 Seven & i Holdings respects workers' rights such as the freedom of association, the right to organize and collective bargaining. In the Seven & i Group Corporate Action Guidelines, we have established the following principle: The Company respects workers' rights, such as the right to organize, based on international norms and efforts to further improve the work environment. At Seven & i Holdings, the Group's 11* labor unions form the Federation of Seven & i Group Labor Unions, which as of June 2017 has approximately 63,000 members. The federation carries out a variety of activities for union members based on the thinking that no water can be drawn from a dry well. It also coordinates activities by holding discussions on organizational management, labor conditions and other issues pertaining to union members. The member unions autonomously create their own independent organizations, and then they coordinate and join together for common causes. They complement one another's strengths and also work to improve shared labor conditions on a unified basis, which further reinforces both the individual unions and the federation itself. This is the basic approach through which activities are conducted. Seven & i Holdings and the labor unions work through numerous active discussions between labor and management to improve issues related to labor conditions and employees' workplace environments. For example, at Ito-Yokado, the compensation system and labor conditions for union members and employees are discussed, and consultations between management and labor are considered valuable for solving issues and improving productivity. Promotion of recent workstyle improvements is an example of collaboration between management and labor, and Ito-Yokado is taking steps to ensure that work rules are understood by everyone, promote the use of holidays and paid leave, improve the labor environment, and achieve a good work-life balance. * The 11 companies are Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, York Mart, SHELL GARDEN, Marudai, Sanei, Sogo & Seibu, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT and Life Foods. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 115 With the trend toward nuclear families, there are often fewer people parents can easily turn to with questions about raising their children. In light of this, Seven & i Holdings offers various types of assistance related to childcare through its stores. Ito-Yokado and Sogo & Seibu provide maternity and childcare consultation offices (at 120 stores as of February 28, 2017) and Pre-Mama Stations (at 6 stores as of February 28, 2017). Here, public health nurses and midwives give counseling free of charge to pregnant women on their health and to mothers on childcare. They also provide rest areas equipped with booths for breastfeeding, hot-water, and toilets for children. Childcare consultation office FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 247,422 235,017 237,336 246,060 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 116 Ito-Yokado holds a range of events to provide childcare advice and encourage parents to interact and socialize, starting with free maternity and childcare consultation offices staffed by licensed specialists. The company also actively takes part in events with universities, municipalities and product manufacturers to maintain and promote the health of mothers, offer techniques for relaxation and rejuvenation and provide helpful childcare-related information. The overarching theme of the events is enjoyment at home through public-private-academic partnerships, and through these events, we are helping to expand community childcare support networks. A childcare support event sponsored by public-private-academic partnership To support career education at elementary, junior high, high schools, and universities, the Seven & i Group cooperates with requests from schools by sending out employees to each school, by providing workplace tours, and by holding workplace experience programs at its Group stores, where children have the chance to take part in running a familiar retail store. For example, York Mart provides an opportunity to observe the food processing operations and to practice stocking the shelves in the store with products. Approximately 7,000 elementary and junior high school students participate each year. Seven & i Food Systems holds workplace experience programs where students can try working as the manager of a restaurant or learn about the importance of ingredients control and hospitality through actual experience. The program was attended by students from 104 schools in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017. The Seven & i Group training facility, Ito Training Center, provides sales space creation and food processing experiences, as well as opportunities to provide service from various customer perspectives, such as helping customers in wheelchairs and so forth. Through these experiences, the students can feel the value of working and the joy of interacting with customers. Furthermore, Seven-Eleven Japan has a store in Shinagawa Student City, which has been run jointly by the City of Shinagawa and Junior Achievement Japan since 2003. The concept of Shinagawa Student City is to create a virtual town inside an elementary school, with various companies setting up shops and providing experience of working and society. The children working in the 7-Eleven store experience customer service, sales space creation, and other operations to learn about the systems of society. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 1,791 elementary school students staffed our store and learned about the joys and challenges of working through customer service and retail sales. Learning about cash registers through hands-on experience at Ito Training Shinagawa Student City Center Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 117 Seven-Eleven Japan held an outreach class at Suginami Dainana Elementary School in March 2017 as a part of the Yomiuri Education Network, which seeks to increase interactions between companies and schools. The class involves a game in which 7-Eleven stores are established in fictitious towns on a map. Through the game, the students come to understand in a fun way the roles that 7-Eleven plays in society. At the same time, they learn about some of the changes taking place in Japanese society, including the aging population, declining birthrate, women's advancement in society, and decreasing number of retail stores. The class provides a good opportunity for students to think about their society from the everyday perspective of a convenience store. Outreach class in progress Seven Bank supports the publication of Bonolon, Warrior of the Forest, a picture book that parents can read to their children to foster communication. The bank also distributes picture books free of charge and holds storytelling sessions. Storytelling sessions are also held at Denny's restaurants, which are managed by Seven & i Food Systems. Storytelling session led by employee volunteers Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 118 The Seven & i Group promotes dietary education activities for children to raise people who understand foods through various experiences and can practice a sound, healthy diet. For example, Seven & i Food Systems distributes a booklet called Bonolon and Food at its chain of Denny's restaurants. The booklet contains important information about food manners and knowledge and teaches children about the correct eating habits using games and quizzes. ©NSP 2005, © Together with Bonolon, 2007 Free dietary education booklet Bonolon and Food Sogo & Seibu works with the Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP)* on a project for sending shoes to children in Zambia. The company has established areas for accepting donated children's shoes in all of its stores. The shoes they receive from customers help to prevent tetanus and parasitic infections resulting from foot injuries to children with bare feet. They are sent through JOICFP to children in Zambia. As of February 28, 2017, Sogo & Seibu had sent about 670,000 pairs of shoes since 2009. * JOICFP is an international cooperation NGO that was started in Japan to protect the health and lives of women and children in the developing world. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 119 Akachan Honpo and Sogo & Seibu have been providing sponsorship for the White Ribbon Campaign launched by JOICFP to protect the health of pregnant women and babies throughout the world. The Group companies have been working in partnership with JOICFP on the Community Safe Motherhood Project (which involves the donation of funds to establish Maternity Waiting Houses in Zambia). Besides accepting donations on behalf of JOICFP through its stores and online, the two companies have also installed 62 White Ribbon Campaign Vending Machines at locations throughout Japan (Akachan Honpo 41 machines, Sogo & Seibu 21 machines) as of February 28, 2017. For every beverage purchased from one of these machines, the companies donate \2 to JOICFP (\1 from the beverage manufacturer and \1 from the store where the machine is installed). In addition, Sogo & Seibu has created a White Ribbon pin badge for sale, from which all proceeds are donated to the White Ribbon Campaign. A White Ribbon pin badge A White Ribbon beverage vending machine Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 120 In the course of supplying a vast amount of products and services, Seven & i Holdings believes that the Group has an important role to play in providing socially and environmental responsible products and services, thereby helping to build an ethical* society. In every process from procuring raw materials for products to delivering products to customers, Seven & i Holdings believes that it must supply valuable products that not only comply with laws and regulations, but also show consideration for society and the environment. This will contribute to improving the sustainability of resources and is crucial to enhancing the strength of supply chains and ensuring business continuity. Moreover, awareness of ethical consumption has been increasing among customers in recent years. Addressing this awareness will also help to strengthen Seven & i Holdings' competitiveness. For these reasons, we will advance initiatives targeting the entire supply chain, including business partners. * The word ethical, in addition to its conventional meaning, has been increasingly associated with environmental preservation and social contribution in recent years. Amid increasing consumption of seafood in recent years, activities such as overfishing and environmentally destructive resource usage have taken place. As a result, sound marine resources have been steadily declining, while an increasing number of resources face the risk of depletion. Among familiar seafood items in Japan, Pacific Bluefin tuna and Japanese eel are endangered species in danger of extinction. Against the backdrop of a multitude of social issues around the world, an increasing number of consumers are seeking to purchase goods produced through fair business practices. With this heightened awareness of ethical consumption, it has become crucial to build sustainable business models across the entire supply chain. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 121 The entire Group is working to address this material issue, with specific measures being examined and formulated by the following committees and subcommittees. The CSR Management Committee, which is headed by the president, and its subordinate Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, examine the themes of Fair and impartial business practices and Addressing the social and environmental impacts of the supply chain. The Environment Subcommittee addresses themes related to product procurement and business partners, including the Depletion of natural resources and the Loss of biodiversity. These activities are supervised by the Seven and i Holdings executive officer in charge of Corporate Communication. By addressing this material issue, Seven & i Holdings will achieve sustainable food production and consumption patterns through the entire supply chain, and will contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals 2, 4, 12 and 14. We are conducting the Seven Forest project to contribute to the prevention of global warming and conservation of We are strengthening the implementation of the Business biodiversity. Partner Action Guidelines in order to provide customers with safe and reliable products and to fulfill our societal More responsibilities in cooperation with our suppliers on matters such as human rights, labor issues, and the environment. More We have formulated the Basic Policy on Sustainable It is vital for our business development to create business Procurement to ensure sustainable use of natural models that help to realize a sustainable society through resources for future generations and we are taking action the supply of products friendly to people, society, and the in collaboration with various stakeholders. global environment. At the same time, we are taking steps to supply products and services that are in line with ethical More consumption in response to a recent increase in public interest. More Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 122 Seven & i Holdings is strengthening implementation of the Business Partner Action Guidelines to provide customers with safe, reliable products and fulfill its societal responsibilities in cooperation with business partners on matters such as human rights, labor issues and the environment. Seven & i Holdings formulated the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines in 2007, and revised them in April 2017 to form the Seven & i Group Business Partner Action Guidelines (the “Guidelines”), which all business partners are requested to understand and observe. The Guidelines are designed to guarantee the safety and quality of the Group’s products and services and to promote consideration for legal and regulatory compliance, environmental conservation and labor conditions throughout the supply chain so that we can fulfil our corporate social responsibility together with our business partners. The Guidelines are communicated to business partners of Group companies through various meetings. Legal Compliance Respect for Human Rights Human Resources and Workplace Environment Preservation of Global Environment Relationship with Local and International Communities Information Management Product Safety Assurance Fair Business Practices Protection of Intellectual Property Management of Import and Export Transactions Extension to Supply Chains Monitoring Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 123 At a briefing for business partners on the Business Partner Action Guidelines Details of the Seven & i Group Business Partner Action Guidelines can be found here To ensure that business partners understand the Guidelines and to assist with effective CSR initiatives, the Seven & i Group administers a self-check sheet for business partners, explaining all of the specific requirements of the Guidelines. In drafting the check sheet, we referred to sources such as the ISO 26000 standard, the Japanese Business Federation's Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Business partners asked to submit the check sheet annually include manufacturers of the Group's universal strategic private-brand products Seven Premium and 7Eleven original daily product manufacturers, as well as distribution centers and IY's direct import suppliers overseas. We administer these check sheets to ascertain the status of our business partners' CSR activities. In the check sheets, the respondents answer 61 questions, including whether there are any breaches in compliance, whether a consulting desk is available to plant workers, whether a business partner requests that its own suppliers comply with the Guidelines, and whether the formation of labor unions is permitted. The check sheet also asks business partners to confirm the CSR-related certifications (SA8000, BCSI, SMETA, ICS, ICTI, WRAP, EICC) that its factories have obtained. Responses to this check sheet are entered into a database, and buyers determine whether or not to continue doing business with a business partner based partly on the business partner's level of engagement in CSR, which is shown in the database. Legal Compliance Respect for Human Rights and Dignity Human Resources and Workplace Environment Preservation of Global Environment Relationship with Local and International Communities Information Management Product Safety Assurance Fair Business Practices Monitoring (Questions about whether a business partner has prepared documentation and implementation records that prove compliance with the Guidelines.) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 124 Since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013, Seven & i Holdings has conducted CSR audits to determine the status of compliance with the Guidelines at a selection of factories of the business partners we have asked to submit self check sheets. The CSR audits are performed annually, mainly targeting factories of business partners producing private-brand products in developing countries. The CSR audit is performed by an external third-party auditing organization based on our independently established CSR audit program (about 114 items in 16 categories.) The CSR audit items are based on the content of ISO 26000, and the audit examines whether a factory complies with the principles laid out in the Guidelines in the following 16 categories. These categories are aligned with the international labor standards established by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Organizations must implement and maintain a system in compliance with all items of the Seven & i Group Business Partner Action Guidelines To the extent feasible, organizations should extend the Guidelines to their own supply chains. Organizations must monitor and comply with the relevant laws and regulations, as well as international treaties and so forth. There must be no forced, bonded or coerced prison labor. Employers must not force workers to make a financial deposit or submit their identification documents. After giving adequate notice, workers may resign freely as they wish. National and regional laws pertaining to forced labor are recognized. Workers have the right to establish or join labor unions of their own choosing without being subject to discrimination, and hold the right to collective bargaining. Local laws and workers' rights concerning freedom of association are recognized. Safety protection measures must be applied to equipment and machinery and preventive maintenance must be undertaken. Chemicals must be handled and stored appropriately. All necessary protective equipment must be purchased and regularly replaced. Children must not be put to work. Young workers under the age of 18 must not be put to work at night, or in a hazardous environment. This work includes tasks using chemical substances, work near such substances, or work where there is hazardous machinery, heavy labor, or excessive noise. Night shifts and work for long hours are also included. Overtime allowances must be paid at the required statutory ratio. All allowances and benefits must be provided to workers as required by law. Workers must not be habitually required to work over 48 hours per week. On average, workers must be given a rest period of one day every 7 days. Overtime must be voluntary and must not exceed 12 hours per week. Overtime must not be habitually requested and additional fees must always be paid. Discrimination in the course of recruitment, remuneration, provision of training, pay raises, dismissal and retirement is prohibited with respect to race, class, nationality, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership, or political party affiliation. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 125 To the extent possible, operations must be executed on the basis of generally accepted employment relationships based on national laws and regulations. Subcontracting is not permitted without the prior consent of customers. Physical abuse or punishment, threats of physical abuse, sexual or other forms of harassment, or verbal abuse or threats, must be prohibited. Disciplinary methods must be fair and effective and must not be arbitrary. Employers must show respect for the mental, emotional and physical health of workers in connection with the necessary disciplinary action. Organizations must pursue continuous improvement in their environmental performance and, at the very least, comply with local requirements and international laws and regulations. Chemical substances prohibited by international treaties, or laws and regulations, must not be used. Laws and regulations related to fair business practices must be understood and complied with. Products delivered to each Seven & i operating company must comply with the quality standards requested by each relevant operating company and comply with relevant legal standards established in Japan. Security systems must be in place to ensure protection from access with malicious intent. Relationships with anti-social forces must be rejected. Factories are given prior notice before being visited for audits, and compliance with CSR audit items is confirmed through interviews with managers and workers. If the audit finds items that do not comply with the audit program (unacceptable items), the external audit organization provides guidance to the business partner concerned. The business partners must submit a corrective action plan (CAP) to the auditing organization within 10 days of the audit being completed, and must take immediate action to improve the items. After receiving a report on the completion of improvements for the relevant items, the completion of improvements is confirmed based on the submission of photos showing the improvements, guarantee documents and other materials. However, in cases that exceed certain standards, such as when numerous serious unacceptable items are found, the resolution of issues is confirmed by revisiting the factory to perform a re-audit. When the unacceptable items are remedied or the auditing organization and Seven & i Holdings judge that the content of the CAP to be satisfactory, a Compliance Certificate is issued to the relevant business partner. Compliance certificate Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 126 In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, CSR audits were conducted at 270 factories in 13 countries, including China, Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Cambodia and Myanmar. The average compliance rate across all audited factories was 90%, with re-audits at 28 factories. The majority of items for improvement were due to insufficient recognition or misinterpretation of items required under local laws and regulations, and mainly involved labor environment, safety and hygiene, and approvals and authorizations. After their audits, each factory provided a CAP, photos showing the improvements and guarantee documents, and re-audits were carried out, enabling us to confirm that improvements were successfully made. (All problem items have now been remedied) Non-notification of long work hours or hours in excess of legal limits Incorrect handling and storage of hazardous chemicals Operation and driving of machinery without a license Non-performance of environmental assessment Use of an unlicensed waste disposal contractor FY2012 374 17 5.9% 1 FY2013 29 20.7% 6 FY2014 256 11.3% 29 FY2015 322 322 9.6% 31 FY2016 270 270 10.7% 29 FY2017 target 211 211 5.0% 10 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 127 Seven & i Holdings participates in Seven Forest creation activities to contribute to the prevention of global warming and conservation of biological diversity. Seven & i Holdings participates in Seven Forest creation activities run by the Seven-Eleven Foundation at 17 locations across Japan to help prevent global warming and contribute to the maintenance and conservation of biodiversity. The Seven Forest creation concept is a forest nurturing project that includes tree planting, undergrowth clearing, and forest thinning. Japan implements a cycle for planting, nurturing and harvesting trees and then replanting new ones. It takes decades to nurture a tree, during which time people systematically carry out forest conservation activities to protect forests. Trees create water that is rich in minerals and by releasing it into rivers and oceans, they protect biodiversity and help to prevent global warming. Seven Forest creation activities are carried out by employee volunteers from 7-Eleven franchised stores and Group companies under collaboration agreements with forestry cooperatives, NPOs and others throughout Japan. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, activities were held 23 times and a total of 1,571 people participated. Another forestry issue in Japan is the need to encourage greater use of wood materials collected from forest thinning activities. Wood material collected from Seven Forest is used within the Group for store materials and office supplies, as well as commercialization to promote use of national resources. For details about Seven Forest (Japanese only) Seven Forest The Seven-Eleven Foundation was established in 1993 for 7-Eleven stores and the Head Office to work together as one on environmentally themed CSR activities. Using money collected from in-store donation boxes and donations from the Head Office, the foundation engages in projects related to environmental citizenship activity support, conservation, and disaster reconstruction assistance. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, in-store donations totaled around \440 million and around \180 million was used to give grants to 304 environmental citizenship grant projects (including ongoing projects), which support environmental activities by local residents. Seven-Eleven Foundation website (Japanese only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 128 To ensure sustainable use of natural resources across future generations, Seven & i Holdings formulated the Basic Policy on Sustainable Procurement and has been promoting initiatives in collaboration with various stakeholders. Ito-Yokado has joined a project advanced by the Tokura Office of the Miyagi Prefecture Fisheries Cooperative's Shizugawa Branch to restore and achieve a sustainable marine industry in terms of economic and other aspects in tandem with protecting the bountiful marine environment. In October 2016, Ito-Yokado commenced the sale for the first time in Japan of farmed oysters that have obtained Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification, an international certification system for environmentally and socially responsible aquaculture businesses. The farmed oysters were grown by the cooperative. Farmed oysters with ASC certification Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 129 Seven & i Group stores sell Alaska Seafood products, which are sourced through environmentally friendly, sustainable fishing practices. In Alaska, the source region of the brand's all-natural marine products, Alaska Seafood carries out sustainable fishing by strictly managing resources and fisheries to ensure that the ecosystem that nurtures these natural marine resources is not impaired. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Seven-Eleven Japan launched POP displays for its Seven Premium private brand Benizake no Shioyake (salt-grilled sockeye salmon) in June to promote the features of Alaska Seafood, such as natural and environmentally considerate to customers. Meanwhile, in July 2016, Sogo & Seibu started holding Alaska Seafood introduction and sales events. Furthermore, at the Seven & i Group Head Office building, staff cafeteria operator Seven & i Food Systems is providing set meals using Alaska Seafood products. Employees distribute leaflets and set up POP displays and so forth to encourage Group employees to consider sustainable fisheries. Seven Premium Benizake no Shioyaki * The main fisheries of Alaska are certified fisheries of the Alaska Responsible Fisheries Management Certification Program, the world's first program to be recognized by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) through an evaluation based on certain standards. Alaska Seafood (Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute) website In response to rising consumer interest in product safety and reliability in recent years, Seven & i Holdings started selling 100% Organic Cotton Innerwear products for women under the Seven Premium private brand in December 2015. These products are sold at around 210 Ito-Yokado and York Benimaru stores throughout Japan and the Group's integrated portal website, omni 7. The cotton used as raw materials in these products is only organic cotton that meets Organic Content Standards (OCS). Apart from these products, Seven & i Group companies also sell items such as organic cotton towels and apparel, as well as organic coffee and loose leaf tea. * Organic Content Standards (OCS) is an organic certification body that evaluates and verifies organic material content claims on products based on the OE Blended Standard established by the Organic Exchange, a U.S.-based non-profit business organization. Seven Premium 100% Organic Cotton Innerwear Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 130 Ito-Yokado and York Benimaru sell private brand products that use fewer agrichemicals than the statutory limits. Examples include the Fresh Vegetables with Traceability and Fresh Fruits with Traceability private brand products sold at Ito-Yokado. Although these products are not completely organic, they are grown with fewer agrichemicals, and assure traceability of the growing region and growing history. Sales of these products in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 were approximately \22.2 billion. The methods and frequency of use of agricultural chemicals vary by region and crop. The Fresh Vegetables with Traceability category and certain other products comprise foods grown with the goal of applying agrichemicals with half or lower of the usual frequency of each growing area (the average number of applications for each crop stipulated by local government organizations and other public bodies). In addition, at our Seven Farms, which are engaged in agricultural operations, and under our Fresh Vegetables with Traceability and Fresh Fruits with Traceability brands, we aim to ensure safe agricultural produce, correct farm management, and so forth, and have acquired Japan Good Agricultural Practice (JGAP) certification. JGAP is an agricultural production management method recommended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan. It provides a set of standards to be followed in daily farm management to increase food safety and ensure environmental conservation. Since JGAP includes standards relating to food safety and environmentally sustainable agriculture, these products use the minimum necessary level of agricultural chemicals. Fresh Vegetables with Traceability Stores only stock domestically grown agricultural products. Producers who properly grow vegetables on suitable land are carefully selected from all over Japan. Products are delivered to customers under the name of each individual producer. Discerning techniques and personalities are introduced on the website and on sales floors. Agrichemical reduction targets are set and continuous checks are performed. Management of soil, water and propagation materials Fertilizer management Agricultural management Hygiene management during harvesting and transport Produce handling Water conservation Soil conservation Consideration for surrounding lands Waste management, reduction and recycling Energy efficiency Environmental awareness and biodiversity Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 131 Seven & i Holdings is promoting use of paper with FSC certification, an international certification system that promotes preservation of forest environments. In March 2017, we started using FSC-certified paper for paper board boxes in our Seven Premium private brand. As of July 31, 2017, FSC-certified paper is used for 44 items including ice cream containers. At Seven-Eleven Japan in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, we switched to FSC-certified paper for the display stands for selling SEVEN CAFÉ bakery items. Meanwhile, at Seven Bank, cash envelopes at ATMs and the Bonolon, Warrior of the Forest magazine are made using FSCcertified paper. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 132 Seven & i Holdings will create a business model that contributes to the development of a sustainable society through the provision of products that are considerate of people, society, and the global environment. We consider this to be an essential aspect of business development. In particular, we will strive to provide products and services that are compatible with ethical consumption, which has been drawing attention in recent years. SEVEN CAFÉ brand products are sold at Seven & i Group stores, mainly 7-Eleven. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, we expect to sell 1 billion beverages. Many customers support SEVEN CAFÉ, which is promoting environmental considerations in various ways. For example, forest thinning material is used for the outer sleeves for hot beverages. Cups for iced beverages use a compound material that includes recycled PET. We are also working to cut down our use of limited resources, for example by making cups lighter and thinner. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018, we have developed an antibacterial deodorizer that uses recycled coffee grounds collected from some of our stores. The new product is being used for cleaning at 7-Eleven stores. Environmentally Friendly SEVEN CAFÉ Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 133 Ito-Yokado sells a rice series that not only uses fewer agrichemicals and chemical fertilizers, but also encourages biodiversified farming, in which rice fields also service as wildlife habitats. Part of the sales are donated for environmental improvements. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, sales of Koshihikari Rice Nurturing White Storks provided approximately \60,000 for nurturing oriental white storks, while sales of Sado, Niigata Prefecture-Produced Koshihikari Rice Certified by the Creating Villages Coexisting with Crested Ibis Program provided approximately \160,000 to the Fund for the Improved Habitat for the Japanese Crested Ibis. Rice cultivated while protecting the environment and biodiversity Sogo & Seibu is promoting the use of green wrapping, for customers when they order gifts. This involves the purchase of a wrapping ribbon with a leaf-shaped mascot for an additional price of \100, of which \50 is donated to tree planting and growing activities. In this way, the giver can also provide the recipient a chance to think about the environment. One tree is planted for every 80 ribbons sold. In addition, customers purchasing ochuugen and oseibo (summer and winter) gifts who agree to simple packaging also contribute to tree planting, with one tree planted for every 4,000 gifts that use the simple packaging option. (Between 2009 and February 28, 2017, 10,451 trees were planted). Green Wrapping Employees carefully plant seedlings provided by the kindness of customers Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 134 Seven & i Holdings sells the Botanical Force series of skin care products jointly developed with FANCL CORPORATION under the Seven Lifestyle private brand of cosmetics at 7-Eleven, Sogo & Seibu (certain stores), and other outlets. These products have been developed without any use of animal testing—their safety has been confirmed by collecting information from raw material manufacturers and other documents and through safety checks made using cultured cells and human volunteers. Botanical Force series Sogo & Seibu held the ethical fashion event Enjoy Ethical at the Sogo Yokohama store in May 2017. In addition, bags made by single mothers in Uganda, Africa using unique African print fabrics were sold at a limited time event at five Sogo & Seibu stores. The event provided customers an opportunity to encounter ethical fashion while enjoying fashion and contributing to society. Sale of bags made by Ugandan women Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 135 The Seven & i Group fulfills its responsibilities as a member of many local communities by fostering coordination and cooperation with each community. At the same time, the Group supports society overall by contributing to community development and the creation of prosperous living environments through its businesses, in conjunction with making appropriate donations in consideration of the benefits to society and the general public. In social contribution activities, the CSR Department promotes activities in coordination with relevant departments in each Group company under the leadership of the Executive Officer in charge of Corporate Communication of Seven & i Holdings. The social contribution activities provided by the Seven & i Group in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, including the provision of financial assistance or the donation of goods, and the personnel costs of employees involved in these activities, amounted to approximately \1.6 billion when converted into monetary terms. Of this total, cash donations were approximately \0.3 billion. (Thousands of yen) Administration cost 1,157,548 Personnel costs of employees participating in activities during work hours 92,458 Cash donations 308,680 Cost of providing access to company facilities 27,007 Donation of goods 4,292 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 136 Seven & i Holdings seeks to mitigate the environmental impact associated with its business activities and to contribute to making a better society through those activities. When selecting external partners for activities, we always ensure that they have a philosophy that is compatible with our own, and that they have sufficient specialist expertise. We measure the effect of our social contribution activities based on five perspectives. Moreover, we plan to revise our measurement methods in the future to enable an even more accurate measurement of the inputs for an activity, the respective outputs for the Company and society after the activity, and the final impacts on the Company and society, respectively. 1. Verification of the Social The activity cost is verified by type and format of activity. Contribution Activity Cost Over One Year 2. Verification with KPIs The effect of the initiatives is measured numerically against established key performance indicators (KPIs). For example, we conduct shopping support services to assist seniors (Seven‒ Meal, Net Supermarket, mobile store service, etc.) The effect of these activities is verified by using the number of stores involved, the number of operational vehicles, the amount of sales and other metrics as KPIs. In addition to these numbers, we also reflect feedback from service users in our planning for the following fiscal year. Further details about shopping support can be found here 3. Dialogue with Organizations We We confirm the results of activities reported by NPOs and other organizations to Support whom we give financial assistance. We verify the effects of activities based on reported information such as the number of beneficiaries and the positive impact on them, as well as direct feedback obtained through dialogue with the assisted organizations. We also refer to these reports and feedback when deciding on the next round of recipients and projects that we will assist. 4. Survey of Employees Who We conduct questionnaire surveys of employees who participated as volunteers in Participate in Activities activities we have planned, asking them about their level of satisfaction with the activity and points for improvement. The results are used to measure the effect of the activity and in planning our next activities. 5. Survey of Employees Overall Every second year we conduct an Employee Opinion Survey of a sample of employees from 28 Group companies. (Certain companies conduct sampling surveys.) Through the results of the survey, we confirm employees' awareness of their own companies. The results are used in our verification of the activities for two years, and for formulating plans for the next period. I believe my company: Builds good relationships with local communities. Conducts environmentally friendly business activities. Is actively engaged in social contribution activities. Further details about the Employee Awareness Survey can be found here Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 137 Seven & i Holdings believes that employee participation in social contribution activities is also crucial. Based on this belief, we plan and implement activities such as opportunities to experience nature and disaster reconstruction support programs. Moreover, to encourage employee participation in volunteer activities, Seven‒Eleven Japan, Ito‒Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems have instituted a volunteer leave system under which employees can take five days off per year for volunteer work. At Ito‒Yokado, part‒time workers may also take volunteer leave. In March 2016, Ito‒Yokado commenced activities to encourage customers and employees to donate funds throughout the year by placing collection boxes next to almost all of its approximately 6,000 POS registers at stores nationwide. This fund collection drive is the first of its kind to be held at a superstore chain throughout the year and is being undertaken to help solve various social issues on a revolving basis every three months. From the 45‒day period from March 2016, Ito‒Yokado conducted fund collection activities with the aim of donating all of the collected proceeds to the Fund to Support Children's Futures, which was set up as part of a national movement to address child poverty. The project was undertaken in collaboration with the National Movement to Support Children's Futures (comprising the Cabinet Office as the promoting entity, along with the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour, and The Nippon Foundation). Led by the Cabinet Office and other organizations, this campaign aims to break the so‒called chain of poverty. Donations for this storefront fund collection drive collected from customers and employees totaled \4,010,321. The funds were delivered to Mr. Katsunobu Kato, Minister of State for Special Missions. (Yen) 2,777,461 38,224,580 10,714,850 4,308,598 1,580,689 3,958,107 137,632 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 138 Donations accepted at POS registers A prospectus is presented to Mr. Mitsuo Takekawa, Director General for Policies on Cohesive Society (former post, currently Vice‒Minister for Policy Coordination) (pictured on the right). Seven & i Group companies support the training of guide dogs for blind people and collect donations for this purpose at Ito‒ Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, and York Mart stores. Sogo & Seibu has placed permanent dog‒shaped fund collection boxes at all stores to encourage customers to support guide dog training activities. In addition to in‒store donations collected from customers, Sogo & Seibu makes donations collected through the Woof! Coin Club, which accepts monthly voluntary donations by employees, and the Sogo & Seibu Fund set up by the company and its labor union (cumulative donations from March 2003 to February 28, 2017 were \540.48 million). Besides fund collection activities, Sogo & Seibu also conducts awareness‒raising activities for customers. All Sogo & Seibu stores conduct events twice a year in the spring and autumn to improve public understanding toward people with visual impairments and their guide dogs. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 139 Seven & i Holdings operates convenience stores in North America. Net sales : \2,735,199 million(Total store sales) Net sales : \29,370 million Number of stores : 8,707 Number of stores : 63 More More * Exchange rate $1 = \108.78 * Number of stores as of December 31, 2016 Seven & i Holdings operates convenience stores and superstores in China. More Net sales: \20,871 million Net sales: \4,551 million Net sales: \3,435 million Number of stores: 219 Number of stores: 82 Number of stores: 67 Established: January 2004 Established: November 2012 Established: December 2010 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 140 More Net sales: \67,276 million Net sales: \15,869 million Number of stores: 6 Number of stores: 2 Established: December 1996 Established: September 1997 * Exchange rate of CNY1 = ¥16.42 * Net sales does not include value added tax * Number of stores as of December 31, 2016 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 141 Reducing environmental impact is a priority issue for 7-Eleven, Inc. The company is undertaking various initiatives to increase energy efficiency and use environmentally friendly containers. In 2016, 7-Eleven, Inc. initiated a collaboration with Conservation International (CI), a well-known environmental NPO. 7-Eleven, Inc. has also formulated targets to reduce environmental impacts related to stores and containers. 【Targets】 (1) Reduce CO2 emissions at stores by 20% compared with the 2015 level by 2025 (2) Reduce CO2 emissions from containers and packaging by 20% compared with the 2015 level by 2025 In the course of formulating these targets, 7-Eleven, Inc. has joined forces with CI and begun participating in the Business & Sustainability Council, where corporate leaders select measures to achieve both business performance and a lower environmental impact. Apart from this, the company has joined the Retail Industry Leaders Association, and is participating in the Retail Sustainability Initiative, an educational forum for major retail companies in the U.S. who are members of this association. These forums provide the opportunity for members to get to know cutting-edge initiatives, and share insights into the outlook for the future and the activities of their peer companies in the industry. They also provide a collaborative platform for members and their industry peers to achieve sustainability targets. 7‒Eleven, Inc. has introduced LED lighting and an energy management system (EMS) in stores, along with installing highperformance heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, to reduce electricity consumption at stores. Introducing EMS has enabled the company. to monitor, control, and optimize the performance of HVAC and refrigeration equipment, which significantly contributes to energy consumption. It also enables remote control of the equipment. Real‒time data obtained from the EMS is analyzed to reduce energy consumption and manage costs. Through these measures, 7-Eleven, Inc. has reduced electricity consumption by approximately 21% over the past 7 years. In 2016, 7-Eleven, Inc. continued to introduce EMS. Currently, more than 5,900 stores have installed the EMS, and there has been an average annualized reduction in electricity consumption of 16,323 kWh per store. Furthermore, LED lighting has been installed at around 5,980 stores as of December 31, 2016. Climate change is a global issue facing people around the world. In order to increase interest in this issue among its employees and franchisees, 7-Eleven, Inc. presented the impacts of climate change at a nationwide conference held in 2016. In addition, 7Eleven, Inc. held a campaign in which it handed out pedometers to all conference attendees and pledged to donate $1 to CI for every 500 steps taken per person. A total of 16.5 million steps were recorded through this event, equating to approximately 8,000 miles (approximately 13,000 km). The campaign raised funds of around $33,000. These funds will be put to use in CI's initiatives to communicate the importance of climate change mitigation measures to the general public. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 142 As a global convenience store chain operator, 7-Eleven has implemented a campaign to mitigate the effects of climate change in 10 countries around the world. The campaign was held mainly around July 11 ( 7/11 ), in keeping with the Seven-Eleven name, and was spearheaded by Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. It was implemented by Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd., 7-Eleven, Inc., Seven-Eleven companies in China, and seven companies licensed by 7-Eleven, Inc. to operate Seven-Eleven stores in certain designated areas. During the campaign, each participating company strove to fight climate change by undertaking energy-efficiency initiatives, working to reduce plastic shopping bag usage, advancing collaboration with NGOs, and taking action to stimulate the interest of employees and customers. 7-Eleven, Inc. is making a concerted effort to use environmentally friendly containers and packaging. Many of its containers are made of paper and other materials with a low environmental impact. 7-Eleven, Inc. also strives to reduce the use of raw materials by selecting the right size and type of materials while ensuring product quality and safety. 7-Eleven, Inc. has introduced a new coffee cup that keeps coffee hot without having to apply a cup sleeve (a paperboard sleeve that fits around a cup to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee). Unlike conventional disposable coffee cups, this new cup can be recycled because it is made of polypropylene plastic. 7-Eleven, Inc. has developed new paper shopping bags for stores in municipalities that prohibit merchants from giving customers plastic shopping bags. The new paper shopping bags are made of 100% recycled materials and can be recycled after use. The words Reduce Reuse Recycle are printed on the side of the bags to help foster environmental awareness among customers. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 143 7-Eleven, Inc. has begun sales of PURE-brand mineral water under its 7-Select line of private-brand products. Recycled plastic accounts for 15% of the materials used to make the PET bottles for this product. The PET bottles can also be recycled after use. 8,297 8,500 8,707 9,895 2,161 2,142 2,154 2,527 1,040 948 922 1,080 9,084 8,878 9,040 12,415 3,231 2,969 2,625 2,980 *1. Calculations are based on estimated electricity consumption for stores where data was not available. *2. Audited by a third party In 2016. 7-Eleven Inc. launched an exclusive Rainforest Alliance Certified Nicaragua single-origin coffee as a high-quality, environmentally friendly product. The Rain Forest Alliance is an international nonprofit organization that seeks to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable livelihoods. Carrying the Rainforest Alliance Certified seal means 7 Eleven stores’ coffee is sourced from coffee-growers whose farms are required to meet strict standards designed to protect the environment, conserve wildlife and promote the well-being of local communities. 7-Eleven Inc. will continue to promote sustainably sourced coffee. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 144 7‒Eleven, Inc. aims to uphold its responsibilities as a good corporate citizen and contribute to local communities where it has opened stores. The Head Office and franchisees work together to promote social contribution activities. The main fields for these activities are support for youth development and military personnel. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, 7‒Eleven, Inc. provided assistance to over 2,000 organizations totaling more than US$3.97 million in monetary terms through donation drives and provision of supplies implemented by customers, franchisees, employees, and Head Office. Moreover, 7-Eleven Inc. has set the following targets to strengthen its support for communities: 【Targets】 Aim to allocate approximately 1% of net income to social contribution activities every year, from 2017 When called to stop by the police, young people may refuse to respond to questions or try to run away, making the problem worse. Building trust between young people and the police helps to reduce crime by minors and improves their future and that of the community. To improve the relationship between the police and youth, 7‒Eleven, Inc. has been implementing Operation Chill, which involves distributing coupons for free Slurpee carbonated drinks to the police. The police use the vouchers to ticket youngsters who are caught doing good deeds. In 2016, 7‒Eleven, Inc. provided over 1.28 million coupons to approximately 940 police organizations. Over 15 million coupons have been distributed since the program started in 1995. The logo for this program was redesigned in 2016 to mark the 21st year of these activities. The phrase Encouraging Positive Behavior is printed on the logo to communicate the purpose of this campaign. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 145 Based on an appreciation of the importance of education, 7‒Eleven, Inc. implements Project A‒Game as a joint support program by franchisees and Head Office to enable children to experience worthwhile activities. Store owners apply to Head Office for a grant to support local schools or youth sports organizations that are in need. Grants are jointly funded by local franchisees and the Head Office, and are used to provide financial assistance to enable children to continue enjoying school. This system enables franchisees to provide financial assistance to their local neighborhoods. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, funds of around US$650,000 were donated to 1,100 recipients, and were used to support sports teams and extra‒curricular activities. Since the start of the project in 2012, funds of around US$1,575,000 have been donated to 2,850 recipients. 7-Eleven, Inc. has implemented a campaign to enhance public awareness and support for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, a research and treatment center for pediatric cancer. This hospital conducts research into treatment for children suffering from pediatric cancer and other serious diseases. The hospital pays for treatment, travel, housing and food expenses without billing families so that the families can focus solely on the recovery of their children. 7-Eleven, Inc. supports the policy of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and donated 11 cents for every large-size Slurpee, a frozen beverage, sold from November 9, 2016 to January 3 the following year, in order to save children fighting pediatric cancer. Through this campaign, 7-Eleven, Inc. donated US$200,000 to St. Jude's. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 146 Poverty is a serious social problem in the U.S. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 42.2 million Americans struggle to put enough food on the table to meet their daily needs. Among the underfed are 6.4 million children. Given that a wellbalanced diet of nutritious fresh foods is particularly important for children and their health, there is strong demand for fresh foods at food bank organizations. In 2016, 7-Eleven, Inc. implemented a campaign based on customer participation to support Feeding America, a prominent food bank organization. Under this campaign, for every $1 donated by a customer, 7-Eleven, Inc. would provide two bananas and a donation of 10 cents to Feeding America. Moreover, 7-Eleven, Inc. handed donation acceptance cards to customers taking part in the program, and displayed the signed cards in stores during the campaign period. During the campaign period from November 29 to December 31, 7-Eleven, Inc. collected donations of around 985,000 bananas and approximately $49,000 from customers. This campaign is designed to provide relief from hunger during the year-end holidays, an important time for Americans. The bananas and funds were donated to 22 member organizations of Feeding America in areas served by 7-Eleven stores. 7‒Eleven, Inc. is making a concerted effort to develop female leaders within the company. Over half of 7‒Eleven, Inc.'s personnel are women, and boosting the capabilities of female employees is also essential to ensure competitiveness from the customer's perspective. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, the company continued to develop female leaders through participation in two well‒known organizations. As a result, three female executives of 7-Eleven, Inc. received awards in their respective fields from Convenience Store News, a publisher of information about the convenience retail industry. Network of Executive Women (NEW) The mission of NEW is to help advance women in the consumer products manufacturing and retail industry through education, leadership and business skills development. Fifty of 7‒Eleven, Inc.'s women in management positions participate in NEW programs to help them grow as professionals by, for example, networking with leaders working at industry peers. They are also able to access a host of benefits and resources, including sharing best practices, developing their leadership skills, and participating for free in learning programs. The Women's Foodservice Forum (WFF) WFF is the foodservice industry's premier leadership development organization advancing women in the industry. Approximately 20 7‒Eleven, Inc. female leaders participate in regional conferences, where they are able to gain access to highly effective and educational leadership programs and events, as well as networking opportunities. These opportunities enable them to gain the competence and strategic connections needed to step up their careers in the foodservice industry. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 147 Top Women in Convenience Award 2016, Nancy Smith, SVP, Merchandising, For her role in leading her company to Women of the Year Category Fresh Food & Beverages success and her impact on the convenience store industry as a whole Top Women in Convenience Award 2016, Ena Williams, For her strategic execution Senior-Level Leader Category SVP, capabilities and proactive business International transformation skills Convenience Foodservice Executives of the Kelly Buckley, For her advancement of 7-Eleven, Year Award Vice President, Inc.'s overall fresh food strategy and Fresh Food Innovation development of innovative products In response to growing health consciousness among consumers, 7-Eleven, Inc. has been devoting effort to developing a range of well-balanced and nutritious food and beverage products that can be enjoyed while on the go. 7-Eleven, Inc. offers daily products such as delicatessen items, salads with low-fat dressings, sandwiches, yoghurt parfaits with fruit and granola, fruits, and boiled eggs. Snacking, or the dietary practice of eating simple foods in one's spare time between meals, has recently been catching on in the U.S. With this in mind, 7‒Eleven, Inc. has expanded its food offerings with the introduction of 7‒Select GO! Smart. These products have been developed for customers looking for better‒for‒you options while on the go and include great‒tasting snacks and beverages, such as sprouted chips and coconut water. Products are formulated to deliver health benefits to customers and have prominent callouts on the packaging to aid customers in selecting the product that best fits their lifestyle. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 148 In March 2016, SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII added Our Promise to its set of company values in order to support its direction as a chain of close-by, convenient stores, to shape its corporate culture, and to further solidify its values. Our Promise is comprised of the following three specific values. 1. Bring a smile to the faces of customers, vendor partners, and employees 2. Work together as a team to achieve goals 3. Strive for greater heights To promote Our Promise, the company started a program for recognizing exceptional employees. All employees are encouraged to nominate people they think are practicing the three values. The selected people are given a badge and a bonus and are introduced in the company newsletter and on its website. These values define SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII as a business for the community, for partners and for employees. The practice of Our Promise then becomes the cornerstone for the words and actions of employees. As a good corporate citizen, SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII supports activities and NPOs involved with children, education, public welfare and health. In 2016, an equivalent of approximately $40,000 in support was carried out for 58 organizations through fundraising, donations of goods, and volunteer activities on the part of SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII customers, member stores, employees and the company. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 149 Since 2001, SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII has sold Lima Kokua (Helping Hands) Coupon Books to schools, sports teams, and other non‒profit organizations. The organizations that purchased these coupon books, which can be used in all Hawaii stores, earn a profit by selling them to third parties. Over 65 organizations have used the system each year, and SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII has supported the activities of these organizations through the sale of the coupon books. In 2016, 35 organizations used the system. Many of these were repeat orders, showing that the books have been popular. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII held an event for children during the 2016 Christmas season. The company had children ages 5 to 12 write letters to Santa Claus telling him what they wanted and the letters were collected at all stores from November 28 to December 9. The letters collected at the stores were compiled at the headquarters, and after a selection committee reviewed all the letters, it selected those that were exemplary from the standpoint of virtue and morality. Thirty-three children were then presented with the presents they had wanted. Three of the children appeared on a Hawaiian television program that features local people and events, where their letters were introduced along with their parents. The program host, presented the children with their Christmas presents on behalf of Santa and SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII. Of the three, there was a young philanthropist, a 10-year-old boy who had asked for a $1,000 donation to the Laulima Giving Program, a local charity that helps families. The event brought great joy to the winning children and their families, and especially to underprivileged families. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII plans to hold the event next year as well. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 150 SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII is involved with helping the Honolulu Fire Department distribute safety guidebooks that it issues each year. The guidebooks contain information on fire safety measures for the home and are distributed to elementary school students. In 2016, the guidebooks were passed out at schools from October 9 to October 15, which is Fire Prevention Week. Teachers, parents and the children look at the guidebooks together and are encouraged to sign the last page. As a program incentive, coupons from local companies are included inside. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII provided a buy one, get one free Slurpee ticket. On average, 500 of the tickets are used each month. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII intends to continue helping to save lives through this activity. SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII has been working on an initiative labeled the Energy Smart Program to reduce energy consumption since 2012. Under the program, SEVEN‒ELEVEN HAWAII has carried out many kinds of initiatives. By 2015, we had established a standard temperature to be set on all store air conditioning systems, which consume the largest amount of energy, along with installing energy‒efficient fan motors in the vaults and freezers and changing vault lighting to LED. To raise energy conservation awareness among employees, the company has provided them with environmental education. As an extension of the Energy Smart Program, in 2016 all seven stores in the Hawaiian capital of Hilo worked to reduce energy consumption. At the stores, excess heat from condensers had been lowering air conditioning efficiency and putting an additional load on refrigerated display cases, Slurpee machines and other equipment. This caused unnecessary electricity consumption and necessitated repeated repairs to the equipment. To solve the problem, remote condensers were installed on the store rooftops. This prevented the heat from entering the stores and allowed for a pleasant temperature inside. Monthly electricity consumption at the seven stores was reduced on average by 592 KWh compared to the previous year (11% reduction). As a result of this initiative, electricity consumption at all stores in 2016 was reduced by 2% compared to the previous year. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 151 59 59 60 63 63 18,079 17,848 18,246 18,399 18,097 48 44 46 46 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 152 In China, where concerns over food safety and integrity have been mounting, SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING), SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) work to provide safe and reliable products by leveraging quality management and product development capacities cultivated in Japan. For the Group's private-brand products in China, strict standards are applied in selecting ingredients, and processing plants that maintain high quality levels are selected through a screening process based on whether they have experience exporting to Japan and other criteria. We have strengthened quality management at dedicated plants producing only the Group's products by incorporating international food safety management systems and measures implemented at plants in Japan. Beijing Wang-Yang Foods and JEANAVICE factories, which are dedicated plants of SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) and SEVENELEVEN (TIANJIN), obtained the “SC” food production license for chilled foods in February 2012, earlier than peer companies in the industry. “SC” is a regulatory requirement related to food production in China. Food manufacturers must acquire the “SC” license by switching from the existing “QS” food quality and safety license by October 2018. At the JEANAVICE Factory, Chinese plant managers and quality control managers attend the HACCP*1 inspections for daily food processing plants that are implemented annually by Seven-Eleven Japan. Moreover, the manager of the quality assurance department has obtained qualification as an internal inspector for FSSC 2200*2. At the Beijing Wang-Yang Foods Factory, measures are being implemented to obtain the HACCP 20002 qualification within 2017, with the aim of further enhancing the level of quality control. *1 HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) food sanitation management method *2 A food safety management system certification In response to an increase in health-conscious customers, the three companies are working to develop products containing abundant vegetables and boxed lunches featuring many different ingredients. In 2016, SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) renewed its boxed lunches based on the concept of “Abundant vegetables, low calories and healthy.” Concurrently, the company started displaying the calorie content of boxed lunches. All three companies sell entrée items prepared in stores. In 2016, SEVENELEVEN (TIANJIN) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) switched containers for entrée items prepared in stores from those that can hold two items to containers that can hold three items. SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) provides customers with the option of choosing between containers that can hold two items and those that can hold three items. Trans-fatty acids, which are said to increase the risk of heart disease, were successfully reduced to zero in the roomtemperature bread products of SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN). Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 153 The three companies are working to collect customer feedback in order to improve products and services from the standpoint of customers. Feedback obtained from customers is communicated to departments and stores on a daily basis. In addition, stores conduct customer surveys annually in order to grasp changes in customer needs and reflect them in products. In 2016, SEVENELEVEN (TIANJIN) received customer survey responses from 624 people, while SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) received responses from 2,225 people. This customer feedback was put to good use in developing and improving products. In order to further improve the customer service provided by employees, the three companies conduct training and have also established award programs to recognize employees who have done outstanding work. We will strive to enhance motivation by presenting awards to recipients at meetings and other such forums in conjunction with striving to increase examples of best practices for employees to follow by making the award-winning activities widely known. At a presentation of Store Owner Awards by SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) Each company conducts social contribution activities as members of their local communities. Since 2013, SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) has provided support for Benevolence House, a home for children with mental disabilities. In 2016, five employees visited the facility to participate in a Christmas event and a birthday party. The employees provided entertainment, along with delivering presents to the residents and a donation of air purifiers to the facility from the company. In recognition of its continuous support activities for Benevolence House, SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) was presented with a Certificate of Appreciation from Benevolence House in March 2016. In addition to support for Benevolence House, SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) also carried out other support measures for children. In order to assist children in impoverished farming areas, the company conducted a campaign to collect clothing and books from Head Office employees from December 2015 to January 2016. The company collected 52 articles of clothing and 36 books, donating them to children living in Nata Township, Baiyü County in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture. In recognition of the sustained social contribution activities undertaken by SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU), the company received the Annual Social Contribution Award from the Chengdu Retailers Association in April 2016. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 154 1,990 yuan 800 yuan 1,937 yuan A visit to Benevolence House Certificate of Appreciation from Benevolence House In continuing to expand our network of stores in China, it is essential that we hire and train local employees. The three companies are focused therefore on raising the communication abilities of employees and training them to be able to think and act with autonomy. To this end, the three companies are working to provide various training seminars and create workplaces where employees are able to demonstrate their abilities to the fullest. Operations Field Consultants (OFC) play an important role in connecting the Head Office with franchise store owners. They serve as store management consultants that provide multifaceted advice to franchise stores on overall management, including ordering, product lineups, and employee training. OFC candidates first gain store experience at training stores and learn the fundamentals of store management, which include the Four Basic Principles; unit control; employing, training, assigning and evaluating staff; and management indicators. After the candidates become OFCs, additional training is conducted to hone their job skills. For example, at meetings of all OFCs held each week, company policies are shared and training is conducted on how to communicate efficiently with franchise stores and other issues. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 155 The initiatives described below are implemented to provide opportunities to raise the motivation of employees and to resolve issues they may face in the workplace. In addition, SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) have instituted internal hiring programs that allow employees to apply for desired positions. They are selected on the basis of interviews between the applicants and the relevant Head Office divisions, the Human Resources Department, and so forth. In 2016, three people at each company were appointed to new positions through these programs. Although SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) has not instituted a formal internal hiring program, the company grasps the desired positions of employees when conducting interviews with candidates and through other means. When the relevant departments have openings according to operational and personnel assignment needs, the company compares these conditions with the information on file for each employee, and then interviews candidates and transfers personnel that satisfy the required conditions. ・Operate a contact desk so that employees can consult with the company on issues ・Interviews with employees by personnel departments ・Interviews with new employees by supervisors ・Organize employee get-togethers to promote closer interaction and socializing among employees ・Questionnaires for employees ・Share information about role models among employees by conferring awards upon talented employees The three companies have adopted an employee evaluation system that combines monthly interview evaluations and yearly evaluations. Monthly interviews are conducted between employees and their direct supervisors to discuss the rate of progress toward their performance goals. After self-assessments are carried out by each employee, yearly interviews and evaluations are then conducted by the direct supervisor and a secondary, higher-level supervisor. Monthly evaluations are based on company, divisional and individual performance. For managers who perform evaluations, regular training is carried out on matters such as monthly evaluation methods for subordinates and on determining pay in accordance with these evaluations. The training enables managers to obtain the correct knowledge on these matters. Barring special circumstances, employees of the three companies leave their workplaces at the appointed times when their shifts end. If overtime is deemed to be necessary, employees must seek permission from their supervisors in advance. Procedures call for supervisors to manage the daily and monthly overtime hours of employees in order to prevent employees from doing unnecessary overtime. In China, the labor contract laws have been designed to provide male and female employees with generous leave related to childbirth and childcare. Moreover, men and women are treated equally, and it is common practice for women to continue working after marriage. This legal system and practice of appointing managers based on ability work together to promote the appointment of women to managerial positions. In 2012, the first Chinese woman chairman was appointed at SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN). In 2013, a female vice general manager was appointed at SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING), followed by another in 2014 at SEVENELEVEN (CHENGDU). Appointments continued in 2016, and women currently occupy approximately half of the non-executive managerial positions at the three companies. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 156 In China, the statutory employment rate for people with disabilities is 1.7%. In collaboration with the Tianjin Association of Persons with Disabilities*, each company actively recruits people with disabilities. Creating workplace environments where people with disabilities find it easy to work is a key priority. To this end, the companies discuss workplace issues with employees with disabilities and provide the necessary training based on those discussions. * An organization that promotes the social participation and autonomy of people with disabilities and provides education and training, while protecting the rights and interests of people with disabilities. 603 (332・271) 228 (100・128) 310 (145・165) 1,097 640 476 1,700 868 798 2.0% 2.6% 3.1％ 55.2% 45.0% 57.0% The Chinese government has been putting great emphasis on climate change issues. In 2012, the Beijing government initiated a pilot project for an emissions credit trading scheme. Under this scheme, companies that emit more CO2 emissions than their allotted emissions limit must purchase CO2 emissions credits on the market in the amount of the excess emissions. The three companies are implementing measures to reduce electricity consumption, including installing LED lighting and other energy-efficient equipment, and installing curtains to prevent cool air from flowing out of walk-in refrigerators (photo on the right), along with raising the environmental awareness of employees. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 157 As part of the 7-Eleven Global Campaign to Fight Climate Change*, the three companies implemented the following initiatives in 2016: (1) Study seminars for employees on the causes and effects of climate change and on electricity conservation measures at stores were held in June (2) Posters on the 7 Rules of Electricity Conservation were displayed in backrooms of stores in the week spanning July 11 (7/11), and the electricity conservation measures studied as part of item (1) above were executed in stores. At SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN), electricity consumption increased in 2016 due to an increase in microwave ovens and other equipment in stores, in addition to an increase in the number of stores. In response, the two companies plan to implement various electricity conservation measures in 2017. For example, SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) plans to clean filters at all stores, along with rigorously enforcing air conditioner temperature settings. Meanwhile, SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN) plans to convert all lighting in franchised stores and the lighting in all heated display cases to LED lights. 2013 2014 2015 2016 150 175 187 219 19,648 19,366 18,122 24,856 69 73 75 96 2013 2014 2015 2016 56 60 70 82 8,472 6,164 5,278 7,027 21 20 18 24 2014 2015 2016 66 60 67 7,319 7,746 6,031 28 24 18 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 158 In order to avoid wasting resources, efforts are being made at the Beijing Wang-Yang Foods and JEANAVICE factories, both of which are dedicated plants of SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) and SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN), to utilize unneeded food materials generated by each plant. The Beijing Wang-Yang Foods Factory reuses unneeded food as feedstock for a pig farm, whereas the JEANAVICE Factory has a nursery collect residual bread under contract. Both plants use wastewater treatment facilities that clean water to the same or higher standard than government standards to ensure that polluted water is not discharged. The JEANAVICE Factory has wrapped insulation materials around the exterior of its boiler. Doing so has increased the combustion efficiency of the boiler. As a result, natural gas consumption in 2016 was reduced by approximately 20% compared with the previous year. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 159 In recent years, public demand for companies to take a progressive stance on CSR has been rising sharply in China. Under the policies of the Chinese government, CSR implementation guidelines and assessment benchmarks have been formulated, and CSR assessment rankings have been published. Since 2013, Chengdu Ito‒Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial have been taking steps to create structures for promoting CSR more comprehensively and holding committee meetings. The Corporate Culture and Ethics Subcommittee of Chengdu Ito-Yokado established a correspondence course that enables employees to acquire operational knowledge and technical awareness to ensure correct corporate behavior. Hua Tang Yokado Commercial’s Corporate Culture and Ethics Subcommittee works to ensure that all employees are aware of the Corporate Creed and Corporate Action Guidelines. The subcommittee worked to ensure that when employees’ contracts were cancelled due to store closures, the contract cancellations were mutually agreed, keeping in mind the importance of dealing sincerely with people. The Environmental Subcommittees at both Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial aim to save electricity and water, and have advanced discussions towards energy-conscious store operations. The Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee works to promote provision of safe and reliable products and services, which helps to make them even better. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 160 In July 2016, Chengdu Ito‒Yokado published its first CSR Report, covering its social and environmental activities. In the course of preparing the report, the company referred to the Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS‒CSR 3.0) developed by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and the international Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). There is a comparison table for the two guidelines at the back of the report. The CSR report for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 was published in August 2017, with plans to distribute it to attendees at the Sichuan Province CSR reporting meeting and at meetings for the general public. Amid a rise in public interest in safety and reliability of food, we provide products using quality and freshness management expertise developed in Japan. Sales staff, product departments and quality management divisions receive education on safety laws and regulations, production and processing standards, hygiene standards, and other aspects. Around 710 employees of Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial have been made aware of safety and quality management. Chengdu Ito-Yokado employees each receive a copy of the “Standard Operation Manual” to establish a unified standard for production and processes. While improving quality on one hand, a representative from Head Office regularly visits stores to check that they are providing products that meet our standards. Annual third-party audits are also conducted. We also visit our business partners farms and factories regularly to see that they are meeting our standards for facilities and equipment, hygiene and production management, inspection systems, individual hygiene, and legal and regulatory CSR. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Chengdu Ito-Yokado audited its business partners 64 times, and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial audited its business partners 6 times. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 161 In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, Chengdu Ito‒Yokado launched sales of 看得見的放心 food products, which are based on the same concept as the Fresh Foods with Traceability products launched in Japan. Consumers can scan a QR code on these products to confirm on a dedicated website who the farmers are and where and how the products were grown. In the fiscal year ending February 28, 2017, the 看得見的放心 product range was increased further to around 110 lines. These products have proven popular with customers who have a particularly strong interest in food safety and reliability, including customers with children and expectant mothers. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, Hua Tang Yokado Commercial started selling organic foods in cooperation with farmers by establishing rigorous food safety management systems and drawing up annual cultivation plans. Furthermore, the company also provides 放心肉項目 meat products, for which customers are able to use consoles installed in sales areas to confirm the meat producer. This system was set up based on instructions from the Beijing Municipal Commission of Commerce. The safe meat project further strengthened traceability in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 with the introduction of a third-party supervision system for quality management by local authorities. Development of看得見的放心 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 162 Since the fiscal year ended 28, 2009, Chengdu Ito-Yokado appointed 10 customers at each store to act as a quality supervision officers to help improve its products and stores from the perspective of the customers who actually shop there. The quality supervision officers meet at each store once a quarter to give their opinions, and are encouraged to make proposals on matters that they have noticed at any time. The opinions of the quality supervision officers led to the introduction of China’s popular WeChat Pay and Alipay smartphone app payment systems. Customers have been able to use these since September 2016. In addition to quality supervision officers, we asked for cooperation from 80 customers and received 219 opinions. Based on these, we reviewed product volumes and took other steps to provide even better products. Other efforts included making home visits to 600 customers living in our stores’ neighborhoods to ask their opinions. In March, June, and September we conducted customer satisfaction surveys, asking for opinions from 6,000 customers. Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial also collect opinions via the Internet, telephones, opinion boxes, and instore conversations. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Chengdu Ito-Yokado received 10,401 opinions and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial received 69,293 thanks to proactive efforts by store employees to create a system for gathering opinions. We value customers opinions and we are establishing systems to create stores that reflect their wishes. Salmon tasting event at the 双楠 store Sandwich tasting event at the 锦华 store Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 163 Chengdu Ito‒Yokado is involved in providing educational support and in supporting households in poverty, among others. The company makes annual donations to Sichuan University, and as of 2016 it has made 19 donations that have supported 530 students. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, the company donated \330,000 to Japanese language students of Sichuan University and \1,200,000 to 30 outstanding students. Moreover, prior to Children’s Day, the company donated \160,000 to each of six Ito Friendship Elementary Schools to assist with activity expenses for Children’s Day. The company also held summer camp events over two days and one night in which children enjoyed the experience of managing a store for a day and visiting a museum. This year, the company donated breakfast to 蒲江成雅友愛 Elementary Schools Friendship Elementary School to help foster the habit of eating breakfast among the many local elementary school students who do not eat breakfast. The donation was intended to assist the development of the children and included supplies such as milk, eggs, and jam, as well as cash, with a total value of \1,060,000. In other efforts, the stores make seasonal visits to local households experiencing poverty, people with disabilities, and elderly people living alone, giving them presents of living essentials. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 the company donated a total of \6.11 million through these social contribution activities. ※ *CNY 1 = ¥16.76 Donations for Outstanding Students Participants in the summer camp event Chengdu Ito-Yokado visited local households experiencing poverty and elderly people living alone to give them presents of living essentials on the Spring Festival, the Dragon Boat Festival, the Mid-Autumn Festival, and the Double Ninth Festival. We also designate the third week of every month as Environmental Protection Week, during which employees at every store clean up the areas around the stores. Hua Tang Yokado Commercial conducts cleanup activities every day, with employees striving to lead neighborhood beautification efforts. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 164 Since opening our first stores in China, we have been actively appointing local employees with the aim of developing stores that are deeply tied to local communities. At Chengdu Ito‒Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial, Chinese store managers have been appointed. The ratio of Chinese employees in management positions, excluding executives, is close to 90%, with 86.3% at Chengdu Ito-Yokado and 88.6% at Hua Tang Yokado Commercial. In addition, we have been making progress on the appointment of women in China. The ratio of women in management positions, excluding executives, was 54.7% at Chengdu Ito‒Yokado, with female store managers at two out of the six stores, and 57.1% at Hua Tang Yokado Commercial, with a female store manager at one of its two stores. 3,520 426 269 6 24.0% 4.9% 86.3% 88.6% 54.7% 57.1% 56 13 Training programs have been enhanced to boost the motivation of local employees and enable them to demonstrate their abilities to the fullest. At Chengdu Ito-Yokado, we developed correspondence programs for enhancing employees’ primary qualification capabilities and their workplace operation skills in 2016. These courses have been developed to nurture human resources with “three capabilities” (the ability to move forward, the ability to think things through thoroughly, and the ability to work as part of a team). The programs are provided to all store employees, including management. This has enabled them to acquire operational knowledge and skills by correspondence. Furthermore, practical skills training sessions are open for all employees to observe if they wish, even if they are not undertaking training, and they are able to learn directly from the lecturer. We also hold an operational skills contest and award the winners to encourage employees to improve through friendly competition. At Hua Tang Yokado Commercial, awards are presented for employee of the month each month, as well as for department of the month to motivate employees. Furthermore, five employees from each store are commended and awarded as “service stars” for providing service at or above a certain standard. The recipients may be full time, part time, or tenant sore employees. Operation skills contest (Chengdu Ito-Yokado) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 165 Chengdu Ito-Yokado invites lecturers with knowledge about CSR to workshops for identifying corporate social responsibility and issues to be addressed moving forward. Hua Tang Yokado Commercial analyzes customer feedback to identify issues and decides on a course of action through general management meetings and meetings for reflecting on issues, mainly with store management and the Head Office Product Division. Making reference to the Corporate Creed and the corporate code of conduct, we continue striving to ensure that employees remain aware of these issues and observe conduct guidelines to uphold the public’s trust in the company. In the fiscal year ended February 29, 2016, Chengdu Ito-Yokado began operating a Self-Recommendation System as a show of respect for the autonomy of employees and to provide an outlet for their motivation. The system is for employees who have worked for the company for at least one year, and allows them to put themselves forward as candidates for the jobs they seek. Applicants who pass assessments are assigned to their desired workplace after a training period. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, 59 people were assigned to their desired workplace out of 29 applicants. Concern over air pollution and other environmental problems is growing in China, and with the progress on the Paris Agreement, the government is also strengthening regulations. Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial are working to reduce their environmental impact through measures such as installing energy-efficient equipment. Under an agreement with the city of Chengdu, Chengdu Ito-Yokado was required to reduce energy consumption by 780 standard coal tons in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, and achieved the target with a reduction of 902 standard coal tons. New stores were fitted with the latest, highly efficient refrigeration systems, and we invested in energy saving equipment. In the back rooms, we strove to avoid wasting energy, and worked to save water through measure such allowing items to defrost naturally rather than using running water. At Hua Tang Yokado Commercial, we established an energy-saving target with the city of Beijing, aiming to reduce energy usage by 356.2 standard coal tons in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017. We reduced energy usage by 921.9 standard coal tons, meeting the target. We also participated in an assessment of our execution on promises related to CO2 emissions credits and target transactions. In 2016, our CO2 emissions target was 16,384 tons, against which our actual emissions were 13,204 tons, achieving the target. Hua Tang Yokado Commercial works to reduce its environmental load by concentrating products centrally before sorting them for each store and delivering them. By continuously operating this scheme, the company contributes to reducing CO2 emissions by reducing the number of delivery vehicles, easing urban traffic congestion, and preventing noise and atmospheric pollution. 2014 2015 2016 6 6 6 9,503 9,886 8,984 75,197 78,582 83,110 198 200 620 808 747 828 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 166 2014 2015 2016 6 5 2 7,465 4,340 3,418 41,738 24,765 19,255 812 448 4,489 309 177 130 Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Hua Tang Yokado Commerical received the following awards in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, in recognition of its various initiatives. “Sichuan Top 10 Economic Leaders” award (Chairman Tomohiro Saegusa) Huaxi City Daily “2016 Sichuan Industry Leaders Top 10” Huaxi City Daily Fiscal 2016 Sichuan Innovative Manager”award (Chairman Tomohiro Chengdu Economic Daily Saegusa) National Fashion Tri-Cities Fashion Industrial Zone Commerce and Toutiao Industry Leader”award Fiscal 2016 Retailer Best 10： Chengdu Retailers' Award for Contribution to Differentiated Experience-Based Sales Areas Association and Areas that Facilitate Purchasing Annual Public Benefit Contribution Award Chinese Commercial Brand Best 10 China Retailer’s Association China Business Herald “Chengdu City May Day Award” Chengdu City General Labor Union “2015-2016 China Retail Person of the Fiscal Year Special Prize” China Retail Federation (Chairman Tomohiro Saegusa) Fiscal 2016 Tax Payment Grand Prize Wuhou District CPC Committee of Chengdu、 Wuhou District People's Government of Chengdu “Closest to Consumers” Award (Jinhua Store) Chengdu Business Council 017 Chengdu Chinese New Year Shopping Season Award： Chengdu Business Most Suited to Chengdu, Most Stylish, Most Suited to New Year, Closest Council to Consumers, Sales Floor with the Most Product Explanations 2Fiscal 2016 “Top 10 Tax Payments by Modern Commercial Trading State Taxation Bureau of Field” Wuhou District Shopping Fair “Favorite Sales Area” (High-tech Store) Chengdu Business Council 2016 Contribution Prize Sichuan Trade Council Model Store for Safe and Reliable Consumption (Jianshe Road Store) Chengdu Administration for Industry and Commerce 2016 Leading Companies with Safest Production Systems Chaoyang District Xiaoguan Subdistrict Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 167 “JDMC Fiscal 2016 Data Japan Data Management Recognized for providing a model Seven & i Holdings Management Award” Grand Consortium (JDMC) for other companies in data Prize management activities both present and into the future. 2017 Certified Health and Ministry of Economy, Trade Designated as a company that Seven & i Holdings Productivity Management and Industry considers employee health and Seven‒Eleven Japan Organization Nippon Kenko Kaigi productivity management from a Ito‒Yokado management perspective and takes Sogo & Seibu strategic action. York Benimaru Seven & i Food Systems York Mark Seven Card Service Third rank “L-Boshi” Ministry of Health, Labour Recognized for achieving the Seven & i Holdings Designation as a genderand Welfare designation standard in all five Ito‒Yokado advanced company based on evaluation categories: recruitment, Nissen Holdings the Act on the Promotion of career continuation, work style Women’s Participation and factors such as working hours, Advancement in the management ratio, and diversity of Workplace career paths. Second rank “L-Boshi” Seven & i Food Designation as a genderSystems advanced company based on the Act on the Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Placed No. 2 overall in the Nikkei Inc. Recognized for track record of Seven & i Holdings 100 Best Companies Where appointing women, along with Women Play Active Parts efforts to change the mindset of women and revise systems and to change the mindset of men and management personnel, with the goal of raising the ratio of women in management positions to 30% or more by 2020. Outstanding Performance Ministry of the Environment Recognized for taking distinctive Seven & i Holdings Prize, 20th Environmental Global Environmental Forum initiatives on the environment, then Communication Awards collating the data at the end and disclosing a large amount of information. The First Nihon Service Service Productivity & Recognized for easy accessibility to Seven‒Eleven Japan Award Spring Award Prize Innovation for Growth anyone and high level of Seven Meal Services for Excellence (SPRING) convenience offered through the service provided to people who cannot easily prepare daily meals, such as the elderly, working people, business offices, and so forth. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 168 Fiscal 2016 Kyoto Kyoto Prefecture Recognized for accepting over 200 Seven-Eleven Japan Prefectural Governor’s junior high school students for work (Hyogo and Keiji zone) Award for Nurturing Healthy experience programs each year at Youth 44 stores in Kyoto Prefecture, and continuing this initiative. The 52nd National Blood Ministry of Health, Labour Recognized for cooperating with Ito‒Yokado Donation Promotion and Welfare blood donation drives since 1970, Campaign assisting with popularization Minister of Health, Labour activities and recent active and Welfare Award promotion of 400 ml donations in addition to blood donation activities in 21 prefectures. Supply Chain Innovation The Council for the Recognized for outstanding Ito‒Yokado Award Collaboration between the industry-leading initiatives to Manufacturing, Distribution optimize the overall supply chain for and Sales Sectors Ito-Yokado in an effort to reduce (Supported by Ministry of the number of product returns and Economy, Trade and streamline delivery. Industry) Fiscal 2016 Special Award The National Caravan‒Mate Recognized for providing detailed Ito‒Yokado for Example of Excellent Coordinating Committee care, shopping support, and other Dementia Support Activities services at stores in accordance with the local situation. The company’s efforts to work in coordination with local government and residents were judged to be effective for a second consecutive year. 20th Environmental Nikkei Inc. Recognized for excellence not only Sogo & Seibu Management Survey 2017 in systems for promoting 1st place in the Retail and environmental management and Restaurant Category global warming countermeasures, but also for pollution countermeasures and response to biodiversity, and resource recycling. HDI Rating Award 2016 HDI-HDI-Japan (Help Desk Recognized for being “cheerful and Seven Bank Three Stars Institute) friendly” and for providing a “sense of confidence” in the support provided at the enquiry contact desk in a customer-perspective survey based on HDI’s international standards. KIDS DESIGN AWARD 2016 KIDS DESIGN A baby bather made for easy use by AKACHAN HONPO ASSOCIATION fathers and a bra that enables easy breastfeeding were recognized as designs that facilitate having and raising children. 2016 Store Brand magazine Recognized for setting long-term 7-Eleven,Inc. Achievement Award targets of a 25% reduction in the electricity usage at stores and Head Office and the environmental burden of packaging by 2025 (compared with 2015). Further information about the award history of the China superstore business can be found here. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 169 Seven & i Holdings has been selected as a component of the following SRI indexes. The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index was launched in 1999 as the first global sustainability benchmark. It is offered by RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The series tracks the stock performance of the world's leading companies in terms of economic, environmental and Dow Jones Sustainability social perspectives. Seven & i Holdings has been selected as a component of the DJSI Asia Index:Member of DJSI Pacific index, which focuses on the Asia‒Pacific region. Asia-Pacific. Further details about the Dow Jones Sustainability Index can be found here The FTSE4Good Index is created by global index provider FTSE Russell. The index is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE4Good Index is widely used for creating and evaluating responsible investment funds and other financial instruments. Seven & i Holdings has been FTSE4Good selected as a component stock of the index. Further details about the FTSE4Good Index can be found here The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is created by global index provider FTSE Russell. The index is designed measure the performance of Japanese companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is widely used for creating and evaluating sustainable investment funds and other financial instruments. Seven & i Holdings has been selected as a component stock of the index. FTSE Blossom Japan Index Further details about the FTSE Blossom Japan Index can be found here The MSCI ESG Leaders Indexe is free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index targeting companies that have the highest environmental, social and governance (ESG) rated performance. Seven & i Holdings is a constituent stock of these indexes. MSCI ESG Select Leaders Further details about MSCI ESG Select Leaders Indexes can be found here Indexes Seven & i Holdings is included in the MSCI indexes and use of the MSCI logo, trademark, service mark or index name is not an endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Seven & i Holdings by MSCI or its affiliates. The MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. The names and logos of MSCI and the MSCI Indexes are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. MS‒SRI (Morning Star Socially Responsible Investing Index) is Japan's first domestic SRI stock price index, created by Morningstar Inc. and comprised of 150 companies listed in Japan, which Morningstar Socially are selected for the superior social responsibility. Seven & i Holdings has also been selected as Responsible Investment a component stock of this index. Index Further details about the MS-SRI can be found here(Japanese Only) The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange have been jointly undertaking the Nadeshiko Brand initiative for the purpose of selecting and publicizing 1-3 listed companies from each industry that actively encourage women’s success in the Nadeshiko Brand workplace. Seven & i Holdings was selected as a Nadeshiko Brand 2017 in March 2017. Further details about Nadeshiko Brand can be found here(Japanese Only) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 170 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 171 Seven & i Holdings Website: http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Group Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 t-CO2 3,601,718 3,446,259 3,394,352 Scope 1 t-CO2 113,422 106,449 122,593 Scope 2 t-CO2 3,488,296 3,339,810 3,271,759 CO2 emissions from store operations *2 GWｈ 6,753 6,753 6,847 Electricity consumption in store operations *3 1,000㎥ 33,760 33,760 35,920 Water usage in store operations (recycling rate) *4 t(%) 668,429 (52.7) 668,429 (52.7) 662,258 (50.7) *1 For FY2014 and FY2015, totals are for 10 companies: (SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, SHELL GARDEN and 7-Eleven,Inc.). For FY2016, totals are for 11 companies due to the addition of Life Foods. (Data coverage is 95.0% of sales) *2 For FY2014 and FY2015, totals are for 14 companies: (SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, SHELL GARDEN 7-Eleven,Inc. SEVENELEVEN HAWAII,INC., SEVEN-ELEVEN(BEIJING), Chengdu Ito-Yokado, and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial). For FY2016, totals are for 15 companies due to the addition of Life Foods. (Data coverage is 96.4% of sales) *3 Totals are for 14 companies: (SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, SHELL GARDEN 7-Eleven,Inc. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII,INC., SEVEN-ELEVEN(BEIJING), Chengdu Ito-Yokado, and Hua Tang Yokado Commercial). (Data coverage is 95.9% of sales) *4 Totals are for 6 companies: (SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems). (Data coverage is 66.4% of sales) Group Personnel Data (Domestic in Japan) *1 Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 16 years 15 years 16 years Full-time employees *2 25,846 (full-time employees) 1 month 1 months 2 months Male 18,938 Number of full-time employees who 977 1,015 1,233 took childcare leave *5 (males, part-time staff) （11、503） （9、411） （10、583） Female 6,908 Number of full-time employees who 24（2、15） 32 （11、11） 50（10、33） Part-time staff *3 59,239 took nursing leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Male 12,633 Number of volunteer leave recipients 13 15 33 Female 46,606 Percentage of women in 22.9% 26.2% 26.3% Number of employees 85,085 management positions *6 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Team leader 25.6% 25.1% 30.2% Male 31,571 Section manager 16.8% 22.6% 23.0% Female 53,514 Division manager 7.2% 8.9% 10.0% New graduate employees hired 1,025 Executive officer 13.3% 15.0% 14.7% Male 532 Percentage of employees with disabilities *7 2.29% 2.47% 2.51% Female 493 Percentage of paid holidays taken 22.3% 27.6% 34.7% Mid-career employees hired 531 *1 Totals are for eight companies: Seven & i Holdings, SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, Seven & i Food Systems, Male 441 Akachan Honpo, and Seven Bank. (The sales of the eight companies account for 91% of the Group's Female 90 domestic sales.) *2 Data includes 1,511 persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Turnover (full-time employees) *4 1,409 *3 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *4 Excluding mandatory retirement persons, but including Sogo & Seibu’s voluntary retirement persons in October 2016. . *5 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *6 Totals are for eight companies: (Seven & i Holdings, SEJ, IY, Sogo & Seibu, YB, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, and Seven Bank). The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *7 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), SEJ, IY, and Seven & i Food Systems. Groupwide Data FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 for Consultation Services Contacts received 705 844 845 for Employees At Seven & i Holdings, as part of Groupwide Description of contacts received by Internal Consultation By user category internal controls, we have established Service by topic (FY2016) within a third-party organization a Help Others Unrelated Affiliation unknown Part-time staff 10% consulting due to anonymity 54% Line for receiving consultation requests 5% 22% and reports from employees. Suspected violation Work environment, This is a system that applies to both the of rules, laws, or human relations regulations 31% employees of Seven & i Holdings and 10% Others 3% Full-time the employees of domestic consolidated employees Labor contracts 14% subsidiaries, being established to and performance Suspected power harassment Employees of Families of proactively prevent, quickly discover, reviews 23% temporary workers employees 7% promptly correct and stop reoccurrences and subcontractors 4% Work, holidays, 3% of any behavior across the Group that leave, overtime, would result in a loss of public trust. etc. 15% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 172 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Number of stores as of February 29, 2016: 18,572 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact ●Acquire ISO 14001: 2015 ●Achieved acquisition of ISO 14001: 2015 〇 ●Reduce findings needing correction ●Reduce findings needing correction ●One non-compliant finding occurred △ following regular ISO 14001:2015 audit to a following ISO 14001: 2015 acquisition audit following ISO 14001: 2015 acquisition audit level below FY2017 Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Install highly energy-efficient store ●FY2017 results: Installed in 2,628 stores ○ ●Install even more highly energy-efficient illumination in 2,550 stores (1,800 new (new stores and renovated stores) store illumination for 3,000 stores (including stores and 750 renovated stores) replacements) ●Expand hybrid vehicles within the logistics’ ●Expanded hybrid vehicles within the 〇 ●Expand hybrid vehicles within the logistics’ deliveries fleet to 750 logistics' deliveries fleet to 760 deliveries fleet to 840 Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Reduce plastic bag usage per store to a level ●Plastic bags usage per store: 947.9 kg ○ ●Reduce plastic bag usage per store to a level below FY2016 (down 1.3% from FY2016) below FY2017 ●Food product recycling rate: Achieve 53.4% ●Food product recycling rate: Achieved 〇 ●Food product recycling rate: Achieve 54.4% or higher 53.4% or higher Offering eco-friendly products ●Expand measures to reduce CO2 in products ●Expanded installation of eco-friendly PET ○ ●Use botanical inks that are friendly to the that use plastic containers containers to almost all PB containers for environment for packaging for sandwiches noodles and original bakery products ●Expand measures for eco-friendly containers ●Expanded measures for eco-friendly ○ ●Make all containers and packaging for and packaging for SEVEN CAFÉ products containers and packaging (hot bodies, ice SEVEN CAFÉ products compliant with lids, etc.) for SEVEN CAFÉ products eco-friendly packaging materials Raising environmental awareness among employees ●A cumulative 800 or more employees to ●A cumulative 814 or more employees ○ ●A cumulative 1,800 or more employees to pass the Eco Test (employees who take the passed the Eco Test (employees who took pass the Eco Test (expand employees who test are mainly from the Merchandizing the test were mainly from the Merchandizing take the test to the Store Development Department, to develop eco-friendly Department, to develop eco-friendly Department, to develop eco-friendly products) products) neighborhoods) Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 1,644,672 1,648,386 1,652,789 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *1 t-CO2 1,462,231 （87.0） 1,451,605 （78.2） 1,430,723 （73.7） Logistics-related CO2 emissions(per store）*4 t-CO2 179,330 （10.7） 193,750 （10.4） 218,927 （11.3） Electricity consumption in store operations (per store) *1 *3 GWｈ （MWh） 2,584（154） 2,665（144） 2,718（140） Water consumption in store operations *1 *5 1,000㎥ 10,412 11,229 10,154 Plastic bag consumption per store (by weight) t 0.96 0.96 Waste disposal (recycling rate) *6 ｔ（％） 409,228 （47.1） 422,116 (47.9) 422,116 （45.4） Food product recycling rate * 7 ％ 51.3 52.4 53.4 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 The data show CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, logistics, headquarters, training center and district office operations. *3 Calculations are based on estimated electricity consumption for stores where data was not available. *4 The period of the calculations was March to February. This data represents CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy for distribution center operation and delivery trucks. *5 Calculations are based on estimated water consumption by approximately 3,400 stores in prefectural capitals. *6 Calculations are based on estimated emissions by the stores in Tokyo, Kyoto, etc. The period of the calculations was January to December. The amount of food waste was calculated based on the standard of *7 *7 Calculated based on the reports submitted by food recycling companies. The period of the calculations was April to March. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 173 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Service by topic for FY2016 Contacts received: 151,574 In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, Seven & i Holdings began strengthening its (up 13.4% from the previous fiscal year’s level) response to customers by setting up a call center, aiming to improve customer satisfaction Compliments Other regarding opinions and inquiries. In addition, since many of the issues pointed out are 1.2% 10.9% related to customer service, we are reviewing the content of our cash register customer Environment service training to strengthen support for franchise stores. 5.5% Customer care Service 41.7% 6.8% General inquiries Products 16.6% 17.3% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Continue to improve evaluations received in ●Improved the rate of NDF-HACCP 〇 ●Review NDF-HACCP certification system and NDF-HACCP maintenance audits in the certification acquisition in the dedicated revitalize activities, for the adoption of the dedicated factories for daily food products factories for daily food products HACCP system in FY2020 Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Stores adopting barrier-free design: 850 ●Stores that adopted barrier-free design: 956 ○ ●New stores adopting barrier-free design (installing toilets accessible by wheelchairs) : 1,000 ●Stores where the minimum necessary ●New stores where the minimum necessary △ ●Number of stores to have newly installed facilities continue operation even during facilities continue operation even during guard pipes to prevent vehicle “dive” blackouts: 1,800 blackouts: 1,651 (all stores already accidents: 1,000 equipped) ●Stores where guardrails are installed (for ●Stores where guardrails were installed: ○ stores with car parks): 1,800 (planned to New stores: 1,028; Existing stores: 1,156; install at all stores for which it is possible) Total: 2,184 Assuring appropriate information provision ●Create a website that consolidates ●In November 2016, “Initiatives for Society ○ ●Improve the frequency of updating CSR news information on CSR as part of the 7-Eleven and the Environment” were renewed as the ●Implement responsive web design/support website, and strive to give clear disclosure “CSR” page. to make it easy to browse on smartphones Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Improve the response rate to telephone ●Improved efficiency of telephone response △ ●Increase speed of improvement by inquiries by increasing the number of staff by establishing call centers collaborating with departments in charge of who respond to customers. Meet increased ●Strengthened the system as there is room for matters frequently inquired about demand for customer service accompanying improvement in response at peak of ●Strive to improve quality of responses to the increase in the number of stores by incoming calls incoming calls strengthening employees’ customer care training Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Mobile stores: 40 ●In FY2016, introduced 35 mobile stores, △ ●Mobile stores: 70 Electric vehicles: 1,000 831 electric vehicles, and 2,635 electricDelivery vehicles such as electric vehicles: Power-assisted bicycles: Promote use of assisted vehicles 1,000 close-by, convenient stores with the aim of Strengthen shopping assistance for introducing 3,000 bicycles customers who find it difficult to shop, including elderly people and working women Assisting in local community revitalization ●Promote new conclusion of comprehensive ●Concluded Comprehensive Regional ○ ●At the same time as concluding a alliance agreements with municipalities and Vitalization Partnership Agreements with 76 comprehensive agreement with a new local promote ongoing initiatives to conclude local governments, and special agreements authority, proactively conduct ongoing more specific individual alliance agreements for supporting the elderly (including some initiatives related to societal issues, guardian angel agreements ) with 353 local including senior support under the governments agreement Providing support in times of disaster ●Enhance support systems, including for ●Concluded new disaster support ○ ●Implement effective training, including for business partners, and cooperate effectively agreements with Ehime Prefecture, Kochi business partners, and cooperate effectively with national and local governments in Prefecture, Toyama Prefecture, Fukui with national and local governments in order to fulfill the infrastructure functions, Prefecture, Gifu Prefecture, and others order to fulfill the infrastructure functions, including the continuation of store including the continuation of store operations at the time of a disaster, operations at the time of a disaster Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●Collaborate with the prefectural police and ●6,840 stores participated in crime prevention △ ●Collaborate with the prefectural police and local police stations in sharing information, drills and seminars (36.4% participation rate). local police stations in sharing information, and achieve a participation rate for crime Worked to revise the content and implement and achieve a participation rate for crime prevention drills and seminars of 50% or the drills for communicating remittance-fraud prevention drills and seminars of 50% or higher prevention, etc. higher Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 174 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Enhance training for new employees ●Enhanced training for new employees ○ ●Use e-learning to conduct education about (Strengthen education about compliance (Strengthened education about compliance compliance and CSR to all employees and CSR) and CSR) ●Promote compliance education for District ●Used e-learning to promote education about Managers compliance and CSR to all employees Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Digitize evaluation feedback and build a ●Encouraged digitization of evaluation ○ ●Introduce a new evaluation system mechanism that reliably communicates feedback, and realized a mechanism that Aim to maximize the consolidation of target self-evaluations reliably feeds back the self-evaluations management together with the results Achieving a work-life balance ●Encourage male employees to take ●Number of male users：1 △ ●Build flexible work styles, including a childcare leave staggered working hours attendance system ●Encourage employees to take more paid ●Paid leave usage rate: 62.4% ○ ●Encourage employees to take more paid leave leave employees to take more paid leave Making use of diverse human resources ●Number of people with disabilities to be ●Number of people with disabilities that were △ ●Number of people with disabilities to be employed as employees: 30 employed as employees: 28 employed as employees: 27 ●Percentage of female managers (Team ●Percentage of female managers (Team △ ●Percentage of female managers (Team leader or higher positions)：32％ leader or higher positions)：31.4％ leader or higher positions)：32％ Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce the number of traffic accidents and ●Traffic accidents and violations: both × ●Reduce the number of traffic accidents and violations by 10% compared to FY2015 decreased slightly violations by 10% compared to FY2016 ●Reduce the number of workplace accidents ●Number of workplace accidents: decreased ○ ●Reduce the number of workplace accidents by 10% compared to FY2015 15% compared to FY2015 by 10% compared to FY2016 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 9 years 8 years 9 years Full-time employees *1 8,408 (full-time employees) 6 months 1 month 2 months Male 5,982 Number of full-time employees who 159 （0、0） 188（0、1） 251 （1、4） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 2,426 Number of full-time employees who 2 （1、0） 3 （3、0） 4 （4、0） Part-time staff *2 7,836 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 3,240 Number of volunteer leave recipients 1 3 8 Female 4,596 Percentage of women in 30.5% 31.2% 31.0% Number of employees 16,244 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 2.29% 2.47% 2.51% Male 9,222 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 45.5% 47.9% 62.4% Female 7,022 employees New graduate employees hired 537 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.01％ 0.15％ 0.04％ Male 265 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.0005％ 0.01％ 0.00％ Female 272 *1 Data includes 88 persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Mid-career employees hired 489 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 411 takers of leave) Female 78 *4 Section manager or higher. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 for Employees Contacts received: 100 (up 45% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category As a result of conducting awareness surveys regarding the workplace Other Unrelated Affiliation unknown Part-time staff 10% consulting services due to anonymity 43% environment for all employees, and at 15% 2% the same time informing everyone about Suspected Work environment, the in-house reporting system and noncompliance human relations 15% 40% Other increasing the number of employee 8% Full-time consultation centers, etc., the total employees Labor contracts Suspected power number of consultations has been and performance harassment 42% reviews increasing. Seven & i Holdings has 4% 9% Temporary Families of workers and employees prepared a system to help resolve each Work, holidays, subcontractors 4% consultation. In addition, we are leave, overtime 1% working to acquire knowledge and 7% foster awareness by implementing training about compliance and introducing e-learning. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 175 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/index.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 171 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Stores changing from fluorescent tubes to ●Introduced LED lighting in 108 stores 〇 ●Stores changing from fluorescent tubes to LED lighting: 108 LED lighting: 13 ●Delivery distance per store: 235,000 km ●Delivery distance per store: 235,000 km ○ ●Delivery distance per store: 225,000 km (same level as FY2015) (4.0% reduction compared to FY2015) (same level as FY2016) Number of stores at end of FY2016: 186 Average number of stores operational in Calculate from average number of stores FY2016: 182 operational in FY2017 Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Food product recycling rate: 52% ●Food product recycling rate: 52.1% ○ ●Food product recycling rate: 53.0% ●Stores that implement recycling: 100 stores ●Stores that implement recycling: 88 stores × ●Stores that implement recycling: 90 stores Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Targeted number of employees to take the ●Number of employees who took the Eco ○ ●Employees that passed the Eco Test: 200 Eco Test: 200 Test: 444 (up 244 from FY2015) Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 550,358 519,827 499,383 CO2 emissions from store operations *1 *3 t-CO2 524,418 493,858 474,179 (Environmental impact index*4) （t-CO2/1,000,000㎡×1,000h） （105） （99） （96） CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles *1 *3 t-CO2 23,638 23,590 24,896 Electricity consumption in store operations *1 GWｈ 851 838 826 Water usage in store operations *1 1,000㎥ 6,441 6,682 6,649 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section （t ％） 1,268(70.2) 1,210(71.7) 1,219 （71.5） Waste disposal (recycling rate) ｔ （％） 131,787(66.7) 138,568(65.8) 136,078 （65.5） Food product recycling rate ％ 50.1 51.2 52.1 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. *4 CO2 emissions per (total sales floor area × opening hours). Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 Contacts received from customers were down by 16% from the previous fiscal year. Contacts received: 66,747 Service complaints, which comprise 29% of total contacts, declined by 13%. (down 16% from the previous fiscal year’s level) We will continue to analyze the cause of complaints and take steps to prevent a recurrence. Others, tenants 5.6% Service Apparel 29.3% 5.1% Household goods 6.5% Food 27.9% Cash registers 12.3% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 176 FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Implement even more detailed quality ●Revised internal standards in compliance ○ ●Review the internal systems to enable the control activities to further improve quality with changes in laws and regulations, and Group to respond promptly in the event of conducted awareness raising activities both an accident internally and externally ●Participated in both governmental and ○ public-organization committees Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Create a procedure manual specializing in ●Started to create stores' initial responses △ ●Complete a procedure manual concerning stores’ initial responses and action plans stores' initial responses and action plans ●Confirm changes such as damage ●Confirmed changes such as damage ●Create a procedure manual concerning predictions by government agencies and predictions by government agencies and Head Office’s initial responses and action reflect them in the countermeasures reflected them in the countermeasures plans manual, etc. manual, etc. Conclude and review contents of disaster agreement Assuring appropriate information provision ●Summarize the results of the monthly ●Results of store interview: ○ ●Continue to provide on-site training at the interviews and provide information to Head A grade: 93% (an improvement of 11 store interview, share information with Head Office, including concrete examples of percentage points) Office, and strive to prevent any recurrence inappropriate labeling, to prevent B grade: 6% (a worsening of 11 percentage of inappropriate labeling recurrence points) C grade:1% (no change) Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Use customer complaints to drive specific ●Implemented new handling of newly offered △ ●Find out the cause of a customer's opinion improvements products upon customer request, and (scolding the Group or being criticized), and reviewed the functional appeal of products make a proactive proposal that leads to more detailed improvement actions ●Narrow down to nine challenging stores, ●No. of service complaints at all stores 〇 ●Conduct a mini-training session to improve and carry out causal-research and Down 12.8% YOY the skills to enable employees to seriously preventative measures No. of service complaints at challenging engage (through empathy or acceptance) Aim especially to reduce service-related stores with the customer’s opinion complaints Down 17.9% YOY ●Disseminate information providing examples ●Disseminate a monthly pocket-sized manual 〇 of customer care and sales-floor guidance in addition to weekly customer feedback and work to improve the level of customer department information, for use in customer care care Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Deepen the development of products that ●Deepened (the development) for mainly 〇 ●Respond to elderly people who’s severity reflect customers’ feedback everyday clothing and daily consumables as level of care dependency is mild concerned well as welfare equipment for which there about the increased self-payment for nursing had been large dissatisfaction with the price care services (expand product lineup and conduct product development) ●Make it easier to select Internet shopping ●Promoted through a lineup of more than △ ●Increase awareness of sales areas and websites, enhance product lineups, and 10,000 items, and easy-to-select categories collaborate with related sales areas increase convenience for those who find it difficult to visit stores Providing support in times of disaster ●Conclude disaster support agreements with ●Concluded a new material support ○ ●Conclude disaster support agreements with local governments, etc., at store-opening agreement with Osaka City local governments, etc., at store-opening locations where there are no agreements ●Reviewed agreement with Okayama City locations where there are no agreements yet that was concluded in the past yet ●Successively revise the contents of ●Participated in disaster prevention drills ●Successively revise the contents of agreements concluded in the past arranged by local governments, etc., that agreements concluded in the past have concluded agreements (material support, etc.) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 177 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●In addition to newly appointed store ●In addition to OJT education for new store △ ●Improve retention and increase fighting managers and deputy managers, also managers and assistant managers, persons strength by conducting education tailored conduct OJT training for the person newly responsible for each sales area were to part-time employees with diverse work responsible for each sales area. Develop provided training from role-model corporate styles personnel capable of managing in officers, thereby inculcating an immediate ●Strive to strengthen management through accordance with front-line conditions by fighting strength under front-line conditions the further implementation of OJT conducting training at stores with roleeducation at each divisional sales area, model corporate officers provided by supervisors and trainers Making use of diverse human resources ●To promote respect for human rights and ●Number of training sessions: 84 ○ ●Conduct training from the customer normalization, hold training centered on Total no. of participants: 2,457 perspective and incorporate both stores from the user’s perspective, covering knowledge learning and hands-on learning both knowledge and practice, thereby to promote respecting human rights and helping to promote general awareness in normalization with the aim of leading to workplaces and increase understanding promoting general awareness and understanding in workplacess Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce lost work-time accidents (4 days or ●Lost work-time accidents: 152 ⇒ 126 ○ ●Further reduce lost work-time accidents more) to 90% compared to FY2015 Achieved a decrease of 17% YoY ●Continue to conduct level-specific training ●In addition to newly appointed corporate ○ ●Expand mental health education for existing on mental health and apply knowledge from officers, conducted sister training corporate officers (SM-BR corporate training on the front lines (conducted 8 times) officers) Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 21 years 21 years 22 years Full-time employees *1 7,807 (full-time employees) 7 months 0 months 1 months Male 5,725 Number of full-time employees who 260（0、138） 327 （2、137） 412 （3、233） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 2,082 Number of full-time employees who 15 （2、10） 11（2、11） 20（1、13） Part-time staff *2 24,772 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 4,732 Number of volunteer leave recipients 2 3 12 Female 20,040 Percentage of women in 22.4% 25.3% 25.6% Number of employees 32,579 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 2.29% 2.47% 2.51% Male 10,457 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 14.0% 16.5% 18.1% Female 22,122 employees New graduate employees hired 202 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 1.32 1.53 1.43 Male 80 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.03 0.03 0.03 Female 122 *1 Data includes 754 persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Mid-career employees hired 3 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 3 takers of leave) Female 0 *4 Team leader or higher. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 for Employees Contacts received:245 (down 22.7% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category The number of consultations in FY2016 decreased 22.7% compared to FY2015. Other Unrelated Affiliation unknown Part-time staff 7% consulting due to anonymity 57% The Group will continue striving to 5% 23% create workplaces that make Suspected Work environment, communication easy, through rigorous noncompliance human relations 12% 19% Other operational management and leading 1% Full-time by example by upper management employees Labor contracts Suspected power 11% and performance harassment reviews 30% Temporary Families of 7% workers and employees Work, holidays, subcontractors 4% leave, overtime 2% 19% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 178 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 21 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Expand recommendations in renewal audits, ●Recommended items: 9 (up 6 compared △ ●Expand recommendations in renewal audits, and reduce items indicated by audits with before) and reduce items indicated by audits Items indicated by audits: 13 (up 2 compared with before) Unacceptable items: 0 (no change compared with before) Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Reduce energy usage by 1% when ●Reduced by 6.5% compared to FY2015 ○ ●Reduce energy usage by 1% when calculated in terms of crude oil usage ●Installed LED lighting at Hiroshima store and calculated in terms of crude oil usage ●Continue to expand the introduction of LED Yokohama store (total investment of \143 ●Continue to expand the introduction of LED lighting million for 6,463 LED lighting units) lighting Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Food product recycling rate: 56.0% ●Food product recycling rate: 61.7% (Up ○ ●Food product recycling rate: 63.0% (Up (Up 0.4% from the previous year) 6.1% from the previous year) 1.3% from the previous year) ●Waste recycling rate: 63.0% ●Waste recycling rate: 62.4% (Up 1.6% from ●Waste recycling rate: 64.0% (Up 1.6% from (Up 2.2% from the previous year) the previous year) the previous year) ●Improve waste recycling rate by more ●Continue to improve waste recycling rate by detailed separation of waste more detailed separation of waste Implementing measures to conserve biodiversity ●Plantings: 1,870 trees ●Plantings: 1,476 trees △ ●Tree-planting results: 1,410 trees ●Promotion of anniversary-day gifts with Planting location: Miyako City, Iwate green wrapping: 67,000 gifts Prefecture ●Conduct tree-planting activities through ●Green wrapping: 63,575 gifts ●Continue to promote anniversary-day gifts employee volunteers ●Conducted tree-planting activities through with green wrapping: 65,660 gifts employee volunteers ●Conduct tree-planting activities through employee volunteers Offering eco-friendly products ●New products selected: 30 ●New eco-friendly products: 33 products ○ ●New products selected: 30 ●Enhance introduction of organic cotton ●Created A5 sized POP ●Continue to enhance introductions of products (babywear, towels, etc.) Sales of target products were ¥119.5 million organic cotton products (babywear, towels, Target achievement rate: 101.1% etc.) Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Environmental e-learning courses: All ●Environmental e-learning courses: Taken by △ ●Environmental e-learning courses: All employees to take all employees employees to take ●Number of employees reporting successful ●Number of employees reporting successful ●Number of employees reporting successful completion of the campaign to save completion of the campaign to save completion of the campaign to make electricity: 150 electricity: 59 employees save electricity: 100 ●Number of employees taking Eco Test: 46 ●Number of employees who took Eco Test: ●No. of employees taking Eco Test: 52 Pass rate: 90% 46 Pass rate: 90% Pass rate: 91.3% Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of stores Stores 24 24 23 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 194,315 193,101 173,088 CO2 emissions from store operations *1 *3 t-CO2 193,578 192,417 171,052 Electricity consumption in store operations *1 GWh 341 339 315 Water usage in store operations *1 1,000㎥ 2,265 2,262 2,128 Packaging consumption t 1,465 1,432 1,395 Waste disposal (recycling rate) （ t ％） 30,880 （62.1） 31,334（60.8） 29,390(62.4) Food product recycling rate ％ 54.7 55.6 61.7 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office, corporate sales, and distribution center operations. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 179 Consumer Challenges Customer Response Service Data Service by topic for FY2016 Contacts received: 9,161 In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017, we continued to share internally the customer (down 8% from the previous fiscal year’s level) opinions sent to the customer consultation desks at each store, so that they could be used Other to improve our customer care services and operations, together with our product lineups, 10% ancillary services and facilities. We promoted activities to resolve areas where customers Customer care were dissatisfied, and to reflect customer needs in our operating strategies. Misunderstanding 39% or unreasonable In the future, we will ascertain customers’ wishes from the opinions that we receive, and complaints 2% stores and Head Office will work together to strengthen our response. Products Service 20% 29% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Improve hygiene management knowledge of ●Improved hygiene management knowledge ○ ●Continue to improve hygiene management front-line staff using a booklet about basic of front-line staff using a booklet about basic knowledge of the front line staff points of food sanitation management points of food sanitation management at ●Based on hygiene inspection results, select ●Continue product inspection system for morning and lunch meetings as well as by issues for each store and focus on improving private brand apparel and general the front-line instructions them merchandise items ●Conducted 124 pre-delivery inspections of ●Continue product inspection system for ●Continue level-specific training to improve private-brand apparel and general private brand apparel and general front-line staff skills merchandise items merchandise items ●Implemented level-specific training to ●Continue level-specific training to improve improve front-line staff skills 24 times front-line staff skills Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Install long-time usage alarm devices for ●Introduced a long-term usage alarm device ○ ●Start inspections from a universal design multipurpose restrooms in one multi-purpose toilet in the Higashiperspective (Tokyo) Totsuka store Assuring appropriate information provision ●Cooperate with specialist organizations to ●Conducted food product labeling ○ ●Cooperate with specialist organizations to check and inspect both food product inspections by specialist organizations 161 check and inspect both food product labeling and the labeling of private-brand times for each base (kitchens and sales labeling and the labeling of private-brand apparel and general merchandise items, and areas) apparel and general merchandise items, and continue to implement appropriate labeling ●Conducted pre-delivery sampling continue to implement appropriate labeling and information disclosure inspections and twice monthly store-front and information disclosure inspections of the labeling of private brand items Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Analyze customers’ wishes from their ●Sent out a weekly Attentive Service ○ ●Continue to ascertain customers’ wishes opinions, and get stores and Head Office to newsletter leveraging customer opinions, from their opinions and get stores and Head work together to promote further and continuously implemented activities to Office to work together to promote further improvement in customer service awareness prevent complaints and improve customer improvement in customer service awareness among employees service awareness among employees ●Reduce the number of complaints from ●Continuously implemented activities ●Reduce the number of complaints from customers: Below 4,689 leveraging customer opinions and reduced customers: Below 3,800 the number of complaints by 652 from the previous year to 3,858 ●Established a dedicated customer hotline for customers of stores that had finished operations Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 180 Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue to operate Pre-Mama Stations and ●Pre-Mama Stations and Counters: 20,976 △ ●Continue Pre-Mama Stations and Counters Counters, and hold parent-child users (including 2,538 repeaters); Held and hold parent-child participation events participation events parent-child participation events and others, and maternity classes ●Strengthen sales of products developed by ●Not yet implemented due to reviewing the ●Strengthen customer development by incorporating the opinions customers product development sending core information for customers at shared with their midwives, and start each store via SNS from the Pre-Mama development of new products in 2017 Stations ●Continue new development ●Continued new development ●Continue new development Shoe fitters: 10 Shoe fitters: 11 Shoe fitters: 10 Formal-wear advisors: 5 Formal-wear advisors: 6 School bag advisors: 20 Shopping supporters for the elderly and Shopping supporters for the elderly and Formal-wear advisors: 5 people with disabilities: 15 people with disabilities: 38 Shopping supporters for the elderly and people with disabilities: 15 ●Cognitive impairment supporters: 1,394 ●Cognitive impairment supporters: 1,047 ●Cognitive impairment supporters: 1,346 Accumulated total: 4,000 Accumulated total: 3,654 Accumulated total: 5,000 ●Children’s shoes: trade in 95,900 pairs ●Children’s shoes: trade in 89,976 pairs ●Children’s shoes: trade in 91,675 pairs Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to conduct localized events ●Conducted local events such as the Green ○ ●Continue to conduct localized events Curtain Project and water sprinkling activities, etc. (all stores) ●Held local production and local consumption events linked to prefectural governments (Chiba store, Omiya store, Fukui store, Funabashi store) ●Held summer vacation event Kids Academy in cooperation with local universities and companies (Funabashi store) ●Held Health Seminar together with Tokorozawa City (Tokorozawa store) ●Held indigo dye fashion show introducing local specialty goods (Tokushima store) ●Improve convenience when voting by ●Established a polling station for early voting ●Continue to improve convenience when establishing a polling station before the in four stores (Ikebukuro, Chiba, Higashivoting by establishing polling stations for polling date Totsuka, Fukui) early voting ●Conduct further manufacturing using local ●Store staff worked with the Nutte service to ●Using stores as the main vehicle, introduce resources and in cooperation with local manufacture products that reflect the various traditions, techniques, cultures, craft-workers, develop different products for different opinions of each region, and region-limited products, and local specialty each store based on customers' opinions, developed products for each region that goods, and promote sales and implement product lineups were produced by local sewing craft-workers ●Expand sales of region-limited products ●Expanded sales routes of region-limited ●Strengthen information sharing, notifications using Internet sales to strengthen sales for products by using Internet sales and sales of each region-limited product and customers nationwide local specialty goods among stores Providing support in times of disaster ●Including measures for people having ●Participated in the Joint Council to Respond ○ ●Collaborate with local governments and difficulties in going home in the event of to People Having Difficulties in Going Home, companies, including through existing large earthquakes, continue to maintain which is organized by the participation of regional comprehensive agreements and cooperative systems with local local authorities where the stores are measures for people having difficulties going municipalities and businesses located, together with large commercial home in the event of large earthquakes, and ●Through the holding of events such as facilities, transportation operators, and strengthen involvement in systems of disaster preparedness fairs, promote others. Proactively participated in drills. cooperation and regional vitalization activities that raise the awareness of ●Utilized motivational events such as 110 ●Through the holding of events such as disaster-preparedness Day, Disaster Preparedness Day, and disaster preparedness fairs, promote ●Increase involvement in regional Emergency Day to carry out disaster activities that raise the awareness of revitalization based on the concluded prevention and crime prevention disaster-preparedness in cooperation with regional comprehensive agreements awareness-raising activities for local local communities residents using the space inside stores, together with exhibitions and direct sales of disaster prevention items ●Distributed earthquake disaster prevention check-sheets and exhibited disaster prevention panels during Disaster Prevention Week and Disaster Prevention Volunteer Week (Yokohama Store) Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●On an ongoing basis, cooperate with local ●Participated in local disaster preparedness ○ ●On an ongoing basis, cooperate with local communities and their disaster training and crime-prevention patrols communities and their disaster preparedness and crime prevention systems preparedness and crime prevention systems Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 181 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●New seminar participants: 2,900 people ●New seminar participants: 3,728 people 〇 ●New seminar participants: 2,400 people ●Self-Directed Sales Area Training Course: ●Self-Directed Sales Area Training Course: ●Self-Directed Sales Area Training Course: 1,900 people 2,853 people 1,500 people ●Career Advancement Course: 1,000 people ●Career Advancement Course: 875 people ●Career Advancement Course: 900 people Achieving a work-life balance ●Apply for certification as a gender-advanced ●Some evaluation items did not reach the △ ●Improve the system to acquire “L-Boshi” “L-Boshi” company based on the law to required standard and were not approved certification promote women in the workplace ●Establish systems for increasing the number ●Established and disseminated a webpage ●Increase the number of employees using of employees taking paid leave for childcare, dedicated to diversity on the company’s child-care leave or nursing care leave nursing care, and family care intranet. Use of child-care leave increased by 2.5 times over the previous year Making use of diverse human resources ●Promote 40 people from non-regular ●36 contract workers became full-time × ●Promote 40 people from non-regular employees to regular employees employees employees to regular employees ●Hire 10 mid-career specialist employees ●Hired 7 mid-career specialist employees ●Hire 7 mid-career specialist employees ●Percentage of female managers (Section ●Percentage of female managers (Section ●Percentage of female managers (Section manager or higher positions): 20% manager or higher positions): 13.0% manager or higher positions): 20% (Percentage of female team leaders: 52%) Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Create a support manual for returning to ●Launched a program to support returning to ○ ●Deploy health promotion activities at each work after taking leave and use support work after taking leave, centered on the business site to improve the health of programs for returning to work at all Kanto Office, and start using it employees who have a BMI of 25 or higher business sites Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 22 years 22 years 22 years Full-time employees *1 3,637 (full-time employees) 0 months 9 months 7 months Male 2,457 Number of full-time employees who 193 （7、85） 192 （4、69） 225（2、108） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 1,180 Number of full-time employees who 6（0、5） 2 （2、0） 9 （2、5） Part-time staff *2 3,893 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 402 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Female 3,491 Percentage of women in 23.1% 33.2% 34.6% Number of employees 7,530 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities 2.04% 1.97% 1.86% Male 2,859 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 6.6％ 19.7％ 22.0％ Female 4,671 employees New graduate employees hired 60 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 1.04 0.29 0.76 Male 37 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.02 0.01 0.01 Female 23 *1 Data includes 368 persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Mid-career employees hired 0 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 0 takers of leave) Female 0 *4 Team leader or higher. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 182 Employee Consultation Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 Service Data Contacts received: 73 (down 13% from the previous fiscal year) By user category The number of customer consultations in the fiscal year ended February 28, Other Unrelated Unknown Part-time staff 18% consulting 56% 15% 2017 decreased by about 10% 1% compared to the previous year. By Work environment, consultation content, the number of human relations Full-time Suspected 32% employees consultations about working conditions noncompliance 10% 18% increased slightly, while consultations Temporary Suspected power about suspected violations of rules, harassment workers and Work, holidays, subcontractors laws, or regulations together with leave, overtime 21% 19% unrelated consulting decreased, and 11% consultations about the workplace environment, human relationships, and suspected harassment remained almost unchanged from the previous year. We are continuing to thoroughly strengthen risk management. We always inform employees about the employee consultation centers (in-house reporting system) and encourage them to actively utilize it. We are also continually emphasizing the importance of educational activities concerning compliance with work rules, and the qualitative improvement of time management and communication. In addition, for the themes that each employee may be likely to encounter, we ask our lawyer to be the instructor and conduct training for employees about compliance and risk management as needed. We intend to continue those educational and training programs, thereby preventing accidents and incidents from occurring. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 183 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 213 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Reduce energy consumption by upgrading to ●Updated the basic air conditioning △ ●Analyze data by store, and make efforts to high-efficiency air conditioning ●Replaced the cold cases etc. in line with the reduce electricity usage ●Reduce energy consumption by using BEMS renovation, etc. Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 204,741 191,121 192,466 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *1 *3 t-CO2 182,808 （914） 174,416(851) 175,735 （837） CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles *1 *3 t-CO2 15,344 16,259 16,366 Electricity consumption in store operations *4 GWｈ 309 307 317 Water usage in store operations *1 1,000㎥ 1,043 1,074 1,063 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section ｔ （％） 418 （70.6） 433（70.7） 458（70.5） Waste disposal (recycling rate) *4 （％） ｔ 43,029 （51.6） 43,028(52.6) 40,644 （47.5） Food product recycling rate *4 ％ 40.4 44.1 53.4 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. *4 The period of the calculations was January to March. Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 As part of our efforts to listen to our customers’ voices and respond to every one of them, Contacts received: 2,988 we share examples of individual stores successfully meeting customers’ needs with all our (up 13.3% from the previous fiscal year’s level) stores. Our Head Office and stores will work together to provide customers with a more timely response and incorporate as many customer suggestions as possible into our Other Customer care operations with an eye to making our stores enjoyable places to shop with confidence. 25% 38% Sales Facilities 17% 6% Sales promotion Compliments 12% 2% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Strengthen sales of three-star vegetables, ●Value of sales of three-star vegetables and △ ●Numerical targets for three-star vegetables which are cultivated with the minimum products with visible production areas: 2.7% and products with visible production areas: possible use of chemical fertilizers and increase from the previous fiscal year aiming for 6.1% increase from the previous pesticides year Value of sales: 19.0% increase from the previous fiscal year Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Continue to increase the number of stores ●Number of stores certified pursuant to the ○ ●Expand into new storesDisabled Persons, certified pursuant to the revised Act on revised Act on Promotion of Smooth etc. (New stores) Promotion of Smooth Transportation, etc. of Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc. (New Disabled Persons, etc.: 117 stores stores) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 184 Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue blood donations and aim to ●Number of blood donors: 487 ○ ●Continue blood donations increase number of blood donors Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to hold Opening Anniversary ●Continued to hold Opening Anniversary ○ ●Continue to hold Opening Anniversary Festivals to develop close relationships with Festivals Festivals the local community Providing support in times of disaster ●Consider entering into disaster response ●No local authorities concluded new disaster ●Continue considering entering agreements with local authorities upon agreements (there were no requests) comprehensive cooperation agreements request with local authorities upon request Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●Continue cooperating with requests from ●Cooperated with requests from local police ○ ●Continue cooperating with requests from local police in regions where stores are police located Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Unify the education schedule and implement ●Organized the contents of Target △ ●Further develop level-specific training to education utilizing Target Achievement Achievement Records, and shared the eliminate differences in educational Records to eliminate differences in education contents with all divisions, but progress between divisions educational progress between divisions there were still differences in analysis results between divisions Achieving a work-life balance ●Make an environment in which it is easy for ●Introduced a half-day paid-leave system 〇 ●Improve rate of paid leave taken individuals to take leave, including a half-day ●Number of days of paid leave taken Annual average of 5 days paid-leave system, and encourage use of 15% higher than last year leave Making use of diverse human resources ●Aim to improve the percentage of female ●Although the percentage of women holding △ ●Promote an executive training curriculum managers by implementing a female managerial positions increased, the from the subordinate (team leader) class, executive training curriculum, including percentage of women holding subordinate thereby increasing the overall percentage of training candidates for their next job positions did not increase, and so the female managers position overall percentage did not increase Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Workplace accidents per year: reduction of ●Number of workplace accidents: up 11.0% × ●Number of workplace accidents per year: 10% from the FY2015 level from last year Down 20% from last year Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 185 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 14 years 14 years 15 years Full-time employees *1 2,835 (full-time employees) 6 months 4 months 0 months Male 2,487 Number of full-time employees who 109（2、97） 163 （1、144） 156 （0、134） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 348 Number of full-time employees who 1 （0、1） 3 （2、0） 13 （1、12） Part-time staff *2 11,493 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 1,869 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Female 9,624 Percentage of women in 25.4% 26.4% 25.6% Number of employees 14,328 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 2.39% 2.54% 2.69% Male 4,356 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 7.7% 13.4% 20.0% Female 9,972 employees New graduate employees hired 137 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 2.39 3.74 3.64 Male 110 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.01 0.02 0.01 Female 27 *1 Data includes 148 employees reemployed after mandatory retirement. Mid-career employees hired 0 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 0 takers of leave) Female 0 *4 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 for Employees Contacts received: 83 (up 14% from the previous fiscal year) By user category York-Benimaru provides employees with a help line service. The service enables Other Unrelated Affiliation unknown Part-time staff 10% consulting due to anonymity 29% them to receive counseling on 6% 60% workplace issues, request investigations Suspected into noncompliance, etc. Employee noncompliance Work environment, Full-time 1% human relations employees suggestions are used to create a better 57% 4% workplace environment. Labor contracts Families of Suspected power and performance employees harassment reviews 6% 17% 6% Other Work, holidays, 1% leave, overtime 4% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 186 Yorkmart Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.yorkmart.com/company/preservation/ Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 78 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact ●Continue to introduce BEMS to new stores ●Continued to introduce BEMS to new stores ○ ●Introduce BEMS to all stores Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Introduce reach-in multi-level refrigerated ●Implemented at 9 existing stores ○ ●Continue to introduce reach-in multi-level cases at existing stores ●Implemented at 2 new stores refrigerated cases at existing stores Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Food product recycling rate: 52.0% ●Food product recycling rate achieved: △ ●Food product recycling rate: 53.0% 51.9% ●Plastic bag turndown rate for FY2016: ●Plastic bag turndown rate for FY2016: △ ●Plastic bag turndown rate for FY2017: achieve 55.0% 50.4% achieve 53.0% Down 2% from last year by weight Raising environmental awareness among employees ●No. of employees that pass the Eco Test: 24 ●No. of employees that passed the Eco Test: △ ●No. of employees that pass the Eco Test: 24 20 Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 61,383 58,169 57,562 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *1 *3 t-CO2 61,330 （787） 58,119(736) 57,520 （728） Electricity consumption in store operations *1 GWｈ 113 113 113 Water usage in store operations *1 1,000㎥ 543 558 522 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section t 48.3 49.5 49.8 Waste disposal (recycling rate) ｔ（％） 19,995(64.8) 21,583(64.2) 21,637(64.0) Food product recycling rate ％ 51.6 51.1 （51.9） *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations and Head Office operations . *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 187 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 Some 684 calls were received by the toll-free phone numbers in the fiscal year ended Contacts received: 684 February 28, 2017. The number of calls decreased slightly compared with previous fiscal (down 1% from the previous fiscal year’s level) year. Of these, customer care issues accounted for 45%, while sales-related issues Other accounted for 21%. Twelve of the calls were compliments. We will continue working to 19% make further improvements. Compliments Customer care 2% 45% Facilities 6% Sales 21% Sales promotion 7% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Establish compliance teams in new stores ●Established compliance teams in new stores △ ●Establish compliance teams in new stores ●Actively deploy the existing-store ●Actively deployed compliance teams in ●Actively deploy compliance teams in existing compliance teams existing stores stores ●Increase frequency of wiping inspections and conduct follow-up inspections Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Number of stores to be certified pursuant to ●Number of stores certified pursuant to the ○ ●Expand coming-in-contact sections the revised Act on Promotion of Smooth revised Act on Promotion of Smooth ●Refurbish customers’ toilets (sequentially) Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc.: 29 stores (incl. 2 Disabled Persons, etc.: 29 stores (incl. 2 new stores) new stores) Assuring appropriate information provision ●Share the results of store audits (freshness ●Shared the results of store audits and issues ○ ●Share the results of store audits (freshness monitoring, hygiene management, labeling with store managers. Discussed ways to monitoring, hygiene management, labeling management, etc.) and issues with store make improvements, promptly shared management, working conditions, etc.) and managers. Discuss ways to make information with management, Product issues with store managers. Discuss ways to improvements, promptly share information Departments and the Sales Division, and make improvements, promptly share with management, Product Departments confirmed until improvements were information with management, Product and the Sales Division, and confirm until implemented Departments and the Sales Division, and improvements are implemented ●Regularly held web conferences by Head confirm until improvements are ●Provide information related to hygiene Office quality control staff. Also, held a implemented management, freshness monitoring, and company-wide conference once at Head ●Provide information related to hygiene allergy labeling to stores through web Office. Provided information through weekly management, freshness monitoring, and conferences and weekly emails by Head emails allergy labeling to stores through web Office quality control staff conferences and weekly emails by Head Office quality control staff Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Strive to avoid incidents and accidents by ●Avoided incidents and accidents in advance △ ●Send email from the customer feedback sending email from the customer feedback by sending email from the customer department to stores about items needing department to stores about items needing feedback department to stores about items attention according to seasonal factors attention according to seasonal factors needed attention according to seasonal every week, and about the most recent every week, and about the most recent factors every week, and about the most incidents and accidents as they occur” incidents and accidents as they occur recent incidents and accidents as they ●Strive to reduce customers’ complaints by ●Share examples of responses to customer occurred providing information to stores requests by emailing other stores ●Shared good examples weekly from among customer requests with each store Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Increase the number of users of the ●No. of users of the re-challenge plan system: ○ ●Strengthen the expansion of the number of re-challenge plan system 61 in FY2016 users of the re-challenge plan system Revise operations accordingly and boost (of which 30 were part-time employees) ●Continue to hold back-to-work orientation understanding and awareness of the system Up 24.4 % from previous year for employees returning to work after among other employees in the same ●Every quarter held back-to-work orientation childcare leave workplace for employees returning to work after ●Promote knowledge and awareness of childcare leave, shared information and system by describing to users in the alleviated concerns company’s internal newsletter Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to accept workplace tours and ●Accepted workplace tours and work ○ ●Continue to accept workplace tours and work experience participation by experience participation by elementary and work experience participation by elementary and junior high school students junior high school students: approx. 8,500 elementary and junior high school students students ●Train 450 cognitive impairment supporters ●Trained 335 cognitive impairment supporters △ ●Train 1,300 cognitive impairment supporters Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 188 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Improve individual skills of full-time ●Progressed only to up diagnosis and not × ●Standardize the educator’s levels of skills employees and part-time staff using Target further enough too identify issues regarding ●Deploy skill records for managers in charge Achievement Records, and develop improving individual skills and education of store sales areas managerial skills ●Training not yet implemented ●Create skills inventory from the store ●Hold training for part-time leaders instructors’ skill records” Achieving a work-life balance ●Reduce total work time ●Average number of overtime hours was △ ●Reduce total work time Achieve 10% reduction in average number 35.0, Achieve 10% reduction in average number of overtime hours from the previous year 1.1% less than the previous year of overtime hours from the previous year Making use of diverse human resources ●Appoint part-time-staff to managerial roles: ●Employees promoted to part-time-leaders: △ ●Promote 20 people to expert staff 80 employees 73 ●Promote 15 people to full-time employees Promote 30 people to expert part-time staff ●Employees promoted to expert staff: 19 ●Promote 2 females to management ●Promote at least 15 people from contract Employees promoted to part-time ●Percentage of female managers (Team workers to full-time employees managers: 2 leader or higher positions)：28.0％ or more ●Percentage of female managers (Team ●Employees promoted to full-time leader or higher): 28.0% employees: 23 ●Promote manager training, and promote 2 ●Percentage of female managers (Team females to store manager leader or higher positions)：24.4％ Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce occurrence of workplace accidents ●Frequency rate: 3.52 → 2.31 ○ ●Reduce occurrence of workplace accidents Give notification of causes and responses Severity rate: 0.06 → 0.0494 Give notification of causes and responses Reduce lost work-time accidents Lost work-time accidents: 45 → 29 Reduce lost work-time accidents Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 15 years 14 years 15 years Full-time employees *1 1,260 (full-time employees) 0 months 4 months 4 months Male 1,019 Number of full-time employees who 31 （0、17） 40 （0、24） 21（0、12） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 241 Number of full-time employees who 0 （0、0） 0 （0、0） 1 （0、1） Part-time staff *2 4,524 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 1,106 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 0 Female 3,419 Percentage of women in 27.7% 26.7% 24.4% Number of employees 5,784 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 2.09% 2.00% 2.00% Male 2,125 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 11.8% 12.6% 16.7% Female 3,660 employees New graduate employees hired 99 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 4.24 3.52 2.31 Male 59 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.07 0.06 0.05 Female 40 *1 Data includes 71 persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Mid-career employees hired 8 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 8 takers of leave) Female 0 *4 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic during FY2016 for Employees Contacts received: 102 (up 25% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category Many reports have been received about employees' speech, behavior and Other Unrelated Affiliation unknown Full-time 2% consulting due to anonymity employees morality, and we are working on 6% 12% 65% changing the awareness of employees Suspected Work environment, by educating them about our noncompliance human relations Other 9% 39% 4% management philosophy and conduct Part-time staff guidelines 16% Labor contracts Suspected power and performance Families of harassment reviews employees 25% 8% 4% Work, holidays, leave, overtime 12% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 189 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 815 Environment Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●IReplace package air conditioners with ●Replaced with individual air conditioners: ○ ●Replace package air conditioners with individual air conditioners: 10 stores FY2016 results: 8 stores individual air conditioners: 43 stores Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 167 Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 134 Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 718 tons tons tons Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Install more raw garbage processors in Head ●Raw garbage processors in operation: 7 △ ●IImprove efficiency by reviewing the bacteria Office test kitchen and stores (two units ⇒ (including 1 in Head Office) bed of the raw garbage processors already seven units) Target food product recycling rate: 46.2% installed Target food product recycling rate: 47% Target food product recycling rate: 47% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Encourage employees to take the Eco Test ●Number of employees who took the Eco ○ ●Continue to encourage employees to take Increase scope of eligibility for taking the test: 280 in FY2016 the Eco test test up to store managers Cumulative number who passed: 362 Target number of employees to take the Eco Target number of employees to take test test annually: 280 annually: 180 Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 91,264 84,876 82,083 CO2 emissions from store operations *1 *3 t-CO2 88,825 82,474 79,755 CO2 emissions from delivery vehicles *1 *3 *4 t-CO2 2,289 2,259 2,164 Electricity consumption in store operations *1 GWh 135 130 128 Water usage in store operations *1 1,000㎥ 2,036 1,889 1,779 Waste disposal (recycling rate) （ t ％） 10,280(25.6) 11,800(28.1) 12,393(26.9) Food product recycling rate ％ 45.4 46.4 46.2 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations (Seven & i Food Systems), Head Office, and delivery vehicles. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. *4 The values are for Denny’s only. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 190 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 In FY2016, although the number of opinions increased, the number of complaints decreased Contacts received: 7,186 as it did in FY2015. However, unfortunately the number of compliments was lower than in (up 14.3% from the previous fiscal year) the previous year. Other Customer care Complaints: 2,430 to 2,309 cases (a decrease of 121 cases, or 5% from the previous fiscal 9.1% 44.6% year) Store cleanliness Compliments; 976 to 923 cases (a decrease of 53 cases, or 5.4% from the previous fiscal 6.0% Compliments year) 11.6% Facilities In FY2017, we will work to improve customer satisfaction by continuing to focus on on-the5.3% job-training at stores, while also enhancing off-the-job-training in the form of e-learning and Menu and menu various kinds of training . suggestions Cooking 9.0% 14.2% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Evolve the e-Base content and improve the ●No change ○ ●Improve accuracy of contents operations system Improve usability of searches ●Continue to maintain the plant management ●Implemented in the Simplified Confirmation ●Advance in plant management system confirmation system in and outside of Japan Table in cooperation with quality control following the strengthening of quality control Assuring appropriate information provision ●Continue to conduct a search service on the ●Disclosed nutritional components and ○ ●Display allergy information for the seven usage of allergenic substances allergy information on the company website. specified ingredients for all menus in the Printed the QR code on the back cover of menu book that was revised in September the menu book 2017 Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Aim for further progress in getting the ●Number of complaints: 2,309 (down 5% △ ●The relevant Head Office divisions aim to fundamentals straight and advance on-thefrom the previous year) support and improve QSCA and to improve job and off-the-job training Number of compliments: 923 (down 5.4% CS by considering the problems of the Expand e-learning and various kinds of from the previous year) workplace as their own problems training, aiming to improve customer The target is to halve the number of satisfaction complaints and double the number of Halve the number of complaints and double compliments the number of compliments Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue to maintain the system for actively ●(FY2016 results) ○ ●Continue to maintain the system for actively accepting work experience participants Elementary school student company visits: 2 accepting work experience participants ●Propose dietary education and health times, for 11 students management through menus Junior high school workplace experience: 296 students High school workplace experience: 2 students High school hospitality business-trip teaching: 20 students Regional support station lecture: 4 times, to 60 students (15 at each lecture) Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to conduct relays with growing ●Conducted according to plan and ○ ●Maintain and conduct relays with growing areas and aim for optimum purchasing for implemented stable procurement areas, thus developing the procurement of each region ●Held 20 cognitive impairment supporter seasonal ingredients ●Cooperate with local communities, and training sessions, and trained 251 new ●Share information with local communities, actively sponsor local governments, etc. people, making a total of 1,366 people strengthen cooperation, and promote store Cognitive impairment supporters: 700 Also incorporated into store manager operations that are rooted in the region people training Cognitive impairment supporters: 300 ●Continue to support recovery in disaster ●Concluded a regional comprehensive ●Continue to provide support to disasterareas agreement with Adachi Ward to advance affected areas through our core business our regional contribution ●Provided support to disaster-affected areas through our core business Providing support in times of disaster ●Continue to proactively respond to requests ●Continued the agreements for supporting ○ ●Continue to proactively respond to requests received in the event of disaster from the people having difficulties returning home received in the event of disaster from the local municipalities in which stores are after a disaster in nine prefectures and cities municipalities located and the Union of Kansai Governments Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 191 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Expand e-learning content for training ●Supplemented the training by providing △ ●Conduct training centered on their basic responsible personnel additional e-learning content for training stance and communication, as employees responsible personnel ●Expand corporate philosophy education ●Supplemented our corporate philosophy and ○ ●Provide e-learning with content tailored to component in training and e-learning educational components in both the training the workplace content and e-learning Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Revise evaluation system and bonus system ●Advanced preparation for introducing raking ○ ●Conduct evaluator training for introducing for introducing the ranking system within system within job responsibilities in FY2017 ranking system within job responsibilities job responsibilities Achieving a work-life balance ●Monthly overtime: average of less than 20 ●Monthly overtime: average of less than 18.4 ○ ●Monthly overtime: average of less than 20 hours hours per employee hours ●Leave to be taken: (8 days or more in one ●Leave taken: 9.9 days ○ ●Leave to be taken: (9 days or more in one month) month) Making use of diverse human resources ●Expand employment of seniors ●Percentage of seniors employed: 5.7% △ ●Percentage of seniors employed: 6% ●Conversions of contractual employees: 20 ●Conversions of contractual employees: 30 ○ ●Conversions of contractual employees: 20 employees employees employees ●Percentage of women in management ●Percentage of women in management ●Percentage of women in management positions positions positions Section manager or higher: Higher than 10% Section manager or higher: 9.3% △ Section manager or higher: Higher than 10% Team leader or higher: Higher than 12% Team leader or higher: 12.0% ○ Team leader or higher: Higher than 12% Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce the number of occupational ●FY2016 results for the number of △ ●FY2017 target for the number of accidents at work occupational accidents at work: 394, up occupational accidents at work: less than Aim for a 10% decrease from 393 in FY2015 0.3% from the previous year 320, down 20% Reduce BMI No results for BMI Target for BMI of 25 or higher, down 10% ●Participation ratio in regular health checks ●Participation ratio in regular health checks ○ ●Participation ratio in regular health checks by employees: over 96% by employees: 99% by employees: 100% Participation ratio in health checks by Participation ratio in health checks by △ Participation ratio in health checks by employees who work the late night shift: employees who work the late night shift: employees who work the late night shift: over 98% 97% 99% or higher Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 192 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 13 years 13 years 14 years Full-time employees *1 1,264 (full-time employees) 4 months 0 months 5 months Male 1,056 Number of full-time employees who 64（0, 52） 69（0, 56） 45 （3, 33） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 208 Number of full-time employees who 0 （0、0） 1 （1、0） 0（0、0） Part-time staff *2 9,069 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 2,261 Number of volunteer leave recipients 1 0 2 Female 6,809 Percentage of women in 9.9% 10.9% 11.5% Number of employees 10,333 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 2.29% 2.47% 2.51% Male 3,317 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 9.1% 11.3% 17.7% Female 7,017 employees New graduate employees hired 38 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.66 0.87 0.81 Male 22 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.02 0.02 0.02 Female 16 *1 Data includes 68 contractual employees and temporary employees. Mid-career employees hired 6 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 3 takers of leave) Female 3 *4 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & I Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & I Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Service by topic for FY2016 for Employees Contacts received: 143 (up 19% from the previous fiscal year) By user category The total number of consultations increased for the second consecutive Other Unrelated Affiliation unknown Part-time staff 11% consulting due to anonymity 86% year, to 120 from 111 last year. This is 2% 3% likely to be the result of increasing Suspected awareness about the availability of noncompliance Work environment, Other 4% human relations 1% consultation, as consultation about 27% Full-time human relationships and inquiries employees Labor contracts Suspected power 4% regarding contracts increased. The and performance harassment Families of reviews 23% importance of awareness about CSR for 15% employees 6% improving the workplace environment Work, holidays, accompanying changes in societal leave, overtime norms is increasing. We are striving to 17% improve the workplace environment through targeted awareness-raising activities, including focusing on harassment and work-life balance (especially parenting and family care), and changing the content of training depending on the targeted recipients and job positions. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 193 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.akachan.jp/csr/ Number of stores as of February 28, 2017: 106 Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Transfer the LED lighting of four stores that ●Transfered the LED lighting of four stores × ●Renew Head Office and Sendai-Izumi store were closed to update existing stores that were closed to update existing stores air conditioning (EHP; annual savings of (make annual savings of approx. 102 kL of (make annual savings of approx. 102 kL of approx. 60 kl) crude oil) crude oil) ●Renew Head Office and Sendai-Izumi store air conditioning (EHP; annual savings of approx. 60 kl) Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Increase the plastic bag turndown rate to ●Plastic bag turndown rate: 6.4% × ●Increase the plastic bag turndown rate to 8.0% 8.0% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Strive to promote a more active awareness ●Increased awareness of LED lighting renewal ○ ●Proactively raise awareness by distributing about LEDs and the initiatives to reduce the and initiatives to reduce the use of plastic Information through the internal newsletter use of plastic bags such as switching to LED bags by sharing information through the in coordination with “June Environment lighting internal newsletter. Month” Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 20,612 18,464 17,000 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *2 *3 t-CO2 20,268(205) 18,183（175） 16,770（157） Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWｈ 34 31 30 Water consumption in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 48 45 26 Plastic bag turndown rate ％ 7.3％ 6.8％ 6.4％ *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations and in headquarters operations *2 The period of the calculations was April to March *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 194 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2017 As a “customer consultation desk that operates uninterrupted throughout the year and Contacts received: 15,061 offers toll-free phone calls,” we listen to customer requests, opinions and inquiries, get (down 18.7% from the previous fiscal year’s level) alongside them and respond in a manner both fast and honest. Business, other Since many of our customers are first-time users of our services, they have numerous issues 22.3% that they either don’t know or are uncertain about. General inquiries In order to alleviate such apprehensions on the part of customers even to the slightest 67.0% Customer care degree, we take care to respond as kindly as possible. 2.1% We will work to improve the skills of the team members so that they can respond smoothly and provide customers with satisfaction, thereby increasing the overall response quality of Service Products 3.8% 4.8% the call center. FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Revise the internal labeling rules in ●Raised awareness through distributing ○ ●Number of lot defects ※Private brands are accordance with the revision of the materials internally and for business in parentheses) deduction system concerning defective partners and holding briefing sessions for 47 cases in FY2015 (5 cases) products and the amendment of the law business partners concerning the 11 cases in FY2016 (11 cases) concerning laundry care symbols, and start amendment of the law. As a result, the Although the overall defects decreased, operations deduction system overall defects decreased, private brands’ private brands’ defects increased in FY2016. defects increased in FY2017 products As private-brand products are expected to Regarding the deduction system, no increase in the future, we will focus on problems that affect transactions have private-brand management, aiming for less occurred than 30 cases in FY2017 Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Continue to set up corner-less shelving and ●Installed corner-less shelving and safety ○ ●Proactively set up a space that can be used safety guards at nine new stores guards at all new stores for relaxing and as an event venue at 3 stores Assuring appropriate information provision ●Conduct Intranet-based testing ●Conducted intranet-based testing × ●Strive to eliminate the number of inadequate Conduct audit evaluation of labeling Full-points ratio of 100% not achieved displays. Grasp the status of relevant management departments and conduct improvements, Ratio of full points at all stores: 100% reduce serious cases of inadequate displays to 0 Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Customer service and service complaints: ●In FY2016, the number of customer service × ●In fiscal 2017, we aim to maintain customer under 266 complaints annually complaints were 368 cases, not reaching service and service complaints to within 260 Incidence rate: keep to 12 PPM* the target by 102 cases. The incidence rate cases, and continue to keep last year’s To this end, analyze causes of complaints was 17.7 PPM, not reaching the target by target for the incidence ratio to 12 PPM and stem their repeated occurrence by 5.7 PPM. In comparison with the previous conducting internal communication, sharing year, the number of complaints decreased internally with area managers, and providing by 43, and the incidence rate decreased by internal education 1.3 PPM * Parts Per Million (PPM): Calculated by dividing the number of complaints by the number of customers and multiplying by one million. Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Take the further challenge of new events, ●Expanded store events such as beddy-bye ○ ●Deploy Smile Childcare Advisors at all and aim to contribute to the regional photo-shoots and baby sumo-wrestling, stores, and set up systems specializing in childcare environment thereby increased the number of stores maternity-goods customers offering holding some type of event daily customer service that provides close support Providing support in times of disaster ●Respond to requests from regions where ●There was no request for concluding the ○ ●Respond to requests from regions where there are stores policy there are stores Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 195 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Correspondence course participants: target ●Number of correspondence course △ ●Assistant store manager (team leader rank) 100 participants in FY2016: 76 managerial research For FY2016, aim to increase the number of Target: Hold once every half year, to participants by holding it twice. encourage over 30% of female employees to participate Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Acquire points exceeding FY2015 results ●Reviewed personnel evaluation period, item, ○ ●Review the status of how employees apply ●Review various work styles, including rank, and systems in the second half of for and actually take the leave, and ensure working conditions FY2016 100% of leave is taken Achieving a work-life balance ●Ratio of eligible employees taking childcare ●Eligible employees: 196; Employees who ○ ●Ratio of eligible employees taking childcare leave: 25% or higher took childcare leave: 90; Percentage of leave: 50% or higher leave taken: 45.9% ●Number of assistant store managers or ●Number of assistant store managers or △ ●Monthly overtime per employee: less than higher rank to be appointed with shorter higher rank to be appointed with shorter 15 hours working hours: 13 or more working hours: 12 Making use of diverse human resources ●Number of part-time leaders: 100 or more ●February 28, 2017 ○ ●Number of existing part-time leaders: 220 Number of existing part-time leaders: 185 ●Percentage of female managers (section ●Percentage of women in management △ ●Percentage of women in management manager or higher): 25% or more positions (section manager or higher): positions (section manager or higher): 25% 22.9% or more or more ●Assistant store managers or higher rank ●Appointed 12 assistant store managers or △ ●Assistant store managers or higher rank appointed from among doing-childcare higher rank with shorter working hours appointed from among doing-childcare employees with shorter working hours: 15 employees with shorter working hours: 15 or more or more Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Workplace accidents: less than 30 ●Workplace accidents: 48 × ●Workplace accidents: less than 30 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 13 years 14 years 13 years Full-time employees *1 921 (full-time employees) 6 months 9 months 8 months Male 503 Number of full-time employees who （1, 110） 139 144（1, 99） 116 （0, 63） took childcare leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Female 418 Number of full-time employees who 0（0, 0） 0 （0, 0） 3 （0, 2） Part-time staff *2 2,058 took nursing leave *3 (males, part-time staff) Male 122 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Female 1,936 Percentage of women in 26.3% 32.1% 33.3% Number of employees 2,979 management positions *4 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities *5 1.98% 2.03% 2.20% Male 625 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 39.1% 39.6% 39.2% Female 2,354 employees New graduate employees hired 42 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 12 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 30 *1 Data includes 9 contractual employees and temporary employees. Mid-career employees hired 14 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *3 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new Male 10 takers of leave) Female 4 *4 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions. *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services for Employees Service by topic for FY2016 Contacts received: 31 (up 72% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category Due to insufficient communication, there were many consultations received from Work, holidays, Suspected Affiliation unknown Part-time staff leave, overtime noncompliance due to anonymity 97% employees who felt they were subject to 16% 3% 3% power abuse. Throughout the company, we are repeatedly working to drive home Suspected power Work environment, to them the importance of communication. harassment human relations Continuing in the fiscal year ending 6% 74% February 28, 2018, the education department will lead compliance training in cooperation with staff who deal in fair trade, quality management, and legal affairs issues, and so forth, for new recruits through to specialist employees. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 196 Seven Bank, Ltd. Website: https://www.sevenbank.co.jp/english/ Number of ATMs installed as of February 28, 2017: 23,368 Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact ●Continue grasping and disclosing ●Conducted a Scope 3 calculation ○ ●Continue grasping and disclosing greenhouse gas emissions volumes (Scope 3 greenhouse gas emission volumes (Scope 3 emissions) that the company indirectly emissions) that the company indirectly discharges through the supply chain discharges through the supply chain Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Promote paperless operations ●Promoted paperless operations by installing ○ ●Promote paperless operations a monitor in conference rooms and enhancing awareness internally ●Promoted paperless operations by utilizing tablet terminals in face-to-face business Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Promote recycling of previous-type ATMs ●Disposal and recycling of second-generation ○ ●Promote the Three-Rs (re-use, reduce, ATMs accompanying their replacement with recycle), including in offices third-generation machines (FY2016: 1,437 units, 402 t) Disposal and recycling of UPS batteries (FY2016: 1,434 batteries) Offering eco-friendly products ●Complete the replacement of conventional ●Completed the replacement with third○ ●Stable operations of eco-friendly ATMs ATMs with third-generation machines that generation ATMs in September 2016 operate on about half the electricity during FY2016 Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Continue to actively participate in Seven & i ●25 employees participated in Seven & I ○ ●Continue to actively participate in Seven & i Holdingsʼ environmental volunteer activities, Holdings’ Great East Japan Earthquake Holdingsʼ environmental volunteer activities, etc. Disaster Reconstruction Assistance Project, etc. Tokyo Bay UMI Project, Environment Volunteers, etc. ●Enhance the environmental volunteer ●A total of 47 employees participated in the ●Enhance the environmental volunteer activities by participants in Seven Bank’s Bonolon’s Forest Environmental Activity activities by participants in Seven Bank’s own programs own programs Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume of paper ordered for office automation equipment 1,000 sheets 6,410 5,437 5,178 Electricity used at the offices* MWh 1,302 1,236 1,134 * Data was not available for some rental offices. Data includes staffed branches and directly managed ATMs. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 197 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for FY2016 Seven Bank takes the opinions and requests it receives from customers seriously and is Contacts received: 792,227 working to enhance and expand future services based on the details of customer enquiries. (up 4% from the previous fiscal year’s level) At the customer center for overseas money transfers, we are able to respond to inquiries in Other nine different languages. 0.1% ATM call centers Customer center 45.0% 19.8% Telephone centers 35.1% FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Enhance response capabilities by training ●Confirmed the feasibility of BCP by ○ ●Enhance various types of training, that incorporates the unexpected conducting initial training for the independent of scenario ●Collaborate between departments and countermeasures headquarters, conducting ●Conduct initial training on the assumption conduct training to further strengthen training to launch the countermeasures that a pandemic has occurred execution capabilities headquarters by radio on the assumption ●Maintain and strengthen BCP by sharing ●Promote BCP by sharing information and that a disaster has occurred on a holiday, information and resolving issues through resolving issues through BCP officers’ and by business-measurement training in continuing BCP officers’ committee committee meetings Osaka alone on the assumption that a meetings disaster has occurred in Tokyo ●Continued holding BCP officers’ committee meetings, and strengthened systems by improving on issues Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Continue to promote ATM functions to meet ●Launched smartphone ATM service ○ ●Continue to promote ATM functions to meet diverse needs ●Launched Seven Bank Easy Bankbook in nine diverse needs different languages Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Continue implementing initiatives to improve ●Continued to make improvements of ○ ●Continue implementing initiatives to improve customer satisfaction products and services that make use of customer satisfaction customers' opinions Internal collection of proposals: 691; Proposals and communications made to relevant departments: 183 (Main examples of improvements) Implemented countermeasures against forgetting cash (45% decrease in incoming calls after implementation) Improved visibility of 7BK service-charges screen (40% decrease in incoming calls after implementation) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 198 Local Communities FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue to promote story-telling activities ●Held story-telling events at children’s centers ○ ●Continue donations of picture books via the sponsorship for “Bonolon, Warrior of and staffed Seven Bank branches, etc. ●Strengthen cooperation with children’s the Forest” ●Donated picture books to children’s centers centers ●Continue donations of picture books as a result of issuing 49,120 Bonolon cash ●Strengthen cooperation with children’s cards (donations made to 2,812 locations） centers ●Click donations in support of Mashikimachi in Kumamoto Prefecture: \430,116 Assisting in local community revitalization ●Promote employee participation in volunteer ●11 employees took volunteer-activity leave ○ ●Promote employee participation in volunteer opportunities ●There were more participants than the opportunities previous year in the volunteer activities organized mainly by the Chiyoda Business Volunteer Association (a group comprised of businesses located in Chiyoda City, where the Head Office of Seven Bank is located) Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●Continue to gather and utilize information on ●Appropriately prevented transactions with ○ ●Continue to gather and utilize information on anti-social forces to prevent transactions anti-social social forces by continuing to anti-social forces to prevent transactions with them gather and utilize information on them with them ●Improve detection capability for evolving • Improved detection capability based on • Continue to improve detection capabilities and diversifying financial crimes and advanced research analysis of financial for evolving and diversifying financial strengthen prevention measures crimes and strengthened prevention crimes, and to strengthen prevention ●Prevent all financial crimes by strengthening measure measures collaboration with investigating authorities • Promoted initiatives to minimize financial • Promote the prevention of all financial and business partners, etc. crimes by strengthening collaboration with crimes by strengthening collaboration with investigating authorities and business investigating authorities and business partners partners, etc. • Strengthened security measures for overseas card transactions (changed transaction-amount limit, improved the speed of detection and accuracy of unauthorized transactions, etc.) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 199 Employee Related FY2016 Targets/Results and FY2017 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2016 Targets and Plans FY2016 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2017 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Strengthen self-education support ●Conducted education and training of next○ ●Increase opportunities for personnel (language, business, IT skills) generation leaders exchange both internally and externally, and ●Continue strengthening education of nextManagement training: 13 employees support the autonomous growth of nextgeneration leaders Newly appointed management training: 11 generation leaders employees Innovation training held by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry: 3 employees ●Training of overseas temporary staff: 2 employees ●Domestic MBA temporary staff: 3 employees ●Business classes taken: 4 employees Achieving a work-life balance ●Create a foundation for promoting diversity ●Established a home working system: 6 users ○ ●Proactively utilize the system to support in • Create environments that allow all ●Employees who took paid childcare leave: balancing childcare, nursing care, etc., and employees to perform to their full 13 work potential, regardless of nationality or ●Employees who used the short working hour gender system due to doing childcare and nursing • Establish a new system to provide support care: 21 for balancing childcare or nursing care and work Making use of diverse human resources ●Continue conducting nursing care training ●Percentage of employees with disabilities: ○ ●Promote diversity inclusion ●Implement vigorous initiatives for employees 2.22% • Create environments and awareness that with disabilities ●Held lifetime design seminars allow all employees to perform to their full ●Convert fixed-term employees to permanent ●Held nursing care seminars potential, regardless of nationality or employees (phased conversion of target ●Provided nursing care support service gender employees one by one) mediation • Implement vigorous initiatives for ●Regularly disseminated examples of general employees with disabilities consultation on nursing care, etc. • Continue to convert fixed-term employees ●Converted fixed-term employees to to permanent employees permanent employees (27 employees) Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Continue to ensure that employees take ●Percentage of paid holidays taken: full-time ○ ●Continue to ensure that employees take paid leave employees 81.6%; contract workers 85.9% paid leave ●Devise measures to ensure that employees ●Dedicated two separate periods to ●Devise measures to ensure that employees will leave the office on time during the encouraging employees to leave the office will leave the office on time during the targeted periods on time targeted periods ●Conduct stress checks ●Conducted stress checks ●Conduct stress checks Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (as of the end of February 2017) (persons) Average length of service 7 years 7 years 7 years Full-time employees *1 399 (full-time employees)*4 0 months 3 months 7 months Male 306 Number of full-time employees who took 12（1, 2） 10（1, 0） 13 （1, 5） childcare leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Female 93 Number of full-time employees who took 0 （0, 0） 0（0, 0） 0 （0, 0） Part-time staff *2 91 nursing leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Male 7 Number of volunteer leave recipients 9 （9 cases） 9 11 Female 84 Percentage of women in management 9.9% 10.7% 10.5% Number of employees *3 490 positions *6 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of employees with disabilities 2.06% 2.28% 2.22% Male 313 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 82.7% 80.4% 83.2% Female 177 employees New graduate employees hired 9 Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.00 1.04 0.00 Male 6 Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 3 Number of employee consultations 1 0 1 Mid-career employees hired 16 *1 Data excludes persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. Male 11 *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. *3 The number of employees excludes corporate officers, executive officers, employees dispatched from the Female 5 company to outside the company, part-time employees, and temporary staff; and includes people dispatched from outside the company to the company *4 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *5 The company was established in 2001 *6 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *7 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2017 200
