Communication on Progress – COP OSM Sustainability Report United Nations Global Compact Reporting year: 2017 Member since: 13/02/2017 table of contents 03 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact 05 OSM Maritime Group Crew Management Overview 06 OSM Systems and Definitions 07 OSM and The UN Global Compact 09 Stakeholders Management and Relationship 10 Human Rights 12 Labor 17 Environment 20 Anti-Corruption 22 Corporate Social Responsibility 30 Sustainable Development Goals 35 Next steps 37 Attachments OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2 Letter from CEO: STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT OSM Maritime Group began its operations in 1989 and has since grown into an international maritime service provider. Providing the people has been a large part of this growth, and OSM Crew Management manages this component of the overall Group efforts, servicing many companies operating conventional vessels as well as oil majors. With our global footprint combined with our focus on local content OSM recognizes the importance of committing to the UN Global Compact at both a national and international level. Over the course of 2017, OSM Crew Management engaged in and made the commitment to further incorporate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into OSM’s business strategy. We are dedicated to continuously developing and enhance our compliance with the ten principles. In our first annual Communication On Progress (COP) Sustainability report, we present our results and initiatives undertaken by OSM Crew Management during the year of 2017 towards the four areas of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. We included in the 2017 report our aims and plans for the upcoming reporting period. Hereby, OSM confirms and renews our commitment to continuously support the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environmental Protection and Anti-Corruption. Geir Sekkesaeter, CEO OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 Crew Management Our Services OSM MARITIME GROUP CREW MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW OSM Maritime Group (OSM) provides full service solutions to the Offshore and Maritime Industry: these solutions provide one point of contact and serves as a one-stop shop for complete third-party management services tailor made to suit our customer’s needs. Over the years, OSM has built a solid and reliable relationship with our customers, which includes both small and large companies within the maritime, offshore and technical sector. OSM recruits, employs and manage crew and technical personnel such as: • MARITIME CREW; • CONVENTIONAL VESSEL PERSONNEL; • OIL & GAS PERSONNEL; • OFFSHORE CONSTRUCTION CREW; and • VESSEL & CRUISE & FERRY HOSPITALITY CATERING SERVICES. By carefully matching the proper highly qualified personnel with the correct job openings from Master to Messman or Mechanic to Chief Engineer and from Welder to Construction Supervisor we assure that both our customers and employees will be more than satisfied with our services. We are a ISO 9001:2015 accredited company, by DNV GL, as well as MLC 2006 certified or accredited by local authorities. Some of our offices, in defined strategic locations with high risk, are also TRACE certified. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 OSM SYSTEMS AND DEFINITIONS IRIS – is the Improvement Reporting and Information System (IRIS) developed by OSM, now on version 3.0. IRIS is a web-based reporting system that can be used to record, determine root causes, analyze non-conformities, customer complaints, suggestions for improvement, propose changes in procedures, and deviations from any routine in our system or customer requirements emerging from regular process or audits IRIS enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint regarding the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and other applicable national, international or internal rules and regulations. e-Crew is the HR system used by OSM to manage seafarer’s personal information, documents, activities, and similar. The system is developed inhouse by OSM’s software development team located in Manila, Philippines. The system is web-based and is used by OSM employees, seafarers, customers and third parties such as approved travel agents. Customers and third parties have limited access to seafarer’s personal information to ensure privacy and data protection are preserved and respected. The system also offers an extended mobile app for seafarers using iOS or Android devices. eCrew enables all stakeholders by providing a transparent view of the crew on board any vessel within OSM’s fleet, making it possible for all stakeholders worldwide to see the latest information relevant to them. eCrew is integrated with a number of supporting systems, e.g. providing seafarer payroll and bank transfers, training and other third-party services as well as customer systems. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 6 Qualitative analysis – For this report the preferred analytical method will be the Qualitative analysis. “Qualitative analysis is a securities analysis that uses subjective judgment based on unquantifiable information, such as management expertise, industry cycles, strength of research and development, and labor relations. Qualitative analysis contrasts with quantitative analysis, which focuses on numbers that can be found on reports such as balance sheets. The two techniques, however, will often be used together in order to examine a company’s operations and evaluate its potential as an investment opportunity.” (Source: INVESTOPEDIA.) To analyze the performance level of OSM towards the 10 principles of the UN Global compact, the follow categories/tiers were defined: • Fully comply: 100% • Comply: 80% • Adherent: 60% • Partially Comply: 40% • Do not comply: 20% OSM aims to Fully comply or Comply with all the Ten principles. Further descriptions of all initiatives OSM have done in 2017 can be found in this report. OSM In this report, OSM Crew Management will hereafter be referred to as OSM. OSM AND THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT OSM joined the UN Global Compact on 13 February 2017. For the first year as members, we decided to join under one of our Operating Units within OSM Maritime Group titled “Crew Management”. OSMs first implementation project was set in July 2017 with a multidisciplinary and multinational team All work has been developed in association with an external consultant Thore-Andre Thorsen from Yme Foundation, in Norway. For this project, we counted on the help and support of the entire company. All OSM offices were involved. Part of the project team is presented below, as the ones directly involved in the project. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 ANDREA CASTAGNA MOURAO E LIMA Position: HSEQ Coordinator MARTIN TVEDE LARSEN Nationality: Brazilian and Italian Position: Strategic Planning Manager Location: Cyprus Office Nationality: Danish COP: Project implementation, data Location: Cyprus Office collection, analysis/evaluation and COP: Project manager and facilitator. writing this report. REGINA MARIANO DIMITRIS PAVLOU Position: Admin & Projects Officer Position: Global HSEQ Manager – Strategic Nationality: Filipino Quality Assurance Management Location: Philippines Office Nationality: Cypriot COP: Inputs regarded OSM Adonis Location: Cyprus Office Donato Foundation INC. COP: Inputs regarded HSEQ and support to project team. TOMMY OLOFSEN GEIR SEKKESÆTER Position: Deputy CEO & Managing Director Position: Chief Executive Officer (CEO) OSM Crew Management Nationality: Norwegian Nationality: Danish Location: Norway Office Location: Cyprus Office COP: Sponsor. COP: Project owner and sponsor. Aligned with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact, Sustainability and CSR has always been a priority for OSM, and this is reflected in the Company’s vision: “Our vision is to be a long-term partner for our customers, a home for our people and an asset in society.” Although the participation as a member of the UN Global compact is recent, the history of engagement with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability in OSM is not new. The OSM Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc in Manila, Philippines works tirelessly to support and develop our strong and extensive Family Welfare Program, anchored in promoting the well-being of the family through activities from catering to health, financial, values and social responsiveness. The foundation aims to institutionalize its Family Welfare Program and its Community Service Program. Through this initiative OSM hopes to improve its services to those people in need within the local communities where we work. The foundation is guided by its Vision of: Family Welfare Program, Education & Scholarship Program used to help the poorer members of the community, as well as the beneficiaries of OSM’s employees who cannot afford a college education. Disaster Response & Rehabilitation Program Foundation headed by its President, Ms. Cheri DonatoVillasin who is currently acting as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of OSM MSI. Besides the activities developed by OSM Adonis Donato Foundation, several OSM offices have OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 8 developed local CSR initiatives to support the development of our local communities. Now, as members of the UN Global Compact, we aim to align all initiatives carried out locally in a more integrated way, with a global overview. This first report is a clear representation of OSM today and where we plan to be in the future. Our intention is to improve our performance and commitment towards the UN Global Compact within OSM Crew Management and further expand this project to cover the entire OSM Maritime Group as well, including all operating units in the near future. STAKEHOLDERS MANAGEMENT AND RELATIONSHIP As part of the UN Global Compact project implementation, in 2017 we have conducted the first stakeholder mapping for our global operations in OSM Crew Management. We plan to continue evolving in our stakeholders mapping and its management and relationship. We plan to expand this exercise to Group level in 2018. The results of the first stakeholder mapping can be accessed in the Attachments section of this report. In this report, we present our main stakeholders, list our main synergies and interactions, their expectations toward us, how we managed them during 2017 and how we plan to proceed with their management from long term perspective. OSM recognize their importance and is investing in improving the relationship with our stakeholders around the globe. More information to be found on the Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2017, on page 37 of this report. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OSM support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and make sure that the Human Rights for its employees are respected and preserved. The support to Human Rights is stated in OSM Maritime Group CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR): • OSM recognizes that governments have the primary responsibility to promote and protect human rights. OSM will work with governments and agencies to support and respect human rights within our sphere of influence. OSM will not tolerate human rights abuses, and will not engage or be complicit in any activity that solicits or encourages human rights abuse. OSM will always strive to build trust, deliver mutual advantage and demonstrate respect for human dignity and rights in all relationships it enters, including respect for cultures, customs and values of individuals and groups. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 10 In addition, the HUMAN RESOURCES (HR) POLICY (FCO-POLICY-HR) further declares that OSM adopts a non-discriminating practice that strives to ensure equal treatment in recruitment irrespective of age, gender, race, color, nationality or religion. OSM’s commitment to Human Rights is reinforced by our values: to be RESPONSIBLE, TEAM BUILDERS, FRIENDLY and ALWAYS ON. OSM has developed its own reporting system called IRIS Improvement Reporting and Information System that enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint regarding the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and other applicable national, international or internal rules and regulations. With the support of our management system and of our Business Processes Grievance Procedure all crew complaints can be properly received and treated. Another important practice to be mentioned, as part of our management system and of our Business Processes, is the Management Review. At the beginning of each year the Top Management of OSM carry out a review of the company’s policy statements, with the assistance of the Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) Global team. Necessary adjustments of the policies will be instructed, if applicable. We ensure the compliance with principles 1 and 2 in our global supplier’s network through signed Service Level Agreement (SLA) and through our procurement processes. For 2018, OSM plans to expand this control as items regarding Human rights will be included on the Suppliers evaluation checklist before the SLA is signed. After the SLA is signed, this compliance will be accessed by external supplier audits or business reviews to be conducted in key suppliers. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives were reported by different OSM offices around the globe supporting items 1 and 2. More information on this can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report. We can ensure compliance with these two principles, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. In this first report, OSM has decided to use a combination of qualitative and quantitative measurements of results. The main methodology to be used will be the qualitative measurements of results. We aim to Fully comply or Comply with Principles 1 and 2. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 Qualitative Assessment: OSM Performance Towards the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (2017) Principle 1 Principle 2 100% 80% Do not Comply Partially Comply Adherent Comply Fully Comply LABOR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OSM is Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (MLC, 2006) certified and accredited by local authorities in countries that did not ratify it yet. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 12 “It is a comprehensive international labour Convention that was adopted by the International Labour Conference (ILC) of the ILO, under article 19 of its Constitution, at a maritime session in February 2006 in Geneva, Switzerland. The MLC, 2006 sets out seafarers’ rights to decent conditions of work and helps to create conditions of fair competition for shipowners. The basic aims of the MLC, 2006 are: • to ensure comprehensive worldwide protection of the rights of seafarers (the Convention is sometimes called the seafarers’ Bill of Rights); and • to establish a level playing field for countries and shipowners committed to providing decent working and living conditions for seafarers, protecting them from unfair competition on the part of substandard ships.” (ISBN 978-92-2-129758-1) The Maritime Labour Convention governs the minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board of a vessel and the conditions of employment, accommodation, food and catering on board, recreational facilities, health protection, medical care, welfare, social security protection and financial security for the seafarers in case of repatriation or abandoning of a ship. We take Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 above listed, very seriously and we are committed to continuous improvement of our compliance with it. Our HUMAN RESOURCES (HR) POLICY (FCO-POLICY-HR) clearly states that: • OSM respects the rights of its employees to associate freely, join or not join trade unions and/or workers councils, or engage in collective bargaining, in accordance with national law and international conventions; • We do not use or benefit from, forced or involuntary labour; • The acceptable minimum age for full time employees is 18 years; and • OSM adopts a non-discriminating practice that strives to ensure equal treatment in recruitment irrespective of age, gender, race, color, nationality or religion. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 13 With the support of our management system and of our Business Processes, on our Grievance Procedure we clearly define the right of any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged violation of his contractual or any other rights. Those complaints, when received, will be registered in our reporting system IRIS. In 2017 OSM had less than 10 registered Crew complaints in IRIS and most were related to changes in taxes laws and regulations. To develop and promote risk-based thinking in OSM, we have established a Risk Committee with participants of all operational areas and from different offices locations. This Risk Committee evaluates our risk and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change management process to properly access, manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities also undergo a risk evaluation. Occupational and operational risks related to OSM are managed in accordance with our Health, Safety and Environment Policy (HSEP). The effectiveness of our management system is monitored through annual internal and external audits. For the next year, we will invest in increasing the compliance with Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 by increasing the compliance level with MLC, 2006 requirements. We can ensure the compliance with those four principles, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. In this first report, OSM has decided to use a combination of qualitative and quantitative measurements of results. The main methodology to be used will be the qualitative measurements of results. We aim to Fully comply or Comply with Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6. Qualitative Assessment: OSM Performance Towards the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (2017) Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 100% 100% 100% 100% Do not Comply Partially Comply Adherent Comply Fully Comply OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 14 It`s possible to observe the percentage of compliance of OSM with MLC, 2006 requirements among the years. We have expanded our operations from 2016 to 2017 and certified more offices. OSM MLC Compliance 100% 95% 90% 85% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OSM has 30 offices in different locations worldwide, with a multicultural office staff (more than 22 nationalities). The multicultural work environment adds great value to our global operations. 62% of our office staff are females. Data has been extracted from HR system Lanteria on 27.12.2017, the below graphics represents the office staff by this date. Nationality (%) on OSM Office staff Filipino British Norwegian Chinese Cypriot Portuguese Polish Singaporean Ukrainian Swedish Brazilian Guatemalan Others Lithuanian Latvian Russian Danish Taiwanese Congolese American Angolan Indian OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 Gender (%) on OSM Office staff (2017) 62 38 % % OSM employs more than 11.000 seafarers from 44 countries, involved in operations worldwide. The multicultural seafarers pool add value to OSM’s global operations and to our clients. The data was extracted from e-Crew on 29.12.2017 and the below graphics represent the onboard seafarers by this Nationality date. (%) on OSM maritime group crew management division Nationality – seafarers (2017) (%) on OSM Seafarers (2017) 0% 1% 0% 0% 1% 0% 1% 1% 0% 0%0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%0% 0% 0% Philippines Ukraine 1% 1% Poland Brazil 1% 2% China Norway Russia Latvia 2% Croatia India 3% Republic of Congo Sweden Lithuania Myanmar 3% Australia United Kingdom 3% Romania Angola Italy Denmark Vietnam Mexico 5% France Malaysia Estonia Finland New Zealand Bulgaria 62% Netherlands Belarus 11% Georgia Ghana Panama Spain Hong Kong Madagaskar Portugal South Africa Turkey Cameroon Faroe Islands Ireland Montenegro Peru OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 16 The majority of our seafarers’ employees are Male although women are a minority among our seafarers, OSM presents a higher percentage of women on board than the industry standard: Statistics from the maritime industry show that women represent only 2% of the world’s maritime workforce. (Source: ITF Seafarers) Gender (%) on OSM Seafarers (2017) 3 97 % % In our Trainees programs, we are forming the seafarers of tomorrow. We have a total of 141 Catering Trainees in our Catering program in Manila, Philippines, and 65 of them are females. With this, 46% of the future catering staff working on board of vessels will be women. In our Future Leaders program, we have a total of 923 Cadets and 47 of them are women. As per today, 5% of the future leadership positions on board are held by females. We have recently increased the intake of female cadets in our Cadets program, as one of the initiatives to increase female representation on board. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OSM understands the importance of environmental protection and reinforces our commitment to our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR): OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 • OSM aims to be a company that builds synergy, supports sustainable growth beneficial to the company and society; • In OSM Maritime Group, we define Corporate Social Responsibility as follows: (…) Protecting the environment and the safety of people (…); • OSM recognizes the importance of protecting all our human, financial, physical, informational, social, environmental, and reputational assets; and • All employees are responsible and accountable for contributing to a safe working environment, for fostering safe working attitudes, and for operating in an environmentally responsible manner. Environmental risks associated with OSM are evaluated by a Risk committee with participants of all operational areas and from different offices locations. This risk committee evaluates our risks and opportunities and define actions to manage it. We also have a change management process to properly access and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities also undergo by a risk evaluation. OSM aims to be as paperless as possible in our operations. We have heavily invested in innovation and in developing on-line programs for the management of our operations such as: e-Crew, IRIS, Lanteria, Salesforce, Bizagi, Visma, Eyeshare and others. OSM is encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies towards its operations. Thus, we understand that we comply with Principle 9. By reflecting on our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY (FCO-POLICY-CSR) we can prove the compliance with Principle 8. With our Risk committee, and risk based thinking all potential risk related to our operations will be managed, supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. With this we can also state compliance with Principle 7. We plan to further develop initiatives for the following year to increase the compliance with principles 7, 8 and 9 such as: Inclusion on environmental items in supplier’s audit checklist, inclusion on environmental items in internal audit checklist, implementation of environmental programs as per our SHORE SAFETY EMERGENCY PROCEDURES AND ENVIROMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMMES and implementation of Awareness campaigns regarded environmental protection themes. OSM have invested in training and qualifying Seafarers regarding environmental protection. One of the topics covered by our training department is the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL), to increase environmental protection on their daily operations. Plus, 19 Environmental awareness campaigns have been sent to 170 employees in OSM Brazil, resulting in 3230 views. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 18 Environmental Awareness OSM MARPOL Training (2017) Campaigns: OSM Brazil (2017) 171 180% 160% 140% 120% 19 3230 = 102 AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS SENT 100% + TOTAL VIEWS 69 80% 60% 40% 26 20% 0% 170 EMPLOYEES Total Officers Ratings Leadership Positions No. % In partnership with our travel agents, OSM has started to monitor the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions related to shore staff and seafarers travel. Data from (14.02.2017 19.12.2017) Airlines emission Oﬃce staff + Seafarers KM Total Kg CO2 259 199 076 36 307 441 We can ensure the compliance with those three principles, based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. In this first report, OSM has decided to use a combination of qualitative and quantitative measurements of results. The main methodology to be used will be the qualitative measurements of results. We aim to Fully comply or Comply with Principles 7, 8 and 9. Qualitative Assessment: OSM Performance Towards the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (2017) Principle 7 PRINACIPLE 8 Principle 9 Do not Comply Partially Comply 80% 80% 80% Adherent Comply Fully Comply OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and beibery. OSM is highly averse to any form of corruption such as fraud, extortion and bribery. We are committed to act in line with all relevant rules and regulations. This commitment is clearly stated on our BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY (FCO-POLICY-BE), thus our policy covers the following topics: • Anti-Bribery/Corruption; • Conflicts of Interest; • Inside Information; • Integrity Due Diligence; • Bribes; • Gifts; • Facilitation payments; • Political contributions; and • Charitable contributions. It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest, ethical and transparent manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. We take Principle 10, very seriously and we are committed to continuously improve our compliance. By applying our policies, we can state that we are in compliance with it. In addition, for high risk areas such as Congo, Angola, Ukraine and Brazil we have a TRACE certification. To have a TRACE certificate means that we have completed a comprehensive due diligence process administered by TRACE, the world’s leading anti-bribery standard setting organization and that we have successfully demonstrated our commitment to commercial transparency. Corruption risks associated with OSM are evaluated by a Risk committee with participants of all OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 20 operational areas and from different offices locations. We also have a change management process to properly assess and manage or mitigate the risks associated. All new business opportunities are also submitted to a risk evaluation. For the next year we will include Anti-Corruption items in both our internal audit and supplier audit checklists. Items related to Anti-Corruption will be addressed during the pre-evaluation stage of future suppliers. We can ensure the compliance with this principle based on our policies, our business processes and the implemented systems. In this first report, OSM has decided to use a combination of qualitative and quantitative measurements of results. The main methodology to be used will be the qualitative measurements of results. We aim to Fully comply or Comply with Principle 10. Qualitative Assessment: OSM Performance Towards the 10 principles of UN Global Compact (2017) Principle 10 Do not Comply Partially Comply 80% Adherent Comply Fully Comply OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2017, OSM conducted a survey in order to identify local CSR activities developed by our offices around the globe. 63% of our offices reported to be engaged in CSR activities. % of OSM Offices engaged in CSR activities (2017) 37% % engaged % NOT engaged 63% Reported CSR activities developed by OSM By Focus area (2017) 11% HEALTH Health 17% Environment Water 11% Education CHARITY EVENT 20% Child care/development 3% Disaster management Cancer prevention and support 3% 3% EDUCATION HIV-AIDS prevention and support 3% 20% Charity event 9% Other OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 22 The main focus areas of the reported CSR activities developed by OSM offices are: Education, Charity Events and Health. Reported local initiatives associated with Education: OSM offices located in Ukraine; Philippines; Cyprus; Germany; Brazil and Latvia have reported to have CSR activities in place associated with Education being developed with the local community, their employees and their families. Reported local initiatives associated with Charity Events: OSM offices located in Cyprus, Norway, Brazil, Congo and Croatia have reported CSR activities in place associated with Charity Events being developed with the local community, NGO`s and local industries associations. Reported local initiatives associated with Health: OSM offices located in Philippines, Ukraine, Cyprus, USA, Brazil and Croatia have reported CSR activities in place associated with Health being developed with the local community, their employees and their families. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 23 Part of the reported CSR initiatives uphold by different OSM offices around the globe are presented below. More information regarding the local initiatives reported by our global offices, can be found in the end of this report in the Attachments section, named as “Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported – 2017”. OSM Brazil Event in Santa Rita de Cássia orphanage, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In 2017, OSM Brazil has provided financial aid to Santa Rita de Cássia orphanage. An event was organized by OSM with the participation of 87 children. This event has counted with recreational activities, gifts distribution and snacks. The best part of this event was the time spent with the children. Share love and put a smile on a child’s face is priceless for OSM. OSM Congo Event at Coeur Celeste orphanage, in Pointe Noire, Congo. “As global leaders, we have to do our part in enabling conditions for people to have better lives in the areas we operate” says OSM Congo General Manager, Diogo Santos, touching on recent community work performed in OSM Congo for the local orphanage, “Coeur Celeste” (Celestial Heart). Children were invited to visit OSMs local facilities for a great lunch and were sent home with provisions for the institution. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 24 OSM Brazil Event at Santa Luzia Asylum, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil In 2017, OSM Brazil provided financial aid to Santa Luzia Asylum and hosted a full day long event for the facility and its members inviting 45 elderlies. During the event, the following services were provided: Hair care, Manicure and Pedicure. Food and snacks were also provided. OSM Manila Health and Wealth seminar, in Manila, Philippines OSM seafarers and family gathered together for a Health and Wealth seminar in the Philippines. Education, integration and support to seafarer’s families are one of our priorities. OSM Brazil OSM Brazil 12th Officers’ Seminar, in in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil In its 12th year, the Officers seminar, organized by OSM Brasil shares information on relevant topics to the industry and is aimed at better integrating our shore and offshore staff. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 25 OSM Cyprus Run4All corporate charity relay race, in Limassol, Cyprus OSM Cyprus team participated in the 1st corporate charity relay race “Run4All”organized by Cyprus University of Technology and “Ev Zin” Runners Club, supported by Limassol Municipality. This race aims to support local people in need. OSM Cyprus Make a wish donation – Supporting cancer institutions, in Limassol, Cyprus In 2017, OSM Cyprus has provided financial aid to the Cyprus Association “One Dream One Wish” (make a wish) for cancer-afflicted children. The Association focuses its activities on three main pillars: the fulfillment of the best wishes of the cancer-afflicted children, the economic support of their families and the psychological support of the children and members of their immediate environment. In retribution, the Cyprus Association “One Dream One Wish” (make a wish) send a letter to OSM thanking for our support and provide a bracelet of each of our employees in Limassol office. OSM Norway Pink Ribbon Run, in Kristiansand, Norway OSM Norway team participated of the Pink Ribbon Run, an action for Breast Cancer awareness and support to the ones affected by it. The proceeds from the race go to breast cancer research. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 26 OSM Philippines The OSM-Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. (OSM-ADFoundation), in Manila, Philippines In 2017, OSM established a new Scholarship Program to aid kids in need, in Philippines. The scholarships are granted based on poverty statistics* and today 8 students are the beneficiaries of it: 1 OSM employee dependent; 2 OSM Seafarer dependents and 5 students from local community schools located in high poverty incidence areas. *Based on Philippine Statistics Authority Table 2. Annual Per Capita Poverty Threshold, Poverty Incidence and Magnitude of Poor Population, by Region and Province: 1991, 2006, 2009, 2012 and 2015. Associated with the Scholarship Program, Initiatives for Social Development (ISD) of local communities and Scholar’s Development Program (SDP) are being implemented, co-facilitated and organized by OSM-employee volunteers with the help of Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and the local Department of Education. 1,027 persons, students and teachers, from 9 schools in Philippines were supported by these initiatives in 2017. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 27 OSM Philippines Asia CEO Awards 2017, in Manila, Philippines Since 1991, OSM in the Philippines has been serving local seafarers and their families. Early on, a Welfare Department was established focusing on supporting seafarers and their family in terms of benefits & medical assistance, free seminars and workshops. In October 2017, the Asia CEO Awards event was organized to recognize accomplishments of companies and organizations in the Philippines and Asia Pacific region. This is the largest business awards event in the Philippines and South-East Asia and recognizes the top performing companies of the region in various categories. OSM was nominated for the category “I-Remit Heart for Overseas Foreign Workers” which is dedicated to “Private and public corporation that implement specific programs that produce a positive and significant effect to Filipino overseas foreign workers and their families”. To evaluate and identify the award winner, the history of our Manila office since its foundation was considered together with our crew benefits, family welfare, corporate social responsibility and other initiatives. These benefits have expanded over the years, beyond what is government mandated. Some of these are: • OSM extended insurance (life insurance and medical insurance) for seafarers and family, • OSM pension fund, • AMOSUP provident fund, • Bonuses, • Loans, • Government aligned trainings. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 28 Other initiatives that were taken into consideration for the award include: Training Academy Started its activities in 2010 with bridge, DP and engine simulators, instrumentation, refrigeration and hydraulics liquid cargo, TECDIS, and annual subscriptions to maritime accrediting bodies. Since then, many other programs have been implemented to meet market developments and customer requirements. Seaman’s lounge Launched in 2012, In the second floor of our office in Manila, with fresh meals and drinks served for free, entertainment room, playroom for kids, and cozy sofas all for the benefit of our seafarers OSM Cebu Started its activities in 2012 to better support seafarers in the Visayan region of the Philippines. ‘One-stop-shop’ Implemented in 2013, where relevant departments were placed at the ground floor of our building to provide convenience for our seafarers. Catering Academy Established in 2014, offering training and education programs in the catering department that goes beyond industry standards. Future Leaders Program – A cadet program for seafarers to develop the future leaders onboard our vessels. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 29 OSM bridging program – Where skills and knowledge of seafarers coming from offshore vessels are aligned with cruise ship job requirements; free trainings and seminars enabling offshore crew to transfer to passenger ships. Support to families Free seminars and workshops on financial literacy, health & wellness and family & relationship are offered to family members of our seafarers. Socialization events like Christmas parties and Summer outings are also organized, all free of charge. Lastly, over the years OSM’s Manila team has carried out various CSR initiatives such as coastal clean-up, tree planting, office scrap recycling, medical missions and disaster response. Also, support and financial aid to two schools in the provinces of Leyte and Laguna have been provided. Leyte was damaged during a Typhoon in 2013. OSM in Manila was announced as the winner of the award “I-Remit Heart for OFW’s Company”. This reinforces that the motto of OSM “It’s All About People” and the initiatives we carry out in alignment with this makes a difference for the seafarers and their families and its recognized by the industry. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Aiming to evaluate the impacts of OSM on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, a two day seminar was organized involving key persons in the organization, with the assistance of an external consultant Thore-Andre Thorsen from Yme Foundation. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 30 After evaluating each one of the Sustainable Development Goals we concluded that our business has had a positive direct or indirect impact on all of them. Thus, we have decided to pursue 3 specific Sustainable Development Goals during 2017 and 2018 as focus areas: • 3 – Good Health and Well-Being; • 4 Quality Education; and • 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth. 3 – Good Health and Well-Being; OSM is committed to ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages. We understand that ensuring healthy lives and promoting the well-being of our employees and of the community is essential to sustainable development. OSM offers our employees’ health insurance and medical care in the majority of our offices around the globe. Our seafarers pass periodically by medical evaluations. Aligned with our customers, we offer medical coverage to our seafarers when they are on board and this coverage can be extended when they are on leave, under certain circumstances. Plus, the coverage can be, optionally, extended to family members. In our office in Manila, a health committee was formed to design programs and actions associated with the health and well-being of employees; some of the implemented actions are: • Healthy food options being offered in the local canteen; • Yoga classes once a week; and • Daily breaks for stretching exercises, with a guide that pops up from their computer screen. In the new OSM medical clinic in Philippines, mandatory health and wellness assessments are considered necessary for seafarers to improve health and well-being on board. This training offered by OSM is above the standard of medical clinics in Philippines. OSM works in close cooperation with our customers to communicate the Health Safety and Environmental requirements onboard the vessel(s) to all crew before signing on to an appointed vessel, by supplying the seafarer with necessary documentation and information provided by the customer such as Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy. Some of the actions to ensure the health and the well-being of our seafarers on board: • Drug and Alcohol Declaration (D&A) provided by the customer or OSM Crew Management to be signed by all crew members; OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 31 • Pre-departure medical examination of all seafarers including, but not limited to, Drug and Alcohol test; • Additional medical help in ports available to seafarers; • Ensure the supply of necessary protective clothing on board the vessels on Crew Management; • Encourage and motivate seafarers to use Personal Protective Equipment (PPE); • Promote a healthy and hygienic working environment; • Recruit catering staff knowledgeable in food preparation to provide a balanced diet and healthy nutrition for the crew and; • Train catering personnel on their contributory role in maintenance of cleanliness, orderliness and proper housekeeping on board; • Identify knowledge gaps of all catering personnel then reinforced occupational competence by additional training or upgrading courses; and • Register, investigate and follow up of any incident such as accidents and crew behavior resulting in a Customer Complaint together with the customer in our Improvement Reporting and Information System (IRIS). The commitment of OSM with the Health and Well-Being of our employees, their families and the community is reflected on the CSR initiatives reported by OSM offices around the globe 9 initiatives were listed: 1. Health and Wellness Seminars for Employees, Seafarers and Families in Philippines; 2. Financial aid for medical treatment of employee’s children in Ukraine; 3. Organizing blood donation among employees in Cyprus; 4. Engaged in the Go365 program were employees receive points per healthy habits that can be exchange by products in USA; 5. Cancer prevention and support Awareness campaigns sent during the Year in Brazil; 6. HIV-AIDS prevention and support Awareness campaigns sent during the Year + Annual seminar in Brazil; 7. Awareness campaigns on health topics sent during the Year + Annual seminar in Brazil 8. Sao Silvestre 2017 Project Physical preparation with the objective of preparing the participants for “São Silvestre Run” – 15KM in Brazil; and 9. Annual medical check-up payed by OSM for employees in Croatia. 9 6 BRAZIL CYPRUS HEALTH INITIATIVES PHILIPPINES USA DIFFERENT REPORTED ON 2017 UKRAINE CROATIA COUNTRIES OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 32 4 – Quality Education Quality education is a top priority for OSM. OSM has always seen training and development as key to sustaining its continuous growth over the years. We have invested heavily to build our internal training capabilities including Cadet Programs, Training Academy, DP Training Center and in a Catering Academy. OSM also have developed partnerships with training providers including Seagull Maritime, Green Jakobsen, Maersk Training, SimSea. Our workplace is truly global and we train people from all over the world. We strive to provide a better learning experience through our hands-on learning approach in our internal facilities and partners around the globe. OSM’s commitment to building stronger and more reliable services for our customers goes hand in hand with our commitment to the people who make this possible. At OSM we invest in the development of our people, to equip them with the technical and soft skills to do their jobs and ensure they have a fulfilling, long term career. We also offer Competence Enhancement programs. Competence is defined as knowledge, understanding, skill/proficiency and attitude required to perform a task safely and successfully to a defined standard. In 2017, reinforcing our commitment with Quality education we have further developed our office staff training and competence matrix management by implementing LANTERIA, that is a personalized HR software based on SharePoint and Office 365. The commitment of OSM with the Quality education our employees and the community is reflected on the CSR initiatives reported by OSM offices around the globe 6 initiatives were listed: 1. Educational and career development projects with local employees in Ukraine; 2. Supporting Students and Schools of Poor Communities in Philippines; 3. Educational and career development projects with local employees in Cyprus; 4. Educational and career development projects with local employees in Germany; 5. Sponsorship of educational program for seafarers in Brazil; and 6. Supporting local event called “Enkurs” organized by Maritime Administration of Latvia that aims to promote maritime industry and to encourage youngsters to join maritime academy and colleges after graduating schools in Latvia. 6 6 BRAZIL CYPRUS EDUCATION INITIATIVES PHILIPPINES GERMANY DIFFERENT REPORTED ON 2017 UKRAINE LATVIA COUNTRIES OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 33 8 – Decent work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) OSM is committed to Ensure Decent work to our global network of employees and Economic Growth to our industry segment in all countries and offices locations. This commitment can be observed in our Business Strategy, as one of our Strategic Objectives is Sustainable Growth. We understand that the Sustainable growth that we aim can only be achieved with Decent work and Economic Growth of our people and communities. OSM is a MLC certified or accredited company. With our annual internal and external audits, OSM can ensure the compliance with the labor rights of our seafarers. Our HSEQ team and HSE policy are in place to ensure the health and safety of our employees on shore and offshore. “The MLC, 2006 sets out seafarers’ rights to decent conditions of work and helps to create conditions of fair competition for shipowners. It is intended to be globally applicable, easily understandable, readily updatable and uniformly enforced (ILO)” According with ILO website, by the end of 2017, a total of 84 countries had ratified the MLC 2006 convention and 91% of the world’s shipping fleet being regulated (ILO). Although the Convention has not been ratified by all countries at this point, its effect is spread worldwide once vessels from non-signatory states that attempt to enter ports of signatory states may face penalties for non-compliance with it. With a global presence, 30 offices in different countries, and managing 11,000 seafarers we understand that we are creating jobs worldwide and making a difference for the local communities and local economies, supporting SDG8 in this way. We also are highly averse to any form of corruption such as fraud, extortion and bribery. We are committed to act in line with all relevant rules and regulations and our BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY (FCO-POLICY-BE) reinforces this commitment. Some of the OSM offices are also TRACE certified, as stated earlier in this report. The commitment of OSM with the Decent work and Economic Growth in the combination of CSR initiatives previously mentioned and presented – All of them combined, support and reinforce SDG8 and are aligned with OSM motto: “It’s All About People”. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 34 In 2017, OSM has joined the University of Agder UiA and TEDxArendal to share our thoughts on “The future employee”. With increasing innovation in technology, the work environment is radically changing. Preparing for tomorrow, OSM looked into the trends, drivers & skills to see what the future employee will be like and what they’ll need to succeed together. By 2025, millennials will represent 75 per cent of the workforce, and by 2020, retiring Baby Boomers are expected to leave 31 million positions open. Business leaders will need to cultivate a new type of employee – the worker of the future – with habits, incentives and skills that are inherently different from those in play today (TEDxArendal). NEXT STEPS A key priority of 2018 will be to continue our streamlining efforts to improve efficiencies across OSM. We will also be looking to deliver added value to our customers through new product offerings that will offer our customers improved results. In combination with this, we will continue to enhance our cost-conscious culture supported through our operating model, NEXT, to reinvent what we do and how we do it. The future is about automation of manual processes and improved decision making by ensuring that the relevant information available enhances our team’s capabilities in their roles. We will focus on: OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 35 People and Technology As of today, we have numerous automation projects ongoing with the aim of improving the way we work in OSM both with respect to our operational efficiency and the quality we provide. Our people are our decision makers, while our machines shall, as far as possible, do what they are good at: process information. We have adapted an IT strategy that over time will help us address this in a systematic way. Sustainable growth Growth is necessary for maintaining a sustainable business and supporting opportunities for our personnel on board and onshore. Growth can come from many avenues, but it is critical for OSM to support this through superior operational performance making our customers successful in their market. We can attract new business by demonstrating what we do makes a difference for them both in the short and long term. Focus and impact One of the challenges in OSM is that there are a lot of ways to deal with the challenges and opportunities that we see. However, we can’t do everything in one go and we need to ensure that we deal with the things that will give us the biggest impact. The biggest bang for the buck. 2018 will be an exciting year with a lot of opportunities for OSM and I’m very confident that we will achieve big things by great people. EXECUTIVE OUTLOOK Geir Sekkesaeter, CEO 2018 OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 36 • OSM and the UN Global Compact – 10 steps for the future. In 2018, OSM main actions and focus areas will be: 1. Keep working to improve policies and processes to increase the level of compliance with the 10 principles of the UN global compact; 2. Expand the UN Global compact project at Group level, including other operational units from OSM Maritime Group and manage our global CSR initiatives; 3. Advance and review our stakeholders mapping to properly manage their expectations; 4. Implement and monitor environmental programs throughout 2018, to better understand and measure the environmental impact of OSM on our communities and in the society; 5. Incorporate the 10 principles in our internal and external audits checklist, in order to introduce and develop them in our business ecosystem – focusing on our suppliers; 6. Increase the internal and external communication regarding the UN Global compact 10 principles and the selected sustainable Development goals (SDG3, SDG4 and SDG8) in order to bring awareness to our stakeholders; 7. Implement internal and external awareness campaigns, including social media, focusing on success stories of female seafarers working in our fleet and others, in order to increase the percentage of female seafarers in our seafarers pool.* We understand that by increasing the awareness and the access to information we will be able to increase the representativeness of women on board; *Published article via Marine Inside (MarineInside), “7 main reasons there are fewer women seafarers in the maritime industry”, describes why less women are in the maritime industry lack of awareness and information defined as #1 reason. 8. OSMADFoundation will launch a project of 5 scholarships for school year 2018-2019 to support students from Ifugao community wherein poverty incidence rate is high, in Philippines; 9. Develop and improve our risks and opportunities committee in order to support our sustainable growth targets; and 10. A new department will be created to manage our sustainability initiatives, at group level. ATTACHMENTS 1. Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported – 2017; and 2. Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2017. OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 37 Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported 2017 Attachment I OSM CSR activities reported 2017 Focus Area CSR activity reported Location Water Water reduction and monitoring of consumption program Brazil Reforestation project with local government Ukraine Environment Selling/Recycling of office garbage then profit will go to scholarship of poor kids Philippines Awareness campaigns sent during the Year + Annual seminar Brazil Educational and career development projects with local employees Ukraine Supporting Students and Schools of Poor Communities Philippines Educational and career development projects with local employees Cyprus Education Educational and career development projects with local employees Germany Sponsorship of educational program for seafarers Brazil Supporting local event called “Enkurs” organized by Maritime Administration of Latvia that aims to promote maritime industry and to encourage youngsters to join maritime academy and Latvia colleges after graduating schools. Family support Financial aid during maternity leave and Home office for employees with children Ukraine Promoting 2 integration events per year with seafarers, their families and office staff. Other Financial Wellness Seminars for Employees, Seafarers and Families Philippines Labor gymnastics conduct twice a week by a credentialed professional with the length of 15 Brazil minutes. Health and Wellness Seminars for Employees, Seafarers and Families. Philippines Financial aid for medical treatment of employee’s children. Ukraine Organizing blood donation among employees. Cyprus Engaged in the Go365 program were employees receive points per healthy habits that can be USA exchange by products. Health Cancer prevention and support Awareness campaigns sent during the Year HIV-AIDS prevention and support Awareness campaigns sent during the Year + Annual seminar Brazil Awareness campaigns on health topics sent during the Year + Annual seminar Sao Silvestre 2017 Project Physical preparation with the objective of preparing the participants for “São Silvestre Run” – 15KM Annual medical check-up payed by OSM for employees. Croatia Supporting local charity events such as the Pink Ribbon Run. Supporting local events for the Arendal community as TEDxArendal. Supporting local charity events organized by local institutions and NGO`s such as Cyprus Cyprus Shipping Chamber, The Dancing Queen Foundation and Run4all. Charity event Event at Santa Luzia Asylum, in Rio de Janeiro Brazil Brazil Supporting abandoned child’s institution Coeur Celeste orphanage, in Pointe Noire, Congo Congo Donation to people over 18 that are orphans and need support. Croatia Cancer prevention and Donation to cancer supporting institutions such as Make a wish. Cyprus support Child care development Child care development event at an orphanage Santa Rita de Cássia. Brazil OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 38 OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 38 Attachment II: OSM Stakeholder mapping and relation – 2017 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2017 Next steps (from 2018 on) Stakeholders Inclusion of other OSM offices under the DNV-GL -Transparent, consistent and corporate certificate of ISO 9001:2015 BV Contract Audits were conducted among 2017 in OSM Certification accurate reporting Keep up the MLC TRACE External audits offices' around the globe bodies Access to management certification/accreditation worldwide Lloyd's Register Certificates emission OSM offices were accredited or re-accredited Responsibility and reliability Obtain TRACE certification in countries Local authorities with instable economy Developing business strategies at long Participation in associations and short term Participations in events Other Crew Attending events on the oil and gas/crewing Keep assessing the market and Fair business related to Oil and Competitors management industries anticipating it`s trends Business Ethics Gas/Crewing industry companies Market assessment and evaluation Conducting risk assessment and defining Mapping the market and mitigation actions focusing in business observing trends continuity and sustainability Keep the MLC certification and Responsibility and reliability authorization MLC certified and authorized Employees Unions Fair business Annual meetings Keep Participating on the annual Participation on the annual meeting Unions Seafarers Business Ethics Signed agreements (CBA) meetings Signed agreements and CBA`s for 2017 associations Transparency Keep signing agreements and CBA`s Enclose the relationship with the unions Responsibility and reliability Increasing Business development team Fair business Business development Expansion of geographical area Customers Business Ethics Management of new customers by team External agencies project License holders Transparency Salesforce Contracts Increase shared content in social media Oil and gas Continuous improvement Contracts set with support of legal Feedback forms CSR and sustainability awareness extractors Activity records and evidences department OSM website campaigns External Shipping Easy access to information Customer satisfaction from Data analysis Participation of events Sharing our Communication on Progress Customers companies Customer service Contact numbers available at OSM website related to Oil and Gas report Ship-Owners Employment opportunities Publicity material published at OSM website /Crewing industry Keep the participation in events (customers) Qualified staff (office and onParticipation in events worldwide Social media (LinkedIn, keep improving our customer satisfaction Seafarers (not yet board) Sharing material and positions at social Facebook, Instagram and survey employed) Compliance with sector media others) Developing business strategies at long standards and short term High quality services OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 39 1 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2017 Next steps (from 2018 on) Stakeholders Employees E-crew access to all employees by app in (Office, onResponsibility and reliability the cell phone board/Shore and Fair business Daily management on EManagement of career development of Seafarers) Business Ethics crew onshore staff by Lanteria Families of Transparency Periodic Appraisals MLC certified and authorized Promoting OSM values through Seafarers Continuous improvement Annual Employee survey Career development and fair reward campaigns and training OSM Owners Activity records and evidences Onboard Magazine BiSafety, health and friendly work environment Development of our own medical clinic on -Seafarers Easy access to information annual Ethical work environment Internal Philippines Existing OSM Appraisal and constant Annual seminars Non-discriminatory policy and diversity Customers Annual Management review meetings Seafarers feedback Training for onshore and Trainings in house for seafarers Implementation of the risk committee -Top Ethical work environment and onboard staff Holding events with seafarer’s families and Development of more training centres Management/Boar fair reward Support to seafarer’s trainings around the globe d Members/ Crew Career development families Management review meetings keep up the training centre in Manila Management Compliance with sector Management review Further investments on Cadets programs Leader Team standards meetings Keep investing in the support of seafarers Executive High quality services families such as events and trainings Management Creditors: Financial relationship (not utilised today) Responsibility and reliability Fair business Bank: Improved monitoring of foreign Creditors Bank: Custodian and Bank: Daily use of bank system; transactions Business Ethics exchange risk and liquidity risk Finance Banks transaction processing; processing Transparency also, bank relationships to be reviewed in institutions Potential Market potentially borrowing facility Custodian of OSM money Continuous improvement light of bank's credit risk investors (not today) Activity records and evidences Creditors / Potential market investors: Not Easy access to information Creditors / Potential market investors: Potential market investors: explored Not expected to be explored Investing in business in anticipation of return Legal department has been the responsible Keep legal department as the responsible Complying with local and by the interface with local and international for the interface with local and Government Responsibility and reliability international requirements requirements Public and international requirements Laws and Fair business Complying with industry HSEQ has provided support to the company Government Expand the support from HSEQ regarded Regulations Business Ethics standards in complying with industry standards agencies industry standards Regulatory bodies Transparency Monitoring changes in rules HSEQ has sent monthly circular with updates Keep sending monthly updates on laws and regulations in rules and regulations, with the support of and regulations legal department OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 40 1 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2017 Next steps (from 2018 on) Stakeholders Associations on Oil and gas industryMaritime communityNational Flag States Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA) International Meeting via industry groups Implementing environmental programs Labour Compliance related Implementing the applicable industry Fair businessBusiness and KPI`s; Organization (ILO) communications standards into our operations; Industry EthicsTransparency Implementing the General Data International Monitoring any updates Constantly working to increase the quality of Organizations Continuous improvement Protection Regulation (GDPR); Maritime upcoming from industry our operations aligned with health and safety Employment opportunities Start working with the Amendments of Organization (IMO) organizations industry standards; 2016 to the MLC 2006. Norwegian Analysing market trends Shipowners Association (NSA) International Association of Independent -Tanker Owners (INTERTANKO) International Transport Workers' Federation (ITF) Increase employment opportunities promotion by expanding operations and increasing business volume OSM Foundation: Adonis Promoting employment opportunities Continue with our responsible operations, Donato Foundation, Inc. Responsible operations respecting legal respecting legal requirements and industry Responsibility and reliability CSR initiatives undertaken requirements and industry standards standards Communities by Fair business by several OSM offices Promoting CSR initiatives in several OSM Keep promoting CSR initiatives in several our offices Business Ethics Local worldwide Offices locations 63% of OSM offices OSM Offices locations increase the locations Transparency communities Compliance with local legal worldwide engaged in such activities percentage of OSM offices worldwide worldwide and Continuous improvement requirements Promoting CSR initiatives in Manila with OSM engaged in CSR initiatives other facilities Employment opportunities Offices site worldwide and Foundation: Adonis Donato Foundation, Inc. Keep promoting CSR initiatives in Manila Support and development local contact numbers Promoting education and training with cadet with OSM Foundation: Adonis Donato Local employees programs and training centres Foundation, Inc. Keep promoting education and training with cadet programs and expand training centres in other geographical locations OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 41 2 Stakeholder Identity Expectations from Synergy/Interaction Interaction and Management 2017 Next steps (from 2018 on) Stakeholders Marketing department in OSM Keep sharing content in social media Constant shared content in social media Media Responsibility and reliability Periodic publications of Improve the content on the OSM Onboard magazine semi-annual publications Media, NGO`s, Social media Business Ethics content in social media Onboard magazine Media sharing at OSM website Social Media International Transparency Onboard magazine periodic Keep up media sharing on OSM website UN global compact 10 principles mapping organizations Easy access to information publications Publishing the Communication On Stakeholders mapping Member of UN global Progress report on OSM website Compact External lawyers Internet provider Logistic companies (Gtravel, GriffInstone) Constant correspondence Keep up the good communication with Travel agents with GARD GARD Other systems and Contract with suppliers Keep up the supplier contract IT providers Power of attorney with management (EyeShare, Visma, Responsibility and reliability external agents (POA) Daily correspondence with GARD Develop the supplier audit and implement TeleComputing, EFair business Price policy with travel Suppliers contract management annual business review for critical suppliers crew, IRIS, and Business Ethics agents and logistics Procurement procedures being used Suppliers Implement supplier quality evaluation others) Transparency companies Audit schedule verification Training and Financial resources to meet Suppliers evaluation and Invoice team working with the invoice Develop selection criteria and supplier’s education financial obligations audit management development program institutions Supplier personnel in Developing new services inside OMS and Medical clinics constant contact with reduce supplier service volume, were External agencies supplier portfolio possible Training centres & Invoice management providers External recruitment agencies GARD P&I OSM CREW MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 42 3
