integrated report 2017 WELCOME This is TOTVS Integrated Report 2017, the third edition of We advanced along our digital journey, supported by three this document. It voluntarily complies with Global Reporting pillars: people, clients and technology. Learn about the steps TO OUR Initiative (GRI) and International Integrated Reporting Council of this evolution and discover how we are opening ourselves I NTEGRATED (IIRC) guidelines, globally approved and recognized standards, up to be together with you. covering the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017. REPORT 2017 In Chapter 10, we give a brief explanation of what an integrated In this edition, we have adopted the new version Standards, report is, to help you understand the structure of this narrative. GRI 102-1 in line with GRI Rules: Essential Option. In Chapter 11, we present the GRI Index, a way of easily findOur aim is to tell a story of transformation and openness, on ing indicators and topics that are strategic to the company in a digital journey that goes far beyond the company’s walls. the text. Accordingly, this year, we have incorporated our stakeholders If you would like to comment on anything, make a suggestion more deeply into the report. This is to recognize that you too or ask any questions in relation to our report, please do not are ever more important players in this story. hesitate to email us at relato@totvs.com.br. We want to conWe are pleased to say that 2017 was a key year for TOTVS. stantly improve. su m á rio T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 3 ME S SAG E F ROM THE BOARD GRI 102-10, 102-14 Value creation for investors, ethics in business and appreciation The recent renewal of our Board of Directors also warrants These are some of the aspects we have presented in this of human capital were principles embodied by TOTVS over highlighting. We elected new members based on their strong Integrated Report, while demonstrating our process of genthe course of 2017, in a context of slow, gradual economic technical profile, contributing to our constant evolution. erating value in an interconnected, simple and effective way recovery in Brazil. In this context, TOTVS’ solutions helped for our different stakeholders. companies of all sizes to raise their levels of productivity to Also in 2017, we made progress in terms of our internal organiget through this year. We sought to meet our clients’ needs, zation, by revising, creating and publishing various policies We sought to listen to these stakeholders when producing this in line with our strategic vision. We invested continuously in to aid the development of our business in a responsible and report during the materiality process, which was enhanced innovation, and improved our governance. sustainable way. All these policies are available on our Investor through the use of interviews, consultations with specialists In particular, last year we created our Governance and NomiRelations website (www.ri.com.br). We also revised our straand an online survey, as well as sector studies and analyses. nation Committee, in order to improve the company’s corpotegic risk map, as part of a profound process that involved We believe in the potential of publications like this to improve rate governance, evaluate the adoption of best practices, and the company’s main leaders. At the same time, the Board of management, and to allow companies and their customers and select and appoint board members and executive officers, Directors continued to support the management of its digital investors to visualize strategies and expand transparency and among other things. transformation journey. relationships of trust. We hope you enjoy this report! Board of Directors, TOTVS T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 4 2017 was the year in which we reached the halfway point in Clients and Technology pillars. our digital journey. It also marked the acceleration of TOTVS’ One of these pillars is Culture and Environment. Here, the transformation, as part of a movement that began at our #WEARETOTVERS campaign was the starting point to spread company and in the digital world, but has also expanded our fundamental attributes and promote TOTVERS’ leaderbeyond our own boundaries and technology, involving a new ship on this journey. way to see the world. In the Supply and Portfolio pillar, we launched Carol, our quality We are turning into a company with a more open business data and artificial intelligence platform, with the mission of vision, offering the world and society shared knowledge and expanding our clients’ capacity for analysis and to speed up experiences. And we are not alone. their decision making. In the Processes and Customer Service Our clients, employees, investors, partners and suppliers are pillar, we implemented more agile methodologies and new also protagonists on this path. It is a trajectory replete with management methods, in which we revisited all our developME S SAG E FROM THE lessons learned and challenges overcome. ment processes. Last year was marked by modest economic growth in Brazil, In the social field, we continued with our activities, as foundPRESI DENT but TOTVS obtained solid results, such as total revenue growth ers and funders of the Social Opportunity Institute (IOS), GRI 102-14 of 2.0. which last year hit new records for services and employability rates. This performance is also linked to deep transformations in our business model. The adoption of a subscription model, Being socially responsible is one of our company’s values, and among other measures, is based on our belief in the transthis is reflected in our participation in and commitment to formative power of technology and its potential to contribute the United Nations Global Compact and the Ethos Institute’s to the evolution of society. The technological revolution under Business Integrity and Anti-Corruption Pact. way is resulting from people’s desire to share information in In the new cycle in which we find ourselves, we have some a collaborative and connected way. important choices to make. Citizens, companies, government, This new culture means that people can consume products the private sector, academia and society all want to find the and services anytime, anywhere, and this is leading companies best, fairest and most effective paths to grow. to focus on deciding which technologies to use to deliver their On this journey, TOTVS continues to have the purpose of products and services. All this is part of our intense and dynamic “simplifying the business world.” For everyone. ongoing journey. As you will be able to see in this report, we had some important achievements in 2017, through our work in our People, T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 5 All good stories need to present the scene where they begin and where the action takes place. Our journey starts with TOTVS. Here, we use letters and numbers to describe what we do and how we do it, and we make clear our voices and the principles of governance and transparency that govern our relations with other protagonists in this narrative. totvs T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 6 totvs GRI 102-1, 102-2 When we talk about TOTVS, we are talking about a company of Brazilian origin, with international operations, which provides technology solutions for the market. At first, it focused on small and medium enterprises, but it now offers solutions to clients of all sizes. Our main advantages include the development of applied technology based on platforms and the generation of segmented solutions, integrated into a distribution model underpinned by franchises, in Brazil and abroad. This allows us to have a broad presence, to be close to our clients, and to offer them agile, effective services. In practice, we work like a software house, capable of operating in three dimensions (solutions, platforms and tools), adding ever more professionals and companies around us, in an open ecosystem that can track and integrate evolving demands and anticipate future trends. Few software houses operate with this triple perspective. And TOTVS is now adding a fourth dimension: distribution of software components developed by the company, its franchisees and its partners, through the TOTVS Store. In this way, we will take another step in our opening up to the market and society, and we will make a large share of our technology available to the innovation community. This openingup movement includes promoting social and cultural diversity and having a presence in different business environments. To make companies more competitive through intelligent solutions and simplify the business environment, TOTVS is present in all Brazil’s business centers and leading centers elsewhere in Latin America and other continents. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 7 totvs /// RU SSI A /// E UA europE 1 Joint Venture + 1 Tech Lab (CA) + 1 Affiliate (NY) /// Portugal + 1 Channel (FL) + 1 Affiliate + 3 Channels /// CHI NA + 1 Affiliate Africa /// TA I WA N /// MEx ico + 1 Development Co lOmbia latam Center A rgentina + 5 Affiliates /// Angola + 50 Channels + 2 Channels + 1 Development Center /// BRAzI L GRI 102-3, 102-4, 102-6 Head Office: São Paulo P RE S EN CE IN B R AZI L + 11 Affiliates + 52 Channels across the country A ND AB ROA D + 10 Development Centers TOTVS is present throughout Brazil and it has clients in more + 5,000 Resellers than 40 countries. This extensive footprint is the result of our growth strategy through affiliates, channels and franchises, which we began in the 1990s. This allows us to always be close to our Brazil is responsible for 96% clients, to get to know their businesses and the specific features of TOTVS’ net revenue of their regions, and to win their trust. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 8 totvs /// Leader in ERP in Brazil, with roughly 50% market share. GRI 102-7 /// Brazil’s 20th most valuable brand (Interbrand ranking). /// Highest level of corporate governance (São Paulo Stock Exchange’s Novo Mercado listing segment). /// Specialized business solutions for 10 industries. /// Only Brazilian technology company present in “2017 Global Innovation 1000 Study,” a ranking published annually by Strategy&Business, PwC’s strategic consulting arm. /// Around 7,800 TOTVERS across the world. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 9 totvs GRI 102-2, 102-6, 102-7 18.5% 24.6% TOTVS structures its businesses in line with offerings aimed B RE A KD OWN O F TOTVS’ 17.9% at its clients’ different operating industries. In all, there are 10 RE V E NUE BY industries 24.4% industry sectors. The chart to the side shows a breakdown 6.4% of total net revenue in 2017 and 2016 by industry. Manunn Manufacturing 6.9% facturing and Retail, together, account for 47% of total revenue. 2017 2016 nn Retail Manufacturing is the most traditional industry in the use of nn Distribution and Logistics 14.5% management solutions. 23.5% nn Services 15.2% This is a strategic sector for the integration of value chains, 12.8% 22.5% nn Financial Services such as in Distribution & Logistics, Retail and Credit. It is going nn Other through a major new transformation, called “Industry 4.0,” which has created opportunities to sell TOTVS solutions for 12.9% process automation, supply chain synchronization, data capture S P EC I F I C AN D S P EC IAL IZED B U S I N E SS SOLU TI ON S and analysis, artificial intelligence, collaboration and sharing of FO R 10 industries AN D COMPAN I E S OF ALL SI ZE S information. AGR IB US IN E SS RE TAI L L AW D IS T RI BUT I ON H E ALT H E DU CAT IO N CON ST RUCT I ON SE RV IC E S FI N AN C I AL S E RVI CE S AN D PROJ ECT S AN D LOGI S TI C S M AN UFACT URI N G T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 10 totvs C A P I TAL MARKETS AND SHAREHOLDI NG S TRU C TU R E GRI 102-7 TOTVS’ shares have been traded on the Novo Mercado listing is home to companies that have voluntarily adopted additional segment of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (known as B3) corporate governance practices to those required by Brazilian under ticker code TOTS3 since March 9, 2006. TOTVS ended legislation. TOTVS was the first Brazilian software company 2017 with stockholders’ capital of R$989,841,000, composed to join Novo Mercado. of 165,637,727 common stocks. The Novo Mercado segment A CO M PA NY W ITHOU T OWN E RSHIP 17.6% CO N T RO L L IN G S H A R E HOLDE R S B R E AKDOW N A S O F DECE MBER 31, 2017 71.4% free float: n Directors and related persons 9.7% 1.3% n PETROS 98.5% of the free float is composed of institutional investors; and n Treasury stock n Free-Float 88.6% 71.4% of the free float is composed of foreign investors. In 2017, TOTVS’ shares (B3: TOTS3) fell 24.3%, while the benchmark IBOVESPA index increased 26.9%. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 11 totvs B OA RD OF MEMBERS O F TOT VS’ Pedro Passos GRI 102-18, 102-26, B OA RD O F DIREC TO RS Chairman D I RECTO RS 102-29, 102-30 Strong corporate governance: eight Independent Member The Board of Directors is TOTVS’ highest governance body. out of the nine members of the Co-founder It is responsible for orienting the company’s businesses in relaBoard of Directors are independent, and board member MA RIA L E TÍCIA CO STA* including the chairman tion to strategic subjects and overseeing the Executive Board’s of Natura Vice President implementation and execution of plans and operations. The board’s GRI 102-10, 102-22, 102-23, 102-26 Independent Member composition and length of terms are defined in the Articles of Incorporation and general shareholders’ meetings. The board is Partner in Prada Assessoria Empresarial also tasked with identifying and managing risks and opportunities, as well as economic, environmental and social impacts. In addition, the board is responsible for formulating and monitoring the implementation of long-term business policies and strategy. This includes setting the company’s targets, purpose, CLAUDIA G ilberto G UILHERME Laércio Mauro PAULO Wolney mission, vision and values. S OA RES Mifano S TO CCO Cosentino R. C unha SÉ RG IO B etiol Independent Independent FILHO Founding Independent CA P UTO Independent CO M P O S ITIO N O F TOTVS’ Member Member Independent Member and Member Independent Member Vice President Former Member CEO-President President Member Co-founder of B OA RD O F D IR EC TOR S of Grupo NC chairman of Founder of TOTVS of Brazil’s Co-founder Bematech S.A BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP (%) São Paulo and CEO Association of of Ória GRI 102-22, 405-1 Stock Exchange of GR1D Capital Market Gestão de n Women 50% (B3) Investors Recursos n Men 25% (AMEC) Ltda * No members Between of TOTVS’ Board Over 50 30 and 50 of Directors are younger than 30. 50% 75% INDEPENDENCE * Guilherme Stocco Filho and Paulo Sergio Caputo joined the Board 11% OF MEMBERS of Directors on April 5, 2018, replacing Germán Quiroga and Henrique n Non-independent Trinckquel, who were board members as of December 31, 2017. n Independent To find out more about our current board members and our governance structure, see section 12 of our Reference Form. 89% T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 12 totvs GRI 102-26, 102-35, 102-36, 102-37 BOA RD O F DIREC TO RS’ AUDIT CO MMIT T EE The remuneration of the Board of Directors’ members is monthly, A DV ISO RY Made up entirely of independent board members, this committee reviews the company’s fixed and aligned with market best practices. Executives receive CO MMIT T EES accounts and oversees compliance with legal provisions. It reports to the Board of Directors. fixed pay and also bonuses and benefits, as described in item 13.1 of our Reference Form. The Board of Directors Among other duties, it is responsible for advising the Executive Board on setting the parameters is advised by four for TOTVS’ risk management model and periodically evaluating its risk management policies, permanent committees, resources and maximum risk tolerance. Click here to see its members For more information about TOTVS’ Board of Directors, click here. whose main objectives are to evaluate and ST RAT EGY A ND T EC HNO LO GY CO MMIT T EE To see our Reference Form, click here. discuss significant business issues and This committee evaluates, proposes and monitors the main guidelines of TOTVS’ corporate contribute to the and technology strategy. Click here to see its members Click on the link to see the internal rules of TOTVS’ Board of management of the Directors, including details about the functioning, structure, board itself. organization, duties and responsibilities of the board and the PEO PLE A ND REMUNERAT IO N CO MMIT T EE committees that report to it, as well as the relationship between GRI 102-18 This committee monitors search, retention and training activities related to TOTVS’ human the board, its committees and other company entities, in accorcapital, besides having a consultative role when it comes to defining remuneration and dance with corporate governance best practices, Law 6,404 of benefits policies for TOTVERS, following IT market standards. It also presents the Board 1976 (the “Corporation Law”), Brazilian Securities and Exchange of Directors with an annual total remuneration distribution proposal for members of Commission (CVM) regulations, the listing rules of the São Paulo the Executive Board and Board of Directors, and tracks the respective payments. Stock Exchange (B3) Novo Mercado listing segment, and the Click here to see its members company’s Articles of Incorporation. G OV ERNA NC E A ND NO MINAT IO N CO MMIT T EE This committee promotes and tracks the adoption of corporate governance best practices, as well as the efficacy of the company’s processes, proposing updates and improvements when necessary. It also selects and recommends members for the Board of Directors, advisory committees and Executive Board, and it supports the chairperson in organizing a formal and periodic process of evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors and its members. Click here to see its members T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 13 totvs G OV ERN AN CE S TRUCTURE GRI 102-18 BOARD OF DIREC TORS S T R ATEGY A N D GOV E R N A N C E P E RSONNE L AND T EC H N O LO GY AND NOMINATION COMPE NSATION AU DIT I NT ERNAL CO M M IT TEE CO M MI T T E E COMMITTE E C HAIRMAN COMMITTE E AUDI T AREA S upply Services F inancial MP N C hain Consumer Service, HeAlthcare Services Microenterprises Agribusiness, Distribution C&P, Ecofluig Health Financial and Hardware Manufacturing and Retail Educational Services and Logistics and Legal Corporate areas PDS Services Administration and Finance, AR Product / Software Implementation, Marketing, Channels Customer Service Development / Consulting, Corporate and Business Models, People and Relationships Support Education, Cloud and IT Area, Institutional Relations and Social Opportunities T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 14 totvs E X EC U TIV E B OA RD GRI 102-26 The company’s Executive Board, composed of 10 executive directors, is responsible for administering and implementing the general policies and guidelines established by the Board of Directors. The executive directors are elected by the Board of Directors for a two-year fixed term. They may be reelected and dismissed by the Board of Directors at any time. The Executive Board’s current members are as follows: L aércio Ale xandre E ros JULIA NO G ilsomar G ustavo Marcelo E duardo Cosentin O Apendino Jantsch T UBINO * Maia Bastos Cosentino Chief Executive Services and Microenterprises Business and Financial Supply Chain & Professional Services Officer Relationship & Hardware Digital Strategy & Investor Healthcare & TI Relations *As of December 31, 2017, Flávio Balestrin rita sidney de Paiva held the position of Vice President pellegrino falcão and Director of Marketing, david Ronan weber mario People Services Alliances, Business terra Maia A ssis george almeida Models, Channels & Human Resources. Financial C arvalho canova Ecofluig He stood down Services Neto Technology on March 23, 2018. Consumer & Cloud T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 15 totvs GOV E R N A N C E AND COMPLIANCE GRI 102-16, 102-17 TOTVS is a company made up of people who are committed As an element of the governance and compliance structure, of Directors); transparent positions (public policies are postto ethics and client experience. compliance has the goal of analyzing the regulatory environed on the company’s website); and consistent consequence ment and internal rules, considering the company’s processes management. These elements are sustained by our Compliance and Risk and activities, and presenting recommendations aimed at Management Program and corporate governance structure, Below you can see a complete list of organizational policies ensuring that applicable requirements are met, based on proper disclosed by the company, which guide its activities. All these to guarantee the dissemination of our values throughout our risk measurement. In this context, this structure works in documents underwent a rigorous process of development, production chain. conjunction with other areas of the company in establishing discussion, recommendation and approval, overseen by the The governance structure, together with the Code of Ethics and monitoring necessary action plans for appropriate risk Board of Directors: and Conduct and corporate policies (especially Compliance control and mitigation. We seek constant evolution in the Policy), are the guardians of our principles. They establish /// Policy on Producing and Publishing following areas: formalization, documentation, monitoring and Regulatory Documents business and conduct guidelines that must be reflected on and reporting of risks; governance in the approval of documents followed in the company’s everyday routines. (100% of organizational policies are approved by the Board /// Corporate Compliance Policy /// Credit and Billing Policy /// Disclosure Policy /// Risk Management and Internal Controls Policy /// Litigation Management Policy /// Negotiation Policy /// Policy on Commercial and Institutional Relations with Public Organizations /// Information Security Policy /// Policy on Transactions with Related Parties /// Internal Rules of Board of Directors and Advisory Committees T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 16 totvs GRI 102-25, 205-1 We wish to highlight the Policy on Commercial and Institutional Relations with Public Organizations (Anti-Corruption Policy), published in July 2017. It applies to the TOTVS group, as well as contractors and suppliers. This policy establishes conduct guidelines for TOTVS’ relationships with public sector organizations, through any representative or agent, considering its values and principles set forth in the Code of Ethics and Conduct. The policy also reinforces TOTVS’ commitment to comply with Brazil’s Anti-Corruption Law (Law 12,846 of 2013), the United Nations Global Compact and the Ethos Institute’s Business Integrity and Anti-Corruption Pact. In order to prevent and administer situations involving potential conflicts of interest, in 2017 we published our Policy on Transactions with Related Parties, which provides for monitoring of records involving related parties and the management and Responsibility Week, involving the directors of Instituto Alliance for Integrity, its Global Steering Committee, and control of such information. In addition, every year we conduct Não Aceito Corrupção (the “I Do Not Accept Corruption Transparency International; a census involving all members of the Board of Directors and Institute”); /// Participation in and support for Ethos 360º Conference; key senior managers, in order to verify their participation as board /// Webinar open to market players on December 9, Intermembers, employees and shareholders at other companies. /// United Nations Global Compact Working Groups – For national Anti-Corruption Day, to discuss measures to fight example, we have signed up for the 10 Universal Principles To internalize compliance with these documents as part of our corruption in the corporate world, confirming TOTVS’ poderived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the corporate culture, we carry out continuous communication and sition and engagement in this area. International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundatraining work with TOTVERS. TOTVS also works collaboratively with anti-corruption orgamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration As part of this agenda, last year we held several events open to nizations on the following initiatives: on Environment and Development, and the United Nations clients, partners and the general public, including the following: Convention Against Corruption; /// Ethos Institute’s Anti-Corruption Working Group – For /// Second edition of panel discussion to discuss anti-corruption example, we hosted the launch event of the Integrity App /// Transparency International – Participation in the production measures during the company’s Social and Environmental in São Paulo, organized by non-governmental organization of a package of new anti-corruption measures. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 17 totvs 0800 721 5966 in Brazil 55 11 3232 0766 in other locations Monday to Friday, 9 am to 5 pm www.totvs.com/eticatotvs Click here to see our code in full. CO D E O F E THIC S AN D CON DU CT – GRI 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Commitment to integrity is based on TOTVS’ values, which drive A P RAC T I C AL G U ID E TO VALU E S AN D CU LTU R E us to seek best practices regarding ethics and transparency, and to adhere to legal and sector requirements. The Code of Ethics and Conduct, recently revised and approcess of complementary customer service channels; and proved by the Board of Directors, orients behavioral standards enhancements of internal policies, rules and procedures. In this context, the company’s integrity program and compliance aligned with our values and business strategy. The document system are evaluated annually through an independent external TOTVS also has an Ethics and Conduct Commission, which is is a practical guide and it must be used in TOTVERS’ everyday audit. The evaluation report contains a rigorous analysis of the aimed at fostering and promoting integrity and compliance with interactions and decisions based on the company’s values and compliance and anti-corruption program’s eight pillars and the values and standards of behavior contained in its Code culture. involves assessments through substantive testing, as well as of Ethics and Conduct. This commission is responsible for interviews and document analysis covering the compliance risk Considering the Code of Ethics and Conduct’s guidelines, handling allegations, using a formal process to check alleged violations of the code, and referring cases to the appropriate control environment. TOTVS maintains a reporting channel open to internal and external stakeholders to report misconduct. In 2017, the bodies, together with an assessment of each occurrence for Evaluation results and action plans are reported to the Audit channel received 127 allegations, which were duly analyzed the purpose of taking appropriate disciplinary action. Committee,* which in turn reports its findings to the Board of and responded to, compared with 71 cases reported the The Ethics and Conduct Commission meets monthly to analyze Directors. previous year. This suggests that the channel has been widely investigations into allegations and action plans, when applicable. The end product is a roadmap to track the implementation of divulged by the company and used by its stakeholders. The Compliance area enjoys functional independence and it can defined actions, resulting in a cycle of evolution and maturing The following actions have resulted from investigations of gain access to meetings, numbers involved in investigations and in the theme, and providing an environment of greater security these allegations: dismissal with cause of professionals proven negotiations regarding consequence management as part of the and refinement in terms of anti-corruption measures. process of dealing with allegations, in order to make adjustments to have engaged in serious unethical behavior; warnings and to rules and continuously improve the Compliance Program. suspension of professionals proven to have engaged in low * The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring allegations submitted through the company’s reporting channel, striving for enforcement of TOTVS’ and medium-level unethical behavior; e-learning regarding the The Ethics and Conduct Channel, available to TOTVERS and Code of Ethics and Conduct, warning the Board of Directors of fraud Code of Ethics and Conduct; improvements to the monitoring other stakeholders, can be accessed at: and other crimes, and suggesting responses. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 18 totvs T R A I N I N G ON COD E OF E T H I CS A N D CO N D U C T AN D AN TI-COR RU PTI ON M EA S UR E S GRI 205-1 BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. The Code of Ethics and Conduct’s content is now presented on an e-learning platform, and communications reinforce the requirement for all TOTVERS to do this training. The training is done annually, and in 2017, 4,552 people successfully completed it. For those who do not have internet access, TOTA L NUMBER A ND PE RCE N TAG E O F P EO P L E the training takes place in person. T RA INED O N A NT ICORRUP TIO N P O L ICIE S A ND PRO C EDURES IN B RA ZIL In 2018, we will launch a thematic gamification platform to (Based on the number of franchise units and not franchisees) train 100% of TOTVERS on the new Code of Ethics and Conduct, which was approved recently. The new edition of training will GRI 205-2 Communicated Trained promote greater engagement, as the learning process is more fun and interactive, involving simulations of real situations. 9 Board of Directors With regard to specific training on anti-corruption measures, 124 100% people, including 100% of our franchisees’ CEOs, professionals in strategic posts and those in areas of the company that are 7,768 4,552 TOTVERS most exposed to risks, did in-person training with a specialized 100% 60% professional last year. At the end of the training, the participants signed an agreement stating that they were familiar with the 48 Commercial partners (franchises) Code of Ethics and Conduct and Policy on Commercial and Insti100% tutional Relations with Public Organizations (Anti-Corruption * The company does not yet have data stratified by region, Policy). Training materials related to commercial partners were but it undertakes to present it in this way in the next report. deployed in each business unit. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 19 totvs R IS K MANAG EMENT GRI 102-30, 102-31, 102-33 INT ERNA L AUDIT A REA TOTVS is committed to enhancing its risk management process, Responsible for auditing the company’s risk management as it believes that decision making and business strategy are process through impartial and independent reports. It tracks the supported by the construction of scenarios and consistent implementation of action plans for identified points and checks analyses. To this end, it uses best practices and international whether actions have been implemented as planned. benchmarks to implement practices that make sense in TOTVS’ It also identifies opportunities to improve and prioritize processes business environment and culture. to be audited, based on the risk management process, and The strategic risk management process periodically reports its expands the environment for substantive testing or continuous analyses to the Board of Directors, to ensure impartiality and monitoring if new risks or bigger impacts and vulnerability impact assessments in guiding business decisions and monitoring regarding existing risks are identified. strategic initiatives. These evaluations are conducted every six INDEPENDENT AUDIT A REA months for risks considered very high and high, and annually for Monitors and evaluates the company’s internal control environrisks considered medium and low. ment and risks considered relevant, in order to correctly produce Management of these risks is executed through the synergistic and present the financial statements. action of the company’s different governance structures. AUDIT CO MMIT T EE B OAR D OF DI R ECTOR S Monitors risk management work to guarantee that the language, Sets strategic objectives to orient the work of identifying risks, methodology and mechanisms of adopted controls are approbesides tracking management actions in line with the company’s priate, considering the structure, processes and evolution of business guidance. residual risk following the implementation of actions plans defined by the company. It also ensures alignment of financial PROCE S SE S , I N TE R N AL CON TROL S, RISKS policies with strategic guidelines and business risk profile. AN D COMPLI AN CE DE PARTME N T It reports its conclusions to the Board of Directors. Responsible for identifying, evaluating, treating, monitoring and Risk control and management practices are described in TOTVS’ communicating strategic risks and tracking the status of strategic, Policy on Transactions with Related Parties and Risk Manageoperational, financial and regulatory risks (compliance). ment and Internal Controls Policy, which cover the following: T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 20 totvs GOVE R N AN CE GRI 102-15 The main risks to which the company is exposed are as follows: AN D R I SK CU LTU R E ST RAT EG IC RISKS A culture of mapping and managing risks is disseminated at all levels of the company, and necessary actions are not restricted Risks that affect strategic objectives, considering the internal to a single executive or department. Managers are primarily and external environment; responsible for day-to-day management of risks associated with their area or business process and spreading this culture among O PERAT IO NA L RISKS their team members, managing risk exposure through action Risks related to the company’s operations (processes, people plans defined and monitored by the Board of Directors; and technology), which affect operational efficiency and the effective and efficient use of resources. They may manifest RISK, STRATEGY themselves in various ways, such as fraudulent acts, business AND GOAL SETTING stoppages, improper conduct by employees and deficiencies Risk strategy and management must cover internal and external in contracts, resulting in financial and commercial losses, fines, factors, as well as the impact of risks that may be misaligned legal impacts and/or reputational impacts; with the guidelines established by the company, which could affect the achievement of business objectives and strategy; FINA NC IA L RISKS Risks associated with the exposure of the company’s financial/ R I S K I DE N TI F I CATI ON , accounting operations and the reliability of its financial stateE VALUATI ON AN D TR E ATME N T ments. They may materialize as a result of the ineffectiveness of Risks are periodically identified, evaluated, prioritized and docucash flow management aimed at maximization and the generation mented in a structured way so they can be treated properly. of operating cash, returns from financial transactions, the raising or usage of financial resources, and the possibility of issuing Risks are categorized in line with their nature and origin, in risk incomplete, inaccurate and late financial, managerial and tax categories. To this end, it is necessary to describe the processes reports, exposing the company to fines and penalties. for identifying, evaluating and treating them. The methodology applied at the company is supported by the REG ULATO RY/ components of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations CO MPLIA NC E RISKS of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and its Enterprise Risk Risks related to compliance with rules and legislation, considering Management Framework (COSO ERM) with respect to internal laws applicable to the sector of activity and general laws, both environment, risk assessment, control activity, information, national and international (environmental, labor, civil and tax/ communication and monitoring. fiscal). T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 21 1 totvs capital intelectual, a totvs R I S K MA P GRI 102-15 ment, a process for managing technical risks, and monitoring of occurrences. Furthermore, TOTVS conducts internal investiIn 2017, TOTVS’ risk map was updated, and after an extensive identification, documentation, monitoring and reporting process, gations into potential violations of the environment, data secuthe Board of Directors concluded that there are 18 high-priority rity and privacy, involving forensic analysis, electronic searches risks, grouped into strategic, financial, operational and regulatory and interviews with those involved in suspected incidents. Howcategories. The risk map also makes it possible to classify each ever, the company recognizes the need to constantly improve in risk as low, medium, high or very high, in line with the level of this area. impacts and vulnerability to which it is exposed, as shown in the In 2017 and previous years, there were no records of invesresults of qualitative and quantitative analyses. The process of tigations exclusively involving violations of privacy, so we are updating the risk map involved gauging executives’ perceptions unable to generate a specific indicator for the topic. Neverthrough interviews, a risk poll, updating of forms, and tracking theless, we have constantly enhanced our control environment of indicators together with Risk Owners.* to allow greater specification of occurrences and potential risks broken down by type of transaction/operation. The sector in CLI E N T PRIVAC Y GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 418-1 which TOTVS operates is still lightly regulated in Brazil, but TOTVS strives to guarantee the privacy and security of its own regulation has become stricter internationally, and this is likely data and that of its clients through an Information Security to be repeated domestically, leading us to expand our internal Policy that provides for mechanisms to protect the environcontrol mechanisms. * Those responsible for identifying and effectively managing risks in their process or area of activity. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 22 STRATEGIES, PROSPECTS AND CHALLENGES Having presented the background, it is time to talk about what we have faced in our journey together with our stakeholders. This includes opportunities and challenges on this path, strategies to deal with them, and our future prospects. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 23 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S CONTE X T OF E VOLU TI ON GRI 102-15, 103-1 AND D I GI TAL JOU R NE Y We are experiencing a new digital age driven by the advent of mation is now a decisive factor for digital evolution in business new disruptive technologies and profound transformations in and the way we deal with the world in which we live. behavior. People are now consuming products and services in In ancient times, human beings always sought to understand a different way, while organizations are challenged to revalidate things on their own. When they started to work in groups and Watch this video to learn about TOTVS’ their own business models. Individuals lie at the center of all vision for digital transformation. these changes. People’s decision to connect and share inforin a collaborative way, they realized it was possible to transform this understanding into knowledge, expanding and maximizing the benefits generated for everyone. When people became connected, they opted to express themselves and choose what they wanted to consume, at any time and anywhere, demanding that their needs be anticipated and promptly met. In this context, transformation is the word that best sums up the moment that TOTVS and all other companies, large or small, whether or not they belong to the world of technology, are going through, or will go through. Those that do not incorporate the digital variable into their strategic plans will become obsolete, as the speed of transformation in the world requires ever faster responses for organizations. Find out more. It has therefore become vital to companies’ sustainability and competitiveness to think and do everything in a different way. All this movement is positive, and it provides opportunities for reinvention for all corporations. Extensive connections between people and things through technology are generating a world of shared data and creating countless possibilities for content production and collaborative solutions. This is the context for TOTVS’ digital journey, which in 2017 was marked by the highlights presented in this edition of our Integrated Report. T O T V S R E L ATO I N T E G R A D O 2 0 1 7 24 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S EVO LUT I ON OF GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 S O F T WA R E B U S INE S S MOV E TO SUBSC RIPT IO N MO DEL In recent years, more demanding consumers and high-speed connected devices have triggered new digital business models, In 2017, we recorded a 34.3% increase in TOTVS’ subscription revenue, which now accounts for more than 20% such as subscription services. These services are spreading of the company’s total software revenue. Last year, we also gained more than 6,000 new subscription clients, across all industries, causing ruptures in traditional businesses which represents a 53.5% rise in relation to 2016. and becoming a viable business model. As clients participate This change represents an important step in the company’s trajectory and long-term strategy, aimed at sustainable in active online communities, they become loyal to brands and growth, predictable results and operational scalability of its business model. To enable this process, TOTVS rethought generate more and more on-demand experiences. The market and reformulated not just the way it produces its software, but also how it sells it and interacts with clients. The has grown year after year, and it is forecast to be worth US$100 company sought to understand what really makes sense to the lives of companies and people, in a context of new billion per year worldwide in the short term, according to Gartner, behaviors and forms of interaction. particularly driven by the fast-developing Internet of Things. The contrast is clear. TOTVS has evolved its business, previously focused on licensing, maintenance and service In this age of the shared economy, in which people are increasactivities, to a subscription-based format. Closed, complex and user-focused software systems have been turned ingly paying to use rather than own goods and services, we can into platforms, which are steadily getting more open, integrated, specialized and aimed at identities, while perceive that many industries have been radically transformed prioritizing development in line with the mobile-first concept. They are cloud based, they include upgrades, they interact with legacy systems, and they process external data and information, via artificial intelligence, generating SOFTWARE USERS EXTERNAL CONTENT / content to strengthen businesses. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE Application Software In practice, clients now have a simpler and easier way to sign up for and use TOTVS’ solutions. Merely by paying Application Software Platform for a monthly subscription, which represents a low initial investment, they get free access to all the company’s /// Process Automation /// Generation of Information /// Process Automation solutions on multiple devices and for multiple identities. They can enjoy the convenience and flexibility of the TOTVS and Content /// Generation of Information Intera sales process (a commercial subscription model for small, medium and large companies). In this way, TOTVS and Content is contributing to digital democratization, empowering ever more people and organizations via technology, and /// Control and Management /// Control and Management keeping clients within the core focus of its strategy. /// Mobility by Specialty Artificial Intelligence User Content by this phenomenon through the use of the internet, including a notably digital universe. This obviously applies to the software License the hotel, music and urban mobility sectors, and there are many sector. Since 2015, TOTVS has been working to become a SoftSubscription Apps others undergoing transformation. The profile of customers is ware as a Service (SaaS) company. One of the fundamental changing. Today they are more connected and empowered, and innovations in this process was the implementation of a subMaintenance Services Contract they are looking for better consumer experiences, based on scription model to replace the former licensing system. Cloud T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 25 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S B US I N E S S MO D EL MODE LO DE NEG ó cios A ND ST RAT EGY /// Startups GRI 102-2, 103-2, 103-3 INN OVAT I ON /// Developers COMM U N I T Y /// Software players TOTVS supports its clients in their journey to the digital world, offering the best solutions and knowledge needed by companies Totvs Store Totvs Market Place Totvs Channels of all sizes and sectors to harness digital opportunities. It has /// Apps /// Franchises positioned itself as a partner, helping clients to understand this DISTRI BU T I ON /// Solutions /// Resales Sales and Distribution movement and whatever makes sense for their businesses. It is /// Services increasingly committed to providing its clients and its clients’ /// Platforms customers with business solutions attuned to their needs, so they can enjoy all the benefits generated from new technologies. Totvs by Industry SO LUT I ON S /// Agribusiness /// Legal /// Distribution /// Health The company’s purpose is to “simplify the business world,” through Specialized by segment and Logistics /// Construction /// Education /// Services technological tools and platforms that generate specialized and Projects /// Financial Services /// Manufacturing /// Retail solutions in the core business of its clients’ industries. They are sold and implemented in an agile and simple way through an Totvs ERP extensive and digital distribution and business network, whose PLAT FORM S Specialized solutions structures make it possible to integrate the community of Totvs HR innovators and developers with the TOTVS ecosystem. TOTVS-Tec TOTVS Tecnology & SW Life TOO L S` Tech Stack TOTVS Language /// TL++ T-Face /// TOTVS HTML Framework TOTVS Cloud /// T-Cloud T-Talk /// TOTVS APIs T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 26 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S Tools /// TOTVS Tec is a platform that groups and consolidates DATA & I N T E L L I G E N CE DATA A NA LYS I S the entire tech stack that supports the development of the PLATFOR M P L AT FO R M company’s software solutions, as well as solutions associated /// Interprets data and recommends /// Presents data in with management, business and collaboration. Over time, TOTVS attitudes and actions a structured way has offered its own development languages and execution environments, which support all research, development and Totvs erp innovation activities. This strategy guarantees TOTVS’ technological independence and convergence between the solutions totvs hr it produces. PRODUC T I VI T Y TOT VS I OT S totvs Platforms /// Every day, many new technologies appear in the AND COL L ABORAT I ON by Industry A ND R E S P EC T I V E market. Big data, artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things PLATFOR M M A N AG E M E N T are some of the most talked about, tested and used. ERP is the /// Unifies systems, /// Captures and digitizes/simplifies processes, delivers information foundation for all these new technologies. It has become the and exponentially boosts through devices core of corporate information, serving as a fundamental pillar productivity and business for all processes and accompanying data integration, guaranteedevelopment ing compliance with clients’ business, fiscal and information security rules. E RP P L AT FORM AN D SEG M E N T (BACK OFFI CE AN D SEG M E N T ) Around this main nucleus, we have positioned TOTVS’ other /// Guarantees processing of corporate information, obeying business rules, solutions, which have evolved, becoming platforms that permit laws and security requirements integration with apps and other market solutions, connecting to ERP in order to ensure the best solution for its clients. These TOT VS H UM AN RE SOURCE S P L AT FORM solutions are as follows: /// Guarantees human resources management T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 27 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S Solutions /// The portfolio of Integrated Management SoftBelow you can see who our clients are and our structures dedicated to their relations and management: ware offerings is structured in specialized business solutions, in 10 strategic economic industries (see more on page 13) and in line with the size of client companies. TOTVS knows the reality /// SIZE OF COMPANIES /// DISTRIBUTION AND RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS /// HOW WE INTERACT WITH THEM of these markets and has internally structured itself with specialized R&D, support, customer service and relationship teams, which understand the challenges of each of these industries and deliver solutions to meet their needs, from the back office to the P R I VAT E S T RU C T U R E core business of clients, helping them to transform the manageLA RGE COM PAN I E S Exclusive channel, featuring qualified Companies with 500 employees and specialized teams, which offer personalized ment of their operations. 10,000 companies in Brazil P rivate and consultative support Distribution /// TOTVS is a company with a global presence, structured in an extensive distribution model, covering the whole of Brazil and also present abroad. Based on a system composed P H YSICAL CHA NNE LS of affiliates, franchises and channels, this model allows the SM ALL A N D M E D I U M F R A NC HI S E SYS T E M S 58 CH AN N E L S company to be wherever its clients are, to get a better underBUSINE S SE S Each franchise operates exclusively in a Companies with 10 to 499 employees 52 FRAN CH I SE S geographical region in line with economic standing of their day-to-day operations and their regional 638,000 companies in Brazil sector, and is a reference for small 5 AFFI L I AT E S challenges and features, and to ensure synergies between and medium business clients TOTVS’ solutions and best practices, concepts and processes in global, contemporary technology. This broad distribution network reflects a physical and digital M ICRO E N T E RP RI SE S resellers model that helps to increase TOTVS’ market penetration, boost Companies with up to Broad network of specialized resellers nine employees 4.5 million that support clients on the ground, clients’ business generation through marketplaces, and strengthcompanies in Brazil 5K RE SE L L E RS providing all assistance and implementing en the internationalization of the company’s brand. products in person This strategy of everyday proximity to clients is the result of TOTVS’ continuous learning and experiences, in a trajectory marked by entrepreneurship and purposeful innovation. Combining organic and inorganic growth with a journey of overcoming challenges, TOT VS Store : Generation of demand and TOTVS’ entire portfolio available to sign up for 100% online, in an automated way, under the SaaS model, in the cloud and customizable via apps. it has been possible to overcome geographical and communication barriers, laying the foundations that allow TOTVS to compete globally with the biggest market players. D I G I TAL CH AN N E L T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 28 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S H O W D O E S T H E AC C E L E R AT I O N P R O G R A M W O R K ? Every year, iDEXO holds three public contests for its acceleration program, called StartupX. Participation is completely free, and organizations legally constituted, resident and domiciled in Brazil may apply. GRI 103-1 The evaluation process consists of analyzing projects in accordance with three criteria: (I) potential connections and synergies with associates; (II) economic and market feasibility of solution; and (III) novelty and innovation Innovation Community /// In response to social changes capacity of the proposed product or solution. caused by growing connectivity and the strategy of working as a provider of open management and business platforms The focus is on finding exponential, early-stage startups in all sectors, and connecting them to large companies, (such as ERP, HR, fluig and Carol), TOTVS has opened its doors boosting their ability to access investment and develop their consumer market, and bringing innovation solutions to more intense interaction with the innovation community. and technologies to the business world. In 2017, iDEXO was opened. This institute has the purpose of After being selected, the startups and their entrepreneurs go through a three-month residency at the institute. They connecting startups, entrepreneurs and developers to large have free access to iDEXO’s coworking space, all its infrastructure, technical and business mentors, acceleration, companies in the pursuit of new business solutions. Designed programming challenges, and easy contact with the executives of associate companies, as well as content and as an open innovation platform, the institute seeks to identify support for the technical and technological development of their solutions. innovative ideas that have the potential for adoption and Startups’ contact with iDEXO takes place precisely in one of the most challenging phases for these entrepreneurs, exponential growth. It helps startups to structure their business the feared “Valley of Death,” the initial operating phase, in which many of these young companies fail due to a lack models, connecting their solutions to the market. of traction and access to essential technologies. Located in an area specifically dedicated to its activities within As a partner of these startups on this journey, iDEXO uses a hands-on approach and the methodology and content TOTVS’ new head office, iDEXO is different from all other of two partners: Swedish school Hyper Island, based on an enterprising culture and mindset; and iMasters, a Brazilian initiatives in Brazil, providing TOTVS infrastructure and techplatform aimed at developers (its virtual community contains 450,000 professionals). Every week, there are two nologies (including APIs) to startups and the community of or three days of mandatory activities, which amount to more than 200 hours of content by the end of the batch. developers to create innovative business solutions. FurtherAnother major distinctive feature of iDEXO is that it uses the equity-free model, meaning that it does not acquire more, these companies may receive investment from TOTVS a stake in startups, and nor does it demand any kind of intellectual property regarding whatever is developed. The and other members of the institute, and sell their solutions at institute also has different associates and not a single owner, enabling a greater diversity of connections and the TOTVS Store. possibility of investment. TOTVS has also other structures focused on research, development and innovation activities, which are described in Intellectual Capital. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 29 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S IDEXO – FACTS AND FIGURES: /// 1,300 m2 space. /// 180 workstations and room to house up to 40 startups at the same time. /// 1 Fab Lab with 3D printer and laser cutter. /// 248 applications and 15 startups selected in first batch. /// 190 hours of content in three months of residence. /// Four associates: Banco ABC Brasil, Soluti, TOTVS and Visa. /// Partnerships established with Cisco, the government of Ontario, Canada, Mobile Marketing Association, ESPM, Intel, iMASTERS, Hyper Island and Advisor BPO. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 30 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S MA I N CH A LLE N GES Having described this context, pointed out the risks along the In 2018, we will guide our actions by the following principles: In this TDM context, TOTVS INTERA represents a commercial way and presented the main players in this story, we need to subscription model for TOTVS platforms and solutions. It offers The ARC, which represents the Attitude, Results and Conseshow the challenges to be tackled on this journey. Thus, in keepa versatile subscription package, affordable to companies in any quences expected of TOTVERS in their actions. It encourages ing with our commitment to transparency and best practices sector and of any size, with the best cost-benefit relationship recognition of responsible engagement with the company’s regarding information, and aligned with the spirit of this Intein the market. The challenge involving the evolution of TOTVS quality and growth. Intera is to expand the base of clients in this modality, gaining grated Report, we will describe the challenges we have identified The TOTVS DIGITAL MODEL (TDM) caps off the journey to their loyalty through the intensive and unlimited use of TOTVS’ managerially as the main ones to be overcome in 2018 and the transform our ERP, HR and segmented solutions into platforms, essential solutions. next few years, in order to ensure sustainable value creation for integrated with fluig, Carol and TOTVS Store. In 2018, we are Indispensable protagonists on this journey, the company has our chain of shareholders, TOTVERS, clients, suppliers and partcommitted to the materialization of TOTVS Store. To this end, listened to its clients and learned about the challenges they face at ners, as well as the innovation ecosystem and society as a whole. the company will enter the stage of expanding the posting of their own companies, and their need to evolve, migrate, simplify 2018 is a Year of Execution for TOTVS. The main challenge is APIs for its solutions and platforms, making the store an environor reimplement existing solutions. The principle of CONVERtherefore to execute transformations that we have been develment of connection between TOTVS and its clients, with apps, GENCE then arises, with the aim of proposing convergence beoping, to continue on our digital journey, and to further strengthservices and products available for sale and installation through tween all the solutions used by clients, including TOTVS’, based en the #WEARETOTVERS culture. TOTVS Store. on the fluig platform, making clients’ software legacy an IT asset. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 31 ST R ATEG IES , P RO S P EC TS AND CHALLE NGE S MAIN TRENDS TO KEEP AN EYE ON IN 2018 A RTIF IC IAL INTE LLI GE N CE Technology and algorithms that make things and processes smarter, answering questions and offering insights to aid decision making or the performance of tasks. AU G M E NTE D V I RTUAL R E ALI TY Technology and visual interfaces in certain contexts, allowing different scenarios and visions to be shown. Blockchain Technology that allows the distributed authentication of any information. Fog Computing Technology that permits the use of local computing power, together with the centralization of data in the traditional cloud. Internet O F TH I N GS Technology that connects objects to the internet. S EC TO R ’ S P ROS P EC TS /// Global spending on information technology will reach US$3.7 trillion in 2018, up 4.5% from 2017, according to a forecast by Gartner, a research institute that is among the 500 largest companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. This growth will mainly involve digital business projects, blockchain, the internet of things, and the use of big data together with algorithms, machine learning and artificial intelligence. The biggest growth will be in the corporate software segment. Global spending in this area is forecast to rise 9.5% in 2018, to US$421 billion. Gartner believes that organizations will expand their investment in corporate management systems, and part of their budgets will migrate to the software as a service (SaaS) model. For more information, click here. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 32 Intellectual capital is composed of intangible organizational factors based on knowledge, such as patents, copyrights, software, rights and licenses; as well as “organizational capital,” including tacit knowledge, systems, procedures and protocols. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL GRI 103-2, 103-3, 205-2 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 33 intelectual capital GRI 103-1 In this chapter, we describe the importance of our Research & Each center is structured with specialized teams covering areas Development area, as well as the investment we are making such as products, development, support, customer service and to gradually expand our knowledge and competence regarding relationships, and services (implementation). the sectors in which our clients operate – something that has UX LA BS become a competitive advantage during our trajectory. Located in São Paulo, Brazil, this center hosts a team of researchThe objectives that guide the existence of these structures ers and designers who are exclusively dedicated to exploring include the following: I) enhancement of the technical founmarket trends and improving the user experience of our solutions dations of our software, permitting greater efficiency in the deand services through constant research and observation in the velopment of solutions; II) adoption of new technologies and field with clients. evaluations of their impacts; III) implementation of techIn this lab, projects are guided by the design thinking approach, nological alternatives to uphold and protect our operations; which involves empathy, collaboration and creativity, seeking IV) constant refinement of concepts, functionality and usability; constant improvements to our products’ processes, interfaces V) development of special products at the request of clients; and navigability. Our California office is a VI) constant pursuit of new development methodologies; VII) integration of third parties’ tools; and VIII) evaluation of new TOT VS LA BS EUA center for developing products, organizational models and their applicability. Attentive to international technological evolution, the company ideas and innovation. It is Our dedicated research, development and innovation teams has had an innovation laboratory, TOTVS Labs, in Silicon Valley since 2012. It is focused on developing new technologies and are organized as follows: a base that lets us bring to solutions involving cloud computing, social media, big data, artificial intelligence (see “How Carol was born” on page 35) and R &D CENT ERS Brazil whatever is happening mobile devices. These centers specialize in the company’s 10 strategic operating around the world. industries. They are staffed by specialists who understand TOTVS Labs has a team of 22 people, including designers, scientists and engineers from different countries, such as Brazil, the the specific needs and challenges of each segment, translating United States, China, Russia and India. It also has the role of idenMA RC ELO COS E NTINO them into innovative solutions and aligned with our clients’ tifying and strengthening partnerships with local companies and Vice President of Professional Services & IT core businesses. startups. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 34 intelectual capital GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 HOW C AROL WAS B OR N Together with other development centers located in Brazil, TOTVS’ innovation hub on the American West Coast demonCarol, TOTVS’ artificial intelligence platform, was created from the very beginning by teams in California and strates the understanding and experience that technology New York, as well as a group of data scientists in Brazil. changes society’s behavior and the way business is done. Interaction, prototyping and cocreation on our artificial intelligence platform provides an example of how we These teams are attentive to the market, which is increasingly make innovation happen. Simply put, Carol is like a child: if you don’t teach it, it will not learn anything. On looking for mobile solutions involving the cloud, cognitive techits own, with little interaction, a child may grow, but it will not develop its potentialities for the world. When nologies and artificial intelligence, generating a universe of it comes to artificial intelligence, learning takes place through algorithms, which search for appropriate shared data and creating opportunities to produce collaborative information, attitudes and behaviors to support the evolution of this platform and its contribution to the content and solutions. New business opportunities are created development and journey of our clients, their partners and their sectors, in a linked way. all the time and the focus is on offering greater convenience to clients, so they can access more innovative, faster, simpler techIntelligence ultimately lies in data. And it only nologies, which meet their needs in the best possible way. functions if we can transform it into strategy and predictability for business. That is the purpose At the same time, the company has been dedicating itself to of Carol’s first applications, which are starting to implementing more agile and simpler service processes. This reach the market. The first was a tool to track involves looking for and implementing disruptive business strucuniversity dropouts, which makes it possible to tures, without any intermediation and allowing potential econopredict, 90 days in advance and with a 90% mies of scale. accuracy rate, the probability that a student will From these efforts, a new digital platform has emerged. As well take a break from college. After this, a chatbot as an e-commerce tool, it will be a new way of developing and for hotels was launched, permitting management delivering enterprise resource planning (ERP) software and other of all contact with guests, from pre-bookings to aggregated services, 100% in the cloud. To meet these demands, checkout. the company has been investing even more in research and development based on new technologies. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 35 intelectual capital GRI 102-7 RES EA RCH AN D D E VE LO PME N T – KE Y N U MB E R S + R$ 1 + 10 2,239 90+111 82 Strategic Agile billion allocated research and TOTVERS in 90 patents projects delivered partnerships with Implementation to R&D in the development centers R&D structure in and 111 software by UX Labs in 2017, universities, research of agile software last five years. in Brazil and abroad. Brazil and abroad registrations. involving around 2,000 institutes, incubators development model, (29% of our internal and external and other companies unifying and integrating all human capital). clients, and six TOTVS for innovation projects. Innovation, Maintenance business towers. and Support teams. I N V E S TM E N T IN R E SE ARCH AN D D EV E LO P M E N T ( R $ MI LLI ON ) BRAND VALUE (R$ MILLION) 2014 254.7 2014 461 14.9% 8.7% 2015 292.6 2015 501 11.6% -1.2% 2016 326.5 2016 495 9.4% 0.6% 2017 357.1 2017 498 *According to Interbrand ranking T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 36 People’s competencies, skills and experiences, as well as their motivation to innovate, including their support for the governance structure, risk management and ethical values; their ability to understand, develop and implement their organization’s strategy with loyalty; and also their motivation to improve Human processes, goods and services, as well as the capacity to lead, manage and collaborate. Capital T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 37 H UM A N C A P ITA L In terms of cultural TOTVS’ culture evolved in 2017 in an unparalleled way. This was a milestone for our journey and our relationships with This new way of acting marked the beginning of this evolution in TOTVS’ culture. It involved mapping what TOTVERS’ behavior alignment, we continue clients, suppliers and partners. A watershed that defines our ought to be during this digital transformation journey. to work on our pillars, company’s main driver in this journey: people. This process was built through a bottom-up methodology, notably culture, leadership To understand this story, let us return to the past and recall the trajectory of TOTVS, a company that largely grew by acquiring listening to TOTVERS and taking their insights to the company’s senior management. This made it possible to connect employees’ and strategic alignment. dozens of other companies. Each one had its own practices. demands in relation to culture with the company’s strategic drivers. As a result, although TOTVS had its own culture, there was a The attributes that define the company were born then: People, S ÉRGI O PAU P É R IO S É R IO F I LH O lack of shared guidelines, a common language and a crystalized, Clients and Technology. Clients and people are helping to Executive Manager for Institutional Relations, clear and accessible way of acting. Investor Relations and Social Opportunity strengthen a sense of unity, identity and purpose, reflected The situation began to change in 2016, when the people area in the creation of the #WEARETOTVERS campaign and the engri 102-16 was restructured and repositioned in a more strategic manner. tire communication plan for disseminating this new culture. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 38 H UM A N C A P ITA L #WEARE TOTVE RS CULTURE gri 102-16 Technology + Knowledge are in our DNA We have built a legacy for an ever-changing-word. We are always thinking about how to combine technology and knowledge to keep boosting innovation now and forever. We are creative and not afraid of making mistakes. We value competent people who are nice people Courious, collaborative, digital and driven by results. We are driven by our own style, and we are restless. We are TOTVERS. Our customers success is our success We anticipate the needs of our customers. We deliver quality in solutions that are more essential, simpler and more agile for businesses. Always there and nearby. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 39 H UM A N C A P ITA L However, our transformation was just beginning. And it was other points. In addition, all senior management levels are now deeper than the new concept itself (although this is extremely trained based on the same methodology – a practice seldom important). It also involves new internal actions, a review of seen in the market. processes, and new tools. The dissemination of the culture’s attributes and everything H I GH LI G HT S surrounding it is, in itself, a continuous project, given the com­ /// In 2017, 350 company leaders, including managers and pany’s dynamism and its desire to overcome the new challenges executives, were trained. that continually appear for our clients and the market. /// There were three in-person training modules, focusing One of the signs of evolution in our culture is the implemenon basic principles of people management, ascendant tation of a new model for evaluating TOTVERS’ performance, communication and high-performance team managewhich has two aspects: employees’ competencies, and the ment. process of targets focused on the organization’s strategy in this digital transformation journey. /// In 2018, the target is to train 500 coordinators. The new model puts the same emphasis on behavior and reThis vision of TOTVERS’ training culminated in December sults. This reinforces one of the elements of TOTVS’ culture: 2017 with the launch of TOTVS University, a new model of how is as important as what. This shows that the behavior collaborative learning, which fosters people’s thirst for the company requires of its employees is being incorporated learning and self-development, supported by different into the company’s processes, and that our culture is not merely methodologies. In this model, the company allows all TOTVERs a declaration of intent framed on a wall. to go far beyond the knowledge proposed for their track at Another striking initiative was a change in our parameters each moment in their career. for training leaders. Competencies such as process, project In 2018, the process continues with the structuring of career and finance management continue to be relevant, but the tracks for TOTVERS and the strengthening of this model. main focus is now on people management. This means that leaders must be active listeners, give feedback, understand In addition to TOTVS University’s content, in 2017 we also differences between generations, and plan succession (funoffered approximately 100,000 hours of training, repredamental to business sustainability in the long term), among senting an average of 14 hours per TOTVER. TO TO TT VVS SINTERGRATED INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 40 H UM A N C A P ITA L AV ER AGE TR A INING H O U R S BY WOR K CATEGORY AN D GE NDER gri 404-1 INV EST MENT IN CO URSE gri 404-2 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Number of TOTVERS 6,521 5,942 5,567 Vice Presidents, Directors and Executive Managers 33.17 29.89 33.76 8.37 7,76 8.54 48.21 46.19 48.72 Amount invested (R$) 5,996.484 4,776,709 6,785,837 Managers 37.27 40.08 36 20.5 26.48 17.87 29.16 55.84 23.45 Number of 1,243 1,701 1,422 scholarships awarded* Coordinators 36.32 38.46 35.25 21.49 26.75 19.15 14.08 14.47 13.92 Specialists 28.87 31.62 27.97 21.47 21.03 21.64 12.15 18.38 10.21 *Includes scholarships for undergraduate degrees, language courses, immersion courses, MBAs, master’s and doctorates. Analysts 29.02 31.76 27.49 19.6 19.17 19.81 12.77 13.65 12.35 Technicians and Assistants 16.59 14.63 18.05 19.28 17.95 20.27 12.33 11.09 13.38 HOW IS A S IMPO RTA N T A S WH AT *Refers to TOTVS operational training hours, not including figures for acquired companies Bematech, Ciashop, CNMET, Virtual Age and Neolog, whose data Performance assessments now incorporate equal weightings and method of measuring this indicator have not yet been incorporated into TOTVS’ ecosystem. In 2017, figures for PC Informática were incorporated. for employees’ targets and their behavior. This is part of the evolution in TOTVS’ culture, in which the way something is done is considered to be as important as the result itself. NOT A FRA ID O F MA KI N G MISTA K E S The innovation sector, in Brazil and across the world, requires freedom to make mistakes. Our employees are trained to work with excellence. However, fear of punishment or hierarchical reprimand must not interrupt the process of evolution: it is opposed to the idea of innovating. As a result, in addition to all its risk management controls and investment, TOTVS explicitly specifies the expected conduct in such cases for its employees: if you make a mistake, do it quickly, admit it, and then correct it immediately. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 41 H UM A N C A P ITA L P ERFO R M AN C E AS S E S S M E N T GRI 404-3 in 2017 2016 2017 Men Women Men Women Number of employees 3,197 1,670 4,466 2,107 subjected to performance and career development assessment (%) by gender 88% 85% (%) leadership positions 88.9% 90.9% 98.8% 99.6% (%) other positions 79.2% 82.5% 99.0% 98.5% Total WEARE TOTVE RS All units in Brazil, not including franchises. “Leadership positions” includes analyst-leaders, coordinators, managers, executive managers, directors and vice presidents. Non-leaders include apprentices, interns, assistants, technicians, analysts #WEARETOTVERS is a symbol of pride in belonging, and it Last year, we launched our Healthier program. TOTVS believes and specialists. has yielded better-than-expected results. Last year, its usage that balance in life is fundamental to people. Connected to grew 60%. Overall, this digital indicator reflects progress in the growing demand for health and well-being, the program employees’ engagement with the company, which is also is basically split into three pillars: reflected in other metrics. /// #activelife: actions focused on health, diet and This effect can be seen in some important human resources encouragement to regularly do physical activities. management indicators. For example, the employee absenteeism /// #wellness: actions focused on mental health. rate in 2017 fell to 1.55, the lowest in the company’s history. By way of comparison, across all Brazilian technology companies, /// #myfinances: actions reinforcing and encouraging the average figure is three times higher, around 4.5. the proper and conscious use of money. In a ranking of the best places to work at, TOTVS scored a 95% Monitoring, guidance and practices make up the three pillars, favorability score for diversity, which means working with people incentivizing and supporting habits and a healthy lifestyle to who think or behave differently from you. This is crucial at a promote the well-being of TOTVERS and their families. creative and innovative company. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 42 H UM A N C A P ITA L GRI 201-3, 401-2 /// Life Insurance: all TOTVERS. /// Health Insurance: full-time TOTVERS and apprentices. H EA LTHIE R P RO G R AM ACTI ON S /// Dental Insurance: full-time TOTVERS and apprentices. /// Talks: by renowned professionals about each of the program’s pillars; /// Medical Check-up: executive managers, directors, /// Mother’s Love: tracks and offers support and health guidance to pregnant women at the start of gestation vice presidents and president. up to their baby’s first birthday; /// Private Pension: full-time TOTVERS and apprentices (9). /// Always Well: orients and monitors patients with chronic diseases; /// Daycare Assistance: full-time TOTVERS and apprentices, /// By Your Side: tracks and monitors all cases of hospital care, even after discharge; in line with their respective local collective work /// 24/7 Medical Center: specialized service to answer questions on health and well-being by phone; agreements (9). /// Count on Me: guidance and personal support for TOTVERS and their families; /// Meal Assistance: all TOTVERS (in line with their respective local collective work agreements). /// Sharing the Fruits: every Thursday, together with nutritional advice; Aimed at restaurants. /// Nutritional Encounters: talks and chats on topics related to healthy eating and physical activity; /// Food Assistance: only for TOTVERS at TOTVS’ sites /// Corporate Workplace Accident Prevention Week: reventive health and safety initiatives; in Rio de Janeiro, Bematech and CMNet. Aimed at grocery stores, supermarkets and bakeries. /// Moreover: meetings every two weeks with finance specialists, addressing the conscious use of money; /// Transport Assistance: all TOTVERS (benefit /// E mais: vaccination campaign, breastfeeding room at the head office in São Paulo and also in Joinville, established by Consolidated Labor Laws). as well as medical assistance at the headquarters. /// Company Car: executive managers, directors, vice presidents and president. /// Fuel Assistance: executive managers, directors, TOTVS also has a private pension plan aimed at giving TOTVERS TOTVERS can contribute 2% of their pay. In both cases, the vice presidents and president. a benefit to complement the government pension scheme. company adds the same percentage. This benefit involves monthly contributions by TOTVERS and (9) Benefit not available to TOTVERS at PC Informática, TQTVD, Assis, Bematech In addition to these initiatives, we also offer some other benefits and CMNet. /// Health insurance, dental insurance and private pensions TOTVS. Directors and other senior executives can contribute to TOTVERS: cover apprentices, but not interns. /// Private pensions do not cover TOTVS Software, up to 5% of their pay, while executive managers and other Assis, Bematech and CMNet. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 43 HU MA N C A P ITA L We comply with Brazilian legislation on maternity leave. On In 2017, TOTVS’ indicators for lost workdays and number of average, 82% of TOTVERS were still at the company 12 injuries rose, due to an increase in commuting accidents. On months after returning from their leave. the other hand, the absenteeism rate fell. RET URN TO WO R K AN D GRI 401-3 N U MB ER O F INJURIES, GRI 403-2 RET EN T I O N R ATE S A F TE R OCCU PAT IO NA L DISEA SES M AT ERN ITY L E AV E AN D LOST WO RKDAYS 2017 2016 2017 How many employees were entitled 147 Occupational diseases 0 0 to maternity leave? Lost workdays – accidents 277 614 How many employees took maternity leave? 147 Number of injuries (accidents 40 59 How many employees returned to 145 with and without sick leave) work after the end of their maternity leave? Deaths 0 0 How many employees who returned 120 from maternity leave were still employed 1. Includes TOTVERS at affiliates in Brazil but does not include franchises. 12 months after returning? 2. Does not include minor injuries that only required first aid. 3. Regarding lost workdays, this indicator only includes cases when employees What proportion of employees returned 99% did not return to their activities by the day after the incident, and the days were to work after their maternity leave? counted as of this date. What proportion of employees were 82% ABSE NTEE I SM RAT E still with the company 12 months after returning from their leave? 2016 1.83 1. Sites covered: TOTVS and affiliates / Bematech Softwares Bematech Hardware / CMNet. 2017 1.55 2. There is no monitoring of paternity leave. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 44 H UM A N C A P ITA L I N SP IR AT I O N A L HEAD OFFICES Digital heroes need proper headquarters. Inspired by the The building’s architectural design was based on the physical The head office also features a 174-m2 laboratory designed for concepts of collaborative, creative and integrated work, TOTVS’ and organizational philosophy of state-of-the-art technology innovation, which hosts developments based on the concept of new head office was opened in June 2017, following total companies in Silicon Valley. The office has around 65,000 design thinking. It also contains games rooms, a multifunctional investment of R$280 million. Of this sum, R$ 80 million was square meters of floor space and it houses the company’s terrace, a picnic room and even a slide that links two floors. spent directly by the company to equip the new building 3,200 employees (2,000 in development and innovation, and the The iconic building is not an isolated fact. In an organic way and properly and the rest was allocated by investors through a other 1,200 in administrative and customer service areas). in line with its strategy, TOTVS has been reequipping or building build-to-suit project. This infrastructure closely reflects the company’s digital transnew facilities for its affiliates across the country, based on the In the past, the company’s employees were spread across eight formation journey and the evolution of its culture. It stimulates architectural style of its head office in São Paulo. TOTVS is a single sites in and around São Paulo. Bringing together these units a collaborative environment and the formation of multifunccompany, and its buildings convey its practices and culture and physical infrastructure was aimed at increasing connectivity tional teams, which work in a synergistic way, bringing together wherever they are. and inspiration for innovation among TOTVERS. different areas and internal clients, without losing sight of benefits for end clients. GRI 102-3, 102-10 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 45 H UM A N C A P ITA L T ech Talents TOTVS wants to do more and overcome its challenges. ProducIn all, 75 selected trainees underwent training in various areas tivity and competitiveness are two of these challenging subjects. of our company. In practice, this was the first joint trainee and As barriers for development in the information technology training process conducted by the company. market decline progressively, in a more open and collaborative Of these group of trainees, seven have been hired. They emmarket, innovating is imperative. body high tech culture and the meaning of being a TOTVER. Internally, the biggest challenge is to have inspiring leaders capable In other words, they are innovative, restless, curious, proactive of promoting development, innovation and the retention of our and collaborative, always looking for simple and nimble solutions, tech talents. One initiative to address this issue is Programmed with excellence and a thirst to learn more. Future, in which we train potential job candidates. Outstanding We believe in the transformative power of technology and the participants are kept in our pool of talents and they are called empowerment of individuals and organizations that maximize when opportunities arise. They want to work at TOTVS and we benefits and values generated by them. begin our relationship with them based on this intention, which is particularly intense for the technology development area, which demands highly specialized professionals. SPEC IA L REC RUIT MEN T Because of the advance of artificial intelligence, people are We have professionals specialized in seeking talents in techincreasingly relying on very specific competencies as well as nology communities created by fans themselves. One knows suitable cognitive structures and logic to read and work with each other and recommends another one. To find the best ones, data and algorithms. These professionals are sought in the corwe locate the communities around which these young people porate market, academia and in particular in the geek universe. organize themselves and swap programming challenges within At the same time, TOTVS is developing an internal program to the world of data science. It is a highly dynamic, innovative and train data scientists. cutting-edge environment, from which a national ranking of As the use of artificial intelligence advances in the solutions we programmers and data scientists has emerged. offer to our clients, in the industries in which we operate, our demand for these professionals grows. Reflecting the attention we give people – as one of the pillars of our culture – in 2017 alone, 6,000 candidates applied for our Trainee Program. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 46 H UM A N C A P ITA L WHO WE ARE GRI 102-8 DI VE R SIT Y A ND GRI 405-1 Number of employees by type of contract Men Women EQUAL O PPO RT UNIT IES Fixed-term 93 69 Functional category by gender (%) Men Women Distribution of people with disabilities in positions at the company (%) Permanent 4,932 2,367 Vice presidents, directors 84.0 16.0 Leaders* 2 Total by gender 5,025 2,456 and executive managers Specialists 3 Managers 69.9 30.1 Number of employees by type of employment Men Women Analysts 22 Coordinators 69.4 30.6 Full time 4,932 2,387 Technicians and assistants 73 Specialists 73.9 26.0 Part time 93 69 Total 100 Analysts 66.7 33.3 Total by gender 5,025 2,456 * At TOTVS, leadership positions are considered to be president, Technicians and assistants 55.9 44.1 vice president, director, manager and coordinator. Number of employees by region Men Women Functional category age group (%) Under 30 Between Over 50 30 and 50 South region 1,361 717 Southeast region 3,203 1,512 Vice presidents, directors 0 86.2 13.8 and executive managers Center-West region 385 198 Managers 2.4 89.5 8.1 Northeast region 108 44 Coordinators 9.6 86 4.5 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF North region 0 0 ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION Specialists 11.7 79.6 8.7 OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Total 5,057 2,471 Analysts 43.4 54.4 2.3 Note: The number of part-time employees includes interns and young apprentices. Elimination of discrimination in respect Technicians and assistants 72.3 25.6 2 The figures include TOTVERS at affiliates in Brazil, but they do not include franchises. of employment and occupation. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 47 HU MA N C A P ITA L D I V ERS I TY BY P O S ITIO N, AGE GRO U P AN D G E N D E R (%) GRI 405-1 T UR NOVE R GRI 401-1 In 2017, 1,379 people joined the company and 1,710 left it. Under 30 Between 30 and 50 Over 50 The turnover rate was 20.52%, up 1.78 percentage points from 18.74% in 2016. Men Women Men Women Men Women The numbers in the following tables represent TOTVERS at Vice presidents, 0 0 82.7 17.3 92.3 7.7 Brazilian sites and also in foreign operations. directors and executive managers E MPLOYEES HIRED A ND T URNOV ER Contrataçõ es e rotatividade Managers 80 20 67.9 32.1 88.2 11.8 I N 2017 BY G ENDER* em 2017 por região* Coordinators 63.3 36.7 69.4 30.6 82.6 17.4 Employees Departures Turnover Employees Departures Turnover Specialists 76.3 23.7 73.5 26.5 74.7 25.3 hired hired Analysts 69.6 30.4 64,2 35.8 71.8 28.2 Men 932 1082 19.9% South region 307 513 19.8% Technicians and assistants 58.5 41.5 48.9 51.1 50.0 50.0 Women 447 628 22.0% Southeast region 934 1,014 20.8% Total 1,379 1,710 20.7% Center-West region 113 155 23.2% Northeast region 25 28 17.8% E MPLOYEES HIRED A ND T URNOV ER North region I N 2017 BY AG E G RO UP* Employees Departures Turnover hired Under 30 811 506 24.5% Between 31 and 50 538 908 16.1% Over 50 30 92 19.5% * Includes TOTVERS at affiliates in Brazil, but not franchises. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 48 H UM A N C A P ITA L At TOTVS, I’ve learned that the most important day is Geek Pride Day. On this day, TOTVERS come to work in superhero costumes. It is optional, but people dress up because this has value to them. It’s a different world. There were people crying with emotion. They were wearing very accurate costumes. It looked like they had come from a Star Wars movie shoot. Rita P ellegrino HR Director T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 49 financIAL capital Set of resources that is available to an organization to be used to produce goods or provide services. It is obtained from funding, such as debt, shares or grants, or generated by investment. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 50 F I NA NC IA L capital HIGHLIGHTS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS Valor investido* (em reais) NET REV ENUE 2015 2016 2017 The company’s net revenue amounted to R$2.3 billion in 2017, Net revenue 2,262,248 2,183,786 2,227,330 mainly the result of growth in recurring revenue, which went up 8.7%, accounting for 65.8% of total net revenue in the year, Total liabilities 2,662,075 2,443,912 2,493,625 up 4 percentage points from 61.7% in 2016. Net assets 1,237,732 1,220,916 1,261,577 Subscription revenue was the main driver of this advance. It totaled R$307.9 million, up 34.3% year-over-year. It represented 20.7% of software revenue, up from 16.4% the previous At a company, numbers reflect the results of decisions, achieveyear. Over the course of 2017, the company gained 6,166 new ments, setbacks, partnerships and relationships. As a result, subscription clients, 53.5% more than in 2016. the numbers in TOTVS’ financial results are fundamental to Subscription revenue increased 9.5% between the third and understand this shared journey with its stakeholders. fourth quarters. This was the fastest growth in this revenue in In 2017, the company resumed its growth path. Net revenue grew a single quarter since we began our transition to this model. 2.0% organically, driven by a 34.3% increase in subscription On the other hand, licensing revenue declined 0.7% between revenue, which now represents 20.7% of total software revenue. 2016 and 2017, reflecting a 16.2% drop in the number of sales, This growth in subscription revenue is a result of the digital largely due to the migration of a share of the sales pipeline for journey TOTVS is going through, which is increasingly transnew clients to the subscription modality. forming it into a subscription company. Maintenance revenue remained practically unchanged between As a consequence of this transition, costs and expenses rose 2016 and 2017, rising 0.9%, reflecting the lower volume of faster than revenue. This factor, combined with the effects of license sales in previous periods, higher non-payment by clients Brazil’s economic recession, led to a reduction in net earnings and a rise in partial contract termination resulting from spending and EBITDA in the period. cuts by clients. Despite lower profits, the maintenance of financial discipline The combination of different behavior in the two business models led to a 26.6% rise in net operating cash flow and a 32.7% (licensing + maintenance and subscription) raised software reduction in net debt. revenue 6.2% during 2017. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 51 F I N ANC IA L capital GRI 201-1 S UB S C RI P TION R E V E NU E (AR R ) As mentioned previously, subscription sales accelerated last Accordingly, Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR), a metric widely year, leading software revenue to resume an upward path over used in the SaaS model, allows comparisons between periods the course of 2017. by annualizing all existing subscriptions, regardless of the month However, we believe that revenue in itself is not the best of sale. ARR also captures the effect of subscriptions sold each parameter to gauge the performance of subscription sales quarter, which will add to subscription revenue in subsequent between quarters, given that the first monthly payment due periods. through TOTVS Intera is billed the month after a sale is made. Subscription ARR amounted to R$ 368 million in 4Q17, up 41.5% Thus, sales made in the first month of a quarter affect the two from 4Q16 and 10.1% higher than in 3Q17, and it represents following months of that same quarter. Likewise, a sale made in a net addition of R$ 33.9 million in the quarter, up 35.1% from the second month of a quarter only boosts sales in the quarter’s 4Q16. The sum of R$ 368 million is 19.5% higher than subthird month, while sales in the last month of a quarter contribute scription revenue of R$ 309.7 million in 2017, which represents to revenue in the first months of the following quarter. an addition to 2018 revenue arising from sales made in 2017. SUB S C R I P T ION R EVENUE RECURRING RE V E NUE ADJU ST E D N E T E ARN I N G S ADJUST E D E BI T DA O P E R AT I NG C A S H F LOW ( R $ M I L L I O N) (R$ M ILLIO N) (R$ M I L L I ON ) (R$ M I L L I ON ) ( R $ M I L L I O N) 2015* 188.790 2015* 1,258.820 2015* 283.079 2015* 456.913 2015* 339.618 21.4% 7.2% -42.8% -21.5% -23.3% 2016 229.235 2016 1,348.883 2016 162.044 2016 358.728 2016 260.508 34.3% 8.7% -40.5% -15.4% 26.6% 2017 307.866 2017 1,466.416 2017 96.405 2017 303.498 2017 329.772 * Pro Forma T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 52 F I NA NC IA L capital CO N T R I B U TION M A RG IN to a drop in sales of tax invoice printers and lower financial reduction in net earnings year-over-year was faster than the BY B US I NE S S ( S O F TWA R E , SE RVI CE S grants in the third quarter, because of a rise in stock levels. reduction in EBITDA, mainly due to growing depreciation and A N D H A R DWA R E ) amortization expenses and the higher share of negative financial E B I TDA income in relation to EBITDA in the period. The reduction in adjusted software contribution margin in 2017 is mainly a consequence of faster growth in research and In 2017, there was a 15.4% decline in adjusted EBITDA, C A SH FLOW development expenses than increases in the prices of mainbasically due to a combination of four factors: disproportional TOTVS’ cash flow last year was R$308.3 million, up 56.7% from tenance and subscription contracts. This growth is essentially growth in commercial expenses amid our transition to a sub2016. This was largely due to a 92.3% drop in investment in associated with salary rises arising from collective work agreescription model; higher general and administrative expenses, working capital and lower investment in fixed and intangible ments in the period and innovation investments in innovation, mainly arising from cost inflation and additional spending assets in the period, following investments related to new largely related to specialized business solutions, open platforms involving the integration of operations at companies acquired facilities in 2016. and the micro and small enterprises segment. in previous periods; lower service income because of a smaller deployment of professionals; and lower hardware income, DEBT In the case of services, the reduction in contribution margin mainly due to a reduction in sales of tax invoice printers and is mainly a result of a slowdown in project sales and a smaller Gross debt (loans + financing + bonds + liabilities arising from lower financial grants. acquisitions of net escrow deposit investments) amounted to deployment of service and consulting professionals. This R$709.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with situation was more intense in the first half of 2017. N E T E ARNING S R$693.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. Gross debt was The adjusted hardware contribution margin fell, both in 2017 The company’s adjusted net earnings in 2017 were R$96.405 maintained, despite a bond issue worth R$200 million in the and in the last quarter of the year, as shown in the chart, due million, down 40.5% from R$162.044 million in 2016. This third quarter of 2017. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 53 F I NA NC IA L capital MA IN HIG HLIG HT S /// Net Revenue ECO NOM IC CON D ITION S GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 R$2,227.3 million (up 2.0% from 2016) If TOTVS’ numbers help to tell its story, numbers about present circumstances put this narrative in the context /// Recurring Revenue of the Brazilian and global economy, which directly influences our trajectory and that of our stakeholders. R$1,466.4 million in 2017 (up 8.7% from 2016), accounting for 65.8% of net revenue in 2017, Economic growth was 3% in 2017, the highest since 2011. Despite uncertainty surrounding President Donald up 4 percentage points from 2016. Trump’s political proposals, as well as conflicts and tensions in specific parts of the world, which negatively /// Net Revenue marked 2017, recovery of the Chinese market and economic growth in the Euro Zone, driven mainly by Germany, In 2017, it grew as a result of 6.2% growth in Spain and France, were factors responsible for an improvement in global economic conditions. software revenue, representing 66.6% of total revenue due to expansion in subscription revenue. Latin America saw a slight recovery compared with 2016, caused by an improvement in global trade, higher commodity prices, and lower financial volatility in international markets. /// Subscription Revenue R$307.9 million in 2017 (up 34.3% from 2016) The Brazilian economy grew 1% in 2017 and inflation as measured by the IPC-A index ended that year at 2.95%, below the ceiling in the Central Bank’s target range and the lowest level in the last 19 years. The benchmark Selic /// Annualized Recurring Subscription Revenue R$368 million in 4Q17 (up 41.5% from 4Q16 interest rate, which was 13.75% at the end of 2016, fell to 7.25% in December 2017, while the US dollar rose and up 10.1% from 3Q17) 1.99% against the Brazilian real. /// Adjusted EBITDA Brazil’s balance of performed well and direct foreign investment increased, largely due to improved confidence in R$303.5 million in 2017 (down 15.4% from 2016) the market. Despite these positive signs, Brazil’s fiscal crisis continues to be the government’s main priority. It is /// Adjusted Net Earnings looking for solutions to increased revenues and contain expenditure. R$96.4 million in 2017 (down 40.5% from 2016) However, the public pension reform will be targeted in the government’s last year. Despite the negative effects /// Net Operating Cash Flow of politics and slow economic recovery, Brazil continues to be a country with many business opportunities. The R$329.8 million in 2017 (up 26.6% from 2016) reduction in interest rates and inflation, combined with a recovery in GDP, leads us to believe in the reestablishment /// Net Debt of Brazilian economic growth in the upcoming year. R$322.3 million in 2017 (down 32.7% from 2016), corresponding to 1.1 times adjusted EBITDA in 2017, compared with 1.3 times adjusted EBITDA in 2016 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 54 F I N ANC IA L capital GROS S DE B T AMORTI ZATI ON DIST RIBUT IO N O F VA LUE A DDED GRI 102-48, 201-1 SCH E DU LE TOTVS generated financial value of R$1.524 billion, shared 709.5 between its employees, the government, financial institutions 37.8 and creditors, as well as its shareholders. Stakeholder 2017 2016 Variation R$ thousand R$ thousand % 239.9 242.6 227.0 2.9 709.5 21.4 Value added Total 1,524,273 1,506,455 1.18 269.1 3.8 People TOTVERS 933,519 847,305 10.18 65.4 IN 12 MONTHS IN 24 MONTHS IN 36 MONTHS Taxes and contributions Government 364,155 356,809 2.06 GROSS DEBT Remuneration of third-party capital Financial Institutions 133,341 150,072 -11.15 and Creditors 199.8 402.6 220.2 161.0 21.3 Remuneration of shareholders’ equity Shareholders 93,258 152,269 -38.75 DIST RIBUT IO N O F VA LUE A DDED ( % ) 2015 2016 2017 Shareholders (remuneration of shareholders’ equity) 14.4 10.11 6.12 Employees (remuneration, benefits and charges for employees) 54.88 56.24 61.24 Government (taxes and contributions) 21.38 23.69 23.89 Retained profit/losses during year 5.06 4.09 2.44 Interest and rent (remuneration of third-party capital) 9.34 9.96 8.75 Investments in the community T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 55 F I NA NC IA L capital TA X I N C E N TIVE S * GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-4 Form of financial aid received 2017 (R$ thousand) Tax incentives/credits 11,410 Grants for investment, research and 6,275 development, and other relevant kinds of grants Other financial benefits received or receivable 17,118 from any government body for any operation Total 34,803 *TOTVS uses tax benefits and other financial grants provided for by Brazilian legislation, such as the Information Technology Law. FO R M O R E INFOR M ATION , V I S I T O UR W E BS ITE S : GRI 102-45 /// The information in our consolidated financial statements encompasses the company’s operations and those of its subsidiaries and companies in which it has invested directly and indirectly. A list of all these entities can be seen in our standardized financial statements on our website. Click here. /// Complete information in our 4Q2017 Results Press Release /// Presentation on 4Q2017 Results /// Other information and contact details related to investor relations T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 56 Social and relationship capital – Institutions and relationships inside and between communities, groups of stakeholders and other networks. It encompasses shared standards, values and behaviors; the trust and commitment desired from external stakeholders; brand and reputation intangibles; and social license to operate. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 57 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL Stories are always the outcome of interactions between their In 2017, we continued to contribute to the development of O UR stakeholders characters, especially their protagonists. This applies to TOTVS’ the technology sector, by participating in associations, sector GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 trajectory and the journey we are describing here. organizations and development forums. We also made pro­ gress toward our goals in the social area, such as by achieving The identification and definition of initiatives to promote en­ This is a narrative of transformation and leadership. All leading record employability at the Social Opportunity Institute (IOS). gagement with stakeholders is one of the functions of TOTVS’ companies recognize the responsibility of working to positi­ We ex­p anded our presence on social networks and digital Institutional Relations and Social Opportunity area, together ve­ly influence the environment around their business. This is media, offering content presented through a multiplatform with other corporate areas, such as Marketing. These areas the case with TOTVS, the foremost company in its sector in concept. define the strategy, actions and their frequency of deployment. Brazil and Latin America, and one of the largest in the world. Therefore, in addition to the standards demanded by law and Our efforts in this area also included projects such as iDEXO, In 2017, as part of the process of defining high-priority topics relationship best practices, we seek to uphold our core busian initiative to promote entrepreneurship and innovation, for this report, we held interviews with the company’s leaders ness’ shared values in our relations with all our stakeholders: con­necting startups, new entrepreneurs and developers with and market specialists, besides conducting an online poll of proximity, presence, agility, transparency and defense of shared large companies, as part of projects to co-create value for the TOTVERS, our clients and suppliers. interests such as ethics, development and social justice. business environment. TOTV E R S I nvestors Government COMMUNI TY press C LI E NTS IT S ECTOR COM PANIES 3 RD S ector startups UNI V E R S ITIES A SSOC I ATI ONS SUPPLI E R S T O T V S INTEGRATED report 2017 i n t e g r a t e d REPORT 58 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL IO S 2 0 Y E A R S S OWING KNOWLEDGE TO HARV E S T OPPORT UNIT IES GRI 203-1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT Last year, IOS exceeded its target for employability and set THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY an annual service record early, in October. Also in 2017, the PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; institute launched a pilot project aimed at training Future and Talents, focusing on programming, the installation of software, infrastructure and networks, citizenship, employability and MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT behavioral development. IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. The Social Opportunity Institute (IOS), a civil society organi­ zation of public interest, grew out of an initiative by employees of Microsiga, now part of TOTVS, to provide low-income youth 32,000 students trained over the course of 20 years with free access to information technology. Over time, both 10,259 students the beneficiaries and the content offered have been expanded, and students completing the free vocational training have got jobs with the support of partner companies. IOS is present in four Brazilian states (São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, completed vocational courses between Minas Gerais and Santa Catarina), and it has so far provided 2010 and 2017 5,756 students training to more than 32,000 people aged 15 to 29, including people with disabilities, since it was founded in 1998. In line with its business strategy, TOTVS assigns all its annual social investment to IOS’ projects, through direct donations. employed in the job market between In 2017, we invested more than R$5 million in the institute, 2010 and 2017 representing nearly 6% of the company’s net earnings. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 59 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL IOS ’ H I GH L IG HTS IN 2 0 1 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL IOS’ E M PLOYM E NT RESPONSIBILITY ST U D EN T S O F IOS STUDE NTS* n Student who passed AND ENGAGEMENT or failed courses 2013 842 n Drop-out rate OF TOTVERS 2014 731 18% 18% 18% PROMOT ING DIA LO G UE 2015 786 In 2017, we held another edition of TOTVS’ Social Responsi­bility 2016 860 Week, based on the theme of “Corporate Citizenship – What 2017 1,016 do I have to do with this?” More than 600 people parti­ci­pated in the five-day event, in person and via remote connection. In * The number of IOS students getting jobs panel discussions, TOTVERS, IOS’ team and external specialists 1,995 2,586 2,491 increased 18% between 2016 and 2017 debated the role of each person and each orga­ni­zation in building 2015 2016 2017 FA M ILY INCOM E a more conscious, diverse and ethical society. O F STUDE NTS T YPE O F n Monthly familyincome of enrolled students SH AR I NG KNOW LEDG E EM PLOYM ENT n Average monthly salary n Entrepreneur of employed students To develop closer links between TOTVERS and IOS students, n Apprentice 47% we ran a campaign called “Share Knowledge and Transform n Intern 1% 41% 40% Lives.” n Permanent job 825.23 Besides visiting TOTVS sites, students took part in chats and talks 721.48 738.51 about the labor market, IT careers, technology and opportunities. 40% The meetings were led by TOTVER volunteers from company 52% sites in São Paulo, Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro, and they 1,755.16 1,574.37 1,853.48 involved more than 300 students from the institute. 7% 2015 2016 2017 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 60 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL VOLUNTARY E TH OS A ND UNIT ED NAT IO NS COMMITMENTS Since 2014, we have been signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative that mobilizes companies to results with regard to the Global Compact in previous years, visit the UN Global Compact’s website. GRI 102-12 incorporate fundamental and internationally accepted values into their business practices, in the areas of human rights, labor We are also members of the Business Integrity and Anti-Correlations, the environment and anti-corruption efforts, reflected ruption Pact, an initiative led by the Ethos Institute to unite P RI N C I P LE S OF in 10 principles. In this Integrated Report, we communicate our companies around the goal of promoting a more ethical market T H E GLO BA L COM PAC T progress in relation to the Global Compact. To see TOTVS’ and eradicating bribery and other forms of corruption. Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption 1 Businesses 2 Make sure 3 Businesses 4 The elimination 5 The effective 6 The elimination 7 Businesses 8 Undertake 9 10 Encourage Businesses should support that they are should uphold of all forms abolition of of discrimination should support initiatives to the development should work and respect not complicit the freedom of forced and child labor in respect a precautionary promote greater and diffusion of against the protection in human rights of association compulsory of employment approach to environmental environmentally corruption of internationally abuses. and the effective labor and occupation environmental responsibility friendly in all its forms, proclaimed recognition challenges technologies including human rights of the right extortion and to collective bribery bargaining T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 61 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL DE F E N DING T HE GRI 102-12 novation commissions of the House of Representatives and COU N TRY’S INT EREST S Senate, the municipal government of São Paulo, and other the­ matic parliamentary commissions. Participation in the working TOTVS believes that participating in institutional defense in groups of trade associations such as BRASSCOM and ANPEI favor of aspects it considers essential to Brazil’s development was also essential to generate content and to address the means strengthening its responsibility as a company and extopics presented here. panding its positive social impact. The Institutional Relations and Social Opportunity team, now PUBLIC PO LIC Y PRO M OTIO N in its fifth year, has been working to make TOTVS a leader in the country’s development agenda. Through a plan produced Amount invested* (in R$) in partnership with sector organizations, over the course of 2015 1,272,821.00 2017, we sought to foster closer links with the executive and legislative branches, in a technical and transparent manner, in 2016 1,511,788.72 order to devise and enhance public policies that can generate 2017 2,304,137.82 economic growth and social progress through the use of tech­ * Includes expenses involving membership of trade associations, sector organizations, nology. agendas and development forums to contribute to improving the IT business environment and promote public policy discussion. The growing participation of TOTVS and trade associations in Brazilian political life, combined with heightened visibility of the The topics worked on in 2017 included the ending of tax relief use of technologies as drivers of development, has stimulated on payroll expenses, conflicting tax jurisdiction related to softthe public sector’s interest in debates that permeate the sector’s ware, improvements to Law 11,196 of 2005 and the structuring regulatory agenda, including subjects related to the business of a manual for applying this law’s important cor­porate tax inenvironment and the prosperity of the IT sector. centives, the IT Law, the Brazilian Digital Strategy, the National We also had collaborative interactions related to the aforeIoT Plan, labor reform, and public policies for Manu­facturing 4.0. mentioned subjects within the scope of the Presidential EcoEach one of these topics required the company to take a stance nomic and Social Development Council, the Ministry of Science, on the path to be taken by the country, in order to ensure susTechnology, Innovation and Communications’ Science, Techtainable development, wealth creation and improved corporate nology and Innovation Council, the science, technology and incompetitiveness. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 62 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL EN GAGEME NT W ITH TR ADE GRI 102-13 A S S O CI ATIO NS AN D S EC TOR ORGAN I ZATI O N S In 2017, we also participated in the following trade associations and organizations: /// Board of the Institute of Studies for Industrial Development (IEDI) /// Board of the Brazilian Association of Information Technology and Communications Companies (BRASSCOM) /// National Association for Research and Development by Innovative Companies (ANPEI) /// Brazilian Association of Software Companies (ABES) /// Brazilian Association of the Electrical and Electronic Industry (Abinee) /// Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais branches of the Association of Brazilian Information Technology Companies (Assespro/RJ and Assespro/MG) /// Manufacturers’ Board of the Brazilian Association of Trade Automation (AFRAC) /// Association to Promote the Excellence of Brazilian Software (SOFTEX) /// Brazil-United States Business Council (CEBEU) /// Transnational Companies Forum (FET) /// Business Mobilization for Innovation (MEI) /// Technology Council of Municipal Government of São Paulo /// McKinsey Advisory Council on Study of IoT /// IT Advisory Council of American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham) T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 63 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL P UB L I C SEC TOR GRI 102-17 We apply the ethical principles and rules of conduct in our /// Gifts and presents A N D CO DE OF CON D U C T code to ensure and maintain respect between our stakeholdWe comply with Resolution 3 of 2000, which regulates the The long-term sustainability of our business and the success ers. These are some of the items we address in our code, which treatment of gifts and presents given to public officials, as of our results will largely come from our culture and the the whole company undertakes to be aware of. well as the policies and codes of respective public agents, ethical principles we adopt, maintain and communicate to organizations and entities to which they belong. TOTVERS and our other stakeholders, including our clients, E TH I CAL A ND /// Monetary donations to public agents shareholders, suppliers, partners and society. I MPARTIA L CO NDUC T All kinds of contributions, donations or payments to public In essence, TOTVS’ Code of Conduct has the goal of strengthWe cherish ethical and responsible conduct in our relations officials, whether monetary or otherwise, are explicitly ening our culture, which we define as: “Being a company with the public sector, prohibiting any unlawful attitude, in prohibited. of owners without frontiers, based on people who provoke accordance with the Anti-Corruption Law (Law 12,846 of innovation.” 2013). IDEXO A ND T HE INNOVAT IO N CO MMU N ITY iDEXO is an important channel for connection between TOTVS and the innovation community. It is a nonprofit institute funded by the company and other members, which has the purpose of connecting startups, entrepreneurs and developers to large companies in the pursuit of new business solutions. Created as an open innovation platform, the project aims to identify innovative initiatives that have the potential for adoption and exponential growth, to structure businesses, and to connect them with the market. The idea is to create a large ecosystem based on the concept of co-innovation, encouraging connections between new entre­ preneurs and established companies, enabling joint inno­vation and the creation of solutions to meet organizations’ and sectors’ demands. Three times per year, the institute will select startups or independent developers who wish to join iDEXO to collaborate on projects, always starting with a business challenge. To find out more, visit https://www.idexo.com.br/ T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 64 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL T ECH N O LOG IE S THAT M A KE OU R CLI E N TS ’ REL AT I O N S H IP S M O R E DY N AMI C The cliched view that technology leads to colder and more distant relationships in society does not fit our story. On this journey, tech­nology is the driving force for dynamic, more in­ teractive and effective relations. Carol, TOTVS’ quality data and artificial intelligence platform, marks a new era in the com­­pany’s innovation and it is taking interaction with organizations to a new level. By accelerating the capacity for analysis and the speed of decision making, in light of the growing volume of information, Carol brings more intelligence, productivity and efficiency to business, as well as better working, service and consumer experiences for employees, clients and society in general. This has enabled the development of specific solutions for many different sectors. In education, for example, Carol uses more than 230 variables to predict, with a 90% accuracy rate and 90 days in advance, the probability of a student enrolling at a was adjusted to make it faster and to add complementary which show real situations in order to demonstrate what techuniversity. solutions to aid management and decision making. nology is able to provide. Innovation and technology together Likewise, other TOTVS platforms are facilitating the routines have a positive impact on companies’ productivity and everyTOTVS has in-depth knowledge of the needs and specific feaday routines. of our stakeholders and their production chains. These platforms include fluig, which allows the creation and sharing of tures of each sector. As a result, it relates in an integrated and engaged way with its clients. We perceive this characteristic to The space is divided into the following areas: Supply Chain content and projects, almost like an internal social network for be a high-value aspect of our relationships. All this, combined (en­compassing the Agribusiness, Manufacturing and Logistics companies; Analytics, which enables companies to analyze and with our internal dynamics, in which TOTVERS have the freeindustries), Consumer (including Fashion, Food Services, Supergenerate indicator reports, based on ERP or CRM system data; dom to propose and create new things, strengthens us on our markets and General Stores), Healthcare and Professional Services and Bemacash, a management system incorporated into point(including Education, Construction & Projects, Hospitality, Services of-sale hardware. journey, through closer and more productive relationships. and Legal). There is also an interactive table with a 70-inch touchOver the course of 2017, TOTVS Analytics was enhanced to To present our innovations for the sectors in which we operate, screen, presenting the “TOTVS City” in 3D, featuring graphic offer even more agile information to clients and indicate how and above all to listen to our clients, the Sensational Experiences simulations, videos and demonstrations of all the industries in their company is evolving. On the fluig platform, the interface Space in our head office includes completely visual environments, which the company operates. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 65 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL Clients GRI 102-43 We are a business-to-business (B2B) company, 100% focused /// Clients’ Portal on our clients. We believe that our technology is capable of Our main channel for communication with our clients, pro­ affecting our clients’ customers, and so we seek to be conti­ viding all necessary information about their support, connually in contact with all our stakeholders through important sultations and demands, as well as relevant news for them. relationship mechanisms, including the following: /// Ombudsman Office /// Segmented newsletter Our clients can use an Ombudsman Office that is separate This newsletter contains personalized content for each of from our organizational structure, which reports directly our operating industries, including news, details of new product features, and articles written by our specialists. It to our Board of Directors. is sent to all our clients and other stakeholders. /// Testing and research /// Meetups We basically have three main moments when we consult Meetings for the technical community (IT professionals, our clients: students and TOTVERS) to debate key trends in technology Constant market research: this helps us to understand our development. clients’ main needs. For example, it feeds our innovation /// Digital transformation events road­map and guides our R&D teams’ activities. Meetings between our CEO, executives, clients and prosClient consultations: our innovation model is based on pects to present and discuss the impacts of digital transgetting an in-depth understanding of our clients’ needs. To formation on business. In 2017, we held eight events across this end, we consult them even before we have formatted Brazil, in Porto Alegre, Goiânia, Cuiabá, Manaus, Curitiba, our solutions, so that we can jointly build models that are Fortaleza, Campinas and Joinville. better aligned with their market. /// Webinars Pilot projects: these are run in partnership with strategic Events transmitted via the internet, aimed at empowering clients, resulting in new tools, which are developed on companies in their markets and clarifying sensitive topics demand and tested on site before being opened up to the for their management, such as regulatory and tax obligamarket. tions. In 2017, we held 293 webinars. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 66 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL Awards /// 200 biggest IT companies In 2017, TOTVS was once more ranked among the 200 biggest IT companies, according to a report titled Anuário Informática Hoje. TOTVS was also rated the most efficient software company. /// Linkedin Top Companies We came seventh in the LinkedIn Top Companies survey, out of the 25 companies that Brazilians would most like to work at. /// Global innovation ranking TOTVS was the only Brazilian IT company present in the 2017 Global Innovation 1000 Study, which ranked the world’s 1,000 publicly listed companies that invest the most in research and development, compiled by Strategy& (PwC’s strategy consulting firm). /// Top of Mind in HR For the sixth consecutive time, we came first in the Top of Mind Awards in the HR Management Technology ca­tegory. In 2017, we featured among the five companies with the most votes out of all participants in all categories. /// Best reputation For the second year in a row, Laércio Cosentino was rated one of the 100 business leaders with the best reputation in Brazil. He came 29th in the ranking, produced by Spanish consulting firm Merco. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 67 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL TOTVE RS GRI 102-43 /// TOTVS Connected TOTVER is the name given to the professionals who work at Newsletter sent every two weeks that contains corporate, TOTVS. They are curious, collaborative, digital and results local and specific area news, including about international driven. We believe that TOTVERS play an essential role in markets. guaranteeing that our attitudes are aimed at generating the /// FLUIG best experiences for our clients and for us to stay plugged into We use fluig to post news, create landing pages for camtechnology. paigns and publish focused information, through specific Our relationship with TOTVERS and efforts to engage them communities and groups. are part of the #WEARETOTVERS campaign, implemented in /// TV TOTVER 2017. It is guided by three attributes: “Technology + know­ledge Monthly program that discloses all the company’s news. In are in our DNA,” “We value good people” and “Our clients’ addition to the main program, news and content related success is our success.” to every site and area are presented daily. TV TOTVER is All the company’s communications are produced by the Inter­nal produced internally and transmitted simultaneously across Communications area, which specializes in corporate affairs and Brazil and international markets. disseminating information, programs and best practices. TOTVS /// TOTVS Connected podcast also has a Climate and Engagement Commission, com­posed of Every month, TOTVERS receive a podcast, through WhatsApp professionals from various areas, who continuously contribute or TOTVS Connected, describing the company’s main news. their perceptions and recommendations regarding communiThe format is a way to get close to TOTVERS’ young and cations with internal stakeholders. dynamic language. TOTVS’ Internal Communications area features some important /// Other channels channels to talk with TOTVERS: TOTVS also communicates through WhatsApp and text /// Moreover Leadership message with TOTVERS who have corporate smartphones. Prior alignment regarding the company’s subjects. It is also Keeping TOTVERS always well informed and engaged, in an an important channel to report about strategic subjects and environment that provides a healthy and friendly climate, is one major decisions made by the company. of the ways TOTVS “values good people.” T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 68 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL S O C I A L M E D IA In the present context of greater connectivity and intense digital /// Youtube mobilization between people, we are present in various types In 2017, we revamped our two YouTube channels: of media, developing closer relationships and communication TOTVS channel: focused on content, it features videos with our stakeholders, mobilizing thousands of followers and about management, technology and the geek world. connecting them with TOTVS’ purposes. So far, we have the following metrics: TOTVS Solutions channel: focused on products, it features video cases, webinars and demos for our clients. /// Facebook 355,000 followers We understand that our fans are increasingly consuming /// Linkedin 329,172 followers relaxed and interactive content, so our two channels deliver precisely this kind of high-value content. /// Youtube 15,696 subscribers /// Instagram /// Instagram 11,200 followers We recently launched TOTVS’ Instagram channel. Every day, we show our followers the company’s routines, focused on behind-the-scenes human experiences, including real A P L AC E FOR G O O D PEOPLE photos, stories and other content. Watch this 65-second video about TOTVS’ new head ACCE SS O UR DIG ITA L C HA NNELS office in São Paulo. Click here! /// Site http://www.totvs.com /// Facebook https://www.facebook.com/totvs /// Twitter @totvs /// YouTube http://www.youtube.com/totvs /// Instagram https://www.instagram.com/totvs/ T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 69 SO CIA L A ND RELATIO NSHIP CAPITAL S UP P L I ER S GRI 102-9, 102-43, 204-1, 414-1 TOTVS’ supply chain is present across Brazil. It largely focuses and Conduct, involving fair criteria, considering items such BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND on the development of software programs that the company as the supply of materials and services, deadlines and costs. RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY sells, as well as suppliers of databases, which are sold on to We also consider aspects such as labor practices and the nonPROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS. clients and technology platform providers. Other services are existence of slave-like and child labor. Thus, we do not hire MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT also significant, such as consulting assignments on different suppliers that have been blacklisted and fined by the Labor IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. subjects, cleaning and maintenance, marketing, audits, and the Ministry for involvement in slave labor, and we encourage our supply of office and administrative materials. Through Bematech, suppliers to adopt the principles and clauses set forth in Brazil’s the company also works with suppliers of raw materials and Anti-Corruption Law. SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS end products. OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR. Most purchases and contracts involve local suppliers (located In order to strengthen relations with our suppliers, selection in the same municipality as the companies and affiliates of and procurement processes are conducted in line with our TOTVS and Bematech S/A, since its incorporation in November SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR. Supplier Contract Administration Policy and our Code of Ethics 2017). T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 70 All renewable and nonrenewable environmental resources and environmental processes that supply goods or services that support prosperity in the past, present and future of an organization. Natural These include water, land, minerals, forests, biodiversity and ecosystem quality. Capital T O T V S INTEGRATED report 2017 i n t e g r a t e d REPORT 71 natural C A P ITA L ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. In the contemporary world, all organizations need to take into account the environmental impacts of their actions. This applies to TOTVS’ journey and those of its stakeholders. The efficient management of natural resources and responsible behavior in the context that permeates our activity are also part of the commitment made by TOTVERS and the company. An example of this is provided by Bematech’s plant in the municipality of São José dos Pinhais, Paraná. The company tracks the indicators and impacts involved in its manufacturing process, from assembly to the delivery of equipment to clients. It also runs annual continuous improvement programs. (See more details below.) We also prioritize fair relationships in the value chain and we promote a sustainable productivity environment. Likewise, we make business decisions in a responsible way, with the aim of protecting our brand, culture and values in the long term. To provide a perspective, we bear in mind that our products and services also enable the sustainable development of our chain of clients. Examples of this impact can be seen in the use of agricultural management, logistics routing and industrial optimization software. This does not only allow our clients to simplify their business processes and lower their costs, but also cuts waste and spending on inputs across the planet. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 72 natural C A P ITA L DIGITAL AGRICULTURE that rely heavily on road transportation, such as Brazil. To make its operations more efficient, cut costs and make progress in The conservatism of past decades has given way to the growing terms of social and environmental responsibility, TOTVS offers presence of technology in the field, through the widespread use of smartphones and tablets, as well as other technologies the sector’s companies new technologies to optimize routes, such as the IoT, automation and artificial intelligence. From the number of trips and distances traveled, enabling lower fuel planning and crop growing to harvest and delivery, there is a consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. series of opportunities for efficiency gains, optimized use of resources, improved productivity and sustainable development. RESPONSIBLE TECHNOLOGIES We spread technologies that do not harm the environment and PAPE R LE S S TECH N OLOGI E S that contribute to the socially and environmentally responsible With an eye on demand for effective communication with cusmanagement of our clients’ operations in sectors such as agri­ tomers, adherence with compliance rules and cost reduction, business, manufacturing, health and retail. health insurers are looking for new solutions. The TOTVS Health Guide is an example of a multiplatform tool that helps health ENERGY EFFICIENCY insurance customers to find medical service providers, book Automation, management and intelligent management pro­ consultations, send messages, and see statements and other jects can reduce manufacturers’ energy consumption, improve records, as well as many other functionalities. their profitability and help them to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, automation is part of a set of techSU STAI N AB LE LOGISTICS nologies that can increase productivity, reduce costs and It is estimated that logistics activities account for around 10% speed up production chains, generating positive effects in the of worldwide energy consumption, and even more in countries economy. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 73 natural C A P ITA L E NE RGY CO N S UMPT ION AT OUR SITE S In 2017, we recorded an increase in our energy consumption, Considering financial, social and environmental dimensions, particularly due to the move to our new head office, which as part of the concept of sustainability, Bematech has been raised our employment capacity to 3,500, more than double the investing more strongly in staff training for at least six years, 1,500 capacity of our previous head office. Thus, we concentrated to empower its teams, which have become multipliers and all our operations in São Paulo at a single address. On the other implementers of best practices. hand, our new infrastructure favors energy savings, as the building was designed to facilitate the entry of sunlight and During each new annual cycle, around 30 projects are denatural ventilation, it has solar panels on its facade, and it veloped using the Kaizen methodology. Kaizen is a Japanese contains efficient VRF air conditioning systems. word meaning “change for better” or “continuous improvement.” Kaizens are carried out internally, focusing on activities or GRI 302-1 processes that present opportunities for improvement. For Energy purchased Type of source 2016 2017 example, significant improvements have been made to key (million GJ) (million GJ) production indicators, cutting costs by eliminating waste worth Electricity Mixed 11.7 16.7 approximately R$3 million since this initiative was adopted. predominantly renewable Other projects are designed to involve and benefit the community surrounding Bematech, from the design of training and Figures for TOTVS’ head office in São Paulo (the previous head office in 2016 and the start of 2017, and the new head office as of April 2017). A supply contract income generation programs for homemakers to the involvement for the new head office was taken out in the unregulated power market. of employees as volunteers in renovating a rest home. Also from the social perspective, the company has provided more FO CUS O N CON TIN U OU S I MPROVE ME N T training for the inmates of Piraquara Women’s Prison in Paraná, GRI 417-1 where the company has a component assembly line. When it comes to the environment, Bematech is a special chapIn 2017, training and improvement projects were also extended ter in TOTVS’ journey. Besides developing solutions mainly deto other units, besides the hardware plant, involving teams of signed to boost the digital journey of micro and smaller entreemployees in the cities of Curitiba (Paraná) and São Paulo. preneurs – important protagonists in our story – the company has the TOTVS group’s only manufacturing operation. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 74 natural C A P ITA L USINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY PRINTERS Total KG CPUs Total KG SAT Total KG APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Quantity 183.386 Quantity 27.721 Quantity 29.922 Plastic components 135.417,8 Plastic components 12.141,8 Plastic components 0 CON S U MPTI ON OF MATE R I ALS Mechanical components 56.037,2 Mechanical components 37.922,3 Mechanical components 14.781,5 AN D WASTE MAN AGE ME N T Electronic components 101.229 Electronic components 25.059,8 Electronic components 4.548,2 The materials used to produce Bematech equipment include plastic, mechanical, electronic and cabling components. These Cabling components 34.109,8 Cabling components 3.548,3 Cabling components 2.872,5 items are largely made up of materials from non-renewable sources, such as plastic, ferrous and/or non-ferrous metals (steel, Total weight 326.793,8 Total weight 78.672,2 Total weight 22.202,2 aluminum and iron, among others), heavy metals (copper, silver, gold and nickel) and conducting metals (aluminum and copper). Product packaging is made of cardboard, which comes from a READERS Total KG Interfaces Total KG renewable source. GRI 301-1 Quantity 30.920 Quantity 27.457 Total materials used Plastic components 2.040,7 Plastic components 0 2016 2017 in production (kg)* Mechanical components 0 Mechanical components 439,3 Components: plastic, mechanical, 409,758 435,355 electronic and cabling Electronic components 1.855,2 Electronic components 878,6 *These figures refer to Bematech’s plant. Cabling components 2.473,6 Cabling components 0 Total weight 6.369,5 Total weight 1.317,9 435.355,6 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 75 natural C A P ITA L In relation to waste management, due to the nature of our TOTAL W EIG HT O F WA ST E, BY T YPE A ND DISPO SA L MET HO D GRI 306-2 business, we have a structure aimed at complying with relevant The following numbers refer to TOTVS’ head office in São Paulo and Bematech. environmental laws, covering packaging, storage and final Bematech (KG) TOTVS (KG) disposal processes, as well as training on environmental issues and opportunities to improve processes. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 The volume of waste sent to sanitary landfills has fallen con­si­ Landfill Class I – Hazardous 4,150 1,170 490 Reuse of electronic waste 8,906 6,965 3,931 de­r ably in the last two years, due to better segregation of (non-hazardous) materials, and so the percentage of materials recycled has Landfill Class II – Non-Hazardous 36,270 13,440 11,190 risen. Between 2015 and 2017, the amount of hazardous and Recycling (non-hazardous) 9,915 9,210 8,881 non-hazardous waste sent to landfills has fallen 88% and Reuse of electronic materials 7,368 11,753 13,094 69.15%, respectively. The recycling rate was 87% in 2017 Total 18,821 16,175 12,812 (encompassing cardboard, plastic and electronic waste). In Recycling 49,168 61,005 57,200 addition, 12% of waste was classified as non-recyclable, and Total 96,956 87,368 81,974 1% was classified as hazardous waste. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPO NSIBILIT Y GRI 417-1 FO R PRO DUC T S Labeling information follows standards recommended for this type of equipment. The manuals that accompany the products made by Bematech (printers, computers, readers, authenticator and transmitter systems, and accessories) contain information on their safe use and proper method of disposal. The company’s goal in 2018 is to simplify its packaging so that the same model can be used for several kinds of equipment. This will reduce inventories and consumption of material (cardboard). T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 76 The information presented in TOTVS’ Integrated Report 2017 was oriented by the results of its materiality process. Initiated in the previous reporting cycle, in 2017, the survey included interviews with the company’s executives and other senior management, consultations with external specialists, and an online poll of TOTVERS, suppliers and clients. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-48 T O T V S INTEGRATED report 2017 i n t e g r a t e d REPORT 77 our material topics The process also included analysis of studies of national and As a result of the listening and document analysis process, we TOTVS is committed to steadily improving the materiality coninternational trends , the sector’s risks and impacts, and inter­ identified the topics of most relevance to the company and consultation process, to make it ever more consistent. As it evolves, nal strategic policies, commitments, research and documents. sulted stakeholders, through convergence between internal and the process will incorporate new perspectives, through even Materiality is an important guiding principle for reporting and external visions, based on the described consultation sources. wider consultations with different stakeholders, about the future strategic management of integrated business sustainability. It The material topics – presented below – guided the content of the business, its negative impacts and the capacity to gene­ helps to identify what is important for the company, to manage included in this document, as well as the reported indicators. rate positive value for society, within its sphere of influence. critical points, and to establish targets and action plans. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 78 our material topics FI N D O UT OU R M ATE R IA L TOPI CS AN D WH Y TH E Y AR E I M PO RTA NT TO US GRI 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 Solutions based on science TOTVS is the only Brazilian company that has its own language to develop its ERP systems. It is the leader in the country and Latin America as a whole, and it is an exception to and information technology; Brazil’s economic tradition of generating income through commodities. Through investments in research and new technologies, it generates prosperity and income, helping to boost creation and development the domestic economy. It also trains technology sector professionals, who are valuable assets for society. By promoting technological innovations, the company also benefits the of Brazilian technologies development of solutions in areas such as the IoT, artificial intelligence and other innovations with social and environmental impacts, directly related to Brazil’s economic progress. Relations with clients Client loyalty and proximity has always been an important asset in TOTVS’ strategy. It has also paved the way for the company’s new business model, focused on services and subscriptions. TOTVS has a differentiated distribution model, involving franchises, ensuring a wider local presence and the capacity to be closer to clients. This model is an important attribute of the company’s and a pillar of its strategy for evolution. Economic performance The recent economic crisis in Brazil and worldwide has significantly affected the financial performance of not just TOTVS, but many other companies. and impacts of crisis Internally, difficulty in achieving individual and area targets during this period demonstrated the need to strengthen our focus on performance. This subject is part of the transformation process the company is going through. Digital transformation TOTVS is reformulating its business model and changing its organizational culture, to adapt to the digital transformation under way in society, considering technological, and new business models market, legal and behavioral aspects. This process has profoundly impacted the company and its relationships with its stakeholders. Quality of services Service quality is a key factor in TOTVS’ business model and its relations with its clients. This topic is related to the principle that “our clients’ success is our success,” and products which has been widely promoted by the company. Security, client privacy and Data and information are some of TOTVS’ main operating assets and they involve its relations with its clients and internal stakeholders. information management This topic demonstrates the importance of establishing control actions, policies and mechanisms. Relations with government This type of stakeholder is very important to the company’s strategy, as it has a direct impact on initiatives related to innovation and new technologies, for example. This demonstrates the need to establish relationships without losing sight of governance and compliance aspects. Business restructuring This reflects the process the company is going through, including the change in organizational culture, and the impacts of acquisitions and the integration of new cultures. Transparency, relationships Relations with different stakeholders are based on transparency criteria. TOTVS is recognized for this, and this company value affects its stakeholders’ and engagement/loyalty engagement and loyalty. in the TOTVS ecosystem T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 79 ABOUT THE INTEGRATED REPORT An integrated report explains how an organization generates value over time. However, value is not only generated by the organization or within it. It is also influenced by the external environment, it is created through relations with stakeholders, and it is linked to the resources available to the company and its environment. T O T V S INTEGRATED report 2017 i n t e g r a t e d REPORT 80 A B O UT THE INTEG RATED RE PORT GRI 102-46, 102-48, 102-50 ,102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 Thus, as described by the International Integrated Reporting Global Compact, to which we have been a signatory since 2014. Council (IIRC), an integrated report aims to provide insights about: In addition to TOTVS’ website, this publication, adopted as our Communication on Progress (COP), is also available here. /// The external environment that affects an organization; To obtain more information about this report, feel free to /// The resources and the relationships used and affected by contact us at relato@totvs.com.br. the organization, referred to as financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, natural, social and relationship capital; F I N D OUT MO RE A BO UT T HE SUBJEC T /// How the organization interacts with the external environIf you wish to learn more about the subject, visit the two ment and different types of capital to create value over the institutions’ websites and read about the proposed models: short, medium and long term. /// International Structure for Integrated Reports Throughout our report, we convey the concepts behind each of these kinds of capital. /// IIRCC The methodology for defining indicators will follow the com/// 10 steps to help you prepare a basic report, pany’s evolution in tackling the challenges presented by the using the “Let’s Report!” model Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Integrated Report of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). /// GRI In this edition, we adopted the new version of standards, in line /// Global Compact with the GRI Rules: Essential Option. Replacing version G4 of the sustainability indicators adopted in last year’s report, the new standards require a new structure and format. The data contained in this publication refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017. However, our plan is for the next edition published by the company to cover 2018 and 2019. This report has not been submitted to external assurance. Our Integrated Report 2017 also shows the company’s results and progress in line with the 10 Principles of the United Nations T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 81 GRI INDEX GRI 102-55 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 82 gri inde x CO D E G R I IND ICATOR PAG E/RESPO NSE G LO BA L CO MPAC T PRIN CIP L E S 102-1 Name of the organization. 2, 7 102-2 Main brands, products and services. 7, 10, 26 102-3 Location of headquarters. 8, 45 Number of countries in which the organization operates and the 102-4 8 names of the countries in which its main operations are located. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form of the organization. Publicly listed corporation 102-6 Markets in which the organization operates. 8, 10 Size of the organization: total number of workers and operations, 102-7 9, 10, 11, 36 net sales, capitalization and number of products or services provided. /// Principle 6 Total workers, by type of employment, work contract, Businesses should uphold the elimination 102-8 47 region and gender. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main 102-9 70 characteristics, brands, products and services. 102-10 Significant changes during the period covered by the report. 4, 12 , 45 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 83 gri inde x We do not formally follow the precautionary principle, 102-11 Precautionary approach or principle. but we are evolving in the process of analyzing the main risks and impacts in our operations. Charters, principles or other externally developed initiatives, 102-12 of economic, environmental and social nature, which the organization 61, 62 subscribes to or endorses. Main memberships of national or international trade associations 102-13 63 and/or advocacy organizations. 102-14 Declaration from the organization’s most senior decision maker 4, 5 /// Principle 7 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 102-15 21, 22, 24 Businesses should support a precautionary and its sustainability strategy. approach to environmental challenges. /// Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 102-16 Description of main impacts, risks and opportunities. 16, 18, 38, 39 /// Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 84 gri inde x /// Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not Internal and external mechanisms adopted by the organization complicit in human rights abuses. 102-17 regarding ethical behavior and compliance with legislation and issues 16, 18, 64 related to organizational integrity. /// Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The organization’s governance structure, including committees 102-18 12, 13, 14 of the highest governance body. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 12 Whether the chairperson of the highest governance body 102-23 12 is also an executive officer. Processes used by the highest governance body to guarantee 102-25 17 the prevention and administration of conflicts of interest. Roles performed by the highest governance body and senior 102-26 12, 13, 15 executives. Role performed by the highest governance body in identifying 102-29 and managing impacts, risks and opportunities arising from economic, 12 environmental and social issues. Role performed by the highest governance body in analyzing the 102-30 efficacy of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, 12, 20 environmental and social topics. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 85 gri inde x Frequency with which the highest governance body analyzes 102-31 impacts, risks and opportunities arising from economic, environmental 20 and social issues. The data contained in this The highest-level body or position that formally analyzes 102-32 publication has been approved by and approves the organization’s sustainability report. the Board of Directors. Process adopted to report critical concerns to the highest 102-33 20 governance body. Remuneration policies applied to the highest governance body 102-35 13 and senior executives. 102-36 Process adopted to determine remuneration. 13 How stakeholders’ opinions are requested and taken into 102-37 account in relation to remuneration, including the results of votes 13 on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 102-40 Groups of stakeholders engaged by the organization. 58 Collective bargaining covers /// Principle 3 Percentage of all employees covered by collective 100% of TOTVERS. It follows the Businesses should uphold the freedom 102-41 bargaining negotiation agreements. standards and limits determined of association and the effective recognition by legislation. of the right to collective bargaining. 102-42 Base used to identify and select stakeholders for engagement. 58 102-43 Approach adopted by the organization to involve stakeholders. 58, 66, 68, 70, 77 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 86 gri inde x Main topics and concerns identified during engagement 102-44 of stakeholders and measures taken by the organization to address 58, 77 these topics and concerns. Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 102-45 56 statements or equivalent documents. 102-46 Process adopted to define the report’s content and limits of aspects. 77, 81 Material topics identified in the process of defining 102-47 79 the report’s content. Effects of any reformulations of information supplied in previous 102-48 55, 77, 81 reports and the reasons for these reformulations. Significant alterations to the periods covered by previous reports 102-49 79 in relation to material topics and limits of topics. Period covered by the report (e.g. financial or calendar year) 102-50 January 1 to December 31, 2017 for the information presented. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if applicable). 2016 102-52 Report issuing cycle (annual, every two years, etc.) Annual 102-53 Contact details for questions about the report or its content. relato@totvs.com.br 102-54 GRI Standards option chosen by the organization. Essential T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 87 gri inde x 102-55 Summary of GRI content for the chosen option. 82 Current policy and practice adopted by the organization 102-56 None to submit the report to external assurance. 18, 22, 24, 25, 29, 34, 35, 54, 103-1 Reason why topics are material. 56, 79 For each material topic, describe how the organization 103-2 18, 22, 25, 26, 33, 35, 54, 56 manages the material topics. Describe how the organization administers the material topic 103-3 18, 22, 25, 26, 33, 35, 54, 56 or its impacts and how the management approach is evaluated. Direct economic value created and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, remuneration, donations and other investments 201-1 52, 55 in the community, accumulated profits and payments to providers of capital and governments. Coverage of obligations of defined benefit pension plan 201-3 43 that the organization offers. 201-4 Significant financial aid received from the government. 56 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 88 gri inde x The lowest salary paid by TOTVS is the minimum salary established by law. The national minimum salary is R$937. Some states Change in the ratio between the lowest salary and the local 202-1 where we operate (such as minimum salary, by gender, in significant operational locations. São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Paraná) have a regional minimum salary. There is no difference in payments between genders. There is no specific procedure for /// Principle 6 local hiring. However, whenever Procedures for local hiring and the proportion of senior managers Businesses should uphold the elimination 202-2 possible, the company seeks to recruited in the local community in significant operational locations. of discrimination in respect of employment favor hiring senior managers from and occupation. local communities. Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and 203-1 services offered, especially to benefit the public, through commercial 59 engagement and pro bono products, services or activities. Policies, practices and proportion of spending on local suppliers 204-1 70 in significant operational locations. /// Principle 10 Percentage of total business units evaluated 205-1 17, 19 Businesses should work against corruption for corruption-related risks. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 89 gri inde x /// Principle 10 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 205-2 19, 33 Businesses should work against corruption and procedures. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. /// Principle 10 No cases of this kind 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken. Businesses should work against corruption were reported. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. /// Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Materials used, by weight or volume, including approach to environmental challenges. 301-1 raw materials, those associated with processing, goods, 75 semi-finished parts and packaging. /// Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. /// Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. 74 /// Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. /// Principle 8 306-2 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method. 76 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 90 gri inde x /// Principle 6 Total workforce, and new hiring rates and staff turnover, 401-1 48 Businesses should uphold the elimination of by age group, gender and region. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Benefits granted to full-time employees that 401-2 43 are not offered to temporary or part-time employees. /// Principle 6 Return-to-work and retention rates following parental 401-3 44 Businesses should uphold the elimination of leave, by gender. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost workdays, 403-2 44 absenteeism and work-related fatalities, by region and gender. /// Principle 6 Average hours of training per year, per employee, 404-1 41 Businesses should uphold the elimination of by gender and functional category. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 404-2 Programs to manage competencies and continuous learning. 41 /// Principle 6 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance 404-3 42 Businesses should uphold the elimination of and career development analyses, by gender. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance /// Principle 6 405-1 and breakdown of employees by functional category, gender, 12, 47, 48 Businesses should uphold the elimination of age group and other diversity indicators. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers selected using social criteria. 70 T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 91 gri inde x We prohibit all kinds of contributions, donations and /// Principle 10 payments to public officials, Businesses should work against corruption Total value of contributions to political parties and politicians, 415-1 monetary or otherwise, in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. by country and recipient. as well as any type of support to the election campaigns of public or private agents. Type of information on products and services demanded 417-1 for labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and services 74, 76 subject to these requirements. Total number of legitimate complaints about violations of privacy 418-1 22 and loss of clients’ data. T O T V S INTEGRATED REPORT 2 0 1 7 92 credits Graphic Design, Drafting, /// [selu.] conteúdo & dados Artwork and Revision Framework of Integrated /// Societá Consultoria Report and GRI Guidelines Photos /// Leonardo Rodrigues Translation /// ALCANCE CONSULTORIA DE IDIOMAS Coordination and /// INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Editing at TOTVS and Social OPPORTUNITY Support /// SUPPLIER CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION integrated /// PEOPLE ADMINISTRATION /// INTERNAL AUDIT report /// BEMATECH /// CHANNELS AND BUSINESS MODELS 2017 /// COMPLIANCE /// FACILITIES /// CORPORATE GOVERNANCE /// SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY INSTITUTE (IOS) /// MARKETING /// PLANNING AND CONTROLLERSHIP /// PROCESSES, INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISKS /// HUMAN RESOURCES /// WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY /// INVESTOR RELATIONS /// PROCUREMENT
