Communication on Progress 2018 thyssenkrupp AG June 2018 thyssenkrupp confirms commitment for the United Nations Global Compact Sustainability is one of the core principles of thyssenkrupp’s corporate strategy. Together with customers worldwide, we aim to develop innovative products and solutions which contribute to a sustainable value creation. thyssenkrupp’s sustainability approach embraces processes within own operations as well as activities along our value chains. As a global company with partners worldwide, we are committed to adhere to the ten principles set by the Global Compact. Responsibility for sustainability performance lies directly with the Executive Board and the Group Sustainability Committee. Our Indirect Financial Targets (IFTs) provide one example on how sustainability is translated into concrete targets and performance improvements at thyssenkrupp. Also in the frame of the World Environment Day 2018, we demonstrated our commitment for environmental protection and how thyssenkrupp’s technologies and solutions contribute to safeguard our environment and climate. thyssenkrupp provides continuous and fully integrated reporting on its sustainability performance in its annual report and on its website, considering the international standards of the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and other relevant standards. Please find the reporting on our corporate website: www.thyssenkrupp.com/sustainability/ Dr. Heinrich Hiesinger CEO thyssenkrupp AG Communication on Progress 2018 thyssenkrupp AG Global Compact Index thyssenkrupp has joined the United Nations Global Compact and is thus part of the world’s biggest sustainability network. In the following you will find references relating to our progress in implementing the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Please click on the respective links to direct to the dedicated webpages. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Code of conduct  Compliance  Responsible procurement  Responsible employer  Sustainability strategy and targets Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Code of conduct  Compliance  Responsible procurement  Responsible employer  Sustainability strategy and targets 2 Communication on Progress 2018 thyssenkrupp AG Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Responsible employer  International Framework Agreement  Corporate culture Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Code of conduct  Responsible procurement  International Framework Agreement Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Code of conduct  Responsible procurement  International Framework Agreement Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Code of conduct  Responsible procurement  Diversity & Inclusion 3 Communication on Progress 2018 thyssenkrupp AG Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Sustainability strategy and targets  Environment, climate and energy Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Sustainability strategy and targets  Environment, climate and energy Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  Environment, climate and energy  Sustainable mobility  Processes that conserve resources  Technologies for the transition to renewables Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Compliance  Code of conduct 4
