2016 Susta i n a b i l i t y Report ANADOLU EFES Contents About the Report 1 Sustainability Progress Table 2 Anadolu Efes Brewing Operations 4 Message from the CEO 6 Milestones 8 Sustainability Management 9 Conservation of Water Resources 13 Climate and Environment 19 Value Chain Partnerships 27 Workforce 33 Product Responsibility 41 Community Development 47 Performance Tables 52 GRI Index 57 Identity 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES A b o u t t h e R e p o r t The report in which we share our This report encompasses all of our sustainable business goals, policies brewery operations in Turkey, Russia, and systems, as well as performanceKazakhstan, Georgia and Moldova. enhancing studies and their results, Information on our subsidiaries operating has become one of the most important outside our brewery business line, such as tools we use to communicate with our Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. and Tarbes, are not stakeholders. With these studies that included in this report. began in 2010, we plan to present a projection of the future of Anadolu Efes For information on sustainability to our stakeholders. practices and performance results related to Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., This report has been prepared in an Anadolu Efes subsidiary, please accordance with GRI Standards: Core refer to the corporate responsibility 1 Option. Principles defined in the reports available at www.cci.com.tr. GRI standards were also followed in the determination of Anadolu Efes’ sustainability priorities. In addition, the Communication on Progress (COP) principles described by the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the UNGC Water Mandate were included in the report. The information in the report covers the period from January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016. GRI-102-4; GRI-102-45; GRI-102-49; GRI-102-50; GRI-102-51; GRI-102-52; GRI-102-54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Conservation SUSTAINABILITY of Water Climate& Environment PROGRESS TABLE* Resources Priorities and We are brewing We are reducing our carbon Commitments more while consuming footprint by efficiently using less water. energy resources. Compared to 2008; Compared to 2008; We consumed 15% less energy and generated We consumed 23% 14% less carbon dioxide less water in our brewing emission per unit. Achievements operations and 21% less in malt production. We reduced our energy consumption by 15 TJ We produced 32% and carbon footprint less waste water in our by 1,085 tons. brewing operations and 18% less in malt production. We attained 98% recovery in solid wastes and by-products. By 2020, in our beer plants, we will reduce our water By 2020, we will reduce consumption per unit by consumption of energy and 30% compared to 2008. our emissions by 17% per unit compared to 2008. We will reduce waste water discharge in connection We will increase our waste with the goal to reduce recovery ratio. water consumption. Targets We will continue to develop projects with respect to water conservation and We will continue to create new methods for more efficient materials consumption. recovery. We will cooperate with We will cooperate with regional and international regional and international initiatives in the fight initiatives for the against climate change. GRI-102-15 conservation of water resources. Value Chain Product Community Collaborations Workplace Responsibility Development We always take We offer our employees a We are working to into account the We are improving our fair business environment create a consumer base expectations of the value chain to create in which their abilities are that consumes beer communities in which we more added value. valued. We aim to become responsibly and is familiar live and work and support a preferred employer. with beer culture. their advancement. We maintained our efforts to improve our business processes along the In 2016, local value chain. We continued our purchases were We had an accident responsible consumption 90.4% per activity frequency rate and We published Anadolu Efes campaigns across and 86.2% per a lost workday rate Supplier Working Principles. the country. spending. of 2.36 and 17.7, respectively. We successfully audited We brought the We pursued our 40% of our Tier 1 Group ISO22000/HACCP community development We spent 28 hours suppliers in the certification scope projects and sponsorship on training each last three years. up to 100%. in the fields of environment, employee. education, health, arts We continues to support and culture. agricultural programs in Turkey and Moldova. We will continue to We will maintain our We will undertake studies improve our local business process We target as zero across all our operations purchasing practices. improvement efforts accident rate. to increase quality system together with our suppliers, certification ratios. We will continue to dealers and distributors. We will continue to undertake projects offer our employees We will continue to improve targeting the improvement We will continue to support far-reaching improvement our practices in order of the quality of life of the agricultural programs in opportunities. to promote responsible communities in which Turkey and Moldova. consumption. we live and work. GRI-102-15 * All commitments, achievements and targets in this table have been calculated in terms of the borders of operations in the countrie included within the scope of reporting. In future periods, these indicators may differ with respect to possible variations in the report scope. ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES Annual BREWING OPERATIONS r e w i n g C a p a c i t y WITH BEER SALES OF B 19.9 MHL IN 2016, ANADOLU EFES IS THE 6TH LARGEST BEER PRODUCER IN EUROPE AND 39,5 MHL 14TH LARGEST IN THE WORLD. BEER AS OF 2016, ANADOLU EFES HAS 15 BREWERIES AND 248,000 TONS SIX MALTERIES IN SIX MALT COUNTRIES. IT BOASTS A BREWING CAPACITY OF in 2016 39.5 MHL AND 248,000 TONS OF MALT PRODUCTION. OUR PRODUCTS REACH MILLIONS OF CONSUMERS IN OVER 70 EXPORT MARKETS UNDER MORE THAN 40 BEER BRANDS. WITH BEER SALES OF 19,9 MHL LARGEST BEER PRODUCER 6TH in Europe 14TH in the World SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES Turkey Kazakhstan Anadolu Efes maintained its leading In Kazakhstan, one of the main markets position in the Turkish market, in which of its region, annual beer consumption annual beer consumption is 11 liters per is over 27 liters per capita. Anadolu Efes capita. In 2016, Anadolu Efes Turkey had Kazakhstan operates as the market leader four breweries, two malteries, and one with its two breweries. hop processing facility in operation. Moldova Anadolu Efes is the largest beer producer in Moldova, in which the annual beer 5 Russia consumption averages 39 liters per capita. It has one brewery in operation. Anadolu Efes is the indisputable leader in the Moldovan market. Russia is Anadolu Efes’ largest market, with its annual beer consumption of 52 liters per capita. Anadolu Efes Russia runs its production operations with six Georgia breweries, four malteries and one preform production facility. In Georgia, in which annual beer consumption is 22 liters per capita, Anadolu Efes has the market lead and runs its production operations with one brewery. Breweries Malteries Hop Processing Preform Production Facility Facility GRI-102-4; GRI-102-6; GRI-102-7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES a g e f r o m t h e C E O Mess significant improvements both to our management approach and to our social, environmental and economic performance in 6 priority areas. Concerning the preservation of our water sources, which Dear Stakeholders, is a sustainability priority for us; we have made improvements in accordance Every day, we meet millions of consumers with our basic target of producing more through more than 40 beer brands while consuming less water. Thanks to produced in a total of 15 breweries and the practices we implemented in the 6 production facilities across Turkey, reporting period, we reduced our water Kazakhstan, Moldova, Georgia, and Russia. consumption by 23% and wastewater We maintain our position as Europe’s 6th discharge by 32%, in beer production, and the world’s 14th largest beer producer. compared to 2008. We have continued This size and market penetration place our efforts in the principle of conducting 6 significant responsibilities on our our operations with minimal impact on shoulders at Anadolu Efes in all processes the environment and the climate. In 2016, extending from production to the point we cut our annual energy consumption by where we reach our consumers. 15 TJ, reducing our energy consumption by 15% and our CO2 emissions by 14%, in Boosting our positive impact through a beer production, compared to 2008. business model that is sensitive to people and the environment, contributing to Our country operations also continue their the socioeconomic development of the efforts by taking into consideration the communities in which we operate, and securing processes designed in accordance with Anadolu Efes’ continued development ISO14001 and ISO50001 standards. As of underpin our sustainability approach. 2016, 71% of our facilities were certified in accordance with the ISO14001 standard. Accordingly, the Anadolu Efes Positive Over the same period, we diverted 6 Impact Plan we launched in 2011 set million USD in funds to environmental out with the main goal of increasing management and improvement the positive impact of our operations investments. In 2016, we provided 1,536 by creating a responsible, smart and person-hours of environmental training profitable business model aimed to 596 employees concerning our at securing the future of both our environmental protection culture, policies company and the community. We made and procedures. GRI-102-14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES And while doing all these, we also Through our efforts, built on the maintained our principle of increasing foundation of social and environmental our positive impact together with our sustainability, we continue to generate stakeholders and investing in the future. value for a habitable world. As we We boost our positive impact on the continue our operations, we launch business value of our stakeholders, and practices that will contribute in the local strengthen the sustainability of our value economy, that support the economic, chain by building long-term partnerships social and cultural development of society. with all our business partners particularly Aware of the responsibility for social our dealers, suppliers and distributors. development under the Sustainable To be sure, our employees are a very Development Goals, we have been important and integral part of this value investing in agriculture for 35 years and chain. As of 2016, our operations had tourism for 10 years, creating sustainable 5,462 employees. models in the field of local development. And in the field of sociocultural As a multinational and multicultural development, we have been contributing company, we continued to view diversity to sports for 41 years, cinema for 30 years, as a part of our corporate culture and to and to the theater for 25 years. support our female employees. During the 7 reporting period, we provided 1,994 personWe are working with great zeal in order hours of human rights training with a view to achieve our targets for 2016-2020, to raising awareness of human rights. which constitutes the second period of the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact During this period, we also organized Plan. We will continue to share with all training programs for the development of our stakeholders the distance we have our employees. Within this scope, organized covered and the results we have achieved 152,966 person-hours training with 14,412 through our reports. This is a long journey. of attendence in 2016. Our average training And we can only increase our positive time per employee was 28 hours. impact in our sustainability priorities with the contribution of all our stakeholders. Believing that a responsible consumption I would also like to take this opportunity culture is only possible with producers to thank all our stakeholders that have that act in accordance with the principles supported us in our sustainability journey. of responsible marketing, we are acting fully aware of our responsibility across Kind regards, all our operations. We are conducting practices that will contribute in the local GAVIN HUDSON economy as we continue our operations. Beer Group President and In 2016, 90% of our more than 8,200 Anadolu Efes CEO suppliers were qualified suppliers. GRI-102-14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2004 THE ISO14001 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IS SET UP AT ALL PLANTS. IT IS STILL IN PLACE AND CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVED. 2011 MILESTONES ANADOLU EFES ACHIEVES A FIRST IN THE INDUSTRY BY OBTAINING A CERTIFICATE IN ISO50001 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. ANADOLU EFES SIGNS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, BRINGING ITS COMMITMENTS TO AN INTERNATIONAL SCALE. 2012 ANADOLU EFES EARNS THE PRIVILEGE TO REPRESENT TURKEY IN THE FIELD OF SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL APPLICATIONS AT THE UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (RIO+20) HELD IN RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL. 2013 ANADOLU EFES BECOMES THE FIRST TURKISH COMPANY TO BE LISTED IN THE DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX. 2014 ANADOLU EFES SIGNS CEO WATER MANDATE, AN INITIATIVE OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, BECOMING THE FIRST TURKISH COMPANY TO PARTICIPATE. 2015 ANADOLU EFES IS LISTED IN THE BIST (BORSA ISTANBUL) SUSTAINABILITY INDEX. 2016 ANADOLU EFES BECOMES THE FIRST TURKISH COMPANY TO BE LISTED IN VIGEO EIRIS EMERGING MARKET 70. ANADOLU EFES 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 1 ANADOLU EFES The foundation of our sustainability SUSTAINABILITY concept includes the following targets: MANAGEMENT to enhance our positive impact with a model sensitive towards people and the environment, to contribute to WE CONTINUE the socioeconomic development of TO WORK WITH OUR the communities in which we live and STAKEHOLDERS TO work, and to sustain the continuous CREATE A POSITIVE IMPACT improvement of Anadolu Efes. In IN TERMS OF OUR this regard, it is the responsibility of SUSTAINABILITY the managers to fully respond to the TARGETS. expectations of our stakeholders by quickly adapting to changing economic, social and environmental conditions. The starting point of the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan that we began to implement in 2011 is to boost the positive impact of our activities by generating a responsible, smart and profitable business model that secures the future of the community. In this respect, we achieved significant progress in the six priority areas we established in our management approach as well as in our social, environmental and economic performance. A component of our sustainability management concept is to increase the positive impact we are generating by pairing them with international initiatives. In this context, the U.N. Global Compact and its extension CEO Water Mandate as well as the Women’s Empowerment Principles are the main initiatives we are SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES COMMUNITY CONSENTRATION OF DEVELOPMENT WATER RESOURCES ENERGY & VALUE CHAIN ANADOLU EFES CLIMATE COLLABORATIONS POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN PRODUCT WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CORPORATE POLICIES, SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES CORPORATE VALUES 11 committed to. In addition, we keep track reports and on our website. Furthermore, of any global sustainability initiatives that a large majority of these indicators are are exhibiting continuous improvement monitored as part of the Anadolu Efes and steer our practices accordingly. Performance Evaluation System, and With this in mind, the U.N. Sustainable they are used in the evaluation of all Development Goals have been included managers’ individual performance and in in our areas of study as they relate to our their remuneration management system. Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan. A large portion of these indicators are also monitored through internal audit and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION corporate risk management. Our Performance Evaluation System plays For more detailed information on a major role in the success of the Anadolu Anadolu Efes’ Positive Impact Plan Efes Positive Impact Plan. Performance and sustainability management, indicators that relate to each of our you can access our corporate priority areas have been identified. All website. these indicators are generated in relation to GRI Standards and monitored, and are (http://www.anadoluefes.com/surdurulebilirlik) reported annually via our sustainability GRI-102-15; GRI-102-47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2 ANADOLU EFES Conservation of fresh water resources CONSERVATION OF is included in our Sustainable WATER RESOURCES Development Goals and remains one of our fundamental subjects. We consider the management of water to be among EVERY STAGE OF OUR VALUE our sustainable priorities, both in respect CHAIN, INCLUDING THE to its relationship to operations and PRODUCTION OF BARLEY AND its importance to communities. Thus, HOP, AND THE PRODUCTION we continuously monitor it under the OF OUR PRODUCTS AND umbrella of corporate risk management. PACKAGING, USES WATER AS ITS BASIC RAW MATERIAL. The basic principles shaping our ALTHOUGH WATER MAKES UP water management activities A LARGE MAJORITY OF OUR PRODUCT CONTENT, IT IS AN were developed in the context of EVER-DEPLETING RESOURCE the Anadolu Efes Water Policy, to DUE TO RISING GLOBAL which you can access via POPULATION AND CLIMATE www.anadoluefes.com. CHANGE. IN LINE WITH OUR POSITIVE IMPACT GOALS, WE Being a major part of our business WILL CONTINUE TO FOR IN strategy, our main goal is to produce ORDER TO HELP CONSERVE more while consuming less water, and WATER RESOURCES. THIS to promote research in the field of water IS IMPORTANT NOT ONLY resources conservation. With this in mind, FOR MAINTAINING OUR we utilize a continuous improvement PRODUCTION BUT ALSO WITH logic. In addition to developing our own REGARD TO SOCIAL NEEDS. water efficiency projects, we work to promote both local and international initiatives. In 2014, we were a pioneer among Turkish companies by becoming one of the cosigners of the UNGC CEO Water Mandate initiative. We developed our policy, system and processes to conserve water resources in line with the principles designated by this initiative. We evaluate water risks across our value chain in the context of risk management SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES OUR GOAL TO REDUCE OUR WATER THANKS TO THE PRACTICES CONSUMPTION AND WE DEVELOPED WITH THESE TARGETS IN MIND, OUR GOAL FOR WASTEWATER WATER CONSUMPTION AND OUR GOAL BY 30% IN 2020 FOR WASTEWATER WERE REALIZED AS 78% COMPARED TO 2008. AND 81%, RESPECTIVELY. and implement internal control practices. WATER MANAGEMENT We use the results obtained by our 15 performance indicators and disclose In 2016, water consumption in brewing them to the public through our annual decreased to 8.2 million m3 in parallel to sustainability reports. We continued our production volume. Thanks to our our studies on the development of our efficiency efforts, water consumption water consumption and wastewater per product remained steady at 4.2 hl/hl management performance, which we just as the previous year, whereas under consider as part of our continuous normal circumstances water consumption improvement program in the reporting per product should have increased. period. During the year, for malt production, We also continued leading the Water we consumed same volume of water Working Group of the Business World and with the previous year however, water Sustainable Development Association consumption per production displayed a of Turkey, as well as working jointly with rise of 3% and reached the 6.5 m3/ton. various stakeholders by promoting local studies in other countries. To access more detailed information on Anadolu Efes’ water management studies, please visit www.anadoluefes.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES s u m p t i o n T r e n d s Water Con IN BREWERIES 5.5 4.5 4.3 4.2 4.2 12.5 WATER EFFICIENCY PROJECT 11.6 10.7 8.7 8.2 THANKS TO THE WATER EFFICIENCY PROJECT, ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN REDUCED ITS WATER CONSUMPTION BY 95,000 M3. 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 With the help of the water efficiency projects undertaken in our country, our 16 Specific Water Consumption (hl/hl) per-product water consumption continues Total Water Consumption (million m3) to decline. In 2016, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan moved to washing no-return bottles with rinser instead of standard washing material. Thanks to projects such IN MALTERIES as water recovery during yeast drying filtration and rinser bubble decomposers, 8.3 it reduced its water consumption by 95,000 m3. 6.6 6.3 6.5 6.2 2.1 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Water Consumption (m3/ton) Total Water Consumption (million m3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT at Anadolu Efes brewing plants, owing to the decline in wastewater discharge per The first stage of our wastewater product during production. It showed a management strategy is to reduce minimal increase by reaching 3.1 hl/hl. A wastewater volume through highsimilar trend was observed in the malt consumption efficiency and recovery. Next production process. Water consumption is to bring the contamination levels of per product rose to 5.5 m3/ton level. wastewater to a minimum and maintain it at levels stipulated in the legislation. By Wastewater, a by-product of our doing so, we will be able to both reduce our production processes, is now being negative effects on the environment while discharged after its environmental impact also achieving an efficient use of water. is minimized at treatment facilities. In this way, the wastewater discharge process In 2016, total wastewater discharge was does not negatively effect the biodiversity realized as the same as the previous year value of any water resource. i s c h a r g e T r e n d s Wastewater D 17 IN BREWERIES IN MALTERIES 4.1 6.5 3.2 5.5 3.0 3.0 3.1 5.0 4.8 4.9 9.4 1.7 8.2 7.4 6.1 6.1 1.0 0.8 0.9 0.9 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Wastewater Discharge (hl/hl) Specific Wastewater Discharge (m3/ton) Total Wastewater Discharge (million m3) Total Wastewater Discharge (million m3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 3 ANADOLU EFES We strive to conduct our operations with CLIMATE AND minimum impact on the environment ENVIRONMENT and climate. Our target is to enhance our performance based on our Sustainable Development Goals. WE REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT BY EFFICIENTLY Anadolu Efes Working Principles, USING ENERGY RESOURCES Environment Policy, Energy and Climate IN ALL OUR OPERATIONS. Policy certificates designate the principles IN THIS WAY, ON ONE HAND we follow as part of our sustainability WE ARE INCREASING OUR priorities. Conforming in full with all EFFICIENCY; ON THE OTHER, applicable legislation we are subject to WE ARE CREATING A POSITIVE is an important component of these IMPACT BY REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. principles. This applies to all countries in which we operate. Each country monitors its operations, taking into account processes designed in accordance with ISO14001 and ISO50001. In order for our employees to achieve these processes in conformity with our standards, they are provided the necessary handbooks and training programs. As of 2016, 71% of our operational facilities are certified according to the ISO14001 standard. We diverted funds amounting to more than $6 million to environmental management and improvement investments in the reporting period. Furthermore, in 2016, we arranged environment training for our 596 employees adding up to 1,536 personhours to develop our employees with respect to environmental protection, policies and our procedures. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES We, together with our local and climate change management, conduct international stakeholder, participate in efficiency and R&D studies and publish our climate and environment management our performance through sustainability activities and initiatives, and we support reports. common studies. For example, we support the Declaration on Energy Efficiency For more detailed information in Buildings issued by the UNGC and on Anadolu Efes climate and Sustainable Development Association environment management, (SDA). We are also members of the Anadolu use the following link Efes SDA Energy Efficiency Working Group www.anadoluefes.com and its sub-groups Energy Efficiency in Buildings and Energy Efficiency in Industry ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Working Groups. We also continue our activities in accordance with sustainable In spite of falling production in 2016 agriculture principles as a member of the thanks to our efficiency efforts, we SDA Sustainable Agriculture and Access reduced per-product energy consumption to Food Working Group, which targets by 3.5% to 36.2 kWh/hl compared to the expansion of sustainable agriculture last year. In malt production, despite principles after their enhancement with decreasing production quantity we 21 good practices. We employ feedbacks maintained our energy consumption that we receive from these initiatives in value and retained the 981 kWh/ton level, order to improve our policies, system and representing a very minor increase. processes with regard to environment and OUR GOAL TO REDUCE PER-PRODUCT ENERGY CONSUMPTION THE STUDIES WE CARRIED OUT AND GREENHOUSE IN THIS REGARD, AS OF 2016 WE ACHIEVED OUR ENERGY GAS EMISSIONS BY CONSUMPTION TARGET BY 86% AND 17% BY 2020. OUR EMISSION TARGET BY 81%. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Energy Consumption Emission trends IN BREWERIES trends IN BREWERIES 42.4 11.2 38.3 37.5 10.3 35.3 36.2 10.1 9.6 9.7 3,453 3,558 3,147 253 260 2,764 237 2,548 211 189 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 22 Specific Energy Consumption (kWh/hl) Specific Emissions (kg CO2e/hl) Total Energy Consumption (TJ) Total Emissions (kton CO2e) IN MALTERIES IN MALTERIES 247 1,013 998 1,004 238 238 233 979 981 224 63 916 748 50 629 611 39 42 39 592 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2013 2014 2015 2016 Specific Energy Consumption (kWh/ton) Specific Emissions (kg CO2e/ton) Total Energy Consumption (TJ) Total Emissions (kton CO2e) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES In 2016, we also made an important EFFICIENCY IN DISTRIBUTION achievement by improving our gas emissions performance. During the year, Distribution processes have a specific we reduced our greenhouse gas emissions position in the emission inventory. We by 5.8% to a 9.7 kg CO2/hl; in the malt aim to enhance the efficiency of forklift production, per-product greenhouse gas movements during handling operations emission was brought down to a 224 kg and to increase per-kilometer product CO2/ton level, an improvement of 3.9%. volume. Thanks to our energy efficiency efforts In 2014, forklift movement performance conducted during the year, we brought was 0.08 kg/hl. It was brought down our annual energy consumption to to 0.07 kg/hl in 2016. During the same 20 TJ, and greenhouse gas emissions period, our distribution performance was were reduced to 1,756 tons of CO2. One 3.56 km/hl. example is our rinser bottle washing system at the Kazakhstan location, ENERGY EFFICIENT COOLERS leading to a yearly savings of 162,000 kWh energy and 73 tons of CO2 In order to reduce the environmental greenhouse gas emissions. With respect effects of coolers located at the points 23 to the Georgian operations, process of sale and consumption, we are in the improvement and equipment renewal process of replacing old equipment studies led to an annual energy savings with new-generation, energy-efficient, of over 1 million kWh. During the year, and climate-friendly models utilizing the highest reduction performance environmentally friendly cooling gases. was achieved by our Russian operation. Although 25 projects were carried out, In the last four years, we renewed our the operation recorded an annual energy cooler inventory to a large degree with savings of 3.1 million kWh and 1,127 tons our investment in the new-generation of CO2 in greenhouse gas emissions. equipment. As we reduced the number of coolers in our inventory in 2016 by Total Energy Total Emission 10% compared to 2014, by new cooler Reduction Reduction purchases made during the year, rate of (TJ) (Ton CO2) energy-efficient “Smart Cooler” usage rate has reached 100% in Turkey, Russia and 2013 112 7,683 Georgia. 2014 94 5,888 2015 43 3,213 2016 20 1,756 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES WASTE AND PACKAGING Our packaging is one of the main MANAGEMENT factors that presents our products to our consumers. It ensures the products In response to our waste management maintain their safety, taste and quality, efforts, we act according to sorting and delivers our corporate message. principles at the source and with Unfortunately, it transforms into waste maximum recovery. after consumption and produces an environmental impact. In order to In 2016, at our beer and malt production reduce this impact to a minimum, we are facilities we produced 181 ktons solid undertaking efforts to reduce the quantity waste and 410 ktons of by-products. Only of packaging, and increase recycling and 4.7 ktons of the total solid waste was in recovery. the hazardous waste status. The recovery ratio of 96.6% in 2015 increased to 97.5% Compared to the previous year, in 2016, in the reporting period. the returnable glass bottle rate increased to 15.1% from 14.9%, and aluminum cans to 21.8% from 21.6%. Steel keg and returnable glass bottle rate increased to WASTE RECOVERY RATIO 23.1%. The coutry operation where the 24 highest rate in that category achieved was 97.5 Anadolu Efes Turkey with 57.3%. 96.6 95.6 95.6 94.6 As we accomplish the recovery of recyclable material within our own supply chain, recovery of one-way materials show 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 great variations based on the current legislation and application infrastructure in the countries of operation. According to this, collection of one-way packaging WASTES BY TYPE and its recovery is regulated by legislation in Turkey, and managed by ÇEVKO (Kton-%) (Environment Protection and Recycling of Packaging Waste Foundation), of which Anadolu Efes is a co-founder. The oneway packaging recovery rate in the Turkish Hazardous Wastes Non-hazaardous operation is almost 80%, whereas in 4.7 3% wastes general the rate is around 10% across all 176.5 97% of our operations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES The design and R&D studies we a 10% reduction in materials’ weight conduct with specialist institutions has thanks to our project on aluminum cans. a prominent place in our packaging As the result of a similar project in our optimization practices. We are developing Russia operation, aluminum can thickness projects that aim to lighten the current came down to 0.208 millimeters from materials without suffering a loss to 0.22 millimeters. In terms of coloring their durability and functionality, as well applications, studies are being conducted as usage of lesser materials in dyeing on the utilization of more simplified colors. and printing processes. For example, in the Kazakhstan operation, we attained Percentage of Pac k a g i n g T y p e s in S a l e s V o l u m e 25 8% STEEL KEG 29.8% ONE-WAY GLASS BOTTLE 15.1% RETURNABLE GLASS BOTTLE 25.3% PET BOTTLE 21.8% ALUMINUM CAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 4 ANADOLU EFES With our value chain system, we offer VALUE CHAIN a profitable and sustainable business PARTNERSHIPS model to all our business partners, and primarily to dealers, suppliers and distributors. While we make a contribution ANADOLU EFES IS to our business partners by boosting ENHANCING ITS POSITIVE their business efficiency and their IMPACT TOGETHER WITH achievements, we also support their STAKEHOLDERS BY INVESTING development of working standards. By IN THE FUTURE. establishing long-term partnerships, we increase our positive impact on our stakeholders’ business value and reinforce the sustainability of our value chain. Through these studies, we improve our performance in Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) areas such as “Clean Water and Sanitation,” “Decent Work and Economic Growth,” “Climate Action,” and “Life on Land.” SUPPLIER AND DEALER DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS As of 2016 there are over 8,000 product and service suppliers, more than 100 malt barley suppliers and more than 400 hop suppliers in the Anadolu Efes supply chain. We expect that all suppliers adopt values and principles identical to those of Anadolu Efes, and that they support our economic, social and environmental targets. We give them guidance in respect to the responsibilities they need to take on and the basic principles they need to follow in terms of the Anadolu Efes Supplier Working Principles we published GRI-102-9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES in 2015. We monitor our suppliers to make trainings conducted by internal trainers sure they conform with these principles and outstanding third party trainers. through our supplier audits. In the context of this work, in the last three years we SUPPORTING AGRICULTURE AND completed audits of 40% of the main FARMERS supplier group, including raw material and primary packaging producers. In the brewing industry, protection of production continuity, product quality You can access the Anadolu Efes and product taste is of critical importance. Suppliers Working Principles In regards to agricultural raw materials, document by visiting many external factors play a role in the www.anadoluefes.com production of malting barley and hops, and preventing risks is quite difficult. For Anadolu Efes products reach more this reason, it is of key importance to than 300 million consumers via more forge a close relationship with producers than 500 dealers and distributors and and to enhance their business efficiency tens of thousands of on and off-trade for the sustainability of our operations. points of sale. With the help our work In connection with the Agricultural R&D performance practices, we strive to Program that began 1982, we provide 29 improve the technical and managerial operational, technical and financial skills of our business partners. We design support to the producers of malting improvement programs keeping the needs barley and hops. of our stakeholders in mind. AGRICULTURAL R&D PROGRAM Anadolu Efes Turkey supports the development of dealers and distributors The Agricultural R&D program is a support via the Talimhane (Drill Field) joint program developed by Anadolu Efes on development platform. Under the scope the basis of our Contractual Purchase of Efes Talimhane, training courses, such Model. It aims to satisfy the demand for as Leadership and Executive Development malting barley and hops from domestic Program, Effective Decision-Making, producers with our own registered strains. Building and Managing Organizations, Studies were carried out using natural Advanced Finance, Contemporary Law methods. From the start of the program and Customer Relations Management to date, Anadolu Efes has developed 15 trainings, are provided owners, new malting barley and seven hops strains and decision makers of dealers and and had these registered. Developing distributors. Moreover, Dealer Sales registered products belonging to us Teams and Distributors are provided with creates added value with respect to professional and competence building production and product quality, and in maintaining the consistency of taste. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES The biggest contribution of the malting Thanks to the characteristics of Anadolu barley and hop strains developed by Efes Turkey-registered strains, farmers Anadolu Efes Turkey through the R&D are boosting their efficiency and obtaining efforts reveals itself in the raw material natural products in the required quality and brewing processes. The agricultural and quantity. The savings enjoyed is production process is extremely sensitive creating a mutual benefit for both farmers to climate, biodiversity and similar and Anadolu Efes. At the same time, conditions, water, energy, protective important reductions are achieved in medication and artificial fertilizer. For negative environmental impact from using that reason, agricultural activity is quickly agricultural products. affected by climate change, which also having its own impact on climate change. CONTRACTUAL PURCHASE MODEL Through its R&D efforts, Anadolu Efes Turkey focuses on developing new strains Anadolu Efes achieves the organized that can endure aridity, thus requiring running of activities with respect to less water and energy, and with reduced supporting producers by way of its natural and environmental impact. Contractual Purchase Model. In addition Registered malting barley and hops to financial and operational support 30 strains create an advantage in regards provided to malting barley and hops to resource consumption in production. producers, other informational projects When compared to other commonly-used are conducted simultaneously. barley strains in Turkey, Use of Atılır and Fırat, two of our registered strains, leads First, production targets are set jointly to reduced electricity consumption of 12 with the producers based on their terrain. to 24%, fuel consumption of 18 to 22%, Then, seed suitable to their location are and water consumption of 40 to 47%. dispensed free of charge in exchange for the production. In order to help the farmers’ cover their production costs, financial support is provided and other materials to be utilized in production are delivered free of charge, especially to hops producers. Training is provided by Anadolu OUR GOAL Efes Turkey specialists during the year in SATISFY THE ENTIRE order to improve the farmers’ knowledge and awareness levels. Consultancy RAW MATERIAL is provided in relation to production DEMAND LOCALLY processes along with field days and technical reviews. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Thanks to the Contractual Purchase PROMOTING BEER CULTURE Model, which provides the strains acquired through the agricultural R&D We promote the development of a refined program, a significant efficiency increase beer culture in the markets in which we has been realized in malting barley and operate. Development of a beer culture hops production, adding value to local plays a key role in the development of the agricultural activities. A major part of the industry and affiliated industries. Outside raw material need is also satisfied thanks Turkey, which does not allow promotion of to Anadolu Efes Turkey’s initiative to beer culture, Anadolu Efes supports the support the production of local hops. In advancement of beer culture using diverse the coming periods, we aim to satisfy the practices. In this context, studies are entire raw material demand locally and conducted that present participants with turn hops, an agricultural product with new flavors and types of beer. Anadolu added value as an export item. Efes country experts support businesses at consumption points in many areas, Implementation began in Turkey and including decoration, ambiance, menu and reached roughly 8,000 farming families. It presentation. Studies are also underway was carried over to our Moldova operation to inform our stakeholders about beer and in 2012 due to its success. Following brewing. 31 experimental planting studies and recognizing that the climate conditions of Moldova promote better results for winter range malting barley, more intense experimentation was carried for these strains. In 2017 we are targeting to complete the entire Moldova production with locally produced malting barley. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 5 ANADOLU EFES We recognize workforce practices as a basic component of our sustainability WORKFORCE performance, and we are always focused on continuous improvement. We offer our employees a fair, equitable, safe working WE PROMISE OUR EMPLOYEES environment that boosts productivity A FAIR, EQUITABLE, AND SAFE and creativity and promotes talent. As WORKING ENVIRONMENT THAT a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact PROTECTS HUMAN RIGHTS. and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), we can vouch for the importance we attribute to human rights. As of 2016, we have 5,462 employees working in our operations. HUMAN RIGHTS We manage human rights on the basis of Anadolu Efes Work and Business Ethics Principles, which bind all country operations and company employees. Together with this, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related regulations of International Labour Organization (ILO), U.N. Global Compact and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) are the regulations and initiatives we endorse and conform with in order to protect human rights at the work place. In order to elevate the level of awareness and consciousness of our employees regarding human rights, we organized 1,994 person-hours of human rights training in this reporting period. You can access Anadolu Efes’ Work and Business Ethics Principles by visiting www.anadoluefes.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES a p h i c M a k e U p The Demogr E m p l o y e e s of Anadolu E f e s BY BY BY BY GENDER OPERATIONS AGE GROUP STATUS 18-30 23% 1,229 TURKEY 28% 1,549 31-40 43% BLUE COLLAR 61% 2,362 2,091 MALE 76% RUSSIA 45% 4,180 2,457 35 41-50 24% MOLDOVA 7% 1,338 353 KAZAKHSTAN 13% 51-60 9% WHITE COLLAR 39% FEMALE 24% 722 484 3,371 1,354 GEORGIA 7% 60+ 1% 381 49 We are a global, multicultural company. We act in accordance with principles of Diversity is a component of our corporate merit and equality of opportunity as well culture. We do not allow, under any as objective assessment criteria with circumstances, discrimination based on respect to all of our human resources religion, language, race, ethnicity, gender processes. Human resources processes or any other personal characteristic or such as hiring, salary management, culture difference, nor allow any action determining of social benefits and associated with discrimination. As of performance management make no this reporting period, foreign citizens distinction among employees. We offer and women account for 19% and 15%, equal pay for equal work. respectively, of our senior executives. Women make up 25% of our workforce. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Although the duration of maternity leave EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND can vary depending on the laws of the PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT countries in which we operate, we support the return of our women employees All of our employees outside the scope to work after maternity leave with of collective bargaining are subject to benefits such as support for child care annual performance evaluations based on responsibilities. Thanks to this practice, objective criteria. Employee performance 63% of our female employees who have is evaluated in terms of individual and gone on maternity leave in 2016 returned corporate performance targets, including to work after the end of their leave. sustainability priorities. Results obtained at the end of the process are taken In our operations we never allow practices into account when establishing career such as forced labor or involuntary planning, training needs and salary. servitude or child labor, nor allow Feedback is provided to our employees situations that can be associated with and is included in the process with respect such practices. In all country operations to their annual performance evaluations, in which labor organizations exist, development and career plans. Anadolu Efes employees use their rights 36 to collective bargaining, organizing, unionizing freely, and organizing freely in the operational centers of the labor ANADOLU EFES LEADERSHIP unions of which they are a member. As of PATHWAY 2020 2016, 1,536 of our employees are within the scope of collective bargaining. Thanks Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 to the constructive and positive relations (AELP2020) is a corporate leadership we have in place with labor unions, we development program we brought to life suffered no workforce loss resulting from in order to provide support for middle industrial relations in the reporting period. and senior management in today’s tough, ever-changing business conditions. We anticipate our suppliers and business The AELP2020 Program provides the partners will adopt identical principles tools, technical and professional skills regarding human rights and demonstrate our managers need to attain a common the same sensitivity. leadership approach in the fulfillment of their duties and responsibilities. Our employees trained within the scope of AELP2020 are working on Action Learning Projects, enabling progress in business results and honing corporate and individual skills. GRI-102-41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES We ascribe great importance to the development of our employees’ individual and professional competence. In this regard, employees at every level are offered leadership, competence and skill development programs; special training programs; and foreign language, orientation training and on-the-job training programs. In this context, in 2016 14,412 attendants received 152,966 person-hours of training. Our average training hours per employee is 28 hours. 37 ANADOLU EFESPEAK ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA RECOGNITION, APPRECIATION In 2016, a common information and data AND REWARDING SYSTEM platform for Anadolu Efes employees “Anadolu Efespeak” became active. With In 2016, the Anadolu Efes Russia this app, all Anadolu Efes employees can Recognition, Appreciation and Rewarding get immediate access to company-wide System was restructured in a way to data. They can also share their thoughts accept value-based as well as functional as well as information on their regions candidacies. Under this heading, role and achievements with the common model behaviors that fall under any one sharing platform. In addition, many useful of our five corporate values are rewarded. features such as detailed information on With this application, Anadolu Efes Russia the brands, important information on won second prize in the Non-Monetary beer culture, and special opportunities Motivation Program Best Practice for employees are included in this app. Examples National Competition category Surveys are conducted on the application in The Russian Motivation Awards 2016. and the thoughts and requests of employees are assessed. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND regulations and Effective Incident SAFETY Reporting and Evaluation System including evaluation criteria in conformity We recognize ensuring the health and with local legislation. Within the context of safety of our employees as the most the system, incidents and near misses are indispensable component of our working reported and analyzed by management culture. In this regard, our business units. Required measures are immediately processes and our work environment are put in place. The risk evaluation reports being continuously improved. Our target and incidents are published in the four in occupational health and safety, which is main languages spoken in the countries of now a strategic business target at the top operation. In this way, country operations management level, is to achieve zero work benefit from each other’s experience accidents and occupational disease. and can prevent similar incidents from occurring. In our activity areas, health and safety processes are conducted in accordance OHS Data with the OHSAS 18001 management standard. Certifications are renewed on 38 a regular basis by audit companies. As of 2016, Anadolu Efes OHSAS 18001 Accident Lost Days certified plants reached 88%. Frequency Rate Rate We manage occupational health and 2012 1.22 18.25 safety based a risk-oriented approach. 2013 1.63 12.82 The risk avoidance measures we have established in light of the risk evaluation 2014 1.33 15.62 studies are being quickly implemented. To enhance occupational safety awareness 2015 1.89 11.45 and technical know-how, we achieved 2016 2.36 17.68 49,898 person-hours of Occupancy Health and Safety (OHS) training with the participation of 4,328 employees in 2016. ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total working hours With the performance evaluation, LOST DAYS RATE: incident reporting and analysis processes Total Days Lost x 200,000 / Total working hours continuously improve our occupational health and safety measures. Performance monitoring is conducted in accordance with ILO Directives, GRI Standards disclosures, Anadolu Efes working SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Within the context of our employee health practices, all our employees regularly undergo health screenings. They also benefit from consultancy services provided by expert health teams. At OUR GOAL suitable facilities we offer opportunities TO ACHIEVE ZERO to our employees such as exercise, WORK ACCIDENTS breathing techniques and yoga classes. AND OCCUPATIONAL With respect to the protection of the DISEASE. employees’ health, we implement office ergonomics practices: we carry out work to improve lighting and interior air quality; reduce levels of noise, humidity and heat to optimum levels; and improve the equipment used. We provide safety handbooks prepared in and identify measures to be taken after accordance with the Anadolu Efes Golden reviewing the prevailing risks. The results Safety Rules. They entail information of these analyses are regularly reported to 39 such as office and road safety, working top management. principles, risks and personal protective equipment that need to be used. Thanks Collective bargaining agreements are an to the preventive approach and awareness important part of OHS management. Even studies in the field of occupational health though there are differences in collective and safety during our operations, there bargaining agreements with respect to were no cases of occupational disease or countries of operation, they essentially fatal accidents in the reporting period. contain regulations on subjects such as: responsibilities of the employee and the At our operational facilities, there employer, joint management, working are Occupational Health and Safety OHS Committees, personal protective Committees in which employees and equipment, OHS legislation and rules, management are jointly represented. Our standards and certification processes, employees can direct their views to top OHS audits and investigations, employee management, workplace physicians and training, sanitary regulations, health and occupancy safety experts, through their safety support and health inspections. union representatives, foremen, and/or employee representatives. Occupational Health and Safety Committees review the reasons for incidents at monthly meetings, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 6 ANADOLU EFES Producing high-quality beer and acting PRODUCT responsibly during the marketing process RESPONSIBILITY are the core principles of our product responsibility approach. In this regard, while we offer satisfying, high-quality WE BELIEVE THAT products, we also encourage a responsible RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION consumption culture. We add value to OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD consumers’ social lives with our products ADD A POSITIVE VALUE TO and generate positive value for our ONE’S SOCIAL LIFE. stakeholders. PRODUCTION QUALITY We produce our products with highquality raw materials and processes. Our production plants are equipped with modern technology, and we process high-quality barley and hops developed at our R&D facilities. We perform our production processes under assurance by international systems and standards, such as ISO22000, HACCP Food Safety Management Systems and ISO9001 Quality Management Systems. We accomplish our entire production at plants certified by ISO22000 and HACCP food safety management systems. You can access Anadolu Efes’ Quality Policy at www.anadoluefes.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND and the structure of the industry. In all INFORMATION the countries, our stakeholders can call the support lines denoted on the product We offer high-quality products with our labels and obtain detailed information wide product range, which includes more regarding the products. They can also than 40 brands, to our consumers, always relay suggestions and complaints. All satisfying their expectations of taste. In requests reaching the related managers order to boost customer satisfaction, of Anadolu Efes via these call lines are we continuously develop new flavors meticulously evaluated and answered. while maintaining the consistency of our current products. We steer our brand RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION development efforts by taking into account market and research results as We are convinced that a responsible well as consumer satisfaction surveys consumption culture is only possible when undertaken on the basis of brands and producers behave in accordance with products. responsible marketing principles. In all our operations, we act with full awareness of An important component of generating our responsibility. customer satisfaction is providing 43 complete information to our customers Accordingly, we published on our products. We believe that getting the Anadolu Efes Marketing proper information is a basic consumer Communications Policy. You can right and we provide our customers with access it at www.anadoluefes.com. information by way of product labels, websites and customer support lines. The alcoholic beverage industry is rigorously regulated with respect Outside of Anadolu Efes Turkey to marketing communications. We operations, countries in which local monitor rules designated by initiatives legislation has a ban on product-related of the industry in addition to current websites, our stakeholders can access legislation in marketing communications. product information via corporate and In accordance with our marketing product websites. communications concept, we avoid using marketing content that may encourage We provide information on our product our consumers to engage in negative labels that go beyond the criteria actions, that may be perceived as political stipulated by local regulations. Our or discriminatory, or that may hurt the product labels may differ from one sensitivities of the society or a specific country to another, depending on community. We ensure that our products consumption habits, local regulations are only sold at points of sale that comply SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES with legislation, and that they are not sold to persons below the legal age of consumption. Anadolu Efes country operations conduct several studies to make consumers aware of the risks of irresponsible alcohol consumption and to promote responsible consumption. These applications are making our consumers aware of responsible consumption and may vary from one country to another due to ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA cultural differences. In 2016, Anadolu Efes Russia ran a campaign under the hashtag #It’sEasyToBeAHero on social media to draw people’s attention to the harms of driving under the influence of alcohol. 44 This social responsibility project was expanded countrywide. It soon came to be supported by a large number of people and raised level of awareness among the general public. During the year, Anadolu Efes initiated a first and introduced non-alcoholic beverages to the Velkopopovický Kozel, Miller and Stary Melnik iz Bochonka product groups. In this manner, it offered a non-alcoholic alternative through which those consumers who prefer not to consume alcohol could still enjoy their beer. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan continued its “Designated Driver” project in 2016. The “Designated Driver” service was made available free of charge to people under the influence who needed a ride home. Another social responsibility project was 45 launched by Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan: an information line was set up to prevent the sale of alcoholic beverages to the underaged, to be used in cases where breaches of the rule are witnessed. SÜRDÜRÜLEBİLİRLİK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RAPORU2016 2016 7 ANADOLU EFES In current climate, the business world has COMMUNITY to shoulder a great deal of responsibility DEVELOPMENT in the cultural and social development of communities. We act with the awareness of this responsibility, which is also handled WE SUPPORT COMMUNITY within the scope of the Sustainable DEVELOPMENT WITH Development Goals. We conduct our OUR WORK DESIGNED TO operations with a view to make a MAKE A CONTRIBUTION contribution to the local economy and TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY support the economic, social and cultural AND WITH OUR SOCIAL development of the communities in which RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS. we operate. CONTRIBUTING TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY The beer industry has a high multiplier effect on employment and thus has a great potential for vitalizing the local economy. In this regard, we consider local employment to be one of the core elements of our human resources policy. For this reason, a large majority of our staff is made up of local employees. Additionally, including local employees in our senior management is considered to be a major indicator of contribution to the local economy. As of 2016, local managers make up approximately 81% of our management ranks. We also choose local channels for product procurement. As well as making a contribution to the development of the economy by sourcing locally, we also prevent foreign-source dependency. In SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS We are implementing several projects OUR GOAL and practices in tourism, culture and arts, and sports to fulfil social expectations LOCAL EMPLOYMENT TO and needs in order to contribute to BE ONE OF THE CORE the social and cultural development of ELEMENTS OF OUR society. In this context, Anadolu Efes HUMAN RESOURCES Turkey has been promoting projects for POLICY. the advancement of sports for 40 years, cinema for 29 years, theater for 24 years and tourism for nine years. Sports 2016, 90% of our more than 8,200 Our largest social investment in the field suppliers from whom we realize our of sports is the Anadolu Efes Sports Club, purchasing activity are local. founded in 1976. The club’s achievements 49 have brought joy to the Turkish Annual culture and art events carried community. It was the first Turkish team out by Anadolu Efes country operations to win a European Cup in professional in different cities as well as local sports. As of 2016, it holds one Korać development projects also revitalize local Cup, 13 Turkish League Championships, economies. The Urban Beautification 9 Turkey Cups, and 10 Presidents’ Cups Project ran by Anadolu Efes Russia in its museum. Moreover, Anadolu Efes progressed in 2016 as well. The project is the first Turkish team to qualify for the aimed to beautify urban areas and EuroLeague Final Four. Anadolu Efes has maintain good relations with the local trained countless number of star players community. Employees participated on a from its inception, presenting Turkish volunteer basis. During the project, over sports with new players every year. It 6 tons of garbage was collected and over continues its efforts to further advance 100 trees were planted. basketball in Turkey. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Culture& Arts In the regions in which we operate, we play a leading role in supporting culture ANADOLU EFES TURKEY The Future is and the arts. Anadolu Efes Turkey aims to promote the development of cinema and to participate in the recognition of Turkish in Tourism cinema in international platforms. It was a sponsor of the Cinema of Turkey and the National Competition from 1990 to 2016, as part of the Istanbul Film Festival The Future is in Tourism Project, organized by the Istanbul Foundation for which began in 2007, is conducted in Culture and Arts. It awarded the Anadolu partnership with the Turkish Ministry Efes Special Jury Prize in memory of the of Culture and Tourism and the United late Onat Kutlar and supported awardNations Development Programme. winning films of prominent directors Its aim is to set up a tourism-focused of Turkish Cinema such as Derviş Zaim, regional development model in the Çoruh 50 Nuri Bilge Ceylan, Reha Erdem, Semih Valley under the name “Eastern Anatolia Kaplanoğlu, Yeşim Ustaoğlu and Zeki Tourism Development Project.” As part of Demirkubuz. The films promoted by the project, more than 20 guest houses Anadolu Efes Turkey have won a total were set up in the region, several NGOs of 76 prizes in local and international stepped in to help tourism became more festivals. Anadolu Efes Turkey’s support of active, bicycle and walking routes were theater is in its 24th year. It sponsors nine created, regional festivals such as rafting theaters across Turkey. These theaters and bird-watching were held, and interest represent some of the most important in the region by domestic and foreign venues in the country, staging more than tourists increased thanks to all these 600 plays to over 30,000 people. investments. Uzundere district was SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES designated a tourism center by the mentoring and communications support. Council of Ministers in 2013, and This helps ensure the applicability and a sustainable tourism model was sustainability of projects. established in the region. As part of the program, between 2007 and 2012, In the first three stages of the project in tourism training was provided through the years from 2013 to 2016, the following the BoğaziçiUniversity Lifelong Education were selected and supported: “%100 Center in 27 provinces and more than Mysia,” “Generating Tourism Initiatives in 5,000 people were awarded tourism Mardin Under The Leadership of Women,” certificates. “Stone Working in Göbeklitepe, the Oldest Temple in the World,” “Arslantepe: After five years, “The Future is in Heritage of Malatya,” “Memory of Tourism” was transformed into a national Safranbolu,” “ The Lavender-Scented project and continued to develop and Village,” “Discover Your Own Butterfly,” promote tourism in Turkey. We aimed and “The Local Delicacies of Edremit with 51 to utilize tourism as an alternative Nar Kadın,” “Four Seasons of Foça,” “Birds sustainable development tool, promote are Calling You,” and Antalya “History entrepreneurship in the development of Break: On the Lycian Way in Antalya.” local role models, and support tourism by bringing the public and private For more detailed information sectors, universities and nongovernment on “The Future Is in Tourism” organizations together. Also as part of program and related projects, the project, in addition to provide funding you can visit our website at to three new projects every year, we are www.gelecekturizmde.com ensuring the provision of consultancy, . SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES PERFORMANCE TABLES OPERATIONAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE* 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beer Production (Mhl)** 29.1 25.3 24.2 20.0 19.9 Malt Production (kton) 251 208 164 178 173 Beer Sales (Mhl) 28.4 25.5 24.5 20.4 19.2 Malt Sales (kton) 0.3 Beer Production Capacity (Mhl) 43.7 43.7 38.8 39.5 39.5 Malt Production Capacity (kton) 294 294 245 248 248 Net Sales (1,000 TL) 4,319,725 9,195,773 10,021,383 10,205,146 10,420,257 Beer Sales 4,291,363 3,978,641 4,000,899 3,440,946 3,325,563 Others 2,125,471 5,217,132 6,020,484 6,764,200 7,094,694 Proft From Operations (1,000 TL) 540,350 743,854 916,176 928,877 939,940 Proft From Operations Margin (%) 12.5 8.1 -9,3 -9,3 -9.0 Net Income (1,000 TL) 341,175 609,811 -512,233 -197,759 -70,795 52 Net Income Margine (%) 14.1 28.4 -5.1 -1.9 -0.7 EBITDA (1,000 TL) 908,313 1,494,687 1,702,376 1,746,459 1,768,747 EBITDA Margin (%) 21.0 16.3 17.0 17.1 17.0 Total Assets (1,000 TL) 10.381.556 22.366.984 20.113.805 22.044.090 25.628.559 Net Financial Debt / EBITDA 0.5X 2.0X 0.4X 0.5X 0.4X Earnings per Share (TL) 1.0765 4.4062 -0.8651 -0.3340 -0.1196 Local Procurement (%) By Expenditure 78.0 78.4 81.01 86.2 By Number of Suppliers 88.8 93.2 92.73 90.43 * Operational fgures are calculated with the scope adopted for fnancial statements. However, when calculating specifc performance fgures disclosed in various sections of this index, sustainability reporting scope is adopted. ** 1 Mhl=1,000,000 hl; 1 hl = 100 liters GRI-102-7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Specifc Energy Consumption in Breweries (kWh/hl) 36,7 38,3 35,3 37,5 36,24 Total Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 2,966 3,558 3,147 2,764 2,548 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 1,869 2,315 2,196 1,945 1,801 Natural Gas 1,724 2,071 1,951 1,707 1,598 Fuel Oil 138 240 240 231 201 Diesel 8 4 5 7 2 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 1,091 1,237 951 819 747 Electricity 830 1,013 919 796 734 Steam 262 224 32 23 13 Specifc Energy Consumption in Malteries (kWh/ton) 1,051 998 1,004 979 981 Total Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 950 748 592 629 611 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 663 516 501 533 516 53 Natural Gas 661 515 500 357 516 Fuel Oil 0 0 0 5 0 Diesel 2 1 1 1 0 Others 0 0 30 170 0 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 287 232 91 95 95 Electricity 128 116 91 95 95 Steam 159 117 0 0 0 Specific GHG Emissions in Breweries (kton CO2e) 9.8 10.1 9.6 10.3 9.65 Total GHG Emissions in Breweries (kton CO2e) 221 260 237 211 189 Direct 112 139 133 118 107 Indirect 109 121 104 93 82 Specific GHG Emissions in Malteries (kton CO2e) 250 238 238 233 224 Total GHG Emissions in Malteries (kton CO2e) 63 50 39 42 39 Direct 37 29 28 30 27 Indirect 25 21 11 12 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Total Energy Saved (TJ) 112 94 43 20 Total Emission Saved (Ton CO2e) 7,683 5,888 3,213 1,756 Distribution Distance per Sales Volume (km/hl) 3.6 3.4 3.44 3.41 3.56 Forklift Energy Consumption per Sales Volume (kg/hl) 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.07 Specific Water Consumption in Breweries (hl/hl) 4.5 4.5 4.3 4.2 4.2 Total Water Consumption in Breweries (million m3) 10.1 11.6 10.7 8.7 8.2 Ground Water 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.5 4.3 Municipal Water 5.0 6.6 5.8 4.2 3.9 Specific Water Consumption in Malteries (m3/ton) 6.4 6.2 6.6 6.3 6.5 Total Water Consumption in Malteries (million m3) 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.1 Ground Water 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 Municipal Water 0.2 0.1 0 0 0 Specific Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (hl/hl) 3.2 3.2 3.0 3.0 3.1 Total Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (million m3) 7.1 8.2 7.4 6.0 6.0 54 Sewage System 5.8 7.1 6.5 5.2 5.2 Surface Water Body 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 Specifc Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (m3/ton) 5.3 5.0 4.8 4.9 5.5 Total Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (million m3) 1.3 1.0 0.8 0.9 0.9 Sewage System 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.5 0.6 Surface Water Body 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 Total Amount of Waste (ton) 64,171 59,928 181,748 Hazardous 4,497 4,455 4,663 Nonhazardous 59,674 55,473 176,485 Total Waste Disposal (kton) 439 557 514 462 180 Recycle 419 527 492 446 166 Others 19 30 23 16 14 Recycling Ratio (%) 95.6 94.6 95.6 96.6 98.0 Total Environmental Expenditures (million USD) 8.4 6.1 4.1 6.0 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employee Trainings-Number of Participants 12,564 24,435 20,397 14,412 Female 5,065 5,780 2,180 Male 19,370 14,617 12,232 Employee Trainings-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 164,725.30 194,543 168,702 152,966 Female 48,018 48,291 39,307 Male 146,525 120,411 113,659 Average Training Hours per Employee 24.40 26.46 26.40 28.00 Female 25.91 29.68 29.00 Male 26.65 25.30 27.70 Human Rights Training-Number of Participants 42 1,019 2,420 Human Rights Training-Total Training Hours 289 2,551 1,994 (person*hour) 55 OHS Training-Number of Participants 3,749 6,118 4,415 4,328 OHS Training-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 22,363 14,259 26,885 49,898 Environmental Training-Number of Participants 829 788 700 596 Environmental Training-Total Training Hours 8,554 9,218 7,929 1,536 (person*hour) Injury Rate* 1.63 1.33 1.89 2.36 Occupational Disease Rate** 0 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate*** 12.82 15.62 11.45 17.68 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Fatalities by Road Accidents 0 0 0 0 Injuries by Road Accidents 6 8 3 28 * Injury Rate= Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours: The factor 200,000 used in calculations derived from 100 employees X 40 work hours X 50 weeks as indicated in GRI Framework. ** Occupational Disease Rate= Total number of occupational disease cases x 200,000 / Total work hours *** Lost Day Rate= Total number of lost days x 200,000 / Total work days **** Absentee Rate= Total number of missed days x 200,000 / Total work days – Absences emerged from all incapacities of any kind preventing employees to work such as work related injuries, diseases and etc. are included in the calculation except for permitted leave absences as a part of employees’ legal rights such as annual leaves and maternity/paternity leaves. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 5,918 8,720 7,352 6,386 5,462 Total Number of Employees Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 4,472 1,446 6,485 2,235 5,499 1,853 4,759 1,627 4,108 1,354 Employees by Status Blue Collar 2,341 237 3,344 456 2,661 299 2,317 264 1,908 183 White Collar 2,131 1,209 3,128 1,792 2,838 1,554 2,442 1,363 2,200 1,171 Employees by Education Level University and Higher 2,208 1,091 3,693 1,709 2,856 1,339 2,533 1,239 2,387 1,088 Other 2,264 355 2,206 370 2,643 514 2,226 388 1,721 266 Employees by Age Group 18-20 9 2 5 1 1 0 21-30 1,619 590 1,220 448 885 343 31-40 2,272 672 2,035 627 1,780 582 56 41-50 1,108 391 1,059 360 1,055 283 51-60 444 196 402 188 343 141 61+ 47 2 43 3 44 5 New Hires 583 234 1,110 375 799 253 412 204 295 147 Employees Left 759 257 1,434 537 1,513 554 1,136 420 660 242 Employees on Parental Leave 61 138 75 133 86 184 76 131 81 123 Employees Returned after 156 152 146 75 64 80 77 Parental Leave Senior Managers 41 4 151 65 141 51 55 12 50 9 Local 28 124 65 117 51 42 12 39 9 Expat 17 27 24 0 13 0 11 0 Disabled Employees 60 31 56 13 57 17 17 23 44 12 Average Seniority (year) 6.86 7.84 4.95 3.90 7.73 11.16 8.76 9.14 9.63 8.86 Employees Covered by Collective 1,882 2,498 2,672 2,240 1,536 Labor Agreements Share in Total Workforce (%) 31.8 28.65 36.34 35.07 28.12 Share in Blue Collar Employees (%) 73.00 65.74 90.27 87.09 73.5 GRI-102-8; GRI-102-41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI UNGC DESCRIPTION AND PAGE NUMBERS INDICATORS INDICATORS GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Contacts (inside back cover) 102-2 www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/kurumsal-politikalar/anadol-efes-marketing-communication-policy.pdf 102-3 Contacts (inside back cover) 102-4 About the Report (p.1); Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.5) www.anadoluefes.com/index. 102-5 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=hk&galtsayfa=ortaklikyapisi&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= 102-6 Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.5) 102-7 Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.5); Performance Charts (p.52) 102-8 Principle 6 Workplace (p.35); Performance Charts (p.56) 102-9 Value Chain Partnerships (p.28) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=yi&galtsayfa=hyi&gicsayfa=2&gislem=&gbilgi=www. 102-10 anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=yi&galtsayfa=hyi&gicsayfa=2&gislem=&gbilgi= www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa= ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-2 102-11 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa= 57 ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= 102-12 &gbilgi=ykl-4 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= 102-13 &gbilgi=ykl-4 Strategy 102-14 CEO Statement (p.6-7) Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); CEO Statement (p.6-7); Sustainability Management (p.11); 102-15 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Ethics and Integrity www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem= 102-16 Principle 10 &gbilgi=ykl-3 Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 102-17 Principle 10 www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/calismaprensipleri_in/anadolu-efes-code-of-business-conduct-andethics.pdf Governance 102-18 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=yi&galtsayfa=kycp&gicsayfa=7&gislem=&gbilgi= Stakeholder Engagement www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gb 102-40 ilgi=ykl-4 102-41 Principle 3 Workplace (p.36); Performance Charts (p.56) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gb 102-42 ilgi=ykl-4 GRI-102-55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa 102-43 =&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-4 General Assembly Minutes www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/genelkurul_ 102-44 in/20160418112525lu.pdf Reporting Practice 102-45 About the Report (p.1) In line with GRI Standards, in order to define reporting content, Anadolu Efes follows a specifc process based on materiality, completeness,sustainability context and inclusiveness principles. First we identify a large scale issue universe in compliance with business objectives, sector specifc facts, competition practices, requirements of our engagements, global sustainability agenda. Then we ran a prioritization process 102-46 together with Sustainability Champions both at headquarter and country operations level with regard to risk and opportunity potentials and expectations of stakeholders on these issues. During the last phase of the process, we validated and fine-tuned results of the prioritization process as well as defining in which business units or processes these issues are most material. 102-47 Sustainability Management (p.1) 102-48 No restatements made compared to the previous report. 102-49 About the Report (p.1) 102-50 About the Report (p.1) 102-51 About the Report (p.1) 102-52 About the Report (p.1) 58 102-53 Contacts (inside back cover) 102-54 About the Report (p.1) 102-55 GRI Index (p.57-61) 102-56 Legal Disclaimer (inside back cover) Material Issues Community Development Community Development (p.48); 103-1 http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management(p.10-11); Community Development (p.48); GRI 103: http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. MANAGEMENT 103-2 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= APPROACH http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. 2016 php?gdil=tr&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=tr&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= GRI 203: INDIRECT Value Chain Partnerships (p.29-30); Community Development (p.48-49); 203-2 ECONOMIC Performance Charts (p.52) IMPACTS 2016 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT 204-1 Community Development (p.48-49); Performance Charts (p.52) PRACTICES 2016 All purchasing operations are conducted inline with Anadolu Efes’ general sourcing FP1 policy and Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct for Suppliers. GRI-102-55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. GRI 205: ANTIphp?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Principle CORRUPTION 205-1 All company organization is periodically subject to both internal and Anadolu Group 10 2016 auditing processes. All company accounts, records and documents are audited quarterly by Anadolu Efes Audit Committee. Environment and Climate Conservation of Water Resources (p.14-15); Environment 103-1 and Climate (p.20-21, 24-25); www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management (p.10-11); Conservation of Water Resources (p.14-17); GRI 103: Environment and Climate (p.20-21, 24-25); MANAGEMENT www.anadoluefes.com/index. 103-2 APPROACH php?gdil=tr&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= 2016 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Principle 7 Conservation of Water Resources (p.16); Environment and Climate (p.20-21, 24-25); 301-1 Principle 8 Performance Charts (p.54) GRI 301: Conservation of Water Resources (p.16); Environment and Climate (p.24-25); 301-2 Principle 8 MATERIALS Performance Charts (p.54) 2016 Principle 7 301-3 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.24-25) Principle 9 302-1 Principle 7 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) 59 302-2 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) 302-3 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 Principle 8 302-4 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 9 Principle 8 302-5 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 9 304-1 Principle 8 Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. Thus, no impact on high GRI 304: 304-2 Principle 8 biodiversity area were recorded during the reporting period. BIODIVERSITY 2016 Since Anadolu Efes operations has no signifcant impact on habitats, no restoration 304-3 Principle 8 or protection practices carried out other than general practices performed due to the Anadolu Efes Environmental Management Scheme. Principle 7 305-1 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 8 Principle 7 GRI 305: 305-2 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 8 EMISSIONS 2016 305-4 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 8 305-5 Environment and Climate (p.22-23); Performance Charts (p.53) Principle 9 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-2 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.24); Performance Charts (p.54) WASTE 2016 GRI-102-55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Protecting Water Resources Conservation of Water Resources (p.14-15); www.anadoluefes.com/index. 103-1 php?gdil=tr&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management(p.10-11); Conservation of Water Resources (p.14-17); GRI 103: www.anadoluefes.com/index. MANAGEMENT 103-2 php?gdil=tr&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= APPROACH www.anadoluefes.com/index. 2016 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Principle 7 303-1 Conservation of Water Resources (p.16); Performance Charts (p.54) Principle 8 GRI 303: WATER 303-2 Conservation of Water Resources (p.14-16) 2016 Since no water bodies employed such as RAMSAR or other protected resources, 303-3 Principle 8 no water resources used by Anadolu Efes is under stress according to the criteria expressed in the indicator. GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND 306-1 Principle 8 Conservation of Water Resources (p.17); Performance Charts (p.54) WASTE 2016 Workplace Workplace (p.34-39); 103-1 http://www.anadoluefes.com/index. 60 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management(p.10-11); Workplace (p.34-39); GRI 103: www.anadoluefes.com/index. MANAGEMENT 103-2 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= APPROACH 2016 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= 401-1 Principle 6 Performance Charts (p.56) GRI 401: All Anadolu Efes employees enjoy equal benefts applicable to their employment type EMPLOYMENT 401-2 within the duration of their employment contract. 2016 401-3 Principle 6 Performance Charts (p.56) Possible changes in company operations or working conditions and Workplaces of employees are annouced before the execution of the changes, according to GRI 402: LABOR/ minimum notice periods indicated in applicable legal regulations. These periods can MANAGEMENT 402-1 Principle 3 vary according to the operation country regulations and to the employee seniority. RELATIONS 2016 Collective bargaining agreements regulate minimum notice periods for covered employees. FP3 Principle 3 No work hours lost during the reporting period for industrial disputes or strikes. GRI 403: 403-2 Workplace (p.38); Performance Charts (p.55) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 403-4 Workplace (p.39) GRI 404: 404-1 Principle 6 Workplace (p.37); Performance Charts (p.55) TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 404-2 Workplace (p.36-37) GRI-102-55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 405-1 Principle 6 Performance Charts (p.56) OPPORTUNITY 2016 GRI 406: NONDISCRIMINATION 406-1 Principle 10 No discrimination case has occured during the reporting period. 2016 GRI 407: In all Anadolu Efes operations, collective bargaining, organization and unionization FREEDOM OF rights are secured. All employees are free to become a member of the trade union ASSOCIATION which they prefer and to beneft collective bargaining practices. Anadolu Efes expects 407-1 Principle 3 AND COLLECTIVE all suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no BARGAINING breach or risk is identifed within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against the 2016 exercise of these rights. No child labor is employed in any Anadolu Efes operation. Anadolu Efes expects all GRI 408: suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no breach CHILD LABOR 408-1 Principle 5 or risk is identifed within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against exercise of 2016 this principle. GRI 409: No Anadolu Efes operation employs forced or compulsory labor. Anadolu Efes expects FORCED OR all suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no breach 409-1 Principle 4 COMPULSORY or risk is identifed within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against exercise of LABOR 2016 this principle. Product Responsibility Product Responsibility (p.42-45); 103-1 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management(p.10-11); Product Responsibility (p.42-45); 61 GRI 103: www.anadoluefes.com/index. MANAGEMENT 103-2 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= APPROACH 2016 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= GRI 416: CUSTOMER 416-2 No such case occured during the reporting period. HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 GRI 417: 417-1 Product Responsibility (p.43) MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 417-2 No such case occured during the reporting period. FP5 Product Responsibility (p.42) Value Chain Partnerships Value Chain Partnerships (p.28-31); 103-1 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Management (p.10-11); Value Chain Partnerships (p.28-31); GRI 103: www.anadoluefes.com/index. MANAGEMENT 103-2 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=onc&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= APPROACH www.anadoluefes.com/index. 2016 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); 103-3 www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= GRI-102-55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES Contacts To receive more information on Anadolu contained in this Report, which does Efes’ Sustainability report, and to share not purport to be comprehensive, have your opinions or suggestions: been provided by ANADOLU EFES and have not been independently verified SİMGE BALABAN for this purpose. This Report has been Corporate Communications Manager prepared solely for information purposes Email: simge.balaban@tr.anadoluefes.com and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. in this Report constitutes a proposal Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. or part of a proposal relating to the No:58 Buyaka E Blok Tepeüstü Ümraniye sale of ANADOLU EFES shares, or an 34771 İstanbul, Türkiye invitation to this kind of sales process, T: +90 216 586 80 00 Pbx and the publishing of this report does T: +90 216 586 82 24 not mean that a legal relationship of this F: +90 216 488 78 63 kind has been established. All featured www.anadoluefes.com.tr information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time REPORTING CONSULTANT of this Report preparation, and all 62 Kıymet-i Harbiye information has been provided in good info@kiymetiharbiye.com faith and relies on trustworthy sources. T: +90 (212) 279 13 13 However ANADOLU EFES does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or REPORT DESIGN promise in relation to this information. FM Data İletişim Accordingly, neither ANADOLU EFES info@data-iletisim.com nor any of its subsidiaries, or their board T: +90 (212) 662 78 00 members, respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any roundabout direct, indirect or consequential loss info@roundabout.com.tr or damage suffered by any person as T: +90 (212) 292 07 13 a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any LEGAL DISCLAIMER: other information or communication in The Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report connection with the Report. (The Report) has been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. This report is prepared for corporate (ANADOLU EFES) within the reporting communication purposes in line with principles of the Global Reporting Anadolu Efes Sustainability Strategy. It Initiative (GRI) and the U.N. Global does not involve any alcoholic beverage Compact. All information and opinions advertisement or promotion directed at consumers. GRI-102-1; GRI-102-3; GRI-102-53; GRI-102-56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ANADOLU EFES 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
