For the Year Ended March 31, 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Contents Business Philosophy/Editorial Policy 2 CEO Message 3 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance 8 Astellas’ Value Creation Process 9 Mid-Term Strategy 11 Feature: Focus Area Approach 15 CFO Message 17 CEO Message CSR-Based Management 19 Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 22 Corporate Governance 23 Risk Management 28 The CEO explains the management strategy for sustainable growth. P3 Directors 29 Interview with an Outside Director 31 Business Review 34 Executive Committee 35 Executive Messages 36 Research and Development Research and Development 39 R&D Topics during the Year 43 CSR Activities in Research and Development 47 Manufacturing to Sales and Procurement Mid-Term Strategy/ Overview of Main Products 49 Feature: Focus Area Approach CSR Activities from Manufacturing to Sales 53 Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations We introduce the strategy and policies of the new mid-term strategic plan. P 11 Recent Initiatives 55 Our People, Our Organization 56 Ethics and Compliance 59 Access to Health 63 Social Contribution 67 Environmental Preservation 69 Stakeholder Engagement 73 Financial Information and Data 74 Financial Summary 75 Financial Review 77 Consolidated Financial Statements 86 Directors Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Independent Auditor’s Report 152 Investor Information Corporate Data/Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates 153 154 We introduce Directors under the new management system. P 29 1 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business Philosophy Raison D’être Contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products Mission Sustainable enhancement of enterprise value Interview with an For details, please visit the following website: Outside Director Web https://www.astellas.com/jp/en/ about/philosophy An outside Director talks about the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and other topics. P 31 Editorial Policy To enable deeper stakeholder understanding of Astellas’ efforts to continue to create value for sustainable growth, the Company has published this annual report as an integrated report. In this report, we have attempted to provide disclosure while taking note of the Guiding Principles and Content Elements of the international integrated reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have also referred to GRI Standards* published by the Global Reporting Initiative and Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. In creating the report, we have sought to make an effective tool for communicating with our many stakeholders. We have therefore used charts and photographs, and endeavored to use plain language that is easy to read. Executive Astellas has adopted the International Financial Reporting Messages Standards (IFRS), effective from fiscal 2013. Information in this report is based on IFRS unless otherwise indicated. The monetary amounts stated in this report have been rounded off to the nearest unit, and Top management explains each strategy. P 36 the number of shares has been rounded down to the nearest whole number. Unless otherwise noted, percentage changes and other ratios involving the previous fiscal year have been rounded off to the second decimal place. * For the GRI Standards Content Index, please visit the following website: https://www.astellas.com/jp/en/investors/ir-library/annual-report Cautionary Note Scope of the Report In this annual report, statements made with respect to current plans, estimates, Period covered strategies and beliefs and other statements that are not historical facts are Fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 March 31, 2018) forward-looking statements about the future performance of Astellas. These * As much as possible, we have used the latest information available at the time of statements are based on management’s current assumptions and beliefs in publication. * The period and scope of coverage may vary depending on the subject. We have light of the information currently available to it and involve known and noted each such case individually. unknown risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results * The figures indicated in the field of Environment represent the results for fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) in Japan and the calendar year 2017 (January 1 to to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. December 31, 2017) for overseas operations as a combined total. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in general economic Organizations covered conditions and in laws and regulations relating to pharmaceutical markets, (ii) Astellas Pharma Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas (referred to currency exchange rate fluctuations, (iii) delays in new product launches, (iv) in the report as “Astellas”) the inability of Astellas to market existing and new products effectively, (v) the * The Americas includes North America and Latin America, and EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. inability of Astellas to continue to effectively research and develop products * In the field of Environment, this report covers all the business sites in Japan and accepted by customers in highly competitive markets, and (vi) infringements of production sites overseas that are subject to the former Environmental Action Plan, and it covers all the business sites that are subject to the new Environmental Action Plan. Astellas’ intellectual property rights by third parties. Information about Note: In the information about pharmaceutical products in this report, market size, pharmaceutical products (including products currently in development) which market share and product ranking are sourced from the following data. is included in this annual report is not intended to constitute an advertisement Copyright © 2018 IQVIA. Calculated based on IQVIA MIDAS 2018Q1 MAT or medical advice. Reprinted with permission Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 2 CEO Message Kenji Yasukawa Representative Director, President and CEO 3 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We will achieve sustainable growth by producing medical solutions that provide VALUE to patients. Astellas’ Evolution to Realize Its VISION Driving Transformation to Overcome the Patent Cliff and Achieve Sustainable Growth In the next few years, Astellas will face the expiration of patents for several major products. I believe that the main responsibility handed to me as the new President and CEO of Astellas is to overcome the impact on business performance due to the expiration of patents for these products and return Astellas to a growth trajectory. The patent cliff is an issue that we cannot avoid as long as we remain specialized in the innovative drug business. Under these conditions, in order for Astellas to achieve sustainable growth, it will be crucial for us to continuously create VALUE by seeing changes in the environment as opportunities and driving evolution. In fiscal 2018, we launched a new strategic plan. By steadily executing the plan, we will seek to return Astellas to a trend of mediumto long-term core operating profit growth after reaching a low point in fiscal 2019. Continuously Create VALUE by Accurately Capturing Changes in the Environment The business environment surrounding Astellas is changing at unprecedented speed. Changes in the environment that will have a negative impact on Astellas include higher hurdles for obtaining new drug approval and receiving insurance reimbursement, as well as increased pressure to reduce medical expenditures through measures such as reducing drug prices. Meanwhile, some changes in the environment will be positive for Astellas. Examples include the enhancement and expansion of systems to more quickly evaluate innovation, such as the priority review for new drugs, and an increase in modalities that can be applied to drug discovery in step with advances in science and technology. In addition, progress on digital technologies and engineering technologies will spur integration with different industries and provide new medical solutions for patients. In anticipation of these changes in the business environment, we will create medical solutions that leverage innovative medicines and Astellas’ strengths. Moreover, we will continuously identify business opportunities from many different perspectives. Creating New Assets Based on the Focus Area Approach Ever since I was appointed as Chief Strategy Officer (CSTO) in 2012, I have been Reference Mid-Term Strategy P 11 involved in the formulation and execution of corporate strategy from mediumand Feature: Focus long-term perspectives and promoting reforms in order to achieve Astellas’ Area Approach P 15 sustainable growth. When I was appointed as CSTO, we had adopted the “Global Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 4 Category Leader”* (GCL) model. Under this business model, we sought to establish * A business model for establishing competitive advantage by creating medicines with innovative a competitive edge in key therapeutic areas such as urology, transplantation and VALUE and delivering them to patients in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs, immunology and inflammation. It is certainly true that this business model was covering several areas such as urology, instrumental in creating many products that have supported Astellas to this day. immunology and oncology. These achievements notwithstanding, the GCL model had kept Astellas narrowly focused on the same areas even after it had become difficult to create medicines that would surpass its existing drugs in those same areas. This made it difficult for Astellas to explore new opportunities. In addition, we had suffered setbacks such as missing out on valuable opportunities to make use of external resources due to our insistence on doing everything in-house. In order to put Astellas on a sustainable growth path, we needed to extensively revise the R&D strategy we had formulated based on the GCL model. As our first step, we decided to reform Astellas’ research system in May 2013. Guided by the 3B philosophy of “Best Science, Best Talent, and Best Place,” we developed a framework focused on proactively gaining access to external resources. In 2015, we formulated a new VISION, and shifted from our traditional approach of developing drugs only in a limited number of therapeutic areas to the new “Focus Area” approach of conducting drug discovery from multiple perspectives, irrespective of therapeutic area. Under the Focus Area approach, we will seek to understand the latest biology and intensively invest in areas backed by effective modalities for utilizing the latest biology. By doing so, we will build a portfolio where there is a high probability of success and where we can establish competitive superiority. This Focus Area approach is the foundation of Astellas’ new R&D strategy. We have started to develop new assets based on the Focus Area approach including new technologies and modalities such as next-generation vaccines and cell therapy. These assets, which had previously been in the upstream research stage of the VALUE chain, have steadily advanced as a result of the activities of Strategic Plan 2015-2017, and some of those assets have now entered the development phase. To ensure that the Focus Area approach is implemented through to the downstream stages of our VALUE chain all at once, we have embraced “Evolving How We Create VALUE – With Focus Area Approach –” as one of the three strategic goals of the new Strategic Plan 2018 formulated this year. We have been making a Company-wide effort to drive the Focus Area approach forward. At the same time, we have identified the organizational capabilities that will be needed to push ahead with the Focus Area approach and have started taking steps to strengthen those capabilities. Strategic Plan 2018 Strategic Plan 2018, a Clear Roadmap for Realizing Our VISION With Strategic Plan 2018, we first clarified what we mean by “VALUE for patients” Reference Mid-Term Strategy P 11 within our VISION and then presented a common definition of VALUE for all Feature: Focus members of Astellas (please refer to the formula on the next page). In essence, our Area Approach P 15 activities can be summarized as maximizing the “Outcomes that matter to patients,” CFO Message P17 the numerator of the formula, and minimizing the “Cost to the healthcare system Executive Messages P36 of delivering those outcomes,” the denominator of the formula. By gaining a true Research and Development P 39 5 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 understanding of this system and its components, I believe that we will increase Common Definition of VALUE our understanding of all stakeholders in the healthcare sector, beginning with patients, and identify products and services that will most effectively and efficiently Outcomes that matter to patients meet their needs, enabling us to prioritize efforts to deliver those kinds of products VALUE* = and services. Cost to the healthcare We then set strategic goals to bridge the gap between where we stand now system of delivering those outcomes and where we are headed. * Source: BCG “Value in Healthcare” seminar Strategic Goal 1: Maximizing Product VALUE and Operational Excellence We will continue to pursue operational excellence to establish competitive advantages, along with maximizing the VALUE of highly strategic products and late-stage pipeline projects. By doing so, we will free up funds for growth investments and direct those funds to the Focus Area approach, a strategic goal with a longer-term perspective. We will strive to maximize sales of XTANDI and mirabegron. Concurrently, we will intensively allocate resources to six key post-POC* pipeline projects * POC (Proof of Concept): Verification of clinical efficacy (enzalutamide, gilteritinib, enfortumab vedotin, zolbetuximab, roxadustat, and fezolinetant), with the aim of obtaining approvals for these products as planned. In Japan, we will also endeavor to constantly launch and maximize the VALUE of new products. By working to improve the quality and efficiency of operations, we will continue to build a business platform that can flexibly address the fast-changing business environment. Strategic Goal 2: Evolving How We Create VALUE – With Focus Area Approach We will build a platform through the optimal combination of biology and modality, with the aim of obtaining POC for early-stage projects. Moreover, we will create high-quality assets by applying this platform to various diseases with high unmet medical needs. In addition, in order to acquire outstanding external innovation, we will strengthen our network with external innovators, through such means as partnerships with startups and academia, from our base in Boston, U.S.A. Strategic Goal 3: Developing Rx+ Programs We have established Rx+ Business Accelerator, a new department to promote the development of products and services (Rx+ programs) that combine Astellas’ strengths in the prescription pharmaceutical (Rx) business developed over the years with technologies and knowledge from different fields. Going forward, this department will play a pivotal role in accelerating the commercialization of specific Rx+ programs, including collaboration with external partners. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 6 Human Resource Development, Compliance and CSR Strengthening People and Organizations Is Essential to VALUE Creation To realize our VISION, it is essential to strengthen our management strategies and Reference Our People, the people and organizations that underpin those strategies. Our Organization P 56 Ethics and I believe that it is crucial for every employee working at Astellas to take Compliance P 59 ownership of their duties based on an understanding of the Astellas Way and our HR Vision, which defines our aspirations for our human resources and for our organization, with a view to creating VALUE and earning the trust of society. In addition, guided by the Astellas Group Code of Conduct, we will undertake relevant issues in order to continue delivering VALUE to patients and gain the trust of the public. Moreover, Astellas is a consistent supporter of the United Nations Global Compact, and has incorporated and implemented its 10 principles covering the four fields of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption in its daily business activities. To Our Stakeholders Continuously Produce and Deliver Innovative Medical Solutions Guided by Astellas’ VISION of turning innovative science into VALUE for patients, Astellas aims to pursue cutting-edge science to produce medical solutions that provide VALUE to patients. Moreover, we will achieve sustainable growth by continuously generating VALUE for patients and society as a whole. Kenji Yasukawa Representative Director, President and CEO 7 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Pursuing Cutting-Edge Science to Realize Our VISION Astellas’ VISION is to turn innovative science into value for patients. Strategic Plan 2018 will serve as a roadmap for realizing this VISION. In order to realize sustainable growth, we will pursue cutting-edge science and create medical solutions that will provide value to patients. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 8 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Astellas’ Value Creation Process Astellas stands on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative science into value for patients. By repeating this cycle continuously, we are pursuing the sustainable growth of enterprise value. Corporate Governance Create innovative new drugs and medical solutions by leveraging our core capabilities with a central focus on our innovative drug business Focus Areas View business opportunities from multiple perspectives Drivers Principles of Activity Focus Core capabilities our resources on identified areas Astellas Way Redefine the focus when appropriate Earning trust from patients and Expand other stakeholders into new opportunities CSR-Based Management Enhance the sustainability of society and the Company by fulfilling social responsibility Innovative Value for science patients Dialogue Sufficient funds Returns to Generate funds with to create stakeholders to sustain stakeholders innovation growth 9 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Our Approach to Astellas’ raison d’être is to “contribute toward improving the health of people around the world the Value Creation through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products.” Process Based on this, we aim to stand on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative s cience into value for patients. The keys to our success will be our Focus Areas, Principles of Activity, and Drivers, which describe where we should create value and how we should act to realize that value. Guided by this approach, we will create innovation with a central focus on the innovative drug business. This process originates with advances in science, and Astellas then allocates sufficient funds and implements measures to satisfy the requests and expectations of stakeholders. By creating value for patients, through this process, we will generate funds to sustain the next phase of growth and provide returns to stakeholders. Astellas will continue to follow this cycle to achieve sustainable growth of enterprise value. Focus Areas Amid continuing evolution in the healthcare industry, Astellas needs to identify business opportunities more flexibly and efficiently than ever in order to achieve further growth. We will define our Focus Areas by adding multiple perspectives to our conventional viewpoint of therapeutic areas. We will factor in a consideration of new technologies and treatment approaches, product development feasibility and new possibilities for commercialization, market trends and changes in pharmaceutical laws and regulations. Our goal is to identify areas of unmet need and find new business opportunities. Principles of In a fast-changing business environment, it is crucial to have the flexibility to reexamine business Activity fields as needed—even those that have been carefully selected as opportunities at some point in the past. Astellas aims to drive further evolution by having all employees remain mindful of the three-step process of Focus our resources on identified areas, Redefine the focus when appropriate, and Expand the focus for the next generation of activity, as they carry out their activities. Drivers One of the drivers for Astellas to achieve sustainable growth is its core capabilities, which constitute the source of its competitive edge. It is vital to carefully identify our essential capabilities and enhance them until they are among the world’s best. At the same time, when there are outstanding capabilities outside the Company, we will proactively form partnerships. By combining optimal capabilities, both internal and external, we enhance our productivity and creativity to maximize our value creation capabilities. Moreover, in the Astellas Way*, we have defined a shared set of values to be embraced by all our employees as part of efforts to foster a corporate culture to help realize our business philosophy. At the same time, we remain committed to understanding the requests and expectations of a multitude of stakeholders, including patients, and transforming that understanding into value. * For details on the Astellas Way, Five Messages for One Astellas—Patient Focus, Ownership, Results, Openness, and Integrity—please refer to P56. Astellas’ Currently Identified Core Capabilities Capability to Capability to Commercial Operational Partnership create new drugs deliver new drugs presence foundation Corporate CSR-Based Governance Reference P 23-P27 Management Reference P 19-P21 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 10 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Mid-Term Strategy Strategic Goals for Sustainable Growth Strategic Goal 1 Maximizing Product VALUE and Operational Excellence Strategic Plan Strategic Goal 2 Evolving How We Create VALUE With Focus Area Approach – 2018 Strategic Goal 3 Developing Rx+ Programs Review of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Strategic Plan 2018 Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, we produced solid results on Basic Policy three strategic priorities: Maximizing product VALUE, In its VISION formulated in 2015, Astellas made a creating innovation and pursuing operational excellence. commitment to stand “on the forefront of healthcare With regard to maximizing product VALUE, we made change to turn innovative science into VALUE for patients.” three major achievements: (1) We increased sales of Guided by this VISION, Astellas seeks to create medical XTANDI, along with advancing the development of solutions that deliver VALUE to patients through the expanded indications; (2) We maximized the VALUE of the pursuit of cutting-edge science. OAB franchise by driving early market penetration of Under Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas will work to mirabegron (Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA); and (3) We overcome the impact of the expiry of patents for core continuously launched new products in Japan. products that it will face from 2019 to 2020 to achieve In creating innovation, we produced results in three sustainable growth. To this end, Astellas will strive to major areas: (1) We made steady progress on late-stage achieve three strategic goals: (1) Generate profit by development programs such as gilteritinib, enfortumab maximizing product VALUE and operational excellence, vedotin, and roxadustat; (2) We upgraded and expanded along with using the funds generated through this process the pipeline through the acquisition of Ganymed for (2) Evolving how we create VALUE through the Focus Pharmaceuticals AG and Ogeda SA; and (3) We advanced Area approach. Moreover, Astellas will (3) tackle the unique development programs that harness diverse challenge of developing new businesses (Rx+ programs) that treatment modalities and biology, such as cell therapy, to go beyond conventional prescription pharmaceuticals (Rx). the clinical development stage. In pursuing operational excellence, we transferred our global dermatology business and long-listed products manufactured and marketed in Japan. Meanwhile, we directed investments to priority areas, including establishing a global management structure. 11 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Fiscal 2020 Financial Guidance Strategic Goal 1 Maximizing Product VALUE and Operational Indicators Fiscal 2020 Guidance Excellence Net sales Fiscal 2017 level Maximizing Product VALUE R&D investment More than ¥200.0 billion Astellas will work to maximize product VALUE by Core operating intensively allocating resources to XTANDI, mirabegron profit Core Operating Profit margin 20% and six key post-POC pipeline projects. Core EPS Exceed Fiscal 2017 level With regard to XTANDI, particularly its indication for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, Astellas will Core Operating Profit* strive to further increase penetration of XTANDI amongst urologists, along with establishing it as the first choice of therapy by utilizing extensive data based on the clinical experience accumulated since its launch. Moreover, we aim to expand the patient base and duration of therapy for XTANDI by expanding indications to earlier stages of prostate cancer. For illustrative purposes only 2018.3 2019.3 2020.3 2021.3 In the OAB franchise, Astellas will work to mitigate the impact of the loss of exclusivity of VESIcare by shifting * For the definition of financial results on a core basis, please refer to P74. sales resources to mirabegron. We will continue to educate the public on mirabegron’s clinical profile featuring a balance of efficacy and safety, with the aim of expanding Financial Guidance for Fiscal 2020 market share. Astellas aims to return to a mediumto long-term core In addition to maximizing the VALUE of these operating profit growth trend after fiscal 2019. products, we will preferentially direct management Net sales in fiscal 2020 are forecast to remain at mostly resources to six key post-POC pipeline projects in order to the same level as fiscal 2017. Astellas plans to allocate obtain approval of these products as planned and support more than ¥200.0 billion a year to R&D investments for growth from fiscal 2020 onward. mediumand long-term growth, after setting clear priorities for those investments. In order to ensure both a Global Sales (March 2018 to March 2021) certain level of profit and adequate R&D investment, we will thoroughly review the cost structure from a zero-basis, XTANDI in addition to maximizing product VALUE. Through these measures, we are targeting a core operating profit margin CAGR (%) High single digit of 20% in fiscal 2020. At the same time, we aim to achieve core EPS exceeding the fiscal 2017 level by working to Mirabegron (Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA) enhance capital efficiency. CAGR (%) Low teens Six Key Post-POC Pipeline Projects • enfortumab vedotin • enzalutamide (label expansion) • fezolinetant • gilteritinib • zolbetuximab • roxadustat Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 12 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Pursuing Operational Excellence Strategic Goal 2 Astellas will review all activities from a zero-basis from Evolving How We Create VALUE many different angles, without relying on past precedent. With Focus Area Approach Specifically, Astellas will preferentially allocate management resources to functions and activities that establish its competitive advantage over other companies, In order to achieve further growth, Astellas will need to while terminating investment in areas that will not lead to identify business opportunities even more flexibly and growth or the establishment of competitiveness. In efficiently than before. With this in mind, in its VISION, addition, Astellas will work to further evolve the operating Astellas has established Focus Areas that reflect many model by leveraging cutting-edge technologies such as different perspectives, without limiting itself to therapeutic robotic process automation (RPA) and artificial intelligence areas, and has set out to find business opportunities in (AI), and through globalization of organizations and each of these areas. functions and the standardization of operating processes. Under Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas will evolve how it Astellas anticipates an improvement of more than creates VALUE from the Therapeutic Area approach to the ¥30.0 billion in core operating profit to be generated from Focus Area approach. The goal of the Focus Area approach new initiatives in fiscal 2020. is to create innovative pharmaceuticals for diseases with high unmet medical needs by allocating management resources to fields that have been carefully narrowed from many different perspectives, including elucidation of pathophysiology through advances in science (biology) and the utilization of treatment modalities and Our Approach to Operational Excellence Focus Area Approach (Research to Pre-POC) Capability Operating model Modality/ evolution Biology Focus on differentiating Technology capabilities and competitive Review operational process necessities and organization Well-characterized Versatile pathophysiology technology • Improve quality/ efficiency of operations • Optimize cost Disease structure Disease with high unmet medical needs Technological excellence Priority/Competitiveness Utilize cutting-edge Resource allocation to technology such as process functions and activities driving automation, AI competitive advantage 13 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data technologies (modality/technology). Astellas will identify Strategic Goal 3 unique combinations of biology and modality/technology based on emerging science and translate this into Developing Rx+ Programs innovative solutions for patients with high unmet medical needs through continuous efforts to ensure development In addition to growth in the prescription pharmaceutical progress and market access. By doing so, Astellas will (Rx) business, Astellas recognizes that it is crucial to continuously identify innovative new drug candidates as it constantly look for new business opportunities where it upgrades and expands its development pipeline. can leverage its current strengths. In order to promote the Focus Area approach, Astellas Mindful of this, Astellas has commenced initiatives to will establish research sites that incorporate outstanding develop Rx+ programs. Rx+ programs refer to new external innovation and bolster collaboration with products and services that create new revenue streams biotechnology startups and academia, based on the separate from Astellas’ core prescription pharmaceutical concepts of Best Science, Best Talent and Best Place. At the products. Rx+ programs will be developed by combining same time, Astellas will also focus on developing human Astellas’ expertise and experience in medical drugs with resources with a discerning eye for innovative science. technology and knowledge from different fields. Astellas will generate high-quality programs by Through the Rx+ programs, Astellas will create new promoting the Focus Area approach, which seeks to drive treatment solutions that replace conventional therapy or innovation by flexibly combining biology, modality/ add new VALUE, and medical solutions that contribute technology and disease, while constantly embracing positively to the entire patient journey, encompassing innovative science. prevention, diagnosis, treatment and post-treatment care and management. Pipeline Assets Based on the Focus Area Approach Healthcare Solutions Beyond Rx Business Modality/ Examples Biology Disease Technology (clinical) Diagnosis/ Cancer ASP8374/ Antibody Oncology PTZ-201 immunology (Cancer) Treatment support ASP4070 New (JP red cedar pollen allergy) M ASIM* generation Immunology Patient journey ed ASP0892 ical vaccine so (Peanut allergy) lu tio ns ASP7317 + Regeneration Cell therapy Ophthalmology Prevention/ Treatment (Dry AMD*) MA-0211 Small Muscle Mitochondria (Duchenne muscular + Treatment solutions molecule disease dystrophy) Gene therapy Medical drugs New technology * ASIM: Antigen-specific immuno-modulation, AMD: Age-related macular degeneration Healthcare technology Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Feature Focus Area Approach Initiatives from Research to POC* * Proof of Concept (POC): Verification of clinical efficacy Case Advancing Cell Therapy 1 Astellas began its drug discovery initiatives through an approach combining the biology of regeneration and the modality of cell therapy, applying it to explore treatments in the field of ophthalmic diseases. We will expand this approach to other diseases in the future. Commenced R&D in Ophthalmology Introducing New Modalities to Expand Target Diseases If cells abandon their original functions resulting in diseases, administering cells could be a treatment. In Ocata Therapeutics was one of the world’s frontrunners in focusing on regeneration as biology closely related to the fundamental technology for establishing fully pathophysiology and treatment, Astellas has commenced differentiated cells from pluripotent stem cells. Ocata R&D based on the new modality of cell therapy. Therapeutics has now changed its name to the Astellas Astellas is first trying to apply this approach to the Institute for Regenerative Medicine (AIRM) with further field of ophthalmology. In theory, the field of strengthened capabilities. We also plan to invest in ophthalmology is suitable for cell therapy due to three manufacturing facilities at AIRM in anticipation of the main reasons: (1) The loss or dysfunction of cells is clearly commercialization of cell therapy. connected with the resulting diseases, (2) The small size of Moving forward, Astellas will also expand its approach eye tissue requires transfusion of only a relatively small of combining regeneration and cell therapy to fields number of cells, and (3) The intraocular region is isolated beyond ophthalmology. In the course of expanding into from immune reactions of the body. Notably, there are other therapeutic areas, one challenge will be to suppress significant unmet medical needs for the treatment of the immunological rejection of transplanted cells. To diseases in the posterior segment of the eye, which can resolve this issue, Astellas acquired Universal Cells, Inc. in lead to vision loss. Currently, Astellas is developing February 2018. Universal Cells’ proprietary Universal Donor ASP7317 for dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD) Cell technology uses genome editing to prevent the and Stargardt’s macular degeneration. ASP7317 is a project expression of polymorphic human leukocyte antigen derived from Ocata Therapeutics, Inc., which was acquired (HLA) molecules, thereby suppressing immune reactions in 2015. ASP7317 is currently in the Phase 2 stage. caused by mismatched HLA at transplantation. By combining the technologies of AIRM and Universal Cells, Astellas will expand the scope of cell therapy from eye diseases to a variety of other diseases. Expansion of the Focus Area Approach Cell therapy Cell therapy Immuno-related Biology diseases/ others Modality/Technology Expansion Disease Ophthalmology Regeneration Ophthalmology Regeneration 15 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Case Tackling the Challenge of Muscle Diseases 2 Astellas is pursuing drug discovery in the field of muscle diseases based on a variety of approaches, beginning with improving the function of skeletal muscle by activating molecular motors and mitochondria. Targeting Muscle Diseases in Collaboration Expansion to Mitochondria-Related Diseases with Biopharmaceutical Companies In the course of advancing research in muscle diseases, Recent scientific advances have identified new targets for Astellas has also focused on mitochondria function. drug development in the muscle disease area. It is also a Mitochondria are vitally important organelles responsible field with high unmet medical needs. Aiming to alleviate for energy metabolism. They are found in almost every cell declines in skeletal muscle function in muscle diseases, in the human body. Mitochondrial abnormalities are Astellas first focused on the approach of strengthening the believed to play a role in various symptoms and diseases, function of molecular motors involved in muscle such as muscle dysfunction, metabolic disorders, contractions from a perspective of biology. neurodegeneration, and visual disorders, as well as cancer, To advance R&D with this approach, Astellas is cardiovascular disorders, and renal failure. collaborating with Cytokinetics, Inc., a U.S.-based In 2013, Astellas entered into an R&D collaboration biopharmaceutical company that has been developing a with Mitokyne, Inc. (currently Mitobridge, Inc.), which compound called reldesemtiv. Reldesemtiv is expected to conducts cutting-edge mitochondria research. MA-0211 improve muscle contraction ability by activating troponin, for Duchenne muscular dystrophy and MA-0217 for acute which constitutes molecular motors in fast skeletal muscle. kidney injury reached the Phase 1 clinical trial stage in only Currently, reldesemtiv is in Phase 2 clinical trials for spinal three years. In January 2018, Astellas acquired Mitobridge, muscular atrophy (SMA), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) which had generated many projects in the preclinical and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A stage and achieved extensive results. Looking ahead, Phase 1b study in elderly subjects with limited mobility is Astellas will accelerate R&D in mitochondria-related also under way. diseases, with the aim of delivering innovative new drugs to patients as early as possible. Expansion of Focus Area Approach Muscle disease Muscle disease Mitochondria Muscle disease Mitochondria Expansion Expansion Molecular Small molecule Molecular Small molecule Molecular Small molecule Kidney disease/ motor motor motor others Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 16 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance CFO Message We will thoroughly review all activities from a zero-basis to strategically allocate our investments in growth opportunities and to improve core operating profit by more than ¥30.0 billion in fiscal 2020. Chikashi Takeda Chief Financial Officer management resources accordingly. Therefore, we will Pursuing Operational Excellence manage our activities even more strictly than before. Let me present several recent examples of the As with its previous three-year strategic plan, Astellas has numerous initiatives we have undertaken so far. We have adopted “maximizing operational excellence” as a crucial reviewed Astellas’ essential capabilities, organization and strategic theme for Strategic Plan 2018. other attributes, with a focus on Japan and Europe, and Together with taking steps to address various themes, have conducted a sizable reorganization of various we will also review all activities from a zero-basis. Activities functions. We have also been making preparations to that were assessed positively in the past are still subject to develop a globally unified operating model centered on changes in the business environment and various administrative functions. Naturally, this encompasses the assumptions underlying each of those activities. For use of technology. We have made initial investments and example, we will strengthen activities and capabilities that incurred expenses upon implementing these initiatives. differentiate Astellas from its competitors and lead to a However, over the medium and long terms, these competitive advantage. For activities that do not produce initiatives will enable us to reap even greater benefits at a those results, we will explore options such as cancelling or lower cost than now. outsourcing activities. In order to maximize effectiveness We have rigorously adopted a policy of preferentially and efficiency, we will comprehensively review the allocating management resources to products in a growth operational process and organization as well as various phase and the key post-POC pipeline, as well as areas that rules and other operational aspects. offer prospects for future growth, in conjunction with We will maximize the use of the latest technologies reducing the allocation of management resources to areas such as real-world data (RWD), robotic process automation such as products that have reached a mature phase. We (RPA), and artificial intelligence (AI). Concurrently, we have devised our plan for fiscal 2018 based on this blueprint. will enhance our capabilities to take full advantage of Guided by Strategic Plan 2018, we expect to deliver an those technologies. improvement in core operating profit of over ¥30.0 billion In order to generate profits as we invest in growth, we in fiscal 2020 through future initiatives focused on raising will need to strictly prioritize our activities and allocate the efficiency of operations. 17 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data with the primary goal of enhancing capital efficiency and Capital Allocation earnings per share. In May 2018 , we announced plans to conduct our largest-ever share buyback by acquiring up to I believe that our shareholders expect us to enhance ¥100.0 billion of our own shares. Astellas’ corporate value by investing in business opportunities. We will continue to preferentially allocate Business Investments and Shareholder Returns resources to business investments. At the same time, we are well aware that dividends are another important matter of concern for shareholders. With this in mind, we will strive to steadily increase dividends. During the threeyear period from fiscal 2018, particularly fiscal 2019, our Business investments Shareholder returns earnings performance is expected to come under pressure Aiming for steady dividend due to patent expiry of major products. However, we will Top priority is investment increase during for business growth FY2018-FY2020 seek to continuously increase dividends. Moreover, we will Flexible share buybacks implement share buybacks flexibly as the occasion arises, Details of Shareholder Returns Dividends per share*1 (left axis) Profit for the year*2 (right axis) (yen) (billion yen) 40 250 200 30 150 20 36 38 100 10 50 0 0 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 (Forecast) (billion yen) Total dividends 39.3 42.3 55.2 56.9 58.2 57.7 57.7 59.4 60.6 66.0 68.5 71.3 72.1 75.1 Acquisition of own shares 46.2 219.9 81.8 123.4 27.0 – – 49.4 30.0 58.2 119.3 91.4 129.9 Total return ratio (%) 82 200 77 106 70 85 74 118 100 92 97 74 123 *1 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Figures are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2005. *2 From fiscal 2013, figures are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 18 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance CSR-Based Management Create and protect value for both Astellas and society by fulfilling social responsibility Astellas’ Interaction with Society Enhance Society Trust from society the sustainability of society Enhance the sustainability CSR-based of Astellas management Astellas Raison D’être Mission Contribute toward improving the health of people Sustainable enhancement around the world through the provision of of enterprise value innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Means Value Creation and Protection for Both Astellas Realizing Our Business Philosophy and Society Astellas recognizes its corporate social responsibility (CSR) CSR for Astellas has two aspects: value creation and value is its responsibility for any impacts that its decisions and protection. business activities have on society and the environment. Astellas is helping to enhance the sustainability of Value Creation Through its business activities, Astellas is society by fulfilling its social responsibilities as a creating value for society by addressing social issues such pharmaceutical company by, for example, providing as unmet medical needs, and by returning profits to pharmaceutical products that satisfy unmet medical stakeholders. By reinvesting the profit we gain through needs. We believe that we earn trust from society for both business activities, we strengthen our capabilities in the Company and our products as a result of these research and development. In addition, by winning trust activities, and that this trust enhances our sustainability. from government and business partners in each country, This positive cycle will lead to the realization of our we create new business opportunities. This process creates mission, “sustainable enhancement of enterprise value” value for Astellas. through fulfillment of our raison d’être “contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through Value Protection Astellas seeks to preserve biodiversity the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical by reducing the environmental burden associated with its products.” For Astellas, fulfilling our social responsibility business activities, while maintaining social order by means realizing our business philosophy. ensuring compliance and preventing corruption. These activities will lead to the protection of value for society. In addition, Astellas protects its enterprise value by mitigating reputation risk and elevating its corporate brand through these activities. 19 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data satisfaction” and “protection of personal and confidential Updating of the CSR Materiality Matrix information” to the upper-right quadrant. We have also renamed or combined material issues in order to properly Astellas discloses its CSR Materiality Matrix (see next page) express each material issue. that identifies and prioritizes material issues in CSR activities, * The CSR Committee discusses policies and plans for important activities in fulfilling and uses this materiality matrix to guide its CSR activities. the Company’s social responsibilities. The committee is chaired by the Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and comprises the In fiscal 2017, we reviewed the CSR Materiality Matrix in full heads of the relevant divisions in Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania. in order to respond to the changing needs of society. In conducting the review, we spoke with diverse stakeholders (investors, patient groups, doctors, employees, consultants, and academics) in Japan and Activities and Monitoring of Material Issues overseas; examined their feedbacks from a variety of perspectives; deliberated on and approved matters at the In Astellas, divisions related to each material issue draw up CSR Committee*, Executive Committee (EC) and Board of annual and medium-term CSR-focused action plans, and Directors; and decided to update the CSR Materiality Matrix. work to resolve the material issues. The CSR Committee In this update, we have newly added “tax compliance” monitors activities and results, along with the status of and “environmental impacts of pharmaceuticals” in order progress made. to respond to the needs of society. Moreover, based on their growing importance, we have moved “customer Determination Process of Material Issues in CSR Activities Astellas’ material issues are identified with reference to various principles and guidelines (such as ISO 26000, the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, Sustainable Development Goals and the Step1 SASB* Materiality Map), communications with stakeholders, and evaluation items for socially Identify Issues responsible investment (SRI) indices, etc. * SASB: A U.S. non-profit organization exploring industry-specific standards for corporate sustainability disclosure. SASB has prepared industry-specific materiality maps by evaluating the materiality of sustainability topics. Step2 We will prioritize Astellas’ material issues from the dual perspectives of their societal Prioritize significance and their relevance to our business. Review Astellas’ material issues will be periodically reviewed and verified. They will be modified Step3 • Dialogue with stakeholders depending on the attainment level of initiatives implemented and/or any changes in the • Deliberating on and approving needs of society. In conducting this review, we spoke with stakeholders in Japan and overseas, matters at the CSR Committee, examined the review, and decided to update the CSR Materiality Matrix after deliberating on EC and Board of Directors and approving matters at the CSR Committee, EC and Board of Directors. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 20 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Material Issues in CSR Activities For more details, please refer to (CSR Materiality Matrix) Web https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/materiality Important Very Important Most Important Very High • Water • CSR procurement • Development of innovative products and management • Continuous stable supply medical solutions • Climate • Stakeholder engagement • Access to Health* change and • Responsible R&D energy • Transparency of corporate activities • Responsible marketing and ethical • Tax compliance advertising • Human rights in labor • Product pricing • Proper use of products • Product quality assurance and product safety • Anti-counterfeit • Diversity and inclusion • Health, safety and welfare of employees Societal Significance • Compliance and ethical business practices • Protection of personal and confidential information • Customer satisfaction • Reduction of environmental • Board independence and effectiveness burden • Talent development • Environmental impacts of • Recruitment and retention of employees pharmaceuticals • Fair appraisal and competitive reward • Patient assistance and advocacy • Advancement of medical science • Biodiversity • Philanthropic community support High High Relevance to Astellas’ Business Very High * Access to Health: Astellas understands that some people find it difficult to receive the healthcare they need due to the lack of available treatments, poverty, challenges in healthcare systems and limited healthcare information. Astellas recognizes this problem as the Access to Health issue and is working to improve Access to Health by engaging in various initiatives. 21 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in health literacy. In doing so, Astellas will make maximum 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a use of its partnerships in the manner of Goal 17. set of collective targets for the world to achieve by 2030. In creating innovation, Astellas is working to create Referring to the SDG Compass, Astellas identifies innovative medicines and medical solutions in disease issues for priority action, based on the evaluation of areas with low treatment satisfaction and to deliver them SDG-related impacts across the entire value chain. Going to patients around the world. Moreover, Astellas has been forward, Astellas plans to contribute to the attainment conducting collaborative research with partners aimed at of the SDGs through various business activities, focusing creating drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis, malaria, primarily on “Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being.” and neglected tropical diseases (leishmaniasis and Chagas disease) and developing the rice-based oral vaccine MucoRice against infectious diseases such as cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (E. coli). Astellas is also Focus on Improving Access to Health in working closely with partners to develop a pediatric Four Areas formulation of praziquantel tablets for the treatment of schistosomiasis. In regard to “Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being” under To help enhance availability, we have established the SDGs, Astellas is addressing this goal from the programs to assist patients facing severe financial viewpoint of improving Access to Health. There are many constraints with the cost of dispensing pharmaceutical people with insufficient access to the healthcare they products. We also support patients by not filing or need due to the lack of available treatments, poverty, enforcing patents in countries facing significant economic challenges in healthcare systems and limited healthcare challenges. As part of strengthening healthcare systems information. Astellas recognizes this problem as the Access and improving health literacy, Astellas has participated in to Health issue. Astellas has identified four areas where it is the Access Accelerated global partnership. This initiative working to address Access to Health issues by making full aims to contribute to achieving the SDG of reducing use of the strengths and technology that it has. The four premature mortality from non-communicable diseases by areas are (1) Creating innovation, (2) Enhancing availability, one-third by 2030. In other SDG-related initiatives, Astellas (3) Strengthening healthcare systems, and (4) Improving is supporting the ACTION ON FISTULATM program in Kenya. Examples of Astellas’ Activities for Achieving SDGs Examples of activities to achieve each goal SDGs Theme Examples of Astellas’ activities Goals aimed at by contributions Creation of innovative medicines and healthcare solutions; Good Health and Goal 3 collaborative research and development into treatments and Well-Being vaccines for tuberculosis, malaria, neglected tropical diseases, etc. Goal 5 Gender Equality Greater proportion of women in managerial roles in Japan Clean Water and Goal 6 Reduced water usage; management of wastewater Sanitation Decent Work and Cultivation of productive workplaces; employee training and Goal 8 Economic Growth education; promotion of occupational health and safety Industry Innovation and Goal 9 Continuously executing a high level of investment in R&D Infrastructure Responsible Consumption Goal 12 Eco-conscious production and Production Goal 13 Climate Action Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Goal 15 Life on Land Maintenance/preservation of biodiversity Participating partner in Global Health Innovative Technology Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals (GHIT) Fund Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 22 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Company’s raison d’être is to contribute to Corporate Governance System improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. The Company aims to sustainably enhance enterprise value as its mission. The Company recognizes the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as With this business philosophy, we work to ensure an important forum for constructive dialogue with shareholders. and strengthen the effectiveness of corporate governance from the following perspectives: 1) Ensuring transparency, appropriateness and agility of Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal management and 2) Fulfillment of our fiduciary duties and accountability Financial Audit & to shareholders and appropriate collaboration with all Auditor Supervisory Committee stakeholders. • The Financial Auditor Role and the Company’s • The Audit & Supervisory Committee is Audit & Supervisory the only deliberation and decisionCommittee making body for forming opinions Members maintain regarding the audits by Audit & Transition to a Company with an Audit & close cooperation by Supervisory Committee Members. Where necessary, the Audit & Supervisory Committee meeting regularly and as needed, Supervisory Committee provides its verifying their annual opinions to Directors or the Board of Following a resolution of the June 2018 Annual Shareholders’ auditing plans as Directors. Meeting, the Company transitioned from a Company with an Audit & well as sharing the Composition Supervisory Board to a Company with an Audit & Supervisory results of audits and • The Audit & Supervisory Committee is Committee. As the management environment grows increasingly important audit comprised entirely of Directors who are information. Audit & Supervisory Committee global and more complex, the Company is working to further Members, with the Committee enhance discussions of management strategy and other issues by its Chairman determined by a vote of the Board of Directors and to further strengthen the oversight function of Audit & Supervisory Committee. To further enhance the independence and the Board of Directors by transitioning to a company with an Audit & neutrality of the auditing system, Supervisory Committee, which makes it possible to delegate a outside Directors comprise a majority of significant portion of the executive decision-making authority of the Audit & Supervisory Committee Members. At least one of the Committee Board of Directors to the Executive Directors. Furthermore, the Members shall be an individual with Company will improve the speed of decision-making in business appropriate knowledge regarding execution and enhance management agility. financial and accounting matters. (coordination) <Structure as of the close of the June 2018 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting> Five Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members, of whom a majority Corporate Governance System of three are independent outside Audit & Supervisory Committee Members (four Characteristics male, one female). • The Company adopts the organizational structure of a “Company Administration with an Audit & Supervisory Committee.” Outside Directors • As a general rule, meetings are held once a month, with extraordinary constitute the majority of the Board of Directors and the Audit & meetings held as necessary Supervisory Committee. • The Board of Directors determines corporate management policies Report Direction and corporate strategies, and serves a business execution oversight function. Report • As part of its business execution structure, the Company has established the Executive Committee to discuss material matters, and also appoints Executive Officers responsible for managing their Direction respective divisions and functions. The Board of Directors established the Corporate Decision Authority Policy to clarify the responsibility and authority for the execution of business by the Audit functions President and CEO and the Executive Officers. • As advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, the Company established the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee, each of which are composed of a majority of outside Directors. Internal audit 23 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Annual Shareholders’ Meeting The following measures are taken to invigorate the meeting for shareholders and encourage the exercise of voting rights. (1) Early dispatch of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting convocation notice. It is also published before dispatch on the Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet) provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and on the Company’s website. (2) The date of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is set to avoid dates when meetings of other companies are concentrated. (3) Adoption of an electronic voting platform (a platform run by ICJ, Inc., a firm in which the Tokyo Stock Exchange and others have invested). (4) Providing an English translation of the convocation notice. Election/Dismissal Board of Directors Nomination Committee Role • By determining basic corporate management policies and corporate strategies, and performing an Role oversight function over business execution, the Board of Directors ensures that management is • Discusses matters concerning the election transparent and appropriate. By resolution of the Board of Directors, a significant portion of and dismissal of Executive Officers, etc., and decision-making over important business execution matters has been delegated to the Executive reports the results to the Board of Directors. Directors. The Board has also established the Corporate Decision Authority Policy, clarifying the Composition business execution reponsibility and authority of the respective Executive Officers and ensuring • This committee is composed of members management agility. elected by the Board of Directors. Composition • The majority of members are outside • The Board comprises an appropriate number of Directors, in consideration of diversity and balance Directors. from the perspectives of expertise and experience, and is chaired by the Director and Chairman of • This committee is chaired by an outside the Board. Director. • The Board is comprised of a majority of outside Directors to enable it to make decisions from a Audit, broader viewpoint and oversee business execution objectively. etc. <Structure as of the close of the June 2018 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting> 10 Directors, of whom a majority of 6 are independent outside Directors (eight male, two female). Compensation Committee Administration • As a general rule, meetings are held once a month, with extraordinary meetings held as necessary. Role • Discusses matters concerning remuneration, Audit Directors bonuses and other profits on assets received as compensation for the execution of duties Responsibilities of Directors, Executive Officers and others • As members of the Board of Directors, Directors participate in management decision-making through (excluding individual remuneration for resolutions to the Board, in addition to overseeing the performance of duties of other Directors. Directors who serve as members of the • To fully exercise their expected capabilities, Directors are expected to contribute to the sustained Audit & Supervisory Committee), and enhancement of the Company’s corporate value by collecting the information necessary for the reports the results to the Board of Directors. execution of their duties and engaging actively in discussions. • Outside Directors are expected to enhance the appropriateness of management by overseeing the Composition execution of business based on their independent standpoint, while utilizing their individual • This committee is composed of members experience and knowledge to offer advice from a standpoint different from that of internal Directors. elected by the Board of Directors. • The majority of members are outside Election Directors. • Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Members are subject to election every year via • This committee is chaired by an outside resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Director. Members are subject to election once every two years via resolution of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Proposal/Report Election/Dismissal, Supervision President This Committee discusses matters important to management of the Election/Dismissal Executive Committee Group overall, and is chaired by the Representative Director and President. Proposal/Report Direction/Supervision Officers responsible for each function/Corporate Executives/Functional Heads Report Business execution/Direction/Supervision Divisions Business execution Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 24 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance to enhance the effectiveness of its corporate governance. Progress in Enhancing Effectiveness of * By December 2018, the Company plans to disclose via its Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report the status of implementation of the Corporate Governance Code principles that were revised effective June 2018. Since Astellas’ launch in April 2005, we have worked to increase the speed of execution by delegating authority to the management team, in the belief that prompt and accurate decision-making will result in the enhancement Start of Efforts to Evaluate the Effectiveness of of enterprise value. In the year following our launch, the the Board of Directors Company appointed a majority of outside Directors to its Board of Directors, and subsequently established the As a means of considering issues and making Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee, improvements to further enhance the role of the Board of part of our ongoing efforts at structural reform. Directors, the Company has conducted an analysis and With the implementation of Japan’s Corporate evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Governance Code in June 2015, we also took the since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. The results of opportunity to further enhance the Company’s corporate the evaluation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 are governance structure. In September 2015, the Company as shown below. formulated its Corporate Governance Guidelines as the basis for implementing the individual principles of the <Evaluation Method> Code.* Beginning in June 2018, the Company has also The Chairman of the Board of Directors conducted a transitioned to a Company with an Audit & Supervisory survey based on a questionnaire to all Directors and Audit Committee. Through these efforts, the Company is working & Supervisory Board Members, primarily concerning the Major Corporate Governance Reforms Implemented to Date Date Change Objective New Board of Directors launched • Board of Directors comprised of 4 Executive Directors, 2 non-Executive Directors and 2 outside Directors Ensure management transparency April 2005 • Board of Directors specialized in supervising the execution of business and decision-making regarding and appropriateness Launch of legal and most important matters Astellas Authority delegated to the management team Ensure management agility • To the extent legally allowable, delegate as much authority as possible to the management team Outside Directors represent a majority of the Board of Directors Ensure management transparency June 2006 • 9 Directors, of whom 5 are outside Directors and appropriateness Reduction in number of Directors Ensure management agility • 7 Directors, of whom 4 are outside Directors June 2007 Established the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee Ensure management transparency • 5 committee members, of whom 3 are outside Directors and appropriateness Shortened term of appointment for Directors Clarify management • Term of appointment shortened from two years to one year responsibilities June 2010 Elimination of advisor system Ensure management transparency • Prior to that, counselor system also eliminated Change in chairmanship of the Nomination and the Compensation Committees Ensure management transparency June 2011 • Each Committee chaired by outside Director and appropriateness Increase outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Strengthen independence and June 2015 • From 2 to 3, resulting in outside members representing a majority of the total of 5 Audit & Supervisory neutrality of the auditing system Board Members Transition to a Company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee • 6 out of 10 Directors are outside Directors (3 out of the 5 Audit & Supervisory Committee Members are Strengthen the supervisory outside Directors) June 2018 function and ensure management • Delegation of decision-making authority for business execution from the Board of Directors to mobility Executive Directors • The Board of Directors discusses corporate management policies, strategies, etc. 25 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data oversight function of the Board of Directors. Based on the As an organ for discussing important matters results of this survey, the Board of Directors performed its regarding the business of the Astellas Group, the Company analysis and evaluation. has established an Executive Committee, and has appointed Executive Officers responsible for managing <Conclusion> their respective departments and functions. The The Board of Directors was found to function responsibility and authority for the execution of business appropriately, with highly transparent and lively by the organ described above, the President and the discussions by the Directors, including independent Executive Officers are clearly stipulated in the Corporate outside Directors. The overall effectiveness of the Board of Decision Authority Policy. Directors was assessed to be sufficiently ensured. In order to build an optimal management system capable of speedy and precise decision-making, we have <Reasons for Assessment> been promoting a system, under which we manage each The Board of Directors consists of a majority of outside division and function of Drug Discovery Research, Medical Directors and has engaged in free, open and constructive & Development, and Pharmaceutical Technology based on discussions, having fostered a climate in which those their respective functions from a global viewpoint across outside Directors are able to actively participate in discussion. geographical regions, while the Sales & Marketing Aiming to achieve optimization of the Board of Divisions are managed on a regional basis. Directors’ capabilities, which was recognized as an issue in Regarding staff functions also, Astellas is working to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the Company strengthen its global management functions. As part of decided to transition to a Company with an Audit & these efforts, in April 2017, we established Legal and Supervisory Committee structure, and by clearly Intellectual Property functions in each region on a global distinguishing between oversight and execution, has level. Furthermore, in April 2018, we established Finance, established a framework for discussing matters that should Human Resources, and Internal Auditing functions in be addressed by the Board of Directors. departments in the same manner. To ensure that the process for selecting successors to In order to develop a system for more appropriate the President and CEO maintains a high level of execution of business, the Company has established transparency and acceptability, the Board of Directors has various committees comprising cross-functional members. been overseeing deliberations of the Nomination These committees include the Corporate Disclosure Committee and making appropriate resolutions based on Committee where matters including disclosure of proposals of the Nomination Committee. corporate information are discussed, the CSR Committee that discusses policies and plans of important activities for <Issues> the purpose of fulfilling the Company’s social To ensure it functions more effectively, the Board of responsibilities (such as issues on the environment, health Directors will continue to improve on the issues below and safety, and social contribution activities), the Global which are present even in the new system. Benefit Risk Committee to discuss benefit and risk information of products as well as measures to deal with • To carry out Strategic Plan 2018, the Board of Directors such benefit and risk, the Global Compliance Committee will monitor the constantly changing internal and where matters including global compliance policies and external environmental trends and engage in more plans are discussed, and the Global Risk Management effective discussion of strategy. Office to promote identifying global risks and • The Board of Directors will oversee whether appropriate implementing optimum risk management. measures have been taken against risks identified by the framework for systematic risk evaluation that were strengthened in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Efforts Aimed at Enhancing Business Execution Please refer to the following URL for the Corporate Governance Report and Corporate Governance Guidelines Web https://www.astellas.com/jp/en/investors/ The Company has established a global management ir-library/governance structure, and continues to work to strengthen it. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 26 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance *1 Regarding stock compensation, the Company has introduced a performancelinked stock compensation scheme, a mediumto long-term incentive plan A System of Remuneration for Directors That known as the executive remuneration BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust. Three Contributes to Sustainable Enhancement in consecutive business years are defined as a single eligible period, and for the first year of each eligible period, a ceiling of ¥5.5 million on the amount Enterprise Value contributed to the BIP Trust as compensation to Directors (excluding outside Directors and Directors who serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) was approved at the 13th Term Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 15, The compensation paid to Directors of the Company is 2018. designed to enable the Company to attract and retain *2 A ¥5.6 million annual ceiling on remuneration for Directors (excluding Directors who serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members) was approved at the talent, and maintain sufficient compensation standards 13th Term Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 15, 2018. This excludes, and systems to meet the duties and responsibilities of the however, bonuses and stock compensation, the amount of and ceilings for which were approved separately at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. positions. The Company has improved the objectivity of *3 An annual ceiling of ¥2.6 million on compensation for Directors who serve as decisions on remuneration levels by using survey data members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee was approved at the 13th Term Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 15, 2018. issued by outside research companies and other measures. Remuneration for internal Directors who are not members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee is composed of fixed basic remuneration, bonuses and stock Remuneration for Directors in Fiscal 2018 compensation. The Company appropriately links Total amount Type of remuneration (¥ million) Number remuneration with business performance. To increase the of of Category awareness of contribution to the sustainable growth of remuneration Basic Stock eligible Bonus (¥ million) remuneration compensation Directors business results and enterprise value, the Company has Directors introduced a performance-linked stock compensation (excluding 358 159 124 74 3 scheme which grants Company stock in line with the outside Directors) degree to which medium-term performance targets are Outside achieved. Medium-term performance targets include Directors 58 58 — — 6 predetermined goals for sales, core operating margin, core Total 415 217 124 74 9 ROE, etc., over a three-year time span*1. Audit & Remuneration for outside Directors and internal Supervisory Board Directors who serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members Members consists solely of fixed basic remuneration. (excluding 88 88 — — 2 outside Audit Remuneration for Directors who are not members of & Supervisory Board the Audit & Supervisory Committee*2 is determined by Members) resolution of the Board of Directors within a total ceiling Outside Audit amount approved by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, & Supervisory 43 43 — — 3 Board while remuneration for Directors who serve as Audit & Members Supervisory Committee Members*3 is determined through Total 131 131 — — 5 deliberations of the Audit & Supervisory Committee *1 The above basic remuneration and stock compensation include amounts paid to Members within a total ceiling amount approved by the three Directors (including two outside Directors) who resigned as of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Through the deliberations conclusion of the 12th Term Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 19, 2017. *2 The above stock compensation lists amounts recorded as expenses in the fiscal of the Compensation Committee, the Company enhances year ended March 31, 2018, based on J-GAAP. the transparency and objectivity of the deliberation process for remuneration for Directors (excluding individual remuneration for Directors who serve as Audit & Supervisory Committee Members). 27 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Risk Management The EC reviews and approves risks identified through Identifying and Mitigating Risks Relating to the the Global Risk Management program. The EC assigns risk Performance of Business Activities owners to each identified global risk. The risk owners are responsible for developing and implementing risk Pharmaceutical companies that expand their business mitigation plans. Risk owners update these plans globally are expected to follow numerous regulations with throughout the year and mitigation plan progress is a high level of compliance; Astellas must also address reported to the EC. The risks managed by the program are numerous risks that could impact our business results, reflective of Astellas’ footprint as global pharmaceutical performance and public perception. Astellas established a company and the sector the Company operates in. holistic approach to risk management through the Through maintaining the Global Risk Management creation of a Global Risk Management program. Separate program, Astellas has a framework for identifying and Regional Risk Management programs in each of the addressing risk. This program has enhanced the Company’s Company’s four regions support the Global Risk cross-functional awareness and transparency about the Management program. The purpose of these global and risks facing the Company as well as the activities being regional programs are to identify, prioritize and manage undertaken to mitigate these risks. risks to the Company achieving its objectives from a At the regional level, the Regional Risk Management preventive standpoint. programs operate in a similar format to the global program. The Global Risk Management program are supervised The Global Risk Management program factors the results by a global, cross-functional team. The Global Risk of the regional programs into its risk identification process Management program utilizes a four-phased approach, to ensure regional concerns and priorities are considered which is repeated annually: 1. Risk Identification, 2. Risk appropriately. In addition, the Global Risk Management Prioritization, 3. Risk Mitigation Plan Development, and 4. program takes on risks identified by the Regional Risk Risk Mitigation Plan Implementation. Management Program when necessary. Global Risk Management Program Structure Board of Directors Provides updates Assigns Risk Owners Executive Committee 1. Sets program strategy 2. Provides input on risks Provides updates on identified risks Risk Owners 3. Approves identified risks and mitigation plans 4. Approves mitigation plans Global Risk Management Team / Secretariat Provides updates on risk mitigation plans Provides Regional Risk Management results Americas Regional Asia & Oceanic Regional EMEA Regional Japan Regional Risk Management Program Risk Management Program Risk Management Program Risk Management Program Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 28 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Directors Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 1980: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1986: Joined the Company 2003: Director, Corporate Planning, 2005: Vice President, Project Management, Urology, the Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Company 2005: Vice President, Corporate Planning, 2010: Corporate Executive of the Company and Therapeutic Corporate Strategy Division, the Company Area Head, Urology, Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. 2005: Corporate Executive, Vice President, 2010: Corporate Executive of the Company and Therapeutic Corporate Planning, Corporate Strategy, Area Head, Urology, Astellas Pharma Global the Company Development, Inc. 2006: Corporate Executive of the Company and 2011: Corporate Executive, Vice President, Product & Portfolio President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and Strategy, the Company President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. 2012: Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer (CSTO), the 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company and Company President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and 2012: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer President & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (CSTO), the Company 2009: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer and 2017: Senior Corporate Executive, Chief Strategy Officer and Yoshihiko Hatanaka Chief Financial Officer (CSTO & CFO), the Company Kenji Yasukawa Chief Commercial Officer (CSTO & CCO), the Company 2011: Representative Director, 2017: Representative Director, Executive Vice President, the Representative Director, President and CEO, the Company Representative Director, Company Chairman of the Board 2018: Representative Director, Chairman of the Board, the President and CEO 2018: Representative Director, President and CEO, the Company (present post) Company (present post) 1975: Fellow, Department of Internal Medicine, School of 1974: Joined Marubeni Corporation Medicine, Keio University 1997: General Manager, Power Project Dept.-I, 1980: Assistant Professor, Department of Preventive Marubeni Corporation Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine, 1998: General Manager, Power Project Dept.-III, Kitasato University Marubeni Corporation 1983: Associate Professor, Department of Preventive 1999: Deputy General Manager, Power Project Div.; General Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine, Manager, Power Project Dept. I, Marubeni Corporation Kitasato University 2001: Senior Operating Officer, Utility Infrastructure Div.; 1994: Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine and General Manager, Overseas Power Project Dept., Public Health, School of Medicine, Kitasato University Marubeni Corporation 2004: Chairperson, School of Medicine, Kitasato University 2002: Corporate Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Plant, 2006: Dean, School of Medicine, Kitasato University Power & Infrastructure Div., Marubeni Corporation 2009: Vice President, Kitasato University 2005: Corporate Senior Vice President, Chief Operating 2010: Executive Trustee, The Kitasato Institute Officer, Plant, Power & Infrastructure Projects Div., 2012: Professor Emeritus, Kitasato University (present post) Marubeni Corporation Yoshiharu Aizawa 2015: Director, the Company (present post) Mamoru Sekiyama 2006: Corporate Senior Vice President, Member of the Board, Marubeni Corporation Outside Director Outside Director 2007: Corporate Executive Vice President, Member of the Board, Marubeni Corporation 2009: Senior Executive Vice President, Member of the Board, Marubeni Corporation 2013: Vice Chairman, Marubeni Corporation 2015: Corporate Adviser, Marubeni Corporation (present post) Chairman, Marubeni Power Systems Corporation 2017: Director, the Company (present post) Expected Role Expected Role Yoshiharu Aizawa has been engaged in medical treatment while successively holding important Mamoru Sekiyama has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a posts at Kitasato University as a medical scientist, and has abundant specialized knowledge and general trading company over many years and has abundant global experience and extensive experience. He currently plays a key role in the management of the Company from an independent insight. He currently plays a key role in the management of the Company from an independent standpoint as an outside Director. The Company is confident that he will draw on his abundant standpoint as an outside Director. The Company is confident that he will continue to apply his specialized knowledge and experience in management of the Company in the future as well. abundant specialized knowledge and experience to the management of the Company. Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors during Fiscal 2017: 16/17 times Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors during Fiscal 2017: 14/14 times 1987: Public Prosecutor, Yokohama District Public Prosecutors Office 2002: Coordinator, Legislative Division, Criminal Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Justice 2005: Counselor, Legislative Division, Criminal Affairs Bureau, Ministry of Justice 2005: Public Prosecutor, Supreme Public Prosecutors Office 2007: Deputy Director of Public Peace Department, Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office 2008: Deputy Director of Trial Department, Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office 2009: Trial Director, Yokohama District Public Prosecutors Office 2010: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Bar Association): Lawyer honorary member, Tokyo Seiwa Law Office (present post) 2017: Director, the Company (present post) Keiko Yamagami Expected Role Outside Director After successively holding important posts such as Public Prosecutor at the Supreme Public Prosecutors Office, Keiko Yamagami has been engaged in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law. She currently plays a key role in the management of the Company from an independent standpoint as an outside Director. The Company is confident that she will continue to apply her abundant specialized knowledge and experience to the management of the Company. Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors during Fiscal 2017: 14/14 times 29 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members 1984: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1983: Joined the Company 1999: Director of Planning, Medical Supply Business, Fujisawa 2012: Vice President, Clinical and Research Quality Assurance, Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. QA, RA and Pharmacovigilance Department, the 2006: Assistant to Senior Vice President, Company Corporate Finance & Accounting and 2016: Assistant to President & CEO, the Company Project Leader of J-SOX Project, the Company 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 2013: Vice President, Internal Auditing, the Company 2018: Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee 2014: Assistant to President and CEO, the Company Member, the Company (present post) 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 2018: Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member, the Company (present post) Tomokazu Fujisawa Hiroko Sakai Director who is an Audit & Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee Member Member 1984: Public Prosecutor, 1985: Joined Tohmatsu & Aoki Audit Corporation Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office (current Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) 1985: Public Prosecutor, 1997: Joined Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. (current Yamagata District Public Prosecutors Office ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 1988: Public Prosecutor, 1999: Global Partner for manufacturing industry and Managing Niigata District Public Prosecutors Office Director in Kyushu area, Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., 1990: Public Prosecutor, Ltd. (current ABeam Consulting Ltd.) Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office 2003: Joined DENTSU INC. 1992: Registered as an attorney-at-law 2008: Established Uematsu & Co. : Managing Director, Uematsu (Tokyo Bar Association) & Co. (present post) 1993: Partner, SANNO LAW OFFICE (present post) 2011: President & Representative Director, SU Consultant Co., 2005: Visiting Professor, University of Tsukuba Law School Ltd. (present post) 2015: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company 2015: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Kamakura 2018: Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Shinsho, Ltd. Member, the Company (present post) 2016: Outside Director and Audit & Supervisory Committee Hitoshi Kanamori Noriyuki Uematsu Member, Kamakura Shinsho, Ltd. (present post) 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Company Outside Director who is Outside Director who is 2018: Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee an Audit & Supervisory an Audit & Supervisory Member, the Company (present post) Committee Member Committee Member Expected Role Expected Role Hitoshi Kanamori possesses expertise in corporate law by virtue of his long experience as an Noriyuki Uematsu has thorough knowledge of corporate consulting and auditing by virtue of his attorney-at-law. He currently plays a key role in the supervision and auditing of the Company’s many years of experience as a certified public accountant and is also engaged in corporate management from an independent standpoint as an outside Director who is an Audit & Supervisory management as a business manager of a consulting company relating to business accounting and Committee Member. The Company is confident that he will continue to leverage his abundant tax accounting services. He currently plays a key role in the supervision and auditing of the Company’s specialized knowledge and experience to supervise and audit the Company’s management. management from an independent standpoint as an outside Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member The Company is confident that he will continue to draw on his abundant Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors during Fiscal 2017: 16/17 times specialized knowledge and experience in supervising and auditing the Company’s management. Attendance at Meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board during Fiscal 2017: 13/14 times Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors during Fiscal 2017: 17/17 times Attendance at Meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board during Fiscal 2017: 14/14 times 1987: Assistant Professor, Faculty of Economics, Nagoya City University 1990: Associate Professor, Faculty of Economics, Nagoya City University 1993: Associate Professor, School of Commerce, Waseda University 1996: Professor, School of Commerce, Waseda University 1997: Senior Research Officer, Ministry of Finance, Institute of Fiscal and Monetary Policy (current Policy Research Institute); Special Officer for Research, Minister’s Secretariat 1999: Professor, School of Commerce, Waseda University 2005: Professor, School of Commerce, Waseda University; Professor, Graduate School of Accountancy, Waseda University 2010: Professor, School of Commerce, Waseda University; Dean, Graduate School of Accountancy, Waseda University 2013: Dean, Graduate School of Accountancy, Waseda University 2016: Professor, Graduate School of Accountancy, Waseda University (present post) 2018: Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member, the Company (present post) Hiroo Sasaki Expected Role Outside Director who is Hiroo Sasaki has held important positions at Waseda University, including at the graduate level, in economics and other fields. While Dean of Waseda University’s Graduate an Audit & Supervisory School of Accountancy, he was also involved in the school’s management. Having researched normative economics, he is deeply knowledgeable about vocational ethics and Committee Member research ethics and has experience with practical handling of these ethical issues. The Company is confident that he will leverage his abundant specialized knowledge and experience to supervise and audit the Company’s management from an independent standpoint as an outside Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee Member. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 30 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Interview with an Outside Director I will facilitate discussions to further enhance the effectiveness of Astellas’ corporate governance, with an aim toward continuously evolving approach to the best possible form. Mamoru Sekiyama Outside Director Mr. Sekiyama joined Marubeni Corporation in 1974. After holding key posts including Senior Executive Vice President, Member of the Board and Vice Chairman, he currently serves as Corporate Adviser to Marubeni Corporation. He has served as an outside Director at Astellas since 2017. Q: Could you please share your perspectives on the Strategic Plan 2018 from your standpoint as an outside Director? A: I believe that the key elements of Strategic Plan 2018 are the plan’s transparent formulation process and its system for monitoring progress. As an outside Director, I would like to discuss two key points concerning Astellas’ Strategic Plan 2018. My first point concerns the process of formulating the management plan. Strategic Plan 2018 was formulated based on open discussions in meetings of the Board of Directors. My second point is that a system for monitoring progress regularly and in great detail has been embedded into meetings of the Board of Directors, in order to ensure that Astellas steadily achieves its strategic goals. When formulating Strategic Plan 2018, the Board of Directors held a series of extensive discussions on the plan, beginning at the draft stage. The outside Directors were supplied with extensive information on external conditions and the business environment, which served as the basis for the discussions. Therefore, we, the outside Directors, were able to participate in the discussions based on a strong understanding of Astellas’ current circumstances and the opportunities it should pursue. In addition, information on dialogues held between management and shareholders and investors in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 was shared with the outside Directors. Accordingly, the outside Directors were able to take the expectations and demands of the capital markets into consideration in the discussions, and the results of those discussions were reflected in Strategic Plan 2018 to the fullest extent possible. Enhancing the effectiveness of discussions in the Board of Directors is a priority shared by many companies. I believe that Astellas has been able to conduct in-depth discussions and formulate Strategic Plan 2018 based on a strong understanding of such priorities. Under Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas has set three strategic goals and has developed a narrative for creating innovation by achieving each of those goals. With regard to the Focus Area approach and the Rx+ business philosophy, I believe that Astellas has developed a convincing narrative for attaining future asset growth underpinned by extensive discussion. Meanwhile, the success of Strategic Plan 2018 will depend on whether the management team is able to monitor progress and flexibly address new business issues that arise along the way. This is something I understand very well from my experience as a business leader. In those roles, I made various decisions on investments according to management strategies and monitored the progress of those investment projects. 31 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data In this respect, with the start of Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas has adopted a system of monitoring the degree of achievement of its strategic goals for the business reports submitted to the Board of Directors. This clearly shows that Astellas understands the importance of monitoring progress toward the goals of Strategic Plan 2018. I have every expectation that Astellas will further enhance the reporting framework, thereby enabling it to monitor progress on Strategic Plan 2018 and identify new business issues in a more timely and accurate manner than before. In addition, even when there is a change in investment projects, I believe that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors will be increased further by enabling the Board to identify signs of changes as early as possible, make flexible decisions, and respond to those changes appropriately. Q: What actions must Astellas take to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors? A: I believe that it is crucial for Astellas to further increase and enhance discussions on strategies and related matters amongst the Board of Directors. The business environment is changing so rapidly that even a slight delay in decision-making can end up giving competitors an insurmountable lead. Business leaders must have the ability to make decisions rapidly and the execution skills needed to go all-out and get things done at critical moments. In these circumstances, the Board of Directors has an important role to play in enhancing discussions from many different points of view and supporting appropriate risk-taking by business leaders. Meanwhile, a business environment in a state of constant flux can quickly render strategies obsolete—even strategies that appeared ideal when they were first approved. In such an environment, it is increasingly important to conduct monitoring in order to identify any signs of change at the earliest opportunity. I have already discussed this point earlier. When changes are identified, it is also important for the Board of Directors to hold discussions with a view to reexamining the risks and the appropriateness of strategies, and to flexibly revise the strategies as needed. This is another responsibility of the Board of Directors. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Astellas evaluated the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors. This evaluation identified the following two issues: (1) To carry out Strategic Plan 2018, the Board of Directors will monitor the constantly changing internal and external environmental trends and engage in more effective discussion of strategy, and (2) The Board of Directors will oversee whether appropriate measures have been taken against risks identified by the framework for systematic risk evaluation that were strengthened in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. I believe that it is crucial to enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors by giving consideration to those issues. Q: In your view, what is the significance of Astellas’ transition to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee? A: I believe that this is the best possible structure for improving discussions on strategies and related matters. Pursuant to a resolution passed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held in June 2018, Astellas has transitioned to a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. Operating as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee structure enables the delegation of a significant portion of the Board of Directors’ decision-making authority for business execution to Executive Directors, and allows the agenda of Board of Directors meetings to be set more flexibly. This change in the organizational blueprint of the Company to further enhance discussions on management strategy and related issues amongst the Board of Directors is an initiative to address the issues identified in the evaluation of effectiveness. In my view, the ideal corporate governance structure varies from company to company and with the company’s circumstances. Astellas selected this structure as a corporate governance model that better fits its situation, after carefully considering various factors from many different angles, such as Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 32 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance the environment surrounding the Company, its VISION, the steady execution of Strategic Plan 2018, and accountability to stakeholders. I believe that this is a very positive change in structure. Going forward, Astellas will continue to explore ways to further enhance its corporate governance. We, the outside Directors, will renew our awareness on a daily basis and continue to contribute positively to ensuring the effective functioning of this structure and its continued evolution and development. Q: What kinds of attributes did you rate highly in nominating Kenji Yasukawa as the new President and CEO? A: I find great promise in Mr. Yasukawa’s expansive perspective and expertise, as well as his ability to make decisions promptly and appropriately. Every year, Astellas discusses successor candidates for president and succession planning in the Nomination Committee. The nomination of Mr. Yasukawa was made appropriately through a highly transparent and acceptable process. Mr. Yasukawa has an expansive perspective that allows him to make decisions based on a holistic view of the entire Company, backed by his wide range of professional experience working in the development department and Product & Portfolio Strategy, as well as a strong understanding of science. He also has an extensive network both inside and outside the Company. Over the past few years, Mr. Yasukawa has demonstrated leadership in the execution of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 and the formulation of Strategic Plan 2018 as Chief Strategy Officer (CSTO) of the Company. Therefore, I nominated Mr. Yasukawa as the successor to the President based on my belief that he will be able to make prompt and bold decisions guided by a strong understanding of Astellas as a whole. Another key reason for my nomination is that I believe Mr. Yasukawa will be able to fulfill Astellas’ accountability to stakeholders on matters including decision-making processes. This is an attribute that was emphasized strongly by Chairman of the Board Yoshihiko Hatanaka, who previously served as President and CEO. Q: What are your expectations for Astellas and Mr. Yasukawa going forward? A: I expect Astellas and Mr. Yasukawa to continuously transform the Company to realize its VISION. Strategic Plan 2018 sets forth specific strategies for Astellas to overcome the impact of the expiry of the patent periods for core products from 2019 onward and to create a new growth trajectory. In the course of executing those strategies, Astellas will need to demonstrate an even greater ability to respond to change than before. I believe that the ability to respond to change comes from diversity. Homogeneous groups tend to present risks when they are exposed to headwinds. However, organizations that can place their confidence in people who have completely different ways of thinking or people who may have different opinions than the views of decision makers, are able to surmount challenging situations with flexibility and strength. Earlier, I noted that “Business leaders must have the ability to make decisions rapidly and the execution skills needed to go all-out and get things done at critical moments.” In my view, Mr. Yasukawa possesses these qualities, as well as the flexibility needed to embrace different opinions. Astellas is an enterprise that achieves growth through transformation. Guided by the leadership of Mr. Yasukawa, I expect Astellas to drive relentless evolution in order to achieve its strategic goals and make steady strides toward realizing its VISION: “Astellas is on the forefront of healthcare change to turn innovative science into value for patients.” 33 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Business Review Achieve a Sustainable Increase in Enterprise Value and Fulfill Social Responsibilities through Business Activities In all of its value chains, Astellas will make steady strides toward the strategic goals laid out in Strategic Plan 2018. By doing so, Astellas will seek to achieve a sustainable increase in enterprise value, while fulfilling its social responsibilities. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 34 Business Review Executive Committee (as of July 2018) The Executive Committee discusses important matters of management across Astellas. It is chaired by the Representative Director, President and CEO, and comprises top management and General Counsel as standing members. Extended members include the officers responsible for research, development and pharmaceutical technology capabilities together with the officers responsible for each region, and these members participate in any necessary discussions at the request of the chairman. Standing Members Fumiaki Sakurai Linda Friedman Chikashi Takeda Yukio Matsui Chief Administrative Officer & General Counsel Chief Financial Officer Chief Commercial Officer Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Bernhardt Zeiher, M.D. Kenji Yasukawa, Ph. D. Naoki Okamura Chief Medical Officer Representative Director, Chief Strategy Officer President and CEO Extended Members Nobuaki Tanaka Masatoshi Kuroda Percival Barretto-Ko Dirk Kosche Akihiko Iwai Mitsunori Matsuda President, Japan President, Asia & President, President, Europe, President, Drug President, Pharmaceutical Sales & Marketing Oceania Business Americas Operations Middle East and Discovery Research Technology Africa Operations 35 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Executive Messages Speaking with the CSTO Strategic Plan 2018 Delivering on Corporate Strategy by Setting Clear Priorities and Enhancing Monitoring Naoki Okamura Chief Strategy Officer (CSTO) Q: How will you execute the strategies laid out in Strategic Plan 2018? A: We have started implementing systems to monitor our progress toward the achievement of our strategic goals. Strategies are only meaningful when they are executed appropriately. Concurrently with the formulation of Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas has built and started implementing systems to monitor the degree of achievement of its three strategic goals. We will track our progress toward those goals more comprehensively by monitoring the allocation of management resources against the strategic goals as well as the number of projects based on the Focus Area approach, which holds the key to realizing Astellas’ vision. In order to succeed with the Focus Area approach, we must obtain the necessary resources to invest in this approach. To this end, we will continue to maximize product value and operational excellence, along with properly monitoring our progress toward these goals. In doing so, we intend to steadily deliver a higher level of performance. Q: Why did you set forth “Developing Rx+ programs” as a strategic goal in Strategic Plan 2018? A: We believe that “Developing Rx+ programs” is a key element of driving sustainable growth and realizing Astellas’ VISION. Under Strategic Plan 2018, we have set clear management priorities. In the process, we have set forth “Developing Rx+ programs” as one of our strategic goals. This also signals how we view the current business environment. Advances in digital technologies and other areas are rapidly and dramatically reshaping the structure of the industry and business environment. Against this backdrop, Astellas recognizes that it must establish new businesses and core business models from a long-term perspective by applying the strengths developed in its traditional core business, the prescription pharmaceutical (Rx) business. By pursuing innovative science, we will create optimal medical solutions (Rx+) that provide value to patients in fields beyond the Rx business, thereby achieving additional growth. Doing so is inseparable from realizing Astellas’ VISION. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 36 Business Review Speaking with the CMO Creating Future Value Expanding Our Pipeline with a Transition to the Focus Area Approach Bernhardt Zeiher, M.D. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Q: What were the key pipeline achievements from 2015-2017 and what are the key priorities for enhancing the pipeline moving forward? A: Astellas continues to progress our key midand late-stage projects while expanding our pipeline in line with our corporate strategy. Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, we significantly advanced our midto late-stage pipeline and built capabilities in new technology platforms and treatment modalities to support our future focus. In oncology, we are delivering new value to patients across a spectrum of different cancers with additional indications for enzalutamide, potential new treatment options in acute myeloid leukemia, advanced bladder cancer, gastric cancer, and three early-phase immuno-oncology antibodies. In medical specialties, we are exploring the biology underpinning many diseases, and our pipeline includes potential treatments in women’s health, urology and nephrology, immunology and neuroscience, while also advancing new areas of discovery research in areas such as regenerative medicine, stem cell therapies and muscle diseases. We are always exploring opportunities to grow our robust pipeline through business development activities that align with our strategy. Q: How will a full transition to the Focus Area approach improve R&D productivity? A: We will improve R&D productivity by leveraging our strengths and investing new resources into innovative science. We will create value for patients by focusing on the science of innovative biologies and modality/ technology platforms first, then seek to apply them across a broad range of diseases. This transition, however, requires us to change our mindset and capabilities. Previously, most of our early development programs came from internal discovery research that we supplemented with later stage licensing or acquisitions. An increased emphasis on early stage collaborations with academia or biotechs requires a more flexible approach, including using external resources to perform some early-stage studies. An increased emphasis on novel biologies also requires deeper capability in translational science. We will of course maintain a disciplined approach to early development, investing against key milestones or, in select programs, taking a more aggressive “fast track” approach. 37 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Speaking with the CAO & CECO Sustainable Enhancement of Corporate Value and Compliance Promoting Initiatives to Fulfill the Demands and Expectations of Diverse Stakeholders Fumiaki Sakurai Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CAO & CECO) Q: What kinds of actions are you taking to solve social issues? A: We are focusing on improving Access to Health by making the most of Astellas’ strengths. Improving Access to Health is a particularly crucial social issue that we should be addressing as a pharmaceutical company. We continue to make contributions to improving Access to Health by harnessing our technologies, expertise and resources in each of the following four areas: (1) Creating innovation, which is the basis of our core business, (2) Enhancing availability of innovative medicines, (3) Strengthening healthcare systems, and (4) Improving health literacy. In the course of solving social issues, Astellas will make maximum use of partnerships as necessary. Going forward, Astellas will continue to further expand opportunities to contribute to improving Access to Health, as it seeks to generate value for society and sustainably increase corporate value. Q: What kinds of measures are you implementing to strengthen the compliance program? A: We are continuing to build a globally consistent compliance program encompassing emerging countries and continuing to foster a corporate culture based on the highest ethical standards and integrity. Astellas is strongly committed to the ongoing strengthening of its compliance program, as highlighted by the globalization of the Ethics & Compliance function in April 2016. The goal of strengthening the compliance program is to promote ethics and compliance in a globally consistent manner, including in emerging countries. Specific measures have included establishing the Astellas Group Code of Conduct and various global policies, as well as upgrading and expanding the internal whistleblowing system and online training system on a global basis. We have also increased personnel numbers by assigning full-time compliance staff independent of business departments to almost all countries where Astellas has a sales office. Moreover, we are doing more than merely establishing compliance policies and processes. We are also taking steps that continue to foster a corporate culture based on the highest ethical standards and integrity—one that serves as a strong foundation for those policies and processes. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 38 Business Review Research and Development Research and Development Research and Development Astellas aims to create a continuous stream of innovative medicines. We will focus on steady progress of six key post-POC pipeline projects that are expected to contribute Key Post-POC Pipeline Projects to midterm growth, and will pursue cutting-edge science with efficient drug discovery approaches. XTANDI (generic name: enzalutamide) XTANDI is marketed worldwide for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC)*. Core Strategy of Research and Development Development is ongoing to expand the indication to earlier stages of prostate cancer. Astellas sets targets of research and development (R&D) In September 2017, Phase 3 PROSPER trial in patients from multiple perspectives through the Focus Area with non-metastatic CRPC had achieved its primary approach and works to create innovative medicines to endpoint. Astellas submitted regulatory applications based fulfill high unmet medical needs based on the concepts of on these data in the U.S. and Europe. The U.S. Food and Best Science, Best Talent (optimal personnel), and Best Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval for nonPlace (optimum environment). metastatic CRPC in July 2018. We determine the priorities of development Two Phase 3 trials (ARCHES and EMBARK) are also candidates at the early stages and optimize resource ongoing in patients with metastatic hormone-sensitive allocation according to priorities. These efforts have prostate cancer (HSPC) and non-metastatic HSPC. achieved results in reduction of the time for R&D and * In Japan, XTANDI has been approved for CRPC. improvement of cost efficiency. In late-stage development, we allocate management Maximizing the Value of Enzalutamide in Prostate Cancer resources extensively to six key post-POC* projects. We aim Initial diagnosis to characterize the therapeutic potential of these projects Active surveillance in development. In Strategic Plan 2018, the potential annual sales expected for these projects are described in Radiation Surgery the table below. Definitive Salvage therapy * POC (“Proof of Concept”): Verification of clinical efficacy Therapy Potential Size of Key Post-POC Pipeline Potential size*1 EMBARK ARCHES Key post-POC pipeline*2 (at peak, billion yen) M0 HSPC*1 M1 HSPC*2 M1 HSPC*2 • XTANDI (enzalutamide) Hormone or Recurrent Newly-diagnosed 400 – 500 Castration-Sensitive 200 – 300 • fezolinetant 100 – 200 • zolbetuximab • enfortumab vedotin PROSPER 50 – 100 • gilteritinib PREVAIL M0 CRPC*3 M1 CRPC*4 (first-line) * Not disclosed for roxadustat *1 Sales amount in the case of successful development in the patient segments currently being evaluated. Some patient segments under evaluation may not AFFIRM be included in the potential size because development is still in an early stage. M1 CRPC*4 (second and later lines) *2 Target diseases listed in the current pipeline list (P45) are included in the Castration-Resistant projection. XTANDI also includes sales for indications that have already been approved. *1 M0 HSPC: Non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer *2 M1 HSPC: Metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer *3 M0 CRPC: Non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer *4 M1 CRPC: Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 39 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Gilteritinib Astellas is conducting the multiple Phase 3 trials to Gilteritinib is a FLT3/AXL inhibitor which is being evaluate efficacy and safety of gilteritinib in AML patients developed for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Gilteritinib at various therapeutic stages. In March 2018, a new drug inhibits both FLT3, a receptor-type tyrosine kinase known application (NDA) for marketing approval of gilteritinib to be involved in cancer cell proliferation, and AXL, which was submitted in Japan and the U.S. for the treatment of is reported to be associated with resistance to some forms adult patients with FLT3mut+ relapsed and refractory AML of chemotherapy. based on the interim analysis data from the ongoing AML is a cancer that is most commonly experienced Phase 3 ADMIRAL trial. In this patient population, in elderly people with the incidence rate increasing with gilteritinib has been granted for SAKIGAKE designation in age. In 2017, the numbers of newly diagnosed AML Japan and Fast Track designation in the U.S. Astellas has patients were around 17,500 in the U.S., 13,200 in western been working to accelerate development of gilteritinib by Europe, and 5,600 in Japan*. The prognosis of relapsed or utilizing the various expedited regulatory pathways in refractory FLT3-mutation positive (FLT3mut+) AML is poor each region. The status of filing and regulatory designation with low response rates to salvage therapy. Resistance to is shown in the table in this page. current AML treatment and ineligibility of high-intensity * Annual Incidence in 2017 in U.S., EU5 and JP. CancerMPact (Synix Inc./Kantar Health) induction chemotherapy for elderly patients due to an excessive physical burden also make challenges in AML Gilteritinib in AML Treatment Landscape treatment. A promising new treatment has been awaited AML patients in AML treatment landscape. FLT3-mutation positive ~30% Development Progress of Gilteritinib in Each Region High-intensity Low-intensity induction chemotherapy chemotherapy Development stage Regulatory designation Phase 1 LACEWING • SAKIGAKE designation Ongoing Ongoing Japan Filed in Mar. 2018 • Orphan Drug designation Filed in Mar. 2018 • Fast Track designation U.S. (PDUFA* date: Nov. 2018) • Orphan Drug designation Chemotherapy Europe Phase 3 • Orphan designation Transplantation consolidation * PDUFA: Prescription Drug User Fee Act Maintenance therapy Maintenance therapy GOSSAMER MORPHO Ongoing Ongoing Salvage therapy ADMIRAL Ongoing Filed in Japan and U.S. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 40 Business Review Research and Development Enfortumab Vedotin Zolbetuximab Enfortumab vedotin is an antibody drug conjugate*1 Zolbetuximab is an antibody that targets Claudin 18.2, a (ADC) targeting Nectin-4, a cell adhesion molecule. While transmembrane protein that forms a tight junction it is stable in blood, it is designed to kill only the targeted connecting and binding two adjoining cell membranes. cancer cells after its internalization into cancer cells Claudin 18.2 is expressed locally in stomach cells for expressing Nectin-4. normal cells. Claudin 18.2 is expressed in various cancer Astellas is developing enfortumab vedotin as a types including gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas and treatment for urothelial cancer. In Japan, the U.S. and pancreatic, biliary duct, ovarian and lung cancers. Europe, approximately 233,000*2 new patients are Gastric cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer diagnosed with urothelial cancer annually. It is reported death worldwide*1. Moreover, the overall five-year survival that some patients are confirmed for metastasis at the rate for metastatic gastric and gastroesophageal junction time of initial diagnosis of urothelial cancer and the five(GEJ) cancer is under 20%*2. Gastric and GEJ cancer is one year survival rate is low. A high recurrence rate is reported of the malignancies with the highest unmet medical even if diagnosed and treated at an early stage. A needs. Chemotherapy and anti-HER2 antibodies are widely promising new treatment is awaited. used for the treatment of metastatic or recurrent gastric Currently, aiming for earlier approval in each region, and GEJ cancer. However, other therapeutic options are Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in patients with locally advanced awaited especially in HER2-negative patients with a lack of or metastatic urothelial cancer previously treated with a effective targeted therapies. checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) are ongoing. Enfortumab Astellas is developing zolbetuximab as a treatment for vedotin is also being evaluated for the various usage in gastric and GEJ cancer. Two Phase 3 trials are planned to urothelial cancer including combination therapy with a CPI evaluate zolbetuximab in combination with (1) or monotherapy. mFOLFOX6*3, which is commonly used as the first-line The U.S. FDA has granted Breakthrough Therapy therapy in Europe and the U.S, and with (2) CAPOX*4, the designation to enfortumab vedotin for patients with preferred regimen in Asia, including China. The former locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who were study was initiated first. previously treated with CPIs. *1 World Health Organization Fact Sheet, 2018 *2 Pennathur et al, 2013; Sahin et al, 2008 *1 Antibody drug conjugate (ADC): ADCs are monoclonal antibodies that are *3 mFOLFOX6: Fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin designed to selectively deliver cytotoxic agents to cancer cells. *4 CAPOX: Capecitabine, oxaliplatin *2 Annual Incidence in 2017 in U.S., EU5 and JP. CancerMPact (Synix Inc./Kantar Health) Development Progress of Zolbetuximab Development Progress of Enfortumab Vedotin in Locally Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Cancer Clinical trial Trial overview Progress Clinical trial Patient segment Progress vs placebo Phase 3 Started in Jun. 2018 Combination with mFOLFOX6 Patients with prior CPI treatment vs placebo Phase 3 Started in Jul. 2018 Phase 3 Under preparation (platinum-pretreated) Combination with CAPOX Patients with prior CPI treatment Monotherapy, Cohort 1: Platinum-pretreated Phase 2 Started in Jun. 2018 Phase 2 Started in Oct. 2017 Combination with mFOLFOX6 Cohort 2: Platinum naïve Cisplatin ineligible Phase 1b Combination with CPI Started in Nov. 2017 Metastatic urothelial cancer patients Ongoing Phase 1 Patients with renal insufficiency Data presented at Patients with prior CPI treatment medical conferences 41 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Roxadustat NDA in Japan for anemia associated with CKD in patients Roxadustat is hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) prolyl on dialysis in 2018. hydroxylase (PH) inhibitor with oral administration. Roxadustat is thought to increase HIF involving in the Fezolinetant production of red blood cells by inhibiting HIF-PH, thereby Fezolinetant is an antagonist of the G protein-coupled enhancing the production of red blood cells and receptor (GPCR) known as NK3 receptor. Fezolinetant is improving anemia. Astellas is currently developing expected to act on specific neurons that control body roxadustat for anemia associated with chronic kidney temperature in menopausal women, and is being disease (CKD) in patients on dialysis and non-dialysis. developed for menopause-related vasomotor symptoms Anemia is one of the common complications of CKD. (MR-VMS: hot flashes and night sweats). It is reported that It is said that the progression of anemia in CKD leads to MR-VMS is recognized in nearly 80%*1 of menopausal end-stage renal disease and increases the mortality rate. women. Given that existing hormone replacement Therefore, managing the hemoglobin levels in patients treatments present safety concerns*2, a safe and effective with anemia in CKD is a crucial issue in the treatment of non-hormone therapy is awaited as a new treatment option. renal dysfunction. In Phase 2a (POC) trial, fezolinetant showed positive Roxadustat has a different mechanism of action than results in terms of the improvement in the frequency and the conventional treatments and can be administered severity of hot flashes. Based on these results, Astellas orally. It is thus expected to become a new treatment expects fezolinetant to become a safe, first-in-class, nonoption which could provide both effectiveness and hormonal treatment for MR-VMS. Phase 2b trial is currently convenience for patients. ongoing in the U.S. with an expected data readout in 2018. For filing and reimbursement in Europe, a total of six *1 UpToDate – Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of menopause (Literature Phase 3 trials are being conducted. In addition, six Phase 3 review current through: June 2017) *2 JAMA 2013 Oct 2; 310(13): 1353-1368 trials are being conducted in Japan. Four Japanese trials in patient with anemia in CKD on dialysis have all achieved U.S. Annual Branded TRx*1 Trends for MR-VMS*2 their primary objectives. Astellas is planning to submit a 80,000 Data released Development Progress of Roxadustat by WHI*3 in 2001 60,000 Global Number of TRx (1,000s) Unmet medical needs Treatment Trial overview Status 40,000 phase HIMALAYAS: Incident dialysis, vs epoetin Enrollment alfa completed 20,000 2016 market Enrollment Approx. US$1 billion Dialysis SIERRAS: Stable dialysis, vs epoetin alfa completed 0 PYRENEES: Stable dialysis, vs epoetin alfa Enrollment 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 or darbepoetin completed Enrollment *1 TRx: Total prescriptions DOLOMITES: vs darbepoetin *2 IQVIA NPA (2000-2016)/IQVIA NSP (2000-2016) (3HTs and SSRI), NAMS 2015 completed NonPosition Statement ALPS: vs placebo Study completed *3 WHI: Women’s Health Initiative dialysis Enrollment ANDES: vs placebo completed Japan Treatment Trial overview Status phase Hemodialysis: Conversion, vs darbepoetin Study completed Hemodialysis: Conversion, long-term Study completed Dialysis Hemodialysis: Correction (ESA*-naïve) Study completed Peritoneal dialysis Study completed Conversion, vs darbepoetin Recruiting Nondialysis Enrollment Correction (ESA*-naïve) completed * ESA: Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 42 Business Review Research and Development R&D Topics during the Year Progress in Development (Approval and Filing) Japan Europe United States 2017 OCT APR sitagliptin (DPP-4 inhibitor)/ Gonax for prostate cancer MAY ipragliflozin (SGLT2 inhibitor） NOV Filed for an additional formulation of a 12-week Filed for the fixed-dose combination extended-release formulation mirabegron (beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist)/ solifenacin (muscarine M3 receptor antagonist) JUN DEC Filed for combination usage of mirabegron with solifenacin Suglat for diabetes mellitus fidaxomicin (macrocyclic antibiotic) Filed for an additional indication of type 1 Filed for infectious enteritis (susceptible strains: diabetes mellitus fidaxomicin susceptible Clostridium difficile) 2018 blinatumomab (Anti-CD19 BiTE antibody) Bipresso extended-release tablets for depressive JAN Filed for acute lymphoblastic leukemia JUL symptoms associated with bipolar disorder Approved for improvement of depressive symptoms associated with bipolar disorder XTANDI for prostate cancer Filed for an additional indication of non-metastatic tacrolimus (immunosuppressant) castration-resistant prostate cancer Filed for a granule formulation for pediatric patients XTANDI for prostate cancer Approved for an additional formulation of tablets Repatha subcutaneous injection FEB for hypercholesterolemia Vesicare for overactive bladder AUG Approved for an additional formulation of Approved for an additional indication of neurogenic automated mini-doser detrusor overactivity in pediatric patients gilteritinib (FLT3/AXL inhibitor) LINZESS for irritable bowel syndrome Filed for relapsed or refractory FLT3-mutation with constipation positive acute myeloid leukemia Filed for an additional indication of chronic constipation SEP MAR Sujanu fixed-dose combination tablets XTANDI for prostate cancer for diabetes mellitus Approved for an additional formulation of tablets Approved for the combination tablet of ipragliflozin and sitagliptin 43 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Capturing New Opportunities Other Alliance Station established Modality/Technology In April 2017, Astellas and Kyoto University established the Alliance Station as a new open innovation scheme with Universal Donor Cell technology aim of delivering advanced medical treatments. In addition, In February 2018, Astellas acquired Universal Cells, Inc., the Alliance Laboratory for Advanced Medical Research in which had proprietary Universal Donor Cell technology for the Graduate School of Medicine Kyoto University was producing pluripotent stem cells with the potential to established as a framework for such activities. reduce the risk of immunological rejection in cell therapy. This acquisition enables Astellas to strengthen and expand Acquisition of Ogeda SA its research and development of cell therapy by combining In May 2017, Astellas completed its acquisition of Ogeda this technology and the platform technologies of the SA, making it a wholly owned Astellas subsidiary with the Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine. aim of expanding the pipeline in clinical development. Besides fezolinetant, NK3 receptor antagonist developing Reference Focus Area Approach P 15 for menopause-related vasomotor symptoms, Astellas acquired multiple small molecule compounds in the preclinical stage for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Biology Reference Research and Development P 42 Acquisition of Mitobridge, Inc. In November 2017, Astellas exercised its exclusive option Rice-based oral vaccine MucoRice rights to acquire Mitobridge, Inc. into a wholly owned In May 2017, Astellas and the Institute of Medical Science, subsidiary and completed acquisition in January 2018. the University of Tokyo (IMSUT) agreed to expand the Mitobridge, Inc. was previously a R&D collaborator scope of the collaborative research program for the ricediscovering and developing novel drugs that targets based oral vaccine MucoRice to include vaccines against mitochondria function. cholera, enterotoxigenic E. coli, and viral gastroenteritis diarrhea. In February 2017, a new collaborative research Reference Focus Area Approach P 16 agreement was signed with IMSUT, Chiba University and ASAHI KOGYOSHA CO., LTD. aiming for practical applications of MucoRice-CTB. Immunostimulatory gene-loading oncolytic virus In February 2018, Astellas entered into an exclusive global Reference Access to Health P 63 licensing agreement with Tottori University on the development and commercialization of immunostimulatory gene-loading oncolytic virus. We expect to offer new New collaborative drug-discovery program opportunities in cancer immunotherapy with this virus via In October 2017, Astellas signed an agreement with the induction of antitumor immunity in tumors not Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation and Daiichi Sankyo responding to currently available cancer immunotherapies. Co., Ltd. to conduct a joint program JOINUS to discover * Some rights relating to the fundamental technology are non-exclusive. new therapeutic drugs using the drug-repositioning compound libraries. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 44 Business Review Research and Development Status of R&D Pipeline (as of July 2018) Biology Modality/Technology Code No. Dosage Generic Name Classification Target Disease Phase/Area Licensor*1 FA approach*2 Form (Brand Name) Oncology MDV3100 Androgen receptor Non-metastatic castrationApproved (Jul. 2018)/US Oral Pfizer enzalutamide inhibitor resistant prostate cancer Filed (Jan. 2018)/Europe (XTANDI) Non-metastatic hormoneP-III/US, Europe, Asia sensitive prostate cancer Metastatic hormone-sensitive P-III/US, Europe, Japan ,Asia prostate cancer ASP3550 GnRH antagonist Prostate cancer Filed (Nov. 2017)/Japan Injection Ferring degarelix (3-month formulation) (GONAX) AMG 103 Anti-CD19 BiTE Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Filed (Jan. 2018)/Japan Injection Amgen blinatumomab antibody (co-development with Amgen Astellas) ASP2215 FLT3/AXL inhibitor Relapsed or refractory Filed (Mar. 2018)/US, Japan Oral In-house gilteritinib acute myeloid leukemia P-III/Europe, Asia Post-chemo maintenance P-III/US, Europe, Japan, Asia acute myeloid leukemia Post-HSCT maintenance P-III/US, Europe, Japan, Asia acute myeloid leukemia Newly diagnosed acute myeloid P-II/III/ leukemia with low intensity US, Europe, Japan, Asia induction of chemotherapy Newly diagnosed acute myeloid P-I/US, Japan leukemia with high intensity induction of chemotherapy IMAB362 Anti-Claudin 18.2 Gastric and gastroesophageal P-III/US, Europe, Japan, Asia Injection In-house zolbetuximab monoclonal antibody junction adenocarcinoma (Ganymed) ASG-22ME ADC targeting Nectin-4 Urothelial cancer P-III/US, Europe, Japan, Asia Injection In-house enfortumab (co-development with vedotin Seattle Genetics) AGS-16C3F ADC targeting ENPP3 Renal cell carcinoma P-II/US, Europe Injection In-house (ADC technology in-licensed from Seattle Genetics) AGS67E Lymphoid malignancies P-I Injection In-house (ADC technology in-licensed from Seattle Genetics) AGS62P1 Acute myeloid leukemia P-I Injection In-house (ADC technology, EuCODE license from Ambrx) ASP8374/PTZ-201 Cancer P-I Injection Option agreement with Cancer Potenza Therapeutics immunology ASP1948/PTZ-329 Cancer P-I Injection Option agreement with Cancer Potenza Therapeutics immunology Immunology, Muscle disease and Ophthalmology FK506 Immunosuppressant Prevention of rejection after organ Approved (May 2018)/US Oral In-house tacrolimus transplantation (Granule formulation in pediatric use) ASP015K JAK inhibitor Rheumatoid arthritis Filed (May 2018)/Japan Oral In-house peficitinib ASKP1240 Anti-CD40 monoclonal Recurrence of focal segmental P-II/US Injection Kyowa Hakko Kirin bleselumab antibody glomerulosclerosis in de novo kidney transplant recipients ASP4070/ DNA vaccine for Pollinosis caused by Japanese red P-II/Japan Injection Immunomic LAMP-vax JRC2-LAMP-vax Japanese red cedar cedar Therapeutics technology ASP5094 Anti-alpha-9 integrin Rheumatoid arthritis P-II/Japan Injection In-house monoclonal antibody 45 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Biology Modality/Technology Code No. Dosage Generic Name Classification Target Disease Phase/Area Licensor*1 FA approach*2 Form (Brand Name) CK-2127107 Fast skeletal troponin Spinal muscular atrophy P-II/US Oral Cytokinetics Molecular reldesemtiv activator Chronic obstructive pulmonary P-II/US motor disease Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis P-II/US ASP7317 Cell therapy Dry age-related macular P-II/US Injection In-house Cell therapy (Retinal pigment degeneration, (Astellas Institute for epithelium cell) Stargardt’s macular degeneration Regenerative Medicine) MA-0211 Duchenne muscular dystrophy P-I Oral In-house Mitochondria (Mitobridge) ASP0892 Peanut allergy P-I Injection Immunomic LAMP-vax Therapeutics technology Urology and Nephrology EB178 Combination therapy Overactive bladder with Approved (Apr. 2018)/US Oral In-house solifenacin/ of solifenacin and symptoms of urge urinary mirabegron mirabegron incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency YM905 Muscarine M3 receptor Neurogenic detrusor overactivity Filed (Feb. 2017)/US Oral In-house solifenacin antagonist in pediatric patients ASP1517/FG-4592 HIF stabilizer Anemia associated with chronic P-III/Europe Oral FibroGen roxadustat kidney disease in patients not on P-III/Japan dialysis and on dialysis YM178 Beta-3 receptor agonist Neurogenic detrusor overactivity P-III/Europe Oral In-house mirabegron in pediatric patients YM311/FG-2216 HIF stabilizer Renal anemia P-II/Europe Oral FibroGen P-I/Japan ASP6294 Nerve Growth Factor Bladder pain syndrome / P-II/Europe Injection In-house (NGF) neutralization Interstitial cystitis antibody ASP8302 Muscarine M3 receptor Underactive bladder P-II/Europe, Japan Oral In-house positive allosteric modulator ASP7713 Underactive bladder P-I Oral In-house MA-0217 Acute kidney injury P-I Injection In-house Mitochondria (Mitobridge) Others fidaxomicin Macrocyclic antibiotic Infectious enteritis (bacterial Approved (Jul. 2018)/Japan Oral Merck target: Clostridium difficile) Clostridium difficile infection in P-III/Europe pediatric patients AMG 785 Anti-sclerostin Osteoporosis for those at high risk Filed (Dec. 2016)/Japan Injection Amgen romosozumab monoclonal antibody of fracture (co-development with Amgen Astellas) ASP1941 SGLT2 inhibitor Type 1 diabetes Filed (Jan. 2018)/Japan Oral In-house ipragliflozin (co-development with (Suglat) Kotobuki) ASP0456 Guanylate cyclase-C Chronic constipation Filed (Sep. 2017)/Japan Oral Ironwood linaclotide receptor agonist (LINZESS) ESN364 NK3 receptor Menopause-related vasomotor P-II/US Oral In-house fezolinetant antagonist symptoms P-I/Japan (Ogeda) ASP0819 Calcium2+-activated Fibromyalgia P-II/US Oral In-house K+ channel opener ASP4345 Dopamine D1 receptor Cognitive impairment associated P-II/US Oral In-house positive allosteric with schizophrenia modulator ASP1807/CC8464 Neuropathic pain P-I Oral Chromocell ASP6981 Cognitive impairment associated P-I Oral In-house with schizophrenia MucoRice-CTB Prophylaxis of diarrhea caused by P-I Oral The Institute of Medical Vibrio cholerae Science, the University of Tokyo *1 Compounds with “In-house” in this column include ones discovered by collaborative research. *2 Focus Area approach Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 46 Business Review Research and Development CSR Activities in Research and Development *1 Laboratory Biosafety Manual 3rd Edition *2 Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories 5th Edition Research *3 NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant or Synthetic Nucleic Acid Molecules Ethical Considerations in Research on Human Subjects and Specimens Derived from Humans Use of Genetic Resources Astellas conducts research on human subjects, and obtains Astellas has published its Position on Genetic Resources, and conducts research on specimens derived from humans, and is committed to full compliance with the relevant laws after appropriately obtaining the consent of the subjects and regulations of countries supplying genetic resources, in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki* as well as and to the fair distribution of profits derived from the use the laws, regulations and guidelines of relevant countries. of such resources according to the conditions mutually In Japan, Astellas provides training for researchers in agreed upon with each country. This commitment is based areas such as bioethics, genomic research and related clinical on the concept of genetic resource utilization and the research based on a strong commitment to respecting the associated distribution of profits set out in the Nagoya human rights of research subjects and protecting the Protocol*1 adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the privacy and confidentiality of their personal information. Convention on Biological Diversity*2. The impacts of the The Astellas Research Ethics Committee has been use of new genetic modification technologies on the established with outside members participating in the environment, biodiversity, and human health are not fully committee to determine the ethical acceptability and known. Therefore, Astellas will proceed cautiously when scientific propriety of research plans in a fair and impartial using these technologies while remaining mindful of the manner. need to preserve biodiversity and consider ethical issues. * Declaration of Helsinki: A statement of ethical principles for medical research *1 Nagoya Protocol: Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and involving human subjects, addressed to physicians and others who are involved equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization in medical research on human subjects. *2 The Convention on Biological Diversity: International convention on the sustainable use and conservation of biological diversity Ethical Considerations in Animal Testing Treatment of Intellectual Property Astellas conducts animal testing based on its Policy on Appropriate protection of intellectual property is critical to Animal Care and Use. We have established the Corporate addressing unmet medical needs and maintaining a Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee with outside competitive advantage. With this in mind, Astellas has members participating in the committee, to determine established a Policy on Intellectual Property. In view of the whether to conduct animal testing based on the 4R importance of improving people’s access to health, Principles*1. All of Astellas’ animal testing facilities have Astellas participates in the Patent Information Initiative for acquired accreditation from AAALAC international*2. Medicines (Pat-INFORMED) implemented by the World *1 4R Principles: Developing non-animal testing alternatives and replacing animals International Patent Organization (WIPO) to ensure easy of phylogenetically lower species (Replacement); reducing the number of access to Astellas’ patent information on medicines by animals involved to the minimum necessary to achieve the scientific purpose (Reduction); avoiding the infliction of distress on animals wherever possible health agencies tasked with the procurement of medicines (Refinement); and scientifically and ethically justifying animal use in light of in various countries. their significance, necessity, predictability and other criteria (Responsibility). *2 AAALAC International: The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Moreover, we are committed to not filing or enforcing Laboratory Animal Care International. An international organization that patents in countries facing significant economic promotes the humane treatment of animals through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. Studies are undertaken from both scientific and challenges. These select countries are decided by referring ethical standpoints to verify the quality of animal control and use programs. to those designated as Least Developed Countries (LDCs) defined by the United Nations or Low Income Countries Biotechnology and Biohazard Control (LICs) defined by the World Bank. Astellas handles genetically modified organisms and performs experiments using materials containing pathogens in compliance with the World Health Organization Laboratory Biosafety Manual*1, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Biosafety Manual*2 and the U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines*3, as well as the laws of individual countries. 47 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data *1 Patient-level data are provided through the following website: http://www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com Clinical Development *2 Results of the clinical trials are provided through the following website: https://www.astellasclinicalstudyresults.com/Welcome.aspx Respect for Human Rights, Protection of the Privacy and Confidentiality of the Personal Patient Centricity in Clinical Drug Development Information of Clinical Trial Subjects, and Real-world considerations in clinical trials are increasingly Assurance of Reliability in Clinical Trials important in ensuring that our studies address current Astellas conducts clinical trials to assess the efficacy and medical practices and patient needs. safety of new drug candidates in patients under the Patient centricity is now a focus for regulatory Declaration of Helsinki, Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and all authorities and the pharmaceutical industry. The patientrelevant laws and regulations with full consideration to centric approach is being discussed at all points in the protecting human rights and the privacy and drug development value chain, from discovery through to confidentiality of clinical trial subjects’ personal information. commercialization. Clinical study protocols developed by Astellas are evaluated We are pursuing patient centricity in clinical development. and approved for ethical acceptability and scientific To do so, we are trying to incorporate insights from realvalidity by internal and external evaluation committees. world data into the planning of clinical trials by In conducting clinical trials, Astellas confirms that understanding how healthcare is provided to patients. clinical trial subjects have provided informed consent, Efforts are being made to include patient input in how to having received a full explanation of the purpose and optimally design clinical trials, recruit participants, and methods of the trial, its expected benefits and disadvantages, identify relevant endpoints that patients care most about. matters related to compensation for health impairment For example, we use patient-reported outcomes and other details. Moreover, we implement education and (PROs) such as questionnaires and patient diaries to training for any employees or staff members involved in monitor and assess patients’ health conditions. In addition, clinical trials, and monitor medical institutions that we use real-world data for estimation of target populations perform clinical trials to ensure full GCP compliance. based on the morbidity rate and ineligible cases in In addition, we manage trial data appropriately to screening, and feasibility of studies in clinical trial facilities. protect the privacy and confidentiality of the personal As a pilot project, we established a patient-friendly website information of clinical trial subjects. Periodic assessments for an investigational drug to support patient/caregiverare also made to check that any outsourced clinical trials focused recruitment and health literacy recommendations. are conducted in accordance with the same standards. Especially in the muscle disease field, we are working with patient organizations. Working closely with those Disclosure of Information on Clinical Trials and organizations, we are striving to reflect valuable insights Trial Results from patients and caregivers in clinical trial designs. Astellas is committed to increasing transparency and Through these activities, we try to make it easier for providing disclosure of clinical trial data. Maximizing the patients to participate in clinical trials, as we work to value of clinical trial data, and putting it to good use in obtain trial results with greater clinical significance. driving scientific advancement and increasing innovation, requires that the clinical trial data be appropriately accessible to the research community and others who might utilize it. The Policy on Disclosure of Clinical Trial Data has been published on the Company website to Please refer to the URL below for information about the following CSR present Astellas’ position on this matter. activities in research and development. Specifically, Astellas provides patient-level data that • Ethical Considerations in Stem Cell Research and Development have been anonymized in accordance with applicable laws • Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines and regulations through an external website*1 to those Web https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/ business-activities/ scientists and healthcare professionals requesting it. Doctors and the public can confirm summaries of clinical Please refer to the following URL for information about our policies and position statements. trial findings via the website for clinical trial data disclosure. Web https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ This website also gives patients access to plain language policies-and-position-statements/ summaries of study results prepared for non-experts*2. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 48 Business Review Manufacturing to Sales and Procurement Manufacturing to Sales and Procurement Overview of Main Products Astellas is focused on maximizing the value of the main clinical experience to further increase penetration of this products that will drive growth in each region, such as drug among urologists. XTANDI and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. In the U.S., Astellas and the Pfizer Group co-promote XTANDI and share profits equally. In all countries excluding the U.S., Astellas commercializes XTANDI, while paying the Pfizer Group royalties based on sales. Prostate Cancer Treatments * In Japan, XTANDI has been approved for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. XTANDI Fiscal 2017 Performance and Outlook Business Environment and Basic Strategy Sales of XTANDI were ¥294.3 billion, an increase of 16.8% According to the American Cancer Society, more than year on year. 164,000 men are expected to be diagnosed with prostate Looking at regional sales of XTANDI, sales in Japan cancer in the U.S. in 2018. In Europe, it is estimated that increased 11.4% to ¥26.1 billion. Sales in the Americas rose approximately 365,000 people were diagnosed with 9.2% to US$1,404 million. In this region, U.S. sales increased prostate cancer in 2015. 7.2% to US$1,303 million. In EMEA, sales rose by 14.6% to XTANDI is a once-daily oral androgen receptor €823 million. In Asia & Oceania, sales increased 47.3% to inhibitor. It was launched in the U.S. in 2012 to treat ¥5.8 billion, marking overall growth. Sales increased across patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate all regions as XTANDI steadily gained traction among cancer who had previously received chemotherapy chemotherapy-naïve patients. through docetaxel. In 2014, XTANDI obtained an additional Sales of XTANDI by Region indication for the treatment of patients with Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania chemotherapy-naïve metastatic castration-resistant (¥ billion) prostate cancer. As of March 2018, XTANDI is sold in more 400.0 than 70 countries and regions around the world, including + 5.5 % Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania. It has so far + 16.8 % 310.3 300.0 294.3 7.7 been used in the treatment of more than 310,000 patients. 5.8 252.1 4.0 119.7 XTANDI stands out as a significant growth driver for 200.0 106.7 85.3 Astellas. We aim to establish the position of XTANDI as the first choice of therapy for metastatic castration-resistant 100.0 139.4 155.6 154.7 prostate cancer*, for which it is currently indicated. To reach this goal, we will leverage our solid presence in the 0 23.4 26.1 28.2 urology field and our abundant data based on extensive 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 (Forecast) 49 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data As part of efforts to maximize the product value of XTANDI, Astellas drove development forward with a focus Overactive Bladder (OAB) Treatments on expanding indications. In January 2018, Astellas Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA and Vesicare submitted applications in Europe and the U.S. for approval of an additional indication of XTANDI for non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer based on data from Business Environment and Basic Strategy the PROSPER trial. In July 2018, Astellas obtained approval OAB can trigger urinary urgency issues (involving cases for this additional indication in the U.S. In Japan, Astellas where urge urinary incontinence is present and others obtained approval for XTANDI tablets as additional dosage where it is not), and it is often associated with urinary forms. Sales of XTANDI tablets were launched in June 2018. frequency and nocturia. By 2018, approximately 546 Moreover, Astellas is pushing ahead with additional million people worldwide are expected to contract OAB*. clinical studies such as the EMBARK trial for patients with Astellas sells Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer and the as treatments that help to relieve symptoms associated ARCHES trial for patients with metastatic hormonewith OAB such as urgency, urinary frequency, and urge sensitive prostate cancer, with the aim of expanding the urinary incontinence. Vesicare has earned a position as the indications of XTANDI to patients with prostate cancer in first choice among anticholinergic drugs—the standard earlier stages. therapy for OAB. As of March 2018, Vesicare is sold in over 80 countries and regions worldwide. Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA is a beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist that helps to relieve symptoms associated with OAB through a different mechanism of action from Vesicare. As of March 2018, it is sold in around 50 countries and regions worldwide under the brand name of Betanis in Japan, Myrbetriq in the Americas, and BETMIGA in EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Patent protection for Vesicare will expire in various regions from 2019 onward. In this environment, we will allocate resources to Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA as we focus on achieving further market penetration, in order to maximize the value of the OAB franchise as a whole. * Irwin DE, Kopp ZS, Agatep B, Milsom I, Abrams P. Worldwide prevalence estimates of lower urinary tract symptoms, overactive bladder, urinary incontinence and XTANDI bladder outlet obstruction. BJU Int. 2011, vol.108, no.7, p.1132-1138. In the area of prostate cancer, Astellas also sells Eligard and Gonax, both of which are treatments for prostate cancer, in addition to XTANDI. Eligard, a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist, is sold in EMEA and Asia & Oceania, while Gonax, a gonadotrophinreleasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist with a subcutaneously injectable formulation, is sold in Japan. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 50 Business Review Manufacturing to Sales and Procurement Fiscal 2017 Performance and Outlook As a result of the foregoing, sales of Betanis/ In fiscal 2017, aggregate sales of our OAB franchise, Myrbetriq/BETMIGA in fiscal 2017 surpassed sales of including Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, Vesicare for the first time. Additionally, Betanis/Myrbetriq/ increased by 6.1% to ¥228.1 billion. BETMIGA’s share of the total sales of the OAB franchise Astellas focused on increasing the market penetration reached approximately 55%, compared with approximately of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA by promoting it as an OAB 46% in fiscal 2016, on a yen basis. treatment with well-balanced effectiveness and tolerability Concomitant use of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA and based on a new mechanism of action. As a result, in fiscal Vesicare, which was approved in the U.S. in May 2018, is 2017, aggregate sales increased in every region, with sales expected to contribute positively to sales. Moreover, Astellas growing by 27.2% to ¥125.7 billion. In Japan, sales of will make effective use of additional data that will be obtained Betanis increased by 13.7% to ¥29.5 billion. Betanis’ annual from post-marketing clinical trials, with the aim of driving share of the OAB treatment market was approximately further growth in sales of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. 37% (on a value basis). In the Americas, Myrbetriq sales rose 28.7% to US$657 million. In this region, Myrbetriq’s annual share of the U.S. OAB treatment market reached approximately 41% (on a value basis). In EMEA, sales of BETMIGA increased by 18.5% to €141 million. In EMEA, BETMIGA’s annual share of the OAB treatment market reached approximately 16% (on a value basis). In Asia & Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Oceania, BETMIGA sales increased sharply by 47.7% to ¥5.2 billion. Meanwhile, in fiscal 2017, sales of Vesicare decreased by 11.9% to ¥102.3 billion. Looking at regional sales of Vesicare, sales in Japan decreased 6.8% to ¥23.9 billion, Other Main Products and New Products sales in the Americas declined 24.0% to US$372 million, sales in EMEA decreased 9.5% to €244 million, and sales in Asia & Oceania rose 0.4% to ¥5.0 billion. Overview of Main Products (Global Products) Prograf and Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF Prograf Total Sales of the OAB Franchise (By Product) and Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF are a vital earnings Vesicare Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA base for Astellas. (¥ billion) 300.0 This drug is an immunosuppressant used to suppress + 6.6% organ transplant rejection. Although the patent for this + 6.1% 243.1 drug has already expired in major countries, it is sold in 214.9 228.1 200.0 approximately 100 countries and regions and has made a 98.8 125.7 146.2 significant global contribution to the field of transplantation. Sales of Prograf increased 6.6% to ¥198.5 100.0 billion in fiscal 2017. Looking at regional sales, sales in 116.1 102.3 96.9 Japan decreased 1.1% to ¥48.3 billion, and sales in the 0 Americas declined 8.0% to US$232 million. However, sales 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 in EMEA via in-house distribution channels rose 2.8% to (Forecast) 51 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data €607 million, mainly supported by an increase of 8.0% in Linzess Linzess was launched in March 2017 as Japan’s sales of Advagraf. Sales in Asia & Oceania rose 14.0% to first drug indicated for the treatment of irritable bowel ¥42.5 billion, with sales growing primarily in China. syndrome with constipation (IBS-C). In fiscal 2017, sales of Linzess were ¥1.4 billion. We will continue working to Overview of New Products (Japan) increase market penetration of this drug, which provides a Suglat/Sujanu Suglat, a type 2 diabetes treatment, is new option for treating IBS-C. In August 2018, Astellas Japan’s first selective sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 obtained approval in Japan for the additional indication of (SGLT2) inhibitor. In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting Suglat chronic constipation (other than constipation associated with Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Sales of Suglat with organic disorders). grew 22.5% to ¥11.6 billion in fiscal 2017. Suglat’s share of the market for selective SGLT2 inhibitors in Japan was around 22% (on a value basis). In May 2018, Astellas launched sales in Japan of Sujanu Combination Tablets, a combination drug of Suglat and the DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin phosphate hydrate, with the indication of type 2 diabetes. Sujanu is co-promoted with Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and MSD K.K. In addition, in January 2018, Astellas filed an application in Japan for approval of an additional indication of Suglat for type 1 diabetes. Repatha In April 2016, Astellas launched Repatha, the Linzess first proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor in Japan, indicated for the treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia or hypercholesterolemia*. It is being co-promoted by Astellas and Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. in an effort to steadily increase market penetration. In May 2017, limits on the prescription period were removed and the self-injectable formulation of Repatha became eligible for National Health Insurance coverage. In fiscal 2017, sales of Repatha were ¥1.6 billion. In January 2018, Astellas launched sales of Repatha SC Injection 420 mg Auto Mini-Doser, an additional dosage formulation of Repatha. * The approved indication is as follows: “Familial hypercholesterolemia, Hypercholesterolemia, only when patients who have high risk of cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. * Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Repatha under National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Affairs Division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (Medical Affairs Division 1215 No.12; December 15, 2017). Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 52 Business Review Manufacturing to Sales and Procurement CSR Activities from Manufacturing to Sales trustworthy product information and proper product use, Quality and Reliability Assurance along with regulatory compliance. Astellas regularly provides product safety awareness Anti-Counterfeiting Activities training not only to staff closely involved with the PV The distribution of counterfeit medicines in legitimate function but also to all employees and contractors supply chains not only leads to the loss of opportunities including affiliate staff, to maintain and strengthen swift for patients to receive medical treatment but could also and appropriate collection of product safety information. For have adverse health consequences. This has become a external service providers outsourced by departments other serious problem worldwide. than the PV division, Astellas updates their contracts to add Astellas operates the Anti-Counterfeit Committee, led requirements for safety management information collection by the supply chain management and quality assurance as necessary. Through these measures, Astellas is building divisions, and has a product security division. These parts a system for collecting information over a wide scope. of Astellas conduct monitoring and surveys, and In addition, Astellas is exploring utilizing real-world implement countermeasures targeting not only data such as large healthcare databases for safety signal counterfeit medicines, but also diversion, smuggling, theft detection of Astellas products to help minimize risk by and related activities. When selling products, Astellas enhancing collaboration between PV and other functions. systematically introduces effective anti-counterfeit Furthermore, Astellas PV has started exploring and technologies, including product serialization of secondary assessing automation technologies and artificial product packaging as stipulated by regulations, based on intelligence technologies that can be used for safety data pharmaceutical laws and regulations and risks in each monitoring, processing and reporting, and earlier market where products are sold, as well as product identification and analysis of safety signals. We plan to use characteristics. In addition, Astellas carries out educational these technologies to strengthen our safety data activities to prevent the spread of counterfeit medicines in management systems. collaboration with members of the pharmaceutical industry and organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the PSI* and the Transported Asset Protection Association. We also proactively endeavor to Technology Development & Manufacturing support and cooperate with national governments and judicial authorities to crack down on counterfeit medicines. Stable Supply and Quality Control Astellas publishes its Position on Counterfeit Astellas places highest priority on ensuring stable Medicines on its website. manufacture and supply of safe and effective * PSI: The Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI) is a not-for-profit organization pharmaceuticals to patients. To ensure this, we have established to strengthen global anti-counterfeiting efforts. A total of 33 established our own Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)pharmaceutical manufacturers are currently members of the PSI. compliant quality standards as the basis for consistently achieving high levels of quality control. We apply these Product Recalls standards to manufacturing facilities and equipment, and Astellas has a recall system in place that is activated when to all stages from raw material procurement and storage to the safety, efficacy or quality of a product is brought into production and shipment. question. The system ensures relevant information is promptly passed on to medical institutions and other Relationship with Local Communities affected parties, and that a recall of the product in To promote sustainable pharmaceutical manufacturing, question is instigated. Astellas voluntarily initiated three Astellas arranges opportunities for dialogue with local product recalls in fiscal 2017. As of March 2018, no reports residents and communities near its manufacturing sites. By of any related health impairments had been received. proactively disclosing its initiatives, Astellas is working to build good relationships with them. Improving the Pharmacovigilance (PV) System At the Kerry Plant in Ireland, Astellas is launching Astellas is continuously improving its PV system by annual events with the local community to protect the strengthening collaboration between the internal PV environment, ensure health and safety, and save energy. function and other relevant departments, affiliates and Each year, the event themes revolve around environmental licensing partners. This is to support the provision of protection, health and safety, and energy conservation, 53 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data and local children draw pictures with the themes. These responses to be communicated to our customers in a are made into a calendar which is sold locally, with all simple, swift and accurate manner. At the same time, we proceeds donated to the Irish Kidney Association. Every can analyze feedback from patients and medical professionals year, over 1,000 entries are received from 12 schools, and and inform the life cycle management of our products. the event is now being developed into a regular community event. In 2017, we received the SEAI* Award as one of Ireland’s leading companies. * SEAI: Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland is an Irish government-affiliated Procurement organization supporting the reduction of CO2 emissions. Promoting CSR Procurement Astellas considers it important to fulfill its social responsibilities across the entire supply chain, including Provision of Product Information suppliers. To achieve this goal, Astellas has formulated the Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct, which requires Ensuring Proper Use business partners to do their business in accordance with Astellas’ Medical Representatives (MRs) provide information CSR measures. We also conduct global questionnaireon appropriate usage based on on-label information to based surveys based on the code, along with requesting healthcare professionals to ensure that Astellas our business partners to sign the Acknowledgement of pharmaceutical products are used safely and effectively. In Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct. As of March 31, promotion of Astellas products, MRs observe high ethical 2018, we had obtained survey responses from standards and strictly observe the Astellas Group Code of approximately 900 companies, covering suppliers of direct Conduct, local codes of conduct, and the relevant laws materials, as well as major suppliers of indirect materials and regulations in each country. and major facility and equipment suppliers. In fiscal 2017, Medical Science Liaisons (MSLs) engage with we widened the scope of the survey to include healthcare professionals to exchange scientifically based pharmaceutical wholesalers, licensees, distributors and information to advance their understanding and the safe banks. Furthermore, we conduct on-site audits of suppliers and effective use of our products in patient care. MSLs in countries that pose a high CSR procurement risk. observe high ethical standards and provide reliable, clear, fair, balanced and unbiased medical and scientific information. MSLs refrain from promotion of products, and observe high ethical standards, making compliance their top priority. Responding to Inquiries Astellas has a responsibility to provide truthful, balanced and unbiased medical information in response to inquiries regarding our products. By fulfilling this responsibility, Astellas supports the safe and effective use of our products. In countries throughout the globe, we have Medical Please refer to the following URL for information about related CSR Information Call Centers that respond to a variety of activities from manufacturing to sales. • Anti-Doping Measures inquiries. In our larger call centers, we have systems that • Strengthening of Quality Assurance Systems at Affiliates allow for 24-hour responses to urgent inquiries, even on • Quality Assurance Policies • Measures to Prevent Medical Malpractice and Improve the business holidays. In fiscal 2017, we responded to Distinguishability of Pharmaceuticals approximately 160,000 inquiries. • Introduction of Universal Design into Product Packaging Astellas makes continuous efforts to improve its Web https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/ business-activities medical information services, with the aim of providing accurate, appropriate and consistent information. As part Please refer to the following URL for information about our policies and position statements. of these efforts, a global medical information system is Web https://www.astellas.com/index.php/en/about/ used where medical responses from Group companies policies-and-position-statements around the world are documented. This enables the Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 54 Business Review Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations Recent Initiatives Astellas will pursue further improvements in both the Termination of Research Activities at Agensys, Inc. quality and efficiency of operations, as well as Astellas terminated its research activities at U.S. reallocating management resources in fields that consolidated subsidiary Agensys, Inc. in March 2018 and promise growth and a superior position competitively, transferred the research facilities and related assets to Kite, further strengthening its operational foundation. a Gilead Company in the United States, in April 2018. Astellas will advance its strategy in the oncology field by reducing its investments in Antibody-Drug Conjugate With regard to the organizational structure, Astellas is (ADC) research and expanding its investments in new working to strengthen its global management functions. technologies and modalities that will give us an even In April 2017, we integrated legal and intellectual property stronger competitive advantage. functions in each region by newly establishing Legal and Intellectual Property functions on a global level. Optimization of Organizational Structure in Europe Furthermore, in April 2018, we established the new global Astellas is taking steps to optimize our organizational functions Finance, Human Resources, and Internal structure in Europe, aiming to evolve our operating model Auditing to integrate the finance, human resources, and with changes in the operating environment. As part of this, internal auditing functions in each region. we decided to consolidate our Netherlands R&D functions We are also promoting optimization of management in Japan and the U.S. resource allocation. Our agreement to transfer assets to LTL Moreover, in EMEA, we are working to further improve Pharma Co., Ltd. regarding marketing authorization for 16 the efficiency of our finance function through outsourcing, long-listed products in Japan, bulk supply business of and to enhance the quality and efficiency of our sales and active pharmaceutical ingredients to third parties in and marketing activities by optimizing the sales and marketing outside of Japan, and the royalty business took effect in organization and structure. April 2017. Accordingly, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, manufacturing and marketing authorization for Restructuring of Operations in Japan and several products was also succeeded to LTL Pharma Co., Introduction of Early Retirement Incentive Program Ltd., and we transferred the distribution rights of the As part of optimization of organizational capabilities under products in Japan. Furthermore, in October 2017, we Strategic Plan 2018, Astellas decided to reorganize itself succeeded the manufacturing and marketing approvals in and its Group companies within Japan, focusing not only Japan for Protopic, a treatment for atopic dermatitis, to on back-office divisions, but also frontline divisions such as Maruho Co., Ltd. R&D and Sales & Marketing. In addition, Astellas implemented the following In conjunction with the restructuring of operations in initiatives. Japan, an early retirement incentive program is planned to be introduced for Astellas Pharma Inc., Astellas Marketing Outsourcing of Operational and Management and Sales Support Co., Ltd., Astellas Research Technologies Support Co., Ltd., and Astellas Learning Institute Co., Ltd. in the As part of an initiative to promote efficiency by fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. outsourcing operational and management support duties, in December 2017, Astellas dissolved Astellas Business We will strive to strengthen the operational Services Co., Ltd., which undertook operational and foundation even further by streamlining our organizational management support duties for Astellas Pharma Inc. and structure and secure the necessary resources for growth its subsidiaries in Japan, completing the liquidation in investment by pursuing Operational Excellence while March 2018. utilizing advanced technologies. 55 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Our People, Our Organization Astellas recognizes employees as important languages, conducting training and meetings for managers, stakeholders. Astellas employees play the most valuable and even reflecting the vision in personnel measures. role in transforming the Company and in achieving Astellas will increase the competitiveness of its human enhanced levels of enterprise value. We are working to resources and organization by spreading and implementing train employees and strengthen their competitiveness. the HR Vision and the Astellas Way. Moreover, Astellas will Astellas is fostering a corporate culture that aims to bring together individuals from diverse backgrounds align the aspirations of its diverse employees in one within the Company to surmount national, regional and direction to realize its business philosophy. organizational barriers, foster mutual respect, and unite our people to continuously achieve innovation. HR Vision The Astellas Way —Five Messages for One Astellas— Astellas has formulated a Human Resources (HR) Vision, Patient Focus: which represents its approach to “Our People, Our Ask yourself if your decisions and actions contribute to improving patient health. Organization,” and this vision is shared globally to define its aspirations for its human resources and its organization. Ownership: Making Astellas’ VISION a reality requires individual Embrace change and always challenge by taking ownership. employees to understand the HR Vision and to act based on the Astellas Way. Results: As part of its activities to achieve these goals, Astellas is Commit to results each time you face a challenge, and consider fresh approaches to achieving them. focusing on activities to disseminate the HR Vision. Specifically, this involved translating the HR Vision into various Openness: Maximize your creativity through diversity and open communication. Overview of the HR Vision Integrity: Towards Realizing the Corporate VISION Act with integrity by always considering the implications of your actions, and then take responsibility for the outcomes. One Astellas with the Astellas Way Our People Our Organization Embrace Change and Challenge Resilient Providing Opportunities for Employees to Succeed Globally Value Diversity and Inclusion Inspired Serve Others Aligned Astellas provides employees with opportunities to succeed Act with Integrity Ethical globally in a variety of ways. In Japan, we have established an internal recruitment system to revitalize our HR MANAGEMENT organization and support employees in developing their own abilities and growing, while encouraging our people ATTRACT to succeed in roles at various overseas bases by proactively EMPLOYER appointing employees from each division to be assigned DEVELOP OF abroad. In addition, we accept long-term and short-term CHOICE assignees from Group companies outside Japan. In these RETAIN and other ways, we are working to promote global interaction among our people at the divisional level. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 56 Business Review Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations Male/Female Employee Ratio per Region and Ratio of Female Diversity Management Managers (Fiscal 2017) Asia & Japan Americas EMEA Average Oceania Astellas is working to promote diversity so that diverse people can play a role in our Company, irrespective of race, Male 70.8% 45.4% 41.7% 46.8% 55.0% nationality, gender, or age. Respecting the diverse values Female 29.2% 54.6% 58.3% 53.2% 45.0% of our employees and reflecting their various perspectives Ratio of female 8.5% 49.3% 51.5% 48.8% 33.2% managers in our business activities not only heightens creativity in our organization but also helps to attract talented people as employees and enhances our competitiveness. Based on this recognition, Astellas implements measures to promote diversity in line with the current Promoting Health Management situation in the region. For Astellas, promoting the career advancement of women in Japan is a high priority, If each employee realizes a high level of productivity and particularly because the country has a low ratio of women creativity and practices a workstyle that enables selfin management positions compared to other regions. In fulfillment, this will revitalize the organization and lead to 2007, therefore, Astellas launched the Diversity Promotion its growth as One Astellas. The underlying condition for Project. By 2020, the Company aims to develop a work realizing these ways of working is the good health of the environment in which life events do not hinder career employees. Based on this thinking, in Japan, Astellas is advancement, and it has established a target to raise its promoting a health management that encourages ratio of female managers in Japan to 10% or higher (at employees to take control of looking after their health. Astellas Pharma Inc.) on a non-consolidated basis. Specifically, in cooperation with the health insurance In fiscal 2017, Astellas disseminated information twice association (“collaboration health”), the Company is a year by e-learning to encourage employees to promoting improving employee health and disease understand other matters in addition to promoting prevention, and developing measures that include women’s activities in the workplace, and publicized the supporting mental health, preventing overwork, and themes of male participation in childcare and caregiving countering second-hand smoking. and of LGBTQ. In addition, Astellas is promoting nationality diversity to further advance the globalization of its business, and in Japan, the Company has been hiring non-Japanese Occupational Health & Safety graduates since 2014. Astellas is implementing initiatives for upgrading the We have the Astellas Environment, Health & Safety Policy work environment it provides for people with disabilities. It in place to prevent work-related accidents and minimize has established the Green Supply Support Office*1 and those caused by workplace mishaps and hazards. Under been a participating member of Japan’s Accessibility this policy, each facility is independently building Consortium for Enterprises (ACE)*2. Astellas is supporting Environment, Health & Safety management systems and hearing-impaired employees to overcome their disabilities promoting associated initiatives. We are also working to by utilizing an app that instantaneously converts voice ensure occupational safety from many different data into written words. perspectives based on the information we share on *1 Green Supply Support Office: An organization established within a Group accidents and near misses that have occurred at our company in 2011 that is mainly comprised of employees with intellectual workplaces around the world. disabilities. It engages in activities such as enhancing greenery by cultivating flowers, resource recycling, and carrying out various cleaning activities. From 2017, Astellas expanded its scope of *2 Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises (ACE): A general incorporated management and began global consolidation*1. association that was formed to conduct activities such as the establishment of a new employment model for people with disabilities who contribute to the Between January and December 2017, there were 0 growth of companies. fatalities and 11 work-related injuries requiring time off work. Of these 11 injuries, the longest leave of absence was 61 days due to a traffic accident. Frequency rate of work-related injuries*2 was 0.33 and severity rate of work-related injuries*3 was 0.007 on a global basis. We will strive to reduce our occupational 57 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data safety risks with the goal of holding our severity rate of impact assessment and has identified four human rights work-related injuries under 0.005 on a global basis. issues to which we pay particular attention as human *1 In addition to the previous scope, Astellas began aggregating data for overseas rights in clinical trials and other research and development offices and research bases. The totals by region for global and outside Japan activities, product safety and counterfeit drugs, Access to have been disclosed since 2017. *2 Frequency rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number of Health and human rights in the workplace. Under the U.K. employee deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents causing Modern Slavery Act 2015, we publish a Slavery and Human leaves of absence per million hours of work. The larger the number, the more frequently work-related injuries occur. Trafficking Statement for each fiscal year, describing what *3 Severity rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number of days absent steps we have taken to address this risk in our own from work due to work-related injuries per thousand hours of work. The larger the number, the more serious the injury. operations or our supply chains. We have established a system for swiftly responding to human rights issues that includes the setting up of external and internal helplines, as well as conducting training sessions Respect for Human Rights for employees. Moreover, we have been globally confirming the awareness of human rights issues in the workplace and The Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct clearly states the status of human rights activities at our Group that members of the Astellas Group shall respect human companies by conducting written surveys. In fiscal 2017, rights and the personality and individuality of all its there were no critical human rights issues or other issues of employees, observe all applicable international rules and common, worldwide concern reported in the survey. local regulations, and embrace all cultures and customs. The recognition of the importance of respecting human rights is shared by Group companies worldwide. For details on our people, our organization, please visit the Astellas disclosed its Position on Human Rights in following website: April 2017. Wherever we operate, Astellas is committed to Web https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/employees/ complying with internationally recognized basic human rights and labor standards as well as applicable local labor For details on the incidence of work-related injuries, please visit the following website: and employment laws, and to implementing and Web https://www.astellas.com/index.php/en/responsibility/ upholding the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Occupational-Health-And-Safety Human Rights. Also, Astellas conducted a human rights TOPIC Improving Employee Satisfaction Engagement Survey Astellas is continuously pursuing initiatives to Ethics and Compliance, Goals and Targets, Immediate improve employee satisfaction. As part of these, in Superior, and Sustainable Engagement received more January 2018, the Company conducted an than 80% favorable answers. From these results, the engagement survey in Japan, the Americas, EMEA Company determined that Astellas’ strengths include and Asia & Oceania. This was the first survey to be its support of employees’ vision for Astellas, their conducted that targeted the approximate 16,000 significant pride and recognition in the vision’s employees of the Astellas Group and was based on implementation, and their high evaluation of the common questions that were asked on a global basis. trustworthy work environment. The response rate was about 90%, which is very high Regarding the opinions about needed compared to the average response rate of global improvements that Astellas has gained from employees pharmaceutical companies. through this survey, the Company will reflect them in Of the 13 categories, 11 categories received the course of carrying out the new Corporate favorable answers from over 70% of answers. Of Strategic Plan and will implement appropriate actions these, the five categories entitled Customer Focus, to make the needed improvements. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 58 Business Review Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations Ethics and Compliance Astellas believes that acting in accordance with the highest ethical standards, which includes obeying the Structured to Promote Ethics and Compliance letter and spirit of the law, is the cornerstone of all its activities. Based on this belief, the Astellas Charter of Astellas has been continuously enhancing the global Corporate Conduct, which is shared globally, expresses organizational structure for the Ethics & Compliance the Company’s ethical business philosophy in terms of function at the global, regional and local levels. In fiscal corporate behavior. In addition, the Astellas Group Code 2017, Astellas increased the number of Ethics & of Conduct is a global code for all agents, directors, Compliance personnel to enhance support in high-risk officers and employees around the world, establishing markets and activities. Ethics & Compliance professionals that they are expected to perform their duties ethically partner with the business to continue to reinforce the and in compliance with laws and regulations. importance of integrating ethics, integrity and compliance Astellas promotes compliance and maintains the into business processes as doing so is critical to the highest ethical standards through the development, sustainable success of Astellas. implementation and continuous enhancement of its The Group Operations team in the Ethics & policies, processes, and global compliance structures Compliance function continues to coordinate complianceand thereby maintains the trust of patients and other related activities such as training, communications, risk stakeholders and enhances enterprise value. assessment, monitoring, investigations, and policy management, thereby driving consistency on a global basis. Global Ethics & Compliance Structure (as of April 2018) Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) Head of Ethics & Compliance Global Compliance Committee Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Privacy Japan & Asia Oceania Americas EMEA Regional Ethics & Compliance Lead Regional Ethics & Compliance Lead Regional Ethics & Compliance Lead Regional Compliance Committee Regional Compliance Committee Regional Compliance Committee Ethics & Compliance Group Operations 59 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Compliance Risk Assessments Initiatives to Promote Compliance The ability to effectively assess compliance risk at local, regional and global levels is a foundational element of Compliance Training and Communications Astellas’ compliance program. These assessments enable Compliance training and communications targeted at the Astellas to more quickly identify and better respond to business are important to conducting business activities existing and emerging compliance risks. grounded on high ethical standards and integrity. Astellas In fiscal 2017, Astellas conducted compliance risk regularly educates employees on both existing and assessments (CRAs), based on a globally consistent emerging compliance risks as well as policies and process, in a number of countries around the globe. The processes that help manage those risks. These educational CRAs involved both the assessment of external activities help to foster compliance awareness and environmental risk in each of the countries as well as understanding among employees. Training and assessment of internal risks within the affiliate. communication materials share Astellas Way values and a The internal activities assessed included transfers of patient-focused mindset, so employees can see how value in any form to healthcare professionals, market policies and procedures help them live the Astellas mission. access activities, interactions between the Company and In fiscal 2017, the Ethics & Compliance function began government officials or healthcare professionals, and deploying online training through a single global system, meals, gifts or hospitality. The findings of the CRAs helped enhancing the ability to provide access to important Astellas to enhance compliance programs in each country training initiatives to all employees globally. Global online and monitor trends in risks at the regional and global training allows for enhanced tracking and monitoring of levels. The Ethics & Compliance function works closely timely completion of training requirements and has with the business throughout the assessment process and resulted in improvements in completion rates across a helps develop and support any risk mitigation plans wide range of training topics. All employees, including developed to address the identified risks. new employees, are required to complete compliance training on topics such as the Astellas Group Code of Conduct, data privacy, anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, and conflicts of interest. Integrity in Action Program As one of the pillars of the Astellas Way, the Integrity in Action program is designed to reinforce for all employees the importance of taking responsibility and being accountable for their actions, acting ethically and with integrity, and leading by example. As of the end of fiscal 2017, the Integrity in Action program was adopted by almost all affiliates and functions globally. During Integrity in Action events, both business and Ethics & Compliance leaders at the local, regional, and global levels delivered messages to employees that reinforced how critical it is to incorporate Integrity in Action in all their business activities. The events also raised awareness about the importance of speaking up about potential compliance issues and how acting ethically and with a high sense of integrity can create a competitive advantage for Astellas. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 60 Business Review Improvement in the Quality and Efficiency of Operations Compliance Monitoring to corporate accountability to both internal and external Compliance monitoring is a foundational component of stakeholders. Astellas is committed to fulfilling its any compliance program. Astellas monitors existing and transparency requirements through the work of its global emerging compliance risks and trends across a variety of transparency team in coordination and collaboration with activities. Doing so allows us to better anticipate potential multiple business functions across the organization. issues before they become actual problems for the In Japan, Astellas has continued to make public Company. In fiscal 2017, Astellas continued to enhance its financial relationships with healthcare professionals and monitoring program and activities in each region. The organizations and patient organizations in accordance compliance monitoring yielded results that not only with the Transparency Guideline published by the Japan enhanced the compliance program, but also provided Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. In the U.S., management with insights to inform their decisionAstellas adheres to reporting requirements set forth by the making on various process improvements. One of the federal Sunshine Act and state laws. Across Europe, we many positive outcomes of the monitoring program this disclose transfers of value to healthcare professionals and year was that monitoring helped identify areas where organizations based on the disclosure requirements Astellas could optimize systems functionality to provide established by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical both compliance and business utility. Industries and Associations. Increasing Understanding of the Global Conflict of Interest Policy Another core element of an effective ethics and compliance Helpline for Employees and Encouraging a program is how a company approaches its own conflicts Speak-Up Culture of interest, because the foundation of an effective and robust ethics and compliance program is based on how a In fiscal 2017, Astellas upgraded its existing regional external company manages its own internal behavior. compliance reporting helplines by deploying a global version Conflicts of interest refer to situations where outside of its external helpline that is available in local languages. activities or other personal interests impair an employee’s Employees can use the helpline to report and receive advice objectivity or judgment when performing their duties. on how to react in the event they discover actual or Conflicts of interest also encompass situations where there suspected misconduct. Reports may be made by employees is a potential conflict between the interests of an or third parties and may be made anonymously where employee and Astellas. The Astellas Global Conflict of permitted by local law. In Japan, Astellas has established Interest Policy and accompanying training reinforces for internal helplines in addition to the global external employees that they are expected to conduct their helpline, including one dedicated to sexual harassment. business activities with ethics and integrity even when no Astellas continues to foster an environment that one is observing or there are no potential legal violations. encourages employees to use the helplines and speak up Astellas believes that establishing this baseline expectation to report potential or actual violations of the Astellas Group regarding internal conflicts of interest contributes to Code of Conduct, as well as any other illegal or unethical employees conducting their business with ethics and behavior or business practices. In addition, Astellas strictly integrity when engaging with stakeholders outside the prohibits any retaliation against those who raise a concern Company and where legal risks are involved. or report a suspected compliance violation in good faith, even if the concern or report is not substantiated. Transparency Having the ability to centrally manage the reports of More and more countries and government organizations suspected non-compliance and the corresponding are requiring transparency with respect to pharmaceutical investigations also enhances Astellas’ ability to analyze company relationships with healthcare professionals and compliance trends both regionally and globally. In fiscal 2017, organizations. Astellas is committed to engaging in Astellas’ helplines received reports in each region. Matters appropriate relationships with healthcare professionals raised included potential harassment and promotional and organizations throughout the world. The disclosure of code violations. In response, thorough investigations were relevant financial relationships with healthcare conducted and appropriate action was taken. professionals and organizations reflects the commitment 61 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Ensuring Fair Competition Astellas strictly prohibits bribery and corruption in any Astellas is committed to conducting its business in a fair aspect of its business. One critically important compliance and competitive environment and does not reach any priority is to identify those activities that have high bribery agreements with its competitors regarding sales and corruption risks for the Company and establish the conditions, such as prices, sales plans and strategies, and processes needed to appropriately manage those risks. market and customer shares. Astellas limits engagement Examples of activities identified as high risk for which we with competitors and avoids any conversation concerning have developed processes include support for healthcare these topics when engagement is necessary, so that such professional education and the engagement of healthcare interactions are not construed to reflect the existence of professionals to provide necessary services on behalf of such an agreement. the Company. The development and implementation of In fiscal 2017, there were no incidences of policies and procedures targeted at these kinds of highgovernment authorities taking legal action against Astellas risk activities as well as the regular training of employees for anti-competitive, anti-trust, or monopolistic practices, and business partners on how to comply with these or of authorities levying significant fines or other sanctions policies and procedures helps Astellas mitigate the risks due to non-compliance with laws and regulations. associated with these activities. Astellas monitors the bribery and corruption risk environment at the global, regional and local levels and For further information on Astellas’ ethics and compliance activities, please visit the following website: enhances its compliance governance activities to Web https://www.astellas.com/en/about/ appropriately manage these risks, including the use of compliance-initiatives/ effective and impactful training and communication activities. Message from the Privacy Lead Enhancing Our Data Privacy Program Protecting the personal information of patients, Information, which came into force in May 2017. healthcare professionals, suppliers, employees and other Astellas is committed to complying with GDPR and stakeholders has been and continues to be an extremely data privacy laws around the world in order to maintain important priority for Astellas. the trust of stakeholders. Astellas will continue to Astellas has established a global team made up of enhance transparency and fulfill our obligation of experts from the Ethics & Compliance, Information corporate accountability with respect to the personal Systems, and Legal functions in order to address the information entrusted to us. European Union’s new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Astellas has introduced crucial program elements to comply with GDPR requirements. In addition, Astellas has implemented the Information Security Enhancement Program led by the Information Systems function. This program has strengthened our security controls around data privacy and cybersecurity. Karen Lowney In Japan, Astellas has revised the local privacy Executive Director, Privacy Lead, policy and supporting internal guidelines in response to Ethics & Compliance the amended Act on the Protection of Personal Astellas US LLC Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 62 Business Review Access to Health Astellas is committed to solving Access to Health issues. We believe that the relationships of trust developed Collaborative Research to Identify Lead with governments and local partners through these Compounds for New Antiparasitic Drugs initiatives will generate synergies with business activities over the long term. In March 2018, Astellas participated in the Neglected Tropical Diseases Drug Discovery Booster*1, a consortium whose purpose is to identify lead compounds*2 for leishmaniasis and Chagas disease, both of which are Collaborative Research on New Drugs for the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The consortium is Treatment of Tuberculosis and Malaria supported by funding from the GHIT Fund. NTDs are mainly parasitic, bacterial, viral or fungal Astellas is pursuing collaborative research to discover new infections prevalent among people living in poverty in drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis and malaria, which developing nations in tropical and subtropical regions. At are infectious diseases that cause tremendous suffering least 1 billion people worldwide are reported to be infected among people in developing countries with the 20 NTDs listed by the World Health Organization In 2016, 10.4 million people fell ill with tuberculosis, (WHO), many of which cause serious social difficulties. while more than 200 million people contracted malaria. 1.7 Through the consortium, Astellas will contribute to million people* died of tuberculosis while 445,000 people the discovery of new drugs for patients suffering from died of malaria. Both tuberculosis and malaria have led to leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. serious social problems, underscoring the urgent need for The collaborative research concerning Chagas disease innovative drugs to treat these diseases. undertaken by Astellas with the National Institute of Considering these backgrounds, in October 2017, Advanced Industrial Science and Technology has been Astellas entered into a new collaborative research concluded following the expiry of the term of the agreement with TB Alliance for the exploration of new collaborative research agreement. As a part of this project, drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis and a screening basic technology for the discovery of molecules essential collaboration agreement with Medicines for Malaria for the protozoan parasite survival were developed using Venture (MMV) to discover new drugs for malaria. Under genome editing technology, thereby making it possible to these agreements, Astellas will provide its original library select highly suitable target molecules for drug discovery. of compounds, while TB Alliance and MMV will conduct *1 Neglected Tropical Diseases Drug Discovery Booster: A consortium launched by screenings of the library to discover hit compounds to be the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), a not-for-profit organization engaged in the development of new treatments for neglected diseases. In used in the research and development of new tuberculosis addition to Astellas, seven pharmaceutical companies, specifically Eisai Co., Ltd., and malaria drugs, respectively. Shionogi & Co., Ltd., Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, AstraZeneca plc., Celgene Corporation, Merck KGaA, and AbbVie, also participate in the These research programs are funded by the Global consortium as partners. Health Innovative Technology Fund (“GHIT Fund”). *2 Lead compound: A compound with confirmed pharmacological activity against a target disease. Optimization research (for improvement of activity, * Figure includes 0.4 million people infected with HIV. physical properties, pharmacokinetics, toxicity, etc.) is conducted based on lead compounds. Collaborative Research on a Rice-Based Oral Vaccine Astellas has been conducting collaborative research with the Institute of Medical Science, the University of Tokyo (IMSUT) on the rice-based oral vaccine MucoRice against diarrheal diseases caused by cholera, enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (E. coli), norovirus, etc. In developing countries, diarrhea caused by pathogenic bacteria, such as Vibrio cholera and enterotoxigenic E. coli, is a major cause 63 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data of death among infants and young children. However, uses its own drug formulation technology. The pediatric vaccines present several issues, such as the need to store formulation was designed to be smaller than the existing and transport existing cholera vaccines at a constant low tablet and orally dispersible so that it can be taken even temperature, and the fact that vaccines against without water, due to a reduction of bitterness. In addition, enterotoxigenic E. coli have not been approved in the pediatric formulation can be manufactured using developing countries. simple production technology, while holding down There are high hopes that MucoRice could be stored production costs, and the tablets are stable even in the hot at room temperature. Therefore, if the challenges are and humid environment of tropical areas. Astellas has overcome, it will not require the strict temperature transferred the technology and expertise needed to management that is usual for the storage of develop the pediatric formulations to consortium partners biopharmaceuticals. The establishment of cultivation in Brazil and Germany, thereby helping to produce drug techniques that enable efficient production should help products used for clinical trials and to build local reduce medical expenditures for the vaccine. pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities. In December 2017, Astellas, IMSUT, Chiba University The consortium is conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial and ASAHI KOGYOSHA CO., LTD. signed a collaborative and preparing to start Phase 3 clinical trials including the research agreement aimed at the practical application of receipt of funding from the GHIT Fund and the European & MucoRice-CTB, a rice-based oral vaccine that expresses Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership. Astellas the Cholera Toxin B subunit (CTB) in the rice storage continues to provide its expertise and technology to protein. Under the agreement, Astellas will examine the the consortium. conditions for production and formulation of MucoRiceCTB. Meanwhile, IMSUT, Chiba University, and ASAHI KOGYOSHA will develop the production system for the vaccine. This research program has been designated as a project under Cyclic Innovation for Clinical Empowerment and will be supported by the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development. Through these collaborative research projects, Astellas will attempt to develop new platform technology to create innovative new drugs to address unmet medical needs. Newly developed pediatric formulation (top) and existing formulation (bottom) Development of Pediatric Formulation for Schistosomiasis Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic diseases in developing countries centered on Africa and South America. The disease has a particularly high incidence rate among children. The existing “gold standard” treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel. However, one challenge is that praziquantel tablets are difficult to administer to preschool-age children, including infants and toddlers, mainly due to the risk of choking stemming from the tablets’ large size and the drug’s bitter taste. Members of the consortium developing the pediatric formulation of praziquantel Having set up a consortium with other ©Lygature 2016 pharmaceutical companies, research institutions and international non-profit organizations, Astellas is developing a pediatric formulation of praziquantel. The pediatric formulation newly developed by Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 64 Business Review management of this event. Participants included members Contribution to Access Accelerated and Related of pharmaceutical companies, academia, United Nations Progress organizations, non-governmental organizations, and government institutions. Through keynote addresses and Astellas has participated in Access Accelerated*1 since its panel discussions by experts, the event confirmed the launch in January 2017. Access Accelerated is a global importance of collaboration between the private and initiative aimed at improving access to non-communicable public sectors and facilitated discussion on activities, disease prevention, diagnosis and treatment in low and issues and prospects for driving widespread adoption of middle income countries. More than 20 international universal health coverage and achieving the United pharmaceutical companies are partners in the program, Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. working alongside organizations such as the World Bank *1 For details about Access Accelerated, please visit the following website: and the Union for International Cancer Control. http://www.accessaccelerated.org/ *2 As of March 2018 Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are any diseases not caused by human-to-human transmission of an infectious agent. Leading NCDs include cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease and diabetes. Many NCDs are caused by unhealthy eating, lack of exercise, smoking or excessive drinking, and could be prevented by lifestyle improvement. NCDs are not just on the increase in developed countries, but the number of patients suffering from NCDs is also increasing in developing countries. The rising incidence of NCDs not only puts pressure on the healthcare budgets of developing countries, but also leads to economic losses when patients cannot work due to illness. Under Access Accelerated, Astellas supports ACTION ON FISTULATM, a pioneering program which has ACTION ON FISTULATM transformed the lives of over 3,400*2 women in Kenya who are suffering with obstetric fistula. As part of this program, ACTION ON FISTULATM*1 was conceived, built and is run by Astellas worked to present its activities and raise public the Fistula Foundation. It was started in 2014 by a grant awareness of obstetric fistula by opening a booth at a given to the Fistula Foundation from an affiliate of Astellas, special side event at the United Nations General Assembly Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd. Since 2014, the program has held in September 2017 and at a stakeholder collaboration transformed the lives of 3,417*2 women in Kenya who are event held in Kenya in March 2018. suffering with obstetric fistula*3. By 2020, ACTION ON Moreover, in 2017, Astellas launched a new initiative FISTULATM aims to help more than 4,500 patients in total in India structured according to patients’ income levels, to access fistula treatment. with the aim of improving their access to its anticancer The Fistula Foundation and Astellas jointly funded the products. Astellas will continue to push ahead with first phase of the program, which ran from 2014 to 2017. activities that improve patients’ access to the prevention, Astellas provided funding of €1.5 million (approximately diagnostics, and treatment of NCDs in low and middle 50% of the total) and the remaining was provided by the income countries. Fistula Foundation. In this phase, the program improved Furthermore, in December 2017, the Japan the lives of patients with obstetric fistula while Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Access simultaneously training doctors who will be able to Accelerated hosted a side event titled “Accelerating provide surgical treatment in Kenya. The program also set Sustainable Universal Health Coverage by Improving up the Fistula Treatment Network to extend access to Access to NCD Care” at the 2017 Universal Health Coverage services, with six hospitals enrolled and providing fistula Forum. Astellas was involved in the planning and surgeries on a routine basis. 65 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data The second phase of ACTION ON FISTULATM is scheduled to run from 2017 to 2020. Astellas has committed to supporting the Fistula Foundation for this phase. Astellas is funding €0.75 million (approximately 25% of the total) and the remaining was funded by the Fistula Foundation. In the second phase of the program, ACTION ON FISTULATM aims to build capacity to deliver ongoing treatment and provide surgeries to even more patients with obstetric fistula. Specifically, the program aims to increase the number of hospitals enrolled in the Fistula Treatment Network to 8 hospitals, train an additional 6 surgeons specializing in fistula, and train an additional 10 fistula nurses. In addition, ACTION ON FISTULATM wants to Astellas employees visit the home of an obstetric fistula patient who has help fistula patients who have undergone treatment with received treatment ©Georgina Goodwin 2017 emotional assistance, economic empowerment and employment support so that they can return to their Progress in ACTION ON FISTULATM communities. To this end, the program plans to establish (May 2014-March 2018) 20 support groups that will be enrolled in the Fistula Treatment Network. Patients successfully treated with 3,417 patients reconstructive surgery On WHO’s Universal Health Coverage Day in December 2017, Astellas hosted a meeting titled Act for Trained and certified doctors to 6 Kenyan doctors the standard level of competency UHC, ACTION ON FISTULA Transforming the Lives of Women in Kenya.” Members of the Fistula Foundation and Centers in the Fistula 6 centers Treatment Network the United Nations Population Fund (UNPFA) were invited to speak at the event, in an effort to raise awareness of FIGO-accredited fistula Established Gynocare Women’s and training center Fistula Hospital in Eldoret, Kenya obstetric fistula in Japan. *1 For more information about the program visit the following website: Kenyan counties* reached 45 counties https://www.astellas.com/index.php/en/sustainability/action-on-fistula *2 As of March 2018 Trained community 295 outreach workers *3 An obstetric fistula is a hole between the vagina and rectum or bladder that is outreach workers caused by prolonged obstructed labor when emergency care is unavailable, causing fecal and/or urinary incontinence. Although it has been virtually Conducted outreach activities 10,093 activities eradicated in developed countries, the UNFPA estimates 3,000 new cases of obstetric fistula occur annually in Kenya. Women with obstetric fistula are often Community members reached 845,578 community members subject to severe social stigma due to odor, which is constant and humiliating, with fistula messages often driving the patients’ family, friends and neighbors away. Stigmatized, these women are also often denied access to education and employment and * Kenya is divided into 47 counties. There are several units of governance below live in isolation and poverty. the county level. These units include subcounties, wards, and villages. Astellas employees visit the Gynocare Women’s and Fistula Hospital ©Georgina Goodwin 2017 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 66 Business Review Social Contribution Astellas is cooperating with a range of stakeholders in expanding sales channels, and improving the level of an effort to address social issues that affect people customer service. They received warm words of gratitude throughout the world. from members of their assigned organizations. The invaluable experiences that can be obtained through AECEP—getting away from daily work and pursuing one’s own potential in an emerging country AECEP Overseas Volunteer Program while newly creating value for society—also have major significance for Astellas from the standpoint of human In fiscal 2016, Astellas launched a new social contribution resource development. program called the Astellas Emerging Countries “Embrace Change and Challenge” is included in the Empowerment Program (AECEP). “Our People” section of our HR Vision, and Astellas will also AECEP is a program for addressing social issues in continue promoting AECEP for this reason: to help develop emerging countries in partnership with enterprises and human resources with a long-term, strategic thinking non-governmental organizations (NGO) in which Astellas ability who are truly capable of taking on challenges with a employees utilize their respective expertise, skills and sense of ownership. experience. Volunteer employees participating in the program (“participants”) travel to an emerging country after a preparation period of one and half months. They then carry out initiatives in the country for a limited time of three and a half months at an assigned partner enterprise or NGO that works toward solutions that should meet the expectations of society. Partners are selected from among enterprises and NGOs involved in addressing medical, health and safety issues or environmental problems. Participants get directly involved in local social issues and learn many things through collaborating with leaders and community members who are strongly committed to solving the issues. Participants maximize their use of the experience and abilities they have cultivated through work at Astellas An Astellas employee (right) meets with a member of an organization in to help make the partner activities more effective, and to Cambodia to discuss making products with high nutritional value build or improve their systems. Engaging in social contributions in this kind of equal, interactive relationship is the major characteristic of AECEP. In fiscal 2017, the second year of the program, two employees were selected as participants. One participant was assigned to an organization in Cambodia, where they contributed to efforts to promote better health for the needy and children through the manufacture and sale of highly nutritious food and beverage products. The other participant was assigned to an organization in Vietnam where they managed an art classroom, selling miscellaneous goods printed with the children’s illustrations primarily to support children with disabilities. The participants cooperated with the local organizations while overcoming various difficulties, and managed to An Astellas employee (second from the left) selling miscellaneous goods crafted from artwork created by children in Vietnam successfully generate results in improving the nutritional value of numerous products, developing new products, 67 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Support for Patients Mentor Volunteers in the Science WoRx® Program Astellas conducts a variety of activities to provide Astellas employees in the U.S. are dedicated to mentoring assistance to patients fighting illnesses, and to their family students as part of the Science WoRx® mentor program to members, on a global basis. Astellas promotes Peer promote science education. In 2017, Science WoRx® Support Training Sessions in Japan as part of efforts to mentors shared their experiences in science, technology, support the self-reliance and development of patient engineering, and math (STEM) fields and encouraged more associations. Peer Support Training Sessions are held for a than 200 young women to take an interest in sciencewide range of participants, including patients and their related careers at iBIO Institute’s STEMGirls camp, a weekfamilies, along with those who have recently formed long STEM summer camp for girls. patient associations. In these training sessions, activities Employees who volunteer as mentors through include programs for participants to learn attentive Science WoRx® also serve as judges and presenters at listening skills, which enable colleagues who have faced science fairs, sharing their love of science with students to the same issues or have experienced the same problems inspire the next generation of innovators. to serve as consulting partners to one another. In fiscal 2017, Peer Support Training Sessions were held in 3 locations across Japan, and were attended by 19 organizations and 31 people. Group-Wide Volunteer Activities for Changing Astellas also supports local Ronald McDonald House Tomorrow Day Charities (RMHC) Chapters in the United States, helping the global organization provide comfort and care to Astellas Group employees around the world are millions of families with sick children who have to travel far encouraging a diverse range of volunteer activities as part from home for the care they need. Last year alone, RMHC of Changing Tomorrow Day based on the themes of helped families save almost US$900 million in out-of-pocket promoting healthcare and maintaining the environment, lodging and meal expenses, due in large part to more than thereby contributing to their local communities. In fiscal 508,000 volunteers who provide services like meal 2017, more than 6,400 employees participated. preparation at Ronald McDonald Houses around the world. Changing Tomorrow Day Held in Fiscal 2017 Astellas employees in the U.S. have supported this organization for three years in a row, volunteering to cook Region Participants Volunteering Number of Number of hours locations countries for patients’ families staying at local Ronald McDonald Japan 3,445 4,542 117 1 Houses. These activities offer Astellas employees in the U.S. the opportunity to lead local volunteer programs. Americas 2,060 7,178 81 4 Employees are responsible for scheduling events, EMEA 325 2,449 20 13 recruiting team members to participate, purchasing Asia & Oceania 641 2,173 11 6 supplies and leading teams in preparing and serving Total 6,471 16,342 229 24 meals. The events have served as an engaging teambuilding experience that contributes to the organization’s activities to support patients and their families. In fiscal 2017, 379 Astellas US employees prepared and served 2,623 meals to patients’ families at 62 Ronald McDonald House events across the U.S. to comfort families caring for a sick child. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 68 Business Review Environmental Preservation Astellas believes that maintaining a healthy global environment is an essential theme for maintaining sound Main Background to Changes in the ClimateRelated Action Plan business activities and building a sustainable society. • Increase of overseas offices Going forward, Astellas will strive to realize its • In Japan’s electricity usage, there is a divergence between VISION for being a responsible corporation based on a the volume of GHG emissions based on the Environmental long-term timeframe that keeps future generations in Action Plan and the volume of actual emissions mind and a global perspective. At the same time, we will • Transfer of the Fuji Plant, Norman Plant, etc., to other continue efforts to address regional social issues and companies, etc. pursue corporate activities in harmony with the global environment. New Environmental Action Plan Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1+2*) by 30% by fiscal 2030 (Base year: Fiscal 2015) Environmental Action Plan * Scope 1 Direct emissions * Scope 2 Indirect emissions Having determined the Astellas Environment, Health & Safety Policy, Astellas identified its aspirations in the Astellas Environment, Health & Safety Guidelines. As appropriate, we review the Environmental Action Plan, Initiatives for Realizing a Low-Carbon Society which outlines shortto medium-term activity targets based on various factors, including progress status and Promotion Framework and Initiatives for Climatesocial circumstances, and add new initiatives and/or set Related Measures more challenging targets. Setting Science Based Targets (SBT) Fiscal 2017 results are as shown in the table below. Astellas endeavors to reduce the GHG emissions The Environmental Action Plan involving Climate-Related accompanying its activities to help realize a low-carbon Measures was formulated using fiscal 2005 as the base society. The Global EHS Sub-Committee comprised of year, but we have revised the plan to take into account the members from each regional base has been organized to significant changes that have occurred to the develop ways to conserve energy and reduce GHG environments within and outside of the Company since emissions for the entire Group and analyze the risks and the time the plan was formed. The main background to opportunities that climate change presents to the the changes and the new plan are below. business. The sub-committee reports to top management Environmental Action Plan Performance in Fiscal 2017 (Summary) Environmental Action Plan Fiscal 2017 (Summary) Reduce GHG emissions by 35% or more by the end of fiscal 2020 Global: Reduced 30% 1. Measures to Address Climate Change Japan: Reduce GHG emissions by 30% or more Japan: Reduced 29% (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Overseas plants: Reduce GHG emissions by 45% or more Overseas plants: Reduced 37% 1) Enhance water resource productivity by around 2.5 times the 2. Measures for the Conservation of fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 1) Achieved; 2.9 times the Natural Resources (Research and Indicator: Sales (¥ billion)/Water resources withdrawn (1,000 m3) fiscal 2005 result production sites) 2) Improve waste generated per unit of sales to around 20% of the 2) Almost achieved; 21% the (Base year: Fiscal 2005) fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 fiscal 2005 result Indicator: Volume of waste generated (tons)/Sales (¥ billion) 3. Biodiversity Triple the biodiversity index by fiscal 2020 Improved to 2.6 times (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Note: GHG emissions generated through electricity usage are calculated using the following coefficients: (1) A coefficient of 0.330 kg-CO2/kWh is used to calculate results needed to evaluate progress against the Environmental Action Plan and make investment decisions and implement countermeasures to bridge the gap between results and targets. The figures shown in the table above represent the results calculated using this coefficient. (2) GHG emissions (actual emissions) for electricity use are calculated using the CO2 emission coefficient of electric power suppliers. In Japan, the latest adjusted emission coefficient for each power supplier announced by the Ministry of the Environment and METI is applied. If the coefficient of the electric power supplier is not available in other regions, the country-specific emission coefficient provided by the International Energy Agency (IEA) is applied. 69 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data on their discussions and decisions at the CSR Committee. Monitoring GHG Emissions in the Value Chain In the new Environmental Action Plan from fiscal The Environmental Action Plan applies to emissions in its 2018, Astellas has newly set our targets that are consistent business activities related to climate change (Scope 1, 2), with the Science Based Targets (SBT), which recommended but Astellas also strives to monitor emissions across the that private companies set reduction targets aligned with entire value chain (Scope 3). the Paris Agreement, which entered into force in 2016, We have also set SBT for GHG emissions from with all business activities being evaluated. In February important emissions sources in Scope 3 and are working 2018, we submitted a commitment letter to the SBT to reduce these. Initiative. We expect that our fiscal 2030 targets (base year: fiscal 2015) will be verified and approved by the SBT GHG Emissions Scope 3 Scope 1 Initiative by the end of fiscal 2018. 283 kilotons 87 kilotons Emissions from value chain Direct emissions Reducing GHG Emissions 58% 18% The GHG emissions volume for fiscal 2017, based on the Total new action plan, was 207 kilotons (Scope 1: 87 kilotons; 490 kilotons Scope 2: 119 kilotons). (Fiscal 2017) Scope 2 (purchased electricity For reductions under Scope 2, which accompany and heat) energy supply from external sources such as electricity, 119 kilotons Indirect emissions Astellas employs a market-based method calculated using 24% an emission coefficient for each power company that supplies us. Emissions in regions where it is difficult to use the emission coefficients for each electric power company Status of GHG Emissions (Fiscal 2017) (tons) are calculated with country-specific emission coefficients Scope 1 Direct emissions Scope 2 Indirect emissions provided in the CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION 87,429 2017 EDITION published by the International Energy 119,499 (Sales fleets 24,203) Agency. Furthermore, we also purchase electricity Scope 3 Other indirect emissions obtained from renewable energy sources for plants in the Upstream activities Downstream activities European region and other areas. 9. Transportation and 1. Purchased goods and Not GHG Emissions (Actual Emissions) 144,418 distribution services relevant (downstream)* Scope 1 Scope 2 Base emissions for the new Environmental Action Plan 10. Processing of sold Not 2. Capital goods 68,203 (kilotons) products relevant 250 3. Fueland energy-related No 223 activities (not included in 26,002 11. Use of sold products emissions 200 217 207 Scope 1 or 2) results 12. End-of-life treatment of 150 124 668 123 119 4. Transportation and sold products 3,781 distribution (upstream)* 100 213 13. Leased assets Not Raw materials transported (downstream) relevant (244) by tanker trucks 50 Not 99 95 87 Plant Warehouse (286) 14. Franchises relevant 0 Distribution warehouse (853) 2015 2016 2017 Not (FY) Distribution warehouse 15. Investments (2,398) relevant Wholesaler 5. Waste generated in 4,753 operations 6. Business travel (aircraft use) 32,572 7. Employee commuting 2,542 Not 8. Leased assets (upstream) relevant * Product shipments are handled by outside contractors. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 70 Business Review Using Renewable Energy Environmental Action Plan (Resource Recycling) Using renewable energy is one of the most effective Water resource productivity (For research and production sites) climate-related measures. Astellas actively installs Indicator Sales (¥ billion)/Water resources withdrawn (1,000 m3) equipment for photovoltaic panels, wind turbine generators, and biomass boilers, and consumes the energy Numerical Enhance water resource productivity by around 2.5 targets times the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 produced at its business sites. Waste generated per unit of sales (For research and production sites) Additionally, by purchasing renewable-sourced electricity and carbon-neutral city gas, we also indirectly Indicator Volume of waste generated (tons)/Sales (¥ billion) suppress GHG emissions. Numerical Improve waste generated per unit of sales to around targets 20% of the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 Status of Renewable Energy Use (Fiscal 2017) Business site Types of renewable energy Energy volume Water Resource Productivity* • Wind power generation (Power Achieved capacity: 800 kW) 1,692 MWh • Woodchip biomass boiler (Power 37,211 GJ WRP 0.15 Kerry Plant WRP 0.13 capacity: 1.8 MW) • Purchases renewable-sourced 6,650 MWh Global electricity (2.5) or over (2.9) • Purchases renewable-sourced WRP 0.05 Dublin Plant 5,855 MWh (1) electricity Base Target Result • Purchases renewable-sourced 2005 2020 2017 (FY) Meppel Plant 12,896 MWh electricity Sales (¥ billion) 2,305 MWh * Water Resource Productivity (WRP) = • Purchases renewable-sourced Water resources withdrawn (1,000 m3) Leiden electricity 146 GJ (Netherlands) • Purchases carbon-neutral city gas • Geothermal heat 1,491 GJ Waste Generated per Unit of Sales* U.S. regional headquarters • Geothermal heat 3 GJ WGS 51 Tsukuba Research • Photovoltaic generation 49 MWh Center Almost Global Yaizu (100%) achieved Technology • Geothermal heat (immeasurable) — WGS 11 Center WGS 10 20% or below 21% Base Target Result 2005 2020 2017 (FY) Volume of waste generated (tons) Initiatives for Resource Recycling * Waste Generated per unit of Sales (WGS) = Sales (¥ billion) Astellas seeks to contribute solutions to the social issues involved in establishing a recycling-oriented society. We Ongoing Water Risk Evaluation have therefore been striving to reduce water withdrawal Astellas uses the Global Water Tool™ provided by the World and landfill waste. We established a management indicator Business Council for Sustainable Development to analyze called water resource productivity and have been working water risks specific to the operating regions where its to improve on this front. plants and other facilities are located. We are also moving ahead on reducing landfill waste The Astellas Group on a global basis does not to as close to zero as possible by actively recycling and currently withdraw water from water bodies in areas reusing, and have set improvement targets for waste concerned with water resource depletion. As water risks generated per unit of sales. may emerge in the future as a result of climate change, we are taking steps to minimize our dependence on such resources, and also regard this as an effective means of ensuring business continuity. 71 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Biodiversity Index Initiatives for Biodiversity Ratio to fiscal 2005 level 3.0 3.0 Astellas understands its business activities in all fields have an impact on ecosystems. We will make a positive 2.6 contribution to the preservation of biodiversity by working 2.5 Target to lessen that impact. Furthermore, we will actively 2.3 contribute to the creation of a society that coexists with the natural world, enabling the preservation of biodiversity and 2.0 2.0 the sustainable use of the benefits of healthy ecosystems. 1.7 Astellas has created a Biodiversity Index* by assessing the three main factors responsible for the deterioration of biodiversity, categorized as environmental pollution, resource consumption and climate change. Going forward, 1.0 1.0 we will continue improving in each category while working toward achieving the target for fiscal 2020, which is a ratio three times the fiscal 2005 level. The Biodiversity Index for fiscal 2017 came in at 2.6 times the fiscal 2005 level. As the scope of the 0 Environmental Action Plan has expanded regarding 2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 (FY) climate change, so has the scope of each index used to calculate the Biodiversity Index. The following graph has been recalculated from past indices. Beyond the region, Astellas believes that by minimizing the impact of its business activities on the environment, the Company will help suppress the deterioration of biodiversity and realize an environment in which sustainable business activities For details on environmental preservation, please visit the following website: may be continued. Web * For details on the calculation method, please visit the following website: https://www.astellas.com/en/responsibility/environment https://www.astellas.com/responsibility/preserving-biodiversity Message from the Kerry Plant Vice President & General Manager Protecting the Natural Ecosystem Inside the Plant Kerry Plant manufactures a range of products including students on environmental awareness. the immunosuppressant Prograf, which are supplied Astellas will continue to contribute to the creation globally. A significant portion of the plant is located in a of a community with a strong environmental conscience designated nature reserve, and the plant has a nature and a clear commitment to a sustainable relationship reserve plan to protect and enhance ecological value with our environment that will and biodiversity. The plan aims to conserve and enhance lead to the preservation of the ecological environment of all plant and animal biodiversity and protection of habitats, protect notable plant and animal species, our ecosystem. encourage sustainable recreational and educational use and improve public awareness. We take part in various Killorglin Tidy Towns Patricia Quane sustainability initiatives, providing a leisure walkway Vice President & General Manager, through the nature reserve, erecting information boards Kerry Plant on the local flora and fauna, and educating local Astellas Ireland Co., Limited Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 72 Business Review Stakeholder Engagement Astellas conducts business activities within a diverse increasing our enterprise value. network of relationships, including with patients and We therefore use various opportunities to many others, and our activities are supported by communicate with stakeholders. In addition, to these relationships. We regard stakeholders such as promote constructive dialogue with our stakeholders, patients and healthcare professionals, employees, and we appropriately disclose information to all groups in shareholders and investors as particularly important a way that is both timely and impartial. stakeholders because they are significantly impacted By continuing to conduct communication by our business activities. through disclosure and engagement, we will further Interacting with these stakeholders who support raise our transparency as a company and strive to the business activities of Astellas in good faith, and sustainably increase the enterprise value of Astellas understanding their expectations and needs, is while simultaneously raising the overall sustainability essential to acquiring their trust and sustainably of society. For details, please visit the following website: Web https://www.astellas.com/en/sustainability/stakeholder-communications Patient Engagement Achieving “Even Better” Communication with Patients Astellas defines Patient Focus as one of our five of patients’ knowledge and understanding about messages of the Astellas Way. To improve our health, Astellas revises the descriptions of important implementation of patient focus, Astellas assesses its safety information together with the informed day-to-day efforts continuously and improves how it consent form. Moreover, Astellas strives to have interacts with patients. better communications with patients by providing Astellas made changes in the U.S. such as training to all staff who have the chance of coming establishing a system to give a quicker response to into contact with patients, on themes such as the inquiries about its clinical trials to patients, and knowledge and understanding of health, the implementing a patient support survey to assess the consideration of patients, and interpersonal skills. responses of Astellas to patients, and to better These improvements that started in the U.S. will understand patients’ perceptions about our be adapted for other regions, helping to fulfill our customer services. VISION of turning innovative science into value Furthermore, taking into consideration the levels for patients. 73 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial Information and Data Financial Summary 75 Financial Review 77 Consolidated Financial Statements 86 Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Independent Auditor’s Report 152 Investor Information 153 Corporate Data/ Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates 154 Definition of Financial Results on a Core Basis We disclose our financial results under IFRS on a core basis to help provide an accurate indication of the Group’s recurring profitability. Certain items reported in financial results under IFRS on a full basis that are deemed to be non-recurring items by the Company are excluded as non-core items on a core basis. Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) (Core Basis) Sales Non-recurring other income and other expense Cost of sales within IFRS-based operating profit are excluded Gross profit (for example, items such as impairment losses Selling, general and or restructuring expenses) administrative expenses R&D expenses Amortisation of intangible assets Share of profits of associates and joint ventures Core operating profit Other income Adjustments for finance income and Other expense finance expense (for example, gain (loss) Operating profit on sale of available-for-sale (AFS) financial Finance income assets and impairment losses on AFS Finance expense financial assets are excluded) Profit before tax Income tax expense Profit for the year Core profit for the year Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 74 Financial Information and Data Financial Summary Astellas has adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective from fiscal 2013 (March 2014). Results for each category and earnings per share are presented on a core basis for the fiscal years since March 2014. (¥ billion) 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP For the year Sales ¥972.6 ¥965.7 ¥974.9 ¥953.9 ¥969.4 Cost of sales 279.3 264.4 289.2 296.0 318.6 SG&A expenses*2 417.3 450.9 499.2 538.8 519.2 R&D expenses*2 134.5 159.1 195.6 217.3 189.8 R&D ratio (%) 13.8 16.5 20.1 22.8 19.6 Operating income/profit 275.9 250.4 186.4 119.2 131.5 Operating margin (%) 28.4 25.9 19.1 12.5 13.6 Net income/Profit for the year 177.4 171.0 122.3 67.7 78.2 At year-end Total assets 1,439.2 1,348.4 1,364.2 1,335.1 1,400.6 Total net assets/Total equity 1,110.9 1,030.2 1,053.9 1,021.1 1,018.1 (¥) 3 Per share data* Net income/Profit for the year ¥349.89 ¥356.11 ¥261.84 ¥146.49 ¥169.38 Total net assets/Total equity 2,228.34 2,189.26 2,278.77 2,207.70 2,200.64 Dividends 110.00 120.00 125.00 125.00 125.00 Major indicators ROE (%) 16.1 16.0 11.7 6.5 7.7 DOE (%) 5.0 5.4 5.6 5.6 5.7 Equity ratio (%) 77.1 76.3 77.1 76.4 72.6 Free cash flow (¥ billion, US$ million) 178.5 168.8 118.6 (142.0) 146.7 Average exchange rate (US$/¥) 114 101 93 86 79 (€/¥) 162 143 131 113 109 *1 U.S. dollars have been converted at the rate of ¥106 to US$1, the approximate exchange rate on March 31, 2018. *2 SG&A expenses under J-GAAP (from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2012) include R&D expenses. *3 Astellas conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Net income/profit for the year per share and total net assets/total equity per share are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. Moreover, the number of shares outstanding has also been calculated on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. 75 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data (¥ billion) (US$ million)*1 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 2018.3 J-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS ¥1,005.6 ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 ¥1,311.7 ¥1,300.3 $12,267 324.1 330.6 333.2 335.6 320.5 294.2 2,776 527.6 397.0 452.5 500.4 470.8 478.3 4,513 182.0 191.5 206.6 225.7 208.1 220.8 2,083 18.1 16.8 16.6 16.4 15.9 17.0 — 153.9 186.3 216.5 267.5 274.6 268.7 2,535 15.3 16.3 17.4 19.5 20.9 20.7 — 82.9 132.8 153.2 198.8 213.3 204.3 1,928 1,445.6 1,653.1 1,793.6 1,799.3 1,814.1 1,858.2 17,530 1,062.0 1,268.5 1,317.9 1,259.2 1,271.8 1,268.3 11,965 (¥) (US$) ¥36.08 ¥59.11 ¥69.37 ¥92.12 ¥101.15 ¥100.64 $0.95 469.92 568.53 600.93 592.58 615.89 641.80 6.05 130.00 135.00 30.00 32.00 34.00 36.00 0.34 8.0 7.4 10.5 15.0 17.3 13.0 — 5.7 5.0 5.1 5.4 5.6 5.7 — 73.3 76.7 73.5 70.0 70.1 68.3 — 95.5 187.4 116.2 166.7 162.2 190.8 1,800 83 100 110 120 108 111 — 107 134 139 133 119 130 — Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 76 Financial Information and Data Financial Review Sales Overview of the Year Ended March 31, 2018 In fiscal 2017, consolidated sales declined 0.9% year on (Fiscal 2017) year to ¥1,300.3 billion. Despite strong sales of core products, sales decreased mainly due to the impact of In its consolidated operating results (core basis) for fiscal generics in Japan, the transfer of the global dermatology 2017, Astellas posted decreases in the three items of sales, business in 2016, and the transfer of long-listed products core operating profit and core profit for the year. in Japan in 2017. In global products, sales of XTANDI for the treatment Consolidated Financial Results (Core Basis) of prostate cancer increased in all regions—Japan, the (¥ billion) Americas, EMEA, and Asia & Oceania. In addition, 2017.3 2018.3 combined sales of overactive bladder (OAB) treatments Sales 1,311.7 1,300.3 Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA grew, and sales Operating profit 274.6 268.7 of the immunosuppressant Prograf increased. Profit for the year 213.3 204.3 Turning to products in Japan, sales continued to grow for the anti-inflammatory analgesic Celecox, the adult Astellas discloses financial results on a core basis as an bronchial asthma treatment Symbicort, the type 2 diabetes indicator of its recurring profitability. Certain items treatment Suglat, and the adult rheumatoid arthritis reported in financial results on a full basis that are deemed treatment Cimzia. Further, sales rose in the Americas for to be non-recurring items by Astellas are excluded as the azole antifungal CRESEMBA and the pharmacologic non-core items from these financial results on a core basis. stress agent Lexiscan. These adjusted items include impairment losses, gain Sales by Region (loss) on sales of property, plant and equipment, restructuring costs, loss on disaster, a large amount of losses (¥ billion) on compensation or settlement of litigation and other legal 2017.3 2018.3 disputes, and other items that we judge should be excluded. Consolidated 1,311.7 1,300.3 Japan 480.8 421.2 Americas 412.4 433.3 Foreign Exchange Impact for Fiscal 2017 EMEA 330.8 343.8 The exchange rates for yen in fiscal 2017 are shown in the Asia & Oceania 87.7 102.0 table below. Movements in the rates led to a ¥43.3 billion Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location of sellers. increase in the value of sales and a ¥13.1 billion increase in core operating profit. Americas/EMEA (Foreign Currency) 2017.3 2018.3 Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) Americas (US$ million) 3,805 3,909 (¥) EMEA (€ million) 2,785 2,651 2017.3 2018.3 US$1 108 111 €1 119 130 Fluctuation in Foreign Exchange Rates from April to March 2017.3 2018.3 US$1 ¥0 ¥6 (Strengthening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) €1 ¥8 ¥11 (Strengthening of yen) (Weakening of yen) 77 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Sales of Main Products SG&A Expenses, R&D Expenses and Amortisation of Intangible Assets (¥ billion) 2017.3 2018.3 Change (¥ billion) XTANDI 252.1 294.3 16.8% 2017.3 2018.3 OAB products in Urology 214.9 228.1 6.1% SG&A expenses 470.8 478.3 Vesicare 116.1 102.3 -11.9% SG&A ratio (%) 35.9 36.8 Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 98.8 125.7 27.2% Advertising and sales 144.1 152.1 promotional expenses Prograf 186.2 198.5 6.6% Personnel expenses 177.0 178.5 Other 149.7 147.7 Cost of Sales and Gross Profit R&D expenses 208.1 220.8 Cost of sales decreased 8.2% to ¥294.2 billion. The cost of R&D ratio (%) 15.9 17.0 sales ratio stood at 22.6%, 1.8 percentage points lower Amortisation of intangible assets 35.8 35.8 from the previous fiscal year, mainly due to changes in the product mix. Gross profit increased by 1.5% to ¥1,006.1 billion in Operating Profit (Core Basis) line with the decrease in the cost of sales. As a result of the above mentioned factors, core operating profit decreased 2.1% to ¥268.7 billion. The operating Cost of Sales and Gross Profit margin decreased 0.2 of a percentage point to 20.7%. (¥ billion) 2017.3 2018.3 Operating Profit (Core Basis) Sales 1,311.7 1,300.3 (¥ billion) Cost of sales 320.5 294.2 2017.3 2018.3 Cost of sales ratio (%) 24.4 22.6 Sales 1,311.7 1,300.3 Gross profit 991.2 1,006.1 Operating profit 274.6 268.7 Gross profit ratio (%) 75.6 77.4 Operating margin (%) 20.9 20.7 Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Profit for the Year (Core Basis) Expenses, Research and Development (R&D) Core profit for the year decreased by 4.2% to ¥204.3 billion. Expenses and Amortization of Intangible Assets Basic core earnings per share decreased by 0.5% year SG&A expenses increased 1.6% year on year to ¥478.3 on year to ¥100.64. billion. Despite effective use of expenses and optimization Profit for the Year (Core Basis) of resource allocation, there was an increase due largely to impact from foreign exchange rates. (¥ billion) R&D expenses rose 6.1% year on year to ¥220.8 billion, 2017.3 2018.3 owing primarily to a rise in costs associated with expanded Profit before tax 274.9 269.4 investment in new fields and technologies, and progress Income tax expense 61.6 65.1 on late-stage development projects. The ratio of R&D Profit for the year 213.3 204.3 expenses to sales increased 1.1 percentage points year on Ratio of profit for the year to sales (%) 16.3 15.7 year to 17.0%. Amortization of intangible assets was ¥35.8 billion, unchanged year on year. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 78 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) In its consolidated operating results on a full basis for fiscal (¥ billion) 2017, Astellas posted decreases in the four items of sales, 2017.3 2018.3 operating profit, profit before tax, and profit for the year. Sales 1,311.7 1,300.3 The full basis financial results include “other income,” “other Operating profit 260.8 213.3 expense” (including impairment losses, net foreign Profit before tax 281.8 218.1 exchange losses, etc.), and gain on sales of available-forProfit for the year 218.7 164.7 sale financial assets (included in “finance income”) which are excluded from the core basis financial results. Under “other income,” Astellas posted a gain from remeasurement relating to business combinations associated with the acquisition of Mitobridge, Inc. Items posted under “other expense” included impairment losses in connection with the termination of research operations of Agensys, Inc. and revision of plans for the development project involving Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG, in addition to net foreign exchange losses. As a result, “other income” for FY2017 was ¥11.9 billion (¥9.6 billion in the previous fiscal year). “Other expense” for FY2017 was ¥67.3 billion (¥23.3 billion in the previous fiscal year). Gain on sales of available-for-sale financial assets for FY2017 was ¥4.7 billion (¥21.3 billion in the previous fiscal year). Reconciliation of Full Basis to Core Basis (¥ billion) 2017.3 2018.3 Account item Full basis Adjustment Core basis Full basis Adjustment Core basis Sales 1,311.7 — 1,311.7 1,300.3 — 1,300.3 Cost of sales 320.5 — 320.5 294.2 — 294.2 Gross profit 991.2 — 991.2 1,006.1 — 1,006.1 SG&A expenses 470.8 — 470.8 478.3 — 478.3 R&D expenses 208.1 — 208.1 220.8 — 220.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 35.8 — 35.8 35.8 — 35.8 Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (1.9) — (1.9) (2.4) — (2.4) Other income*1 9.6 (9.6) — 11.9 (11.9) — Other expense*1 23.3 (23.3) — 67.3 (67.3) — Operating profit 260.8 13.7 274.6 213.3 55.4 268.7 Finance income*2 22.9 (21.3) 1.7 6.6 (4.7) 1.9 Finance expense*2 2.0 (0.7) 1.3 1.8 (0.6) 1.2 Profit before tax 281.8 (6.9) 274.9 218.1 51.3 269.4 Income tax expense 63.1 (1.5) 61.6 53.4 11.6 65.1 Profit for the year 218.7 (5.4) 213.3 164.7 39.6 204.3 *1 “Other income” and “other expense” are excluded from core basis results. “Other income” and “other expense” include gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment, impairment losses for other intangible assets, loss on restructuring and foreign exchange gains (losses), etc. *2 Gain (loss) on sale of available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets and impairment losses on AFS financial assets included in “finance income” and “finance expense” are excluded from core basis results as non-core items. 79 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Sales Consolidated Forecasts for the Year Ending In fiscal 2018, we forecast a 1.7% year-on-year decrease in March 31, 2019 (Fiscal 2018) (Announced in sales to ¥1,278.0 billion. Despite anticipating ongoing April 2018) growth for the mainstay global products XTANDI and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, we expect lower sales due Consolidated business forecasts for fiscal 2018 are mainly to impact from NHI drug price revisions taking presented on a core basis in the table below. effect in April 2018 in Japan and generic versions of longlisted products such as the hypertension treatment Micardis. Fiscal 2018 Forecasts (Core Basis) (¥ billion) Reference Overview of Main Products P 49 2019.3 2018.3 (Forecast) Forecast by Region Sales 1,300.3 1,278.0 (¥ billion) Operating profit 268.7 262.0 2019.3 Profit for the year 204.3 210.0 2018.3 (Forecast) Consolidated 1,300.3 1,278.0 (¥) Japan 421.2 396.8 2019.3 Americas 433.3 424.4 2018.3 (Forecast) EMEA 343.8 343.9 Average exchange rate (US$) 111 105 Asia & Oceania 102.0 112.9 (€) 130 130 Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location of sellers. We project decreases in sales and core operating profit but Americas/EMEA (Foreign Currency) an increase in core profit for the year, compared with fiscal 2019.3 2018.3 2017. We expect negative impacts on sales and profits (Forecast) from foreign exchange rates and a decline in the amount Americas (US$ million) 3,909 4,042 of deferred income recognized in connection with the EMEA (€ million) 2,651 2,645 transfer of long-listed products and the global dermatology business. Excluding the impact from business Sales of Main Products transfers and foreign exchange rates, we project sales and (¥ billion) core operating profit on par with fiscal 2017, despite 2018.3 2019.3 Change (Forecast) negative impact from NHI drug price revisions in Japan. We assume the yen will strengthen against the U.S. XTANDI 294.3 310.3 5.5% dollar and stay at the same level against the euro OAB products in Urology 228.1 243.1 6.6% compared with fiscal 2017. Accordingly, we expect foreign Vesicare 102.3 96.9 -5.2% exchange factors to have a ¥23.9 billion negative impact Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 125.7 146.2 16.3% on sales and a ¥1.9 billion negative impact on core Prograf 198.5 190.7 -3.9% operating profit. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 80 Financial Information and Data Sales of Main Products by Region Japan EMEA (¥ billion) (€ million) 2019.3 2019.3 2017.3 2018.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) (Forecast) Sales in the Japanese Sales in EMEA 2,785 2,651 2,645 452.7 383.4 365.3 market* XTANDI 718 823 921 XTANDI 23.4 26.1 28.2 Eligard 132 125 126 Vesicare 25.6 23.9 22.7 Vesicare 270 244 229 Betanis 25.9 29.5 32.0 BETMIGA 119 141 169 Harnal 9.2 7.4 5.1 Omnic 138 138 130 Prograf 48.8 48.3 46.3 Sales by Astellas 118 121 121 Funguard 11.2 10.6 7.8 Bulk and royalties 19 17 9 Micardis 93.2 46.3 17.7 Prograf and Advagraf 612 632 598 Micombi 9.4 4.9 Micamlo 26.2 13.8 Sales by Astellas 590 607 584 Celecox 47.6 48.3 49.4 Advagraf 252 272 Symbicort 39.3 39.5 Exports to third parties 22 25 14 Bonoteo 13.8 13.3 10.4 MYCAMINE 91 90 70 Geninax 10.1 9.2 8.7 Vaccines 34.5 29.4 36.8 Asia & Oceania ARGAMATE 5.8 5.8 5.3 (¥ billion) Gonax 4.5 4.7 5.1 2019.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) Cimzia 7.7 9.0 9.8 Suglat 9.5 11.6 13.3 Sales in Asia & Oceania 87.7 102.0 112.9 Repatha 1.6 Prograf 37.3 42.5 46.5 LINZESS 1.4 9.2 Harnal 21.1 23.2 23.8 Lipitor 23.2 19.6 15.3 Vesicare 5.0 5.0 4.5 Myslee 14.7 13.3 10.9 BETMIGA 3.5 5.2 7.5 Seroquel 7.5 6.2 4.5 MYCAMINE 6.0 6.4 7.9 XTANDI 4.0 5.8 7.7 Americas Eligard 0.2 0.4 0.6 (US$ million) * Sales of products in Japan are shown on a gross sales basis. 2019.3 2017.3 2018.3 (Forecast) Sales in the Americas 3,805 3,909 4,042 XTANDI 1,286 1,404 1,474 US 1,215 1,303 1,355 Outside of the US 71 102 119 Tarceva 325 268 US 238 194 Outside of the US 87 74 VESIcare 490 372 377 Myrbetriq 510 657 806 Prograf 252 232 191 Scan 660 664 661 MYCAMINE 113 111 94 AmBisome 97 102 109 CRESEMBA 53 87 100 81 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Operating Profit and Profit for the Year (Core Basis) We project a decline in gross profit due to a decrease in sales. Assets, Liabilities and Equity We expect SG&A expenses to remain mostly unchanged from fiscal 2017 as a result of ongoing efforts An overview of the consolidated statement of financial to streamline expenses and a reduction in negative impact position as of March 31, 2018 and the main changes from from foreign exchange rates, although the ratio of SG&A the end of the previous fiscal year are shown below. expenses to sales is expected to rise due mainly to a decline in sales. Assets We forecast a 3.1% year-on-year decline in R&D Total assets as of March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥1,858.2 expenses to ¥214.0 billion, chiefly reflecting the billion, up ¥44.1 billion from a year earlier. concentration of resources including investments in key Non-current assets increased ¥75.2 billion to ¥1,012.6 post-POC pipeline projects and new technology such as billion at the fiscal year-end. Goodwill and other intangible cell therapy. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales is projected assets increased, owing mainly to the acquisitions of at 16.7% (compared with 17.0% in fiscal 2017). Ogeda SA and Mitobridge, Inc. As a result, goodwill was As a result, we forecast a 2.5% year-on-year decrease ¥213.0 billion, up ¥44.5 billion from the previous fiscal in core operating profit to ¥262.0 billion. year-end, and other intangible assets were ¥416.9 billion, Core profit for the year is expected to increase 2.8% up ¥29.5 billion from the previous fiscal year-end. year on year to ¥210.0 billion. Basic core earnings per share Current assets decreased ¥31.0 billion to ¥845.6 is projected to increase 5.6% year on year to ¥106.27. billion. Cash and cash equivalents were ¥331.7 billion, down ¥9.2 billion from the previous fiscal year-end. Equity Number of Employees Total equity as of March 31, 2018 was ¥1,268.3 billion, a decrease of ¥3.5 billion from a year earlier. While profit for As of March 31, 2018, Astellas employed 16,617 people the year stood at ¥164.7 billion, Astellas paid ¥71.6 billion worldwide, a year-on-year decrease of 585. in dividends of surplus and acquired ¥130.7 billion in Looking at each region, in Japan, the number of treasury shares. employees was 6,825, down 204 from the previous fiscal We cancelled treasury shares worth ¥132.2 billion (85 year-end. In the Americas, the regional head count was million shares) in May 2017. 2,840 employees, down 176 from the previous fiscal yearend. In EMEA, we had 4,490 employees, down 182 year on Liabilities year. In Asia & Oceania, we had 2,462 employees, down 23 Total liabilities as of March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥589.9 from the previous fiscal year-end. billion, up ¥47.7 billion from a year earlier. Total non-current liabilities rose ¥25.9 billion to Number of Employees by Region ¥168.3 billion. Current liabilities increased ¥21.8 billion to (persons) ¥421.6 billion. 2017.3 2018.3 Total 17,202 16,617 Japan 7,029 6,825 Americas 3,016 2,840 EMEA 4,672 4,490 Asia & Oceania 2,485 2,462 Number of MRs (persons) 2017.3 2018.3 Total (Global) 5,750 5,330 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 82 Financial Information and Data Cash Flows from Financing Activities Liquidity and Financing Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled ¥203.4 billion, up ¥37.3 billion from the previous fiscal year. Astellas is making strategic business investments to Dividends paid to owners of the parent totaled ¥71.6 enhance innovation and add greater breadth to its billion, an increase in outflow of ¥1.5 billion year on year. product and development pipelines, targeting sustainable Other outflows included ¥130.7 billion used for the enhancement of enterprise value. acquisition of Astellas’ own shares. Regarding the liquidity of funds, liquidity is As a result of the above, the balance of cash and cash maintained to enable Astellas to target a certain amount equivalents as of March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥331.7 of strategic investment opportunities, while also supplying billion, a decrease of ¥9.2 billion compared with the working capital. As outlined in the section on business previous fiscal year-end. risks (P85), Astellas’ operations face various risks unique to the ethical pharmaceutical business. The Group’s financial Business Acquisitions policy is to maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times so Astellas is investing to capture new business opportunities that it can finance smoothly at low costs, especially in the and working to create innovation, as we are enhancing our event that funding requirements exceed Astellas’ internal capabilities to deliver innovative medicines. funding capacity in the course of developing business. As part of these initiatives, Astellas acquired Ogeda SA, a drug discovery company in Belgium, for €0.5 billion and made it a wholly owned subsidiary in May 2017 to further expand its pipeline. Ogeda shareholders will be Cash Flows eligible to receive up to €0.3 billion in further contingent payments based on progress in the development of Cash flows from Operating Activities fezolinetant, Ogeda’s clinical program. Net cash flows from operating activities amounted to Additionally, in January 2018, Astellas paid $225 ¥312.6 billion, an increase of ¥77.0 billion in year-on-year million*1 to acquire 100% of the equity in Mitobridge, Inc., terms. The main components included income tax paid of previously a U.S. equity-method company, and made it a ¥65.0 billion. wholly owned subsidiary. Mitobridge shareholders will be eligible to receive up to $225 million*2 in further Cash Flows from Investing Activities contingent payments based on progress of various Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled ¥121.8 programs in clinical development. The purpose of the billion, up ¥48.4 billion from the previous fiscal year. acquisition is to strengthen Astellas’ networks and Looking at the main outflows, acquisition of knowledge related to mitochondrial drug development, subsidiaries used cash of ¥83.7 billion mainly due to the along with acquiring several programs involving patients acquisition of Ogeda SA, purchases of property, plant and with mitochondrial dysfunctions. equipment used cash of ¥25.1 billion, and purchases of Moreover, in February 2018, Astellas acquired intangible assets used cash of ¥15.2 billion. On the other Universal Cells, Inc., a bioventure company in the U.S., for hand, proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial up to $102.5 million of upfront and milestones depending assets provided cash of ¥7.0 billion. on achievement of clinical milestones. Through the acquisition, Astellas gained technology to produce pluripotent stem cells with the potential to lower immunological rejection, an issue in cell therapy. *1 The actual payment excluding the amount equivalent to Astellas’ equity is $161.7 million. *2 The actual payment excluding the amount equivalent to Astellas’ equity is $165.5 million. Reference R&D Topics during the Year P 43 83 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Policy on Shareholder Returns Capital Expenditures Astellas is working to achieve sustained enhancement in enterprise value, and actively pursuing shareholder returns. Astellas made capital expenditures with the aim of While prioritizing the reinvestment of funds in the augmenting and renewing its research facilities and business to foster growth, Astellas strives to achieve stable and equipment as well as production facilities and equipment. sustained growth in dividends, based on mediumto longCapital expenditures in fiscal 2017 totaled ¥24.1 billion, up term consolidated earnings growth. Furthermore, Astellas 0.9% year on year (accrual basis). will flexibly purchase treasury stock as necessary to improve In fiscal 2018, capital expenditures are forecast to capital efficiency and the level of returns to shareholders. increase 12.0% to ¥27.0 billion. Common Stock Common Stock (thousands of shares) Earnings per Share, Dividends and Equity 2017.3 2018.3 Attributable to Owners of the Parent Total number of issued shares* 2,153,823 2,068,823 Treasury shares* 88,817 92,670 Per Share Data (¥) Treasury Shares 2017.3 2018.3 2017.3 2018.3 Earnings per share 60,000 88,870 Number of shares bought back* Basic 103.69 81.11 thousand thousand Diluted 103.55 81.02 Acquisition cost ¥91.4 billion ¥129.9 billion Basic (core basis) 101.15 100.64 68,000 85,000 Cancellation of treasury shares* thousand thousand Dividends 34.00 36.00 * Excludes purchases of shares constituting less than a trading unit Equity per share attributable to 615.89 641.80 owners of the parent As a part of profit distribution to its shareholders and as measures of its capital policy, Astellas implemented acquisition of its own shares from the stock market, purchasing 88.87 million shares, worth ¥129.9 billion, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Furthermore, we cancelled 89 million shares of treasury stock in May 2018. ROE Return on equity (ROE) was 13.0%, down 4.3 percentage points from fiscal 2017. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 84 Financial Information and Data While the Astellas Group strives to ensure that its Business Risks actions do not infringe the IP rights of other parties, there is a risk of litigation in the event of any inadvertent The main risks that could significantly impact the business violations. Such litigation could also impact the Astellas results and financial position of the Astellas Group are Group’s business results significantly. outlined below. Risks Relating to Product Side Effects and Safety Inherent Uncertainties in Pharmaceutical R&D Any problems arising due to serious side effects or other In general, the probability of discovering a promising safety issues that are caused by the Astellas Group’s compound through drug discovery research is not high. products could impact the Astellas Group’s business results Further, it takes a large amount of investments and a great significantly. deal of time to successfully launch a new product after discovery of a new compound. However, it may be Environment, Health and Safety-Related Risks necessary to discontinue clinical development if the The Astellas Group is careful to observe laws and effectiveness of a drug is not proven as initially expected, regulations relating to environmental or health and safety or if safety issues arise. In addition, pharmaceuticals are issues and has instituted internal standards that aim to subject to legal restrictions in each country, so that exceed most statutory requirements. Despite such authorization from local regulatory authorities is a precautions, the costs involved in the unlikely event of a prerequisite for a product launch in each country. It is business-related incident causing a serious breach of difficult to accurately foresee if and when approvals for compliance in this area could impact the Astellas Group’s new products can be obtained. business results significantly. The Astellas Group’s R&D activities are subject to these inherent risks. Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations The Astellas Group’s business results and financial position Sales-Related Risk are subject to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations due The pharmaceutical industry operates in a highly to the Astellas Group’s extensive international operations. competitive environment characterized by rapid In addition to the risks outlined above, the Astellas technological innovation. The Astellas Group faces fierce Group is exposed to a wide range of business-related risks, competition from drug makers and generics including but not limited to (1) general commercial manufacturers based in Japan or overseas. The launch of litigation, (2) delays or suspension of manufacturing competitive products by rivals could impact the Astellas activities due to natural disasters or other factors, and (3) Group’s business results significantly. partial dependence on licensing or sales agreements relating to pharmaceuticals developed by other companies. Intellectual Property (IP) Risk The Astellas Group’s ethical pharmaceuticals business benefits from the protection of many patents. Although the Astellas Group manages IP rights properly and is vigilant against third-party violation of such rights, the adverse impact on the Astellas Group’s business results of actual IP violations may still be substantial. The Astellas Group’s business results are also subject to the outcome of litigation undertaken by the Astellas Group to protect patents where infringement has occurred. 85 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2017 2018 2018 Sales 6 ¥1,311,665 ¥1,300,316 $12,267 Cost of sales (320,503) (294,250) (2,776) Gross profit 991,162 1,006,066 9,491 Selling, general and administrative expenses (470,777) (478,330) (4,513) Research and development expenses (208,129) (220,781) (2,083) Amortisation of intangible assets 17 (35,837) (35,838) (338) Share of losses of associates and joint ventures (1,864) (2,419) (23) Other income 7 9,594 11,872 112 Other expense 8 (23,318) (67,311) (635) Operating profit 260,830 213,258 2,012 Finance income 10 22,916 6,637 63 Finance expense 11 (1,976) (1,782) (17) Profit before tax 281,769 218,113 2,058 Income tax expense 12 (63,069) (53,434) (504) Profit for the year ¥ 218,701 ¥ 164,679 $ 1,554 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 218,701 ¥ 164,679 $ 1,554 (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Earnings per share Basic 13 ¥ 103.69 ¥ 81.11 $ 0.77 Diluted 13 103.55 81.02 0.76 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2017 2018 2018 Profit for the year ¥218,701 ¥164,679 $1,554 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 2,962 1,611 15 Subtotal 2,962 1,611 15 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments 14 (32,544) 28,590 270 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 14 (14,474) 3,660 35 Subtotal (47,018) 32,250 304 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (44,056) 33,860 319 Total comprehensive income ¥174,644 ¥198,539 $1,873 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥174,644 ¥198,539 $1,873 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 86 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries As of 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2017 2018 2018 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 ¥ 191,115 ¥ 181,295 $ 1,710 Goodwill 16 168,521 212,976 2,009 Other intangible assets 17 387,419 416,912 3,933 Trade and other receivables 22 22,263 25,282 239 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,988 3,138 30 Deferred tax assets 18 90,349 97,237 917 Other financial assets 19 61,597 67,375 636 Other non-current assets 20 13,154 8,372 79 Total non-current assets 937,407 1,012,587 9,553 Current assets Inventories 21 182,537 147,626 1,393 Trade and other receivables 22 309,817 319,512 3,014 Income tax receivable 10,986 8,412 79 Other financial assets 19 13,554 13,517 128 Other current assets 20 18,849 14,448 136 Cash and cash equivalents 23 340,923 331,731 3,130 Subtotal 876,665 835,245 7,880 Assets held for sale 24 — 10,374 98 Total current assets 876,665 845,619 7,978 Total assets ¥1,814,072 ¥1,858,205 $17,530 87 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2017 2018 2018 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 25 ¥ 103,001 ¥ 103,001 $ 972 Capital surplus 25 177,091 177,219 1,672 Treasury shares 25 (138,207) (135,951) (1,283) Retained earnings 1,013,923 976,076 9,208 Other components of equity 25 116,002 147,945 1,396 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,271,810 1,268,289 11,965 Total equity 1,271,810 1,268,289 11,965 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 440 3,515 33 Deferred tax liabilities 18 18,514 26,426 249 Retirement benefit liabilities 28 36,614 36,673 346 Provisions 29 4,921 4,891 46 Other financial liabilities 30 28,389 49,422 466 Other non-current liabilities 31 53,528 47,370 447 Total non-current liabilities 142,406 168,296 1,588 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 182,826 140,909 1,329 Income tax payable 10,900 25,184 238 Provisions 29 96,589 126,231 1,191 Other financial liabilities 30 2,992 7,559 71 Other current liabilities 31 106,548 121,737 1,148 Total current liabilities 399,856 421,620 3,978 Total liabilities 542,262 589,916 5,565 Total equity and liabilities ¥1,814,072 ¥1,858,205 $17,530 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 88 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Retained Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets benefit plans Total Total Total equity As of 1 April 2016 ¥103,001 ¥176,903 ¥ (157,111) ¥ 973,054 ¥2,126 ¥132,134 ¥29,103 ¥ — ¥163,363 ¥1,259,209 ¥1,259,209 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 218,701 — — — — — 218,701 218,701 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (32,544) (14,474) 2,962 (44,056) (44,056) (44,056) Total comprehensive income — — — 218,701 — (32,544) (14,474) 2,962 (44,056) 174,644 174,644 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (92,193) — — — — — — (92,193) (92,193) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — (78) 877 (456) (342) — — — (342) 1 1 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 110,219 (110,219) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (70,119) — — — — — (70,119) (70,119) Share-based payments 27 — 266 — — — — — — — 266 266 Transfers — — — 2,962 — — — (2,962) (2,962) — — Total transactions with owners — 188 18,903 (177,831) (342) — — (2,962) (3,304) (162,044) (162,044) of the parent As of 31 March 2017 103,001 177,091 (138,207) 1,013,923 1,784 99,590 14,629 — 116,002 1,271,810 1,271,810 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 164,679 — — — — — 164,679 164,679 Other comprehensive income — — — — — 28,590 3,660 1,611 33,860 33,860 33,860 Total comprehensive income — — — 164,679 — 28,590 3,660 1,611 33,860 198,539 198,539 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (130,712) — — — — — — (130,712) (130,712) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — (159) 819 (353) (307) — — — (307) 1 1 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 132,150 (132,150) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (71,634) — — — — — (71,634) (71,634) Share-based payments 27 — 286 — — — — — — — 286 286 Transfers — — — 1,611 — — — (1,611) (1,611) — — Total transactions with owners — 127 2,257 (202,526) (307) — — (1,611) (1,918) (202,060) (202,060) of the parent As of 31 March 2018 ¥103,001 ¥177,219 ¥(135,951) ¥ 976,076 ¥1,477 ¥128,179 ¥18,289 ¥ — ¥147,945 ¥1,268,289 ¥1,268,289 (Millions of U.S. dollars) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Retained Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets benefit plans Total Total Total equity As of 31 March 2017 $972 $1,671 $(1,304) $9,565 $17 $ 940 $138 $ — $1,094 $11,998 $11,998 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,554 — — — — — 1,554 1,554 Other comprehensive income — — — — — 270 35 15 319 319 319 Total comprehensive income — — — 1,554 — 270 35 15 319 1,873 1,873 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (1,233) — — — — — — (1,233) (1,233) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — (2) 8 (3) (3) — — — (3) 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 1,247 (1,247) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (676) — — — — — (676) (676) Share-based payments 27 — 3 — — — — — — — 3 3 Transfers — — — 15 — — — (15) (15) — — Total transactions with owners — 1 21 (1,911) (3) — — (15) (18) (1,906) (1,906) of the parent As of 31 March 2018 $972 $1,672 $(1,283) $9,208 $14 $1,209 $173 $ — $1,396 $11,965 $11,965 89 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2017 2018 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax ¥281,769 ¥218,113 $2,058 Depreciation and amortisation 63,791 64,863 612 Impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses 16,340 42,398 400 Finance income and expense (20,940) (4,854) (46) (Increase) decrease in inventories (26,644) 37,830 357 (Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables 5,057 (6,634) (63) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 15,651 (43,804) (413) Other (27,409) 69,723 658 Cash generated from operations 307,616 377,635 3,563 Income tax paid (72,004) (65,021) (613) Net cash flows from operating activities 235,612 312,614 2,949 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (29,010) (25,077) (237) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1,262 1,209 11 Purchases of intangible assets (19,638) (15,208) (143) Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets (484) (693) (7) Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial assets 28,642 6,970 66 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 37 (50,915) (83,723) (790) Interest and dividends received 1,618 1,849 17 Other (4,858) (7,125) (67) Net cash flows used in investing activities (73,383) (121,799) (1,149) Cash flows from financing activities Acquisition of treasury shares 25 (92,193) (130,712) (1,233) Dividends paid to owners of the parent 26 (70,119) (71,634) (676) Other (3,841) (1,083) (10) Net cash flows used in financing activities (166,153) (203,429) (1,919) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (15,183) 3,421 32 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (19,107) (9,192) (87) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 23 360,030 340,923 3,216 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 ¥340,923 ¥331,731 $3,130 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 90 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2018 1. Reporting Entity Astellas Pharma Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Company are publicly traded on the Tokyo Stock the “Group”) are engaged in the manufacture and sales Exchange (First Section). of pharmaceutical products. The parent company of the The Group’s consolidated financial statements for Group, Astellas Pharma Inc. (the “Company”), is the year ended 31 March 2018 were authorised for incorporated in Japan, and the registered address of issue on 15 June 2018 by Kenji Yasukawa, headquarters and principal business offices are Representative Director, President and Chief Executive available on the Company’s website Officer, and Chikashi Takeda, Senior Corporate (https://www.astellas.com/en/). Also, shares of the Executive and Chief Financial Officer. 2. Basis of Preparation (1) Compliance with IFRS as representations that the Japanese yen amounts The consolidated financial statements of the Group have could be converted into U.S. dollars at the above or any been prepared in accordance with International other rate. Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. (4) New or amended IFRS standards and interpretations not yet adopted (2) Basis of measurement The following is a list of the major new or amended The Group’s consolidated financial statements have IFRS standards and interpretations that the Group has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for not adopted among those issued by the date of the financial instruments measured at fair value. approval of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The effects on the Group’s consolidated (3) Presentation currency financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019 The Group’s consolidated financial statements are due to the application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments presented in Japanese yen, which is also the and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Company’s functional currency, and figures are rounded are immaterial. Financial assets classified as availableto the nearest million yen, except as otherwise for-sale financial assets under IAS 39 will be classified indicated. as financial assets measured at fair value through other For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the comprehensive income under IFRS 9. accompanying consolidated financial statements are The effects on the Group’s consolidated financial also presented in U.S. dollars by translating Japanese statements due to the application of IFRS 16 Leases are yen amounts at the exchange rate of ¥106 to U.S. $1, still under consideration and cannot be estimated at this the approximate rate of exchange at the end of 31 time. March 2018. Such translations should not be construed 91 Effective date The Group’s (fiscal years application date Summaries of new or amended IFRS IFRSs beginning on or after) (fiscal year ending) standards and interpretations Amendments related to classification and Financial IFRS 9 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 measurement of financial assets and financial Instruments liabilities, impairment, and hedge accounting Revenue from Comprehensive framework for revenue IFRS 15 Contracts with 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 recognition Customers Amendments related to accounting treatment IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 31 March 2020 for leases 3. Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies of the Group set forth agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which below are applied continuously to all periods indicated in exists only when decisions about the activities that the consolidated financial statements. significantly affect the returns of the arrangement require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing (1) Basis of consolidation control. Joint arrangements in which the Group has an (i) Subsidiaries interest are classified and accounted for as follows: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The  Joint operation—when the Group has rights to the Group controls an entity when the Group has power assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an over the entity, is exposed to, or has rights, to variable arrangement, it accounts for each of its assets, returns from its involvement with the entity, and has the liabilities, revenue and expenses, in relation to its ability to affect those returns through its power over the interest in the joint operation. entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date  Joint venture—when the Group has rights only to the on which control is transferred to the Group, and they net assets of the arrangement, it accounts for its are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group interest in the joint venture using the equity method loses control. in the same way as associates. All intragroup assets and liabilities, transactions and unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup (2) Business combinations transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Business combinations are accounted for using the (ii) Associates acquisition method. Associates are entities over which the Group has The consideration transferred is measured at fair significant influence on their financial and operating value and calculated as the aggregate of the fair values policies but does not have control or joint control. If the of the assets transferred, liabilities assumed, and the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting power equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration of an entity, it is presumed that the Group has significant transferred also includes any assets or liabilities influence over the entity. The Group accounts for resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. investments in associates using the equity method. The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and (iii) Joint arrangements contingent liabilities assumed that meet the recognition A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which the principles of IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” are Group has joint control. Joint control is the contractually measured at their acquisition-date fair values, except: 92  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, liabilities (or assets, Exchange differences arising on translating the if any) related to employee benefits, and liabilities financial statements of foreign operations are related to share-based payment transactions are recognised in other comprehensive income. On the recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 disposal of the interest in a foreign operation, the “Income Taxes”, IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, and cumulative amount of the exchange differences is IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, respectively; and reclassified to profit or loss.  Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured in accordance with IFRS (4) Sales 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and (i) Sale of goods Discontinued Operations”. Sales are measured at the fair value of the The excess of the aggregate of the consideration consideration received or receivable, less discounts, transferred and the amount recognised for noncharge-backs and other rebates, excluding sales taxes controlling interest in the acquiree over the acquisitionand value added taxes. Also, the Group recognises the date fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is sales amount of transactions in which the Group is recorded as goodwill. If the excess is negative, then a acting as an agent on a net basis. gain is immediately recognised in profit or loss. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when Acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with all of the following conditions have been satisfied, business combinations, such as finder’s fees and namely, the significant risks and rewards of ownership advisory fees, are expensed when incurred. of the goods have been transferred to the buyers, the Group retains neither continuing managerial (3) Foreign currency translation involvement which normally can be associated with (i) Functional and presentation currency ownership nor effective control over the goods sold, it is The financial statements of an entity of the Group are probable that the economic benefits will flow to the prepared using the functional currency of the entity. The Group, and the amount of revenue and costs associated consolidated financial statements of the Group are with the transaction can be reliably measured. presented in Japanese yen, which is the functional Therefore, revenue is usually recognised at the time of currency of the Company. delivery of goods to customers. (ii) Transactions in foreign currencies Sales discounts, charge-backs and other rebates are Foreign currency transactions are translated into the recognised upon the recognition of underlying revenue functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing as accounts payable, provisions or as deductions from at the dates of the transactions or an approximation of accounts receivable. the rate. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets (ii) Royalty income and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Some of the Group’s revenues are generated from the translated into the functional currency using the agreements under which third parties have been exchange rates at the closing date and exchange granted rights to produce or market products or rights to differences arising from translation are recognised in use technologies. Royalty income is recognised on an profit or loss. accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the (iii) Foreign operations relevant agreement. Revenue associated with milestone Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated agreements is recognised upon achievement of the into Japanese yen using the exchange rate at the end of milestones defined in the respective agreements. fiscal year. Income and expenses are translated into Upfront payments and licence fees received for Japanese yen using the average exchange rate for the agreements where the rights or obligations still exist are period. initially recognised as deferred income and then 93 recognised in income as earned over the period of the that are recognised in other comprehensive income or development collaboration or the manufacturing directly in equity. obligation. Current taxes are calculated at the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the taxation authority by (5) Research and development expenses applying the statutory tax rate and tax laws enacted or Expenditure on research and development of an internal substantially enacted at the end of the fiscal year. project is fully expensed as “Research and development Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are expenses” in the consolidated statement of income recognised for temporary differences between the when incurred. carrying amounts of certain assets or liabilities in the Internally generated development expenses are consolidated statement of financial position and their tax recognised as an intangible asset only if the base. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are satisfied. not recognised for: Therefore, internal expenditure incurred for ongoing  taxable temporary differences arising from the initial internal development projects is not capitalised until recognition of goodwill. marketing approval is obtained from the regulatory  taxable or deductible temporary differences arising authorities in a major market, which is considered the from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in time at which the criteria of capitalisation under IAS 38 a transaction other than a business combination that are met. affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit In addition to the Group’s internal research and (tax loss). development activities, the Group has entered into  deductible temporary differences associated with research and development collaboration agreements investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests with some alliance partners. The expenses and income in joint arrangements when it is not probable that the associated with the settlement of the expenditure temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable incurred for the research and development collaboration future or there will not be sufficient taxable profits activities are accounted for as research and against which the deductible temporary differences development expenses on an accrual basis in the same can be utilised. way as research and development expenses incurred  taxable temporary differences associated with within the Group. investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in joint arrangements when the Group is able to (6) Finance income and finance expense control the timing of the reversal of the temporary Finance income mainly comprises interest income, difference and it is probable that the temporary dividend income, and gain on sales of financial difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. instruments. Interest income is recognised using the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised it is probable that taxable profits will be available against when the right to receive payment is established. which deductible temporary differences, unused tax Financial expenses mainly comprise interest losses, and unused tax credits can be utilised. expense, fees, loss on sales of financial instruments, Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are and impairment losses for financial assets. measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is (7) Income tax settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Income tax expense is comprised of current and enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the fiscal deferred taxes, and recognised in profit or loss, except year. for taxes related to business combinations and to items 94 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are depreciable amount of an asset is determined by offset if the Group has a legally enforceable right to deducting its residual value from its cost. offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, The estimated useful lives of major classes of property, and they are related to income taxes levied by the same plant and equipment are as follows: taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or Buildings and structures 2 to 60 years different taxable entities which intend to settle current Machinery and vehicles 2 to 20 years tax assets and current tax liabilities on a net basis. Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 20 years The useful lives, residual values, and depreciation (8) Earnings per share methods of property, plant and equipment are reviewed Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing at the end of fiscal year, and changed, if any. profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares (10) Leases outstanding during the year, adjusting treasury shares. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to share, profit for the year attributable to owners of the ownership of an asset are transferred to the Group. All parent and the weighted average number of shares other leases are classified as operating leases. outstanding, adjusting treasury shares, is calculated for Under finance lease transactions, leased assets and the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. lease obligations are initially recognised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value (9) Property, plant and equipment of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the Property, plant, and equipment is measured by using inception of the lease. Leased assets are depreciated the cost model and is stated at cost less accumulated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. estimated useful lives or lease terms. Minimum lease The cost of items of property, plant and equipment payments made under finance leases are allocated to includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition and finance expense and the repayment amount of the lease the initial estimate of costs of dismantling and removing obligations. The finance expense is allocated to each the items and restoring the site on which they are period during the lease term so as to produce a constant located. periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of Costs incurred after initial recognition are recognised liabilities. as an asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that Under operating lease transactions, lease payments future economic benefits associated with the asset will are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis flow to the Group and its cost can be reliably measured. over the lease term. Costs of day-to-day servicing for items of property, plant The Group determines whether an arrangement is, and equipment, such as repairs and maintenance, are or contains a lease, based on the substance of the expensed when incurred. arrangement at the date of commencement of the lease. When an item of property, plant and equipment has The substance of the arrangement is determined based a significant component, such component is accounted on the following factors: for as a separate item of property, plant and equipment. (a) whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets use. The depreciable amount of items of property, plant and, and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis (b) whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the over the estimated useful lives of each component. The asset. 95 (11) Goodwill expected future economic benefits that are attributable Measurement of goodwill on initial recognition is to the asset will flow to the Group and the asset is described in “(2) Business combinations”. After initial identifiable. recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any An intangible asset recognised as IPR&D is not accumulated impairment losses. amortised because it is not yet available for use, but Impairment of goodwill is described in “(13) instead, it is tested for impairment whenever there is an Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, indication of impairment or at least on an annual basis and other intangible assets”. irrespective of whether there is any indication. Once marketing approval from the regulatory (12) Other intangible assets authorities is obtained and the asset is available for use, Other intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary IPR&D is transferred to “Patents and technologies” or assets without physical substance, other than goodwill, “Marketing rights” and amortisation begins from that including patents and technologies, marketing rights, time on a straight-line basis over its useful life. and in-process research and development (IPR&D) acquired in a business combination or acquired (13) Impairment of property, plant and separately. equipment, goodwill, and other intangible Other intangible assets acquired separately are assets measured at cost upon initial recognition, and those (i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and acquired in a business combination are measured at fair other intangible assets value at the acquisition date. After initial recognition, the At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether Group applies the cost model and other intangible there is any indication that its property, plant and assets are carried at cost less any accumulated equipment and other intangible assets may be impaired. amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. If there is an indication of impairment, the Other intangible assets are amortised over their recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. Other estimated useful lives (2-25 years) on a straight-line intangible assets not yet available for use or with basis beginning at the time when they are available for indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually use. Amortisation of other intangible assets acquired irrespective of whether there is any indication of through business combinations or through the inimpairment. licensing of products or technologies is presented in the When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable consolidated statement of income under “Amortisation of amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the intangible assets”. The estimated useful life of other recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which intangible assets is the shorter of the period of legal the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest protection or its economic life, and it is also regularly identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows reviewed. that are largely independent of the cash inflows from Among rights related to products or research and other assets or groups of assets. development through the in-licensing of products or The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value technologies or acquired through business less costs of disposal and value in use. In measuring the combinations, those that are still in the research and value in use, the estimated future cash flows are development stage or have not yet obtained marketing discounted to the present value using a discount rate approval from the regulatory authorities are recognised that reflects the time value of money and the risks under “Other intangible assets” as IPR&D. specific to the asset. The discount rate used for Subsequent expenditure, including initial upfront and calculating the recoverable amount is set at a rate milestone payments to the third parties, on an acquired appropriate to each geographical area of operations. IPR&D is capitalised if, and only if, it is probable that the 96 If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash(14) Financial instruments generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the (i) Initial recognition carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised is reduced to its recoverable amount, and the reduction on the trade date when the Group becomes a party to is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. the contractual provisions of the instrument. (ii) Impairment of goodwill Financial assets and financial liabilities are Goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating measured at fair value at initial recognition. Transaction units, or groups of cash-generating units, that is costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial expected to benefit from the synergies of the business assets or issuance of financial liabilities, other than combination, and it is tested for impairment annually and financial assets measured at fair value through profit or whenever there is an indication that the cash-generating loss (“financial assets at FVTPL”) and financial liabilities unit may be impaired. If, at the time of the impairment measured at fair value through profit or loss (“financial test, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is liabilities at FVTPL”), are added to the fair value of the less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the financial assets or deducted from the fair value of cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable financial liabilities on initial recognition. Transaction amount, and the reduction is recognised in profit or loss costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial as an impairment loss. assets at FVTPL and financial liabilities at FVTPL are Impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying recognised in profit or loss. amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating (ii) Non-derivative financial assets unit or group of cash-generating units and then to the Non-derivative financial assets are classified into other assets on a pro rata basis of the carrying amount “financial assets at FVTPL”, “held-to-maturity of each asset in the cash-generating unit or group of investments”, “loans and receivables” and “available-forcash-generating units. sale financial assets”. The classification is determined (iii) Reversal of impairment loss based on the nature and purpose of the financial assets At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether at the time of initial recognition. there is any indication that an impairment loss (a) Financial assets at FVTPL recognised in prior years for other intangible assets may The Group classifies financial assets as FVTPL when no longer exist or may have decreased. If such the financial assets are either held for trading or indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or designated as FVTPL at initial recognition. the cash-generating unit is estimated. If the recoverable Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit is and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value, greater than its carrying amount, a reversal of an dividends, and interest income are recognised in profit impairment loss is recognised, to the extent the or loss. increased carrying amount does not exceed the lower of (b) Held-to-maturity investments the recoverable amount or the carrying amount (net of Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or depreciation or amortisation) that would have been determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the determined had no impairment loss been recognised in Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to prior years. maturity are classified as held-to maturity investments. Any impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity reversed in a subsequent period. investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment loss. Interest income using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss. 97 (c) Loans and receivables In the case of equity instruments classified as Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in determinable payments not quoted in an active market the fair value of the equity instrument below its cost are classified as loans and receivables. would be considered as objective evidence of Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and impairment. receivables are measured at amortised cost using the The Group assesses the existence of objective effective interest method, less any impairment loss. evidence of impairment for loans and receivables and Amortisation incurred under the effective interest held-to-maturity financial assets, individually for method is recognised in profit or loss. separately significant assets or collectively for assets (d) Available-for-sale financial assets with no individual significance. When there is objective Non-derivative financial assets designated as availableevidence of impairment on those financial assets, the for-sale financial assets or not classified as FVTPL, difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the held-to-maturity investments or loans and receivables present value of estimated future cash flows discounted are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate is Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. financial assets are measured at fair value, and any gain The impairment loss for loans and receivables are or loss resulting from changes in fair value is recognised recognised through the allowance for doubtful accounts, in other comprehensive income. Dividends on availableand the carrying amount of a loan and receivable is for-sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss. written off against the allowance account when it is When available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently considered uncollectible. When an event derecognised or determined to be impaired, the occurring after the impairment was recognised causes cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in the amount of the impairment loss to decrease, a other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. loss. (iii) Impairment of financial assets other than FVTPL When there is objective evidence that an availableFinancial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss assessed for any objective evidence of impairment at that had been recognised in other comprehensive the end of each quarter. Financial assets are impaired income is transferred to profit or loss. Any subsequent when there is objective evidence of impairment as a recovery in the fair value of impaired equity instruments result of one or more events that occurred after the classified as available-for-sale financial assets is initial recognition of the financial assets and these recognised in other comprehensive income. events have adversely affected the estimated future (iv) Derecognition of financial assets cash flows of the financial assets that can be reliably When the contractual rights with respect to the cash estimated. flows from a financial asset expire or the contractual Objective evidence of impairment of financial assets rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset includes: have been transferred and substantially all the risks and  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; rewards of ownership of the financial asset are  breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency transferred, the Group derecognises the financial asset. in interest or principal payments; (v) Non-derivative financial liabilities  probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified into other financial reorganisation; or “Financial liabilities at FVTPL” and “Financial liabilities  disappearance of an active market for the financial measured at amortised cost”. The classification is assets. determined based on the nature and purpose of the financial liabilities at the time of initial recognition. 98 (a) Financial liabilities at FVTPL profit or loss and on the disposal or partial disposal of The Group classifies financial liabilities as FVTPL when the foreign operation, respectively. the financial liabilities are designated as FVTPL at initial Financial assets and financial liabilities arising from recognition. derivatives are classified as either financial assets at Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair FVTPL or financial liabilities at FVTPL. value, and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value and interest expense are recognised in profit or (15) Cash and cash equivalents loss. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, (b) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost demand deposits, and highly liquid short-term Non-derivative financial liabilities not classified as investments with maturities of three months or less from FVTPL are classified as financial liabilities measured at the date of acquisition which are subject to an amortised cost. insignificant risk of changes in value. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are measured at amortised (16) Inventories cost using the effective interest method. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net (vi) Derecognition of financial liabilities realisable value. The cost of inventories includes costs The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the of purchase, costs of conversion and all other costs obligations of the financial liabilities are fulfilled or when incurred in bringing the inventories to their present the obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expired. location and condition. Net realisable value is calculated (vii) Derivatives as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of The Group is engaged in derivative transactions and business less the estimated costs of completion and mainly uses forward foreign exchange contracts to estimated costs necessary to sell. Cost of inventories is manage its exposure to risks from changes in foreign calculated mainly using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) exchange rates. method. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of the date when the derivative contracts are entered into and (17) Assets held for sale are subsequently measured at their fair values at the Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as end of each quarter. “Assets held for sale” if their carrying amounts will be Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recovered principally through a sale transaction rather recognised in profit or loss, except for the following. If than through continuing use. To be classified as assets the hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate the gain or loss on the hedging instrument of cash flow sale in its present condition, and the sale must be highly hedges or hedges of a net investment in a foreign probable. Specifically, management of the Group must operation that are determined to be effective hedges are have a firm commitment to execute the plan to sell the recognised in other comprehensive income. The asset and the sale is expected to be completed within amounts that had been recognised in other one year from the date of classification, as a general comprehensive income for cash flow hedges and rule. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation shall their carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell, be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same and they are not depreciated or amortised while they are period or periods during which the hedged items affect classified as held for sale. 99 (18) Equity the consolidated statement of financial position as (i) Ordinary shares assets or liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is Proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares by the calculated by using the projected unit credit method. Company are included in share capital and capital The present value of the defined benefit obligation is surplus. Transaction costs of issuing ordinary shares calculated by the expected future payments using (net of tax) are deducted from capital surplus. discount rate. The discount rate is determined by (ii) Treasury shares reference to market yield on high-quality corporate When the Company reacquires its own ordinary shares, bonds having maturity terms consistent with the the amount of the consideration paid including estimated term of the related pension obligations. transaction costs is deducted from equity. When the Service cost and net interest expense (income) on Company sells treasury shares, the difference between the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) are recognised the carrying amount and the consideration received from in profit or loss. the sale is recognised in equity. Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest, and (19) Share-based payment any change in the effect of the asset ceiling are The Group operates an equity-settled share-based recognised immediately in other comprehensive income payment plan and a cash-settled share-based payment under “Remeasurements of defined benefit plans”, and plan as share-based payment plans. transferred from other components of equity to retained (i) Equity-settled share-based payment plan earnings immediately. Under the equity-settled share-based payment plan, (b) Defined contribution plans services received are measured at the fair value of the Contributions paid for defined contribution plans are equity instruments at the grant date, and are recognised expensed in the period in which the employees provide as expenses from the grant date over the vesting period, the related service. with a corresponding increase in equity. (ii) Short-term employee benefits (ii) Cash-settled share-based payment plan Short-term employee benefits are expensed when the Under the cash-settled share-based payment plan, related service is provided. Bonus accrual is recognised services received are measured at the fair value of the as a liability when the Group has present legal or liabilities incurred and recognised as expenses over the constructive obligations resulting from past service vesting period, with a corresponding increase in rendered by the employees and reliable estimates of the liabilities. Until the liabilities are settled, the fair value of obligations can be made. liabilities are remeasured at the end of each quarter and at the settlement date, with changes in fair value (21) Provisions recognised in profit or loss. Provisions are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past (20) Employee benefits events, it is probable that outflows of resources (i) Retirement benefits embodying economic benefits will be required to settle The Group operates defined benefit and defined the obligations, and reliable estimates of the obligations contribution retirement plans for its employees. can be made. (a) Defined benefit plans When the effect of the time value of money is Net defined benefit assets or liabilities are calculated as material, provisions are measured at the present value the present value of the defined benefit obligation less of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the the fair value of plan assets and they are recognised in obligations. 100 (22) Government grants recognised as income in the period in which the Group Government grants are recognised and measured at recognises the corresponding expenses. Government fair value, if there is reasonable assurance that the grants related to assets are recognised as deferred Group will comply with the conditions attached to them income and then recognised in profit over the expected and that the grants will be received. Government grants useful life of the relevant asset on a regular basis. that are intended to compensate for specific costs are 4. Significant Accounting Estimates, Judgments and Assumptions The preparation of the consolidated financial statements a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the requires management of the Group to make estimates, carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next judgments and assumptions that affect the application of fiscal year are as follows: accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets,  Impairment of property, plant and equipment, liabilities, income, and expenses. goodwill and other intangible assets (Notes 15, 16 Given their nature, actual results may differ from and 17) those estimates.  Provisions (Note 29) The estimates and underlying assumptions are  Retirement benefits (Note 28) reviewed on an ongoing basis, and the effects resulting  Recoverability of deferred tax assets (Note 18) from revisions of accounting estimates are recognised in  Income tax expense (Note 12) the period in which the estimates are revised and in  Financial instruments measured at fair value which future periods affected by the revision. have no market price in active markets (Notes 33 Estimates and underlying assumptions representing and 37) 101 5. Segment Information The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products, and there are no separate operating segments. Therefore, the Group has a single reporting segment, “Pharmaceutical”. Information about products and services Sales by type of product and service are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 XTANDI ¥ 252,078 ¥ 294,302 Prograf 186,156 198,471 Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA 98,844 125,745 Vesicare 116,075 102,306 Other 658,512 579,492 Total ¥1,311,665 ¥1,300,316 (Note) Sales of “Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA” previously included in “Other” are presented separately from the fiscal year ended 31 March 2018 since those have become material. In accordance with this change, sales of “Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA” for the fiscal year ended 31 March 2017 of ¥98,844 million, which had been included in “Other,” have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Information about geographical areas Sales and non-current assets by geographical areas are as follows: Sales by geographical areas (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Japan ¥ 464,082 ¥ 406,414 Americas 412,625 435,108 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 388,539 404,409 EMEA 343,401 351,280 Asia and Oceania 91,558 107,513 Total ¥1,311,665 ¥1,300,316 (Note) Sales by geographical areas are categorised by country or areas based on the geographical location of customers. Non-current assets by geographical areas (Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Japan ¥356,907 ¥424,603 Americas 253,277 240,566 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 252,943 240,313 EMEA 132,715 141,952 Asia and Oceania 4,155 4,061 Total ¥747,055 ¥811,183 102 (Note) Due to the completion of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG, the Group retrospectively revised the corresponding balances in the above non-current assets by geographical areas table as of 31 March 2017. For details, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. Information about major customers External customer that accounts for 10% or more of consolidated sales of the Group is as follows: (Millions of yen) Segment 2017 2018 McKesson Corporation Pharmaceutical ¥150,184 ¥148,962 6. Sales The breakdown of sales is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Sales of pharmaceutical products ¥1,225,070 ¥1,231,839 Royalty income 57,433 43,254 Other 29,162 25,223 Total sales ¥1,311,665 ¥1,300,316 7. Other Income The breakdown of other income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Gain from remeasurement relating to business combinations ¥ － ¥ 5,877 Net foreign exchange gains 6,946 － Other 2,649 5,995 Total other income ¥9,594 ¥11,872 (Notes) 1. The amount of “Net foreign exchange gains” for the year ended 31 March 2017 includes foreign exchange losses resulting from forward foreign exchange contracts (¥10,285 million). 2. “Gain from remeasurement relating to business combinations” for the year ended 31 March 2018 was due to Mitobridge, Inc. becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 103 8. Other Expense The breakdown of other expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment ¥ 7,877 ¥ 2,533 Impairment losses for goodwill － 7,200 Impairment losses for other intangible assets 10,188 32,665 Restructuring costs 3,117 9,151 Net foreign exchange losses － 10,468 Other 2,136 5,294 Total other expense ¥23,318 ¥67,311 (Notes) 1. “Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment” for the year ended 31 March 2017 mainly resulted from the recognition of impairment losses for buildings and certain other assets held by a U.S. subsidiary in connection with the sale of shares of this subsidiary to another company. 2. “Impairment losses for other intangible assets” for the year ended 31 March 2017 were principally due to an impairment loss on patents due to lower-than-expected profitability and to the discontinuation of development activities for projects. 3. “Impairment losses for goodwill” for the year ended 31 March 2018 were due to impairment of the goodwill resulting from the acquisition of U.S. subsidiary Agensys, Inc., in connection with the termination of research operation of Agensys. 4. “Impairment losses for other intangible assets” for the year ended 31 March 2018 were principally due to reviewing development project plans for IMAB362. 5. “Restructuring costs” for the year ended 31 March 2018 were principally due to the consolidation of the R&D activities in EMEA into Japan and the U.S. 6. The amount of “Net foreign exchange losses” for the year ended 31 March 2018 includes foreign exchange gains resulting from forward foreign exchange contracts (¥2,147 million). 9. Employee Benefit Expenses The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Rewards and salaries ¥143,538 ¥152,523 Bonuses 56,341 55,654 Social security and welfare expenses 30,600 31,117 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined contribution plan 14,243 14,411 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined benefit plan 6,804 6,302 Restructuring and termination benefits 8,064 6,230 Other employee benefit expenses 2,821 2,664 Total employee benefit expenses ¥262,411 ¥268,902 (Note) Employee benefit expenses are included in “Cost of sales”, “Selling, general and administrative expenses”, “Research and development expenses” and “Other expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 104 10. Finance Income The breakdown of finance income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 906 ¥1,575 Other 72 73 Dividend income Available-for-sale financial assets 618 227 Gain on sales Available-for-sale financial assets 21,265 4,744 Other 13 2 Other 41 14 Total finance income ¥22,916 ¥6,637 11. Finance Expense The breakdown of finance expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Impairment losses Available-for-sale financial assets ¥ 642 ¥ 474 Other 1,334 1,309 Total finance expense ¥1,976 ¥1,782 12. Income Tax Expense The breakdown of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Current income tax expense ¥ 68,322 ¥ 81,409 Deferred income tax expense (5,253) (27,975) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statement of income ¥ 63,069 ¥ 53,434 (Note) Deferred income tax expense increased by ¥9,800 million for the year ended 31 March 2018, due to the effect of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which came into force in December 2017. 105 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Tax benefit Tax benefit Before tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax (expense) Net of tax Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥ 4,211 ¥(1,249) ¥ 2,962 ¥ 2,271 ¥ (661) ¥ 1,611 Foreign currency translation adjustments (32,544) － (32,544) 28,590 － 28,590 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets (20,931) 6,457 (14,474) 5,168 (1,508) 3,660 Total other comprehensive income ¥(49,264) ¥ 5,208 ¥(44,056) ¥36,029 ¥(2,169) ¥33,860 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Company is subject mainly to corporate tax, were 30.7% in both years. Foreign subsidiaries are inhabitant tax, and enterprise tax on its income and the subject to income taxes on their income in their effective statutory tax rates calculated based on those respective countries of domicile. taxes for the years ended 31 March 2017 and 2018 2017 2018 Effective statutory tax rate 30.7% 30.7% Tax credit for research and development expenses (1.7) (3.9) Non-deductible expenses 2.6 4.3 Difference in tax rates applied to foreign subsidiaries (7.8) (12.6) Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries 0.3 (0.3) Effect of U.S. tax reforms － 3.9 Other (1.8) 2.4 Actual tax rate 22.4% 24.5% 106 13. Earnings per Share The basis of calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is as follows: (Millions of yen, except as otherwise indicated) 2017 2018 Basis of calculating basic earnings per share Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 218,701 ¥ 164,679 Profit not attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent － － Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share 218,701 164,679 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,109,149 2,030,203 Basis of calculating diluted earnings per share Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share ¥ 218,701 ¥ 164,679 Adjustment － － Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 218,701 164,679 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,109,149 2,030,203 Subscription rights to shares (Thousands of shares) 2,830 2,268 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,111,979 2,032,472 Earnings per share (attributable to owners of the parent): Basic (Yen) ¥ 103.69 ¥ 81.11 Diluted (Yen) 103.55 81.02 14. Other Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments Amount arising during the year ¥(32,615) ¥28,563 Reclassification adjustment 71 27 Subtotal (32,544) 28,590 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets Amount arising during the year (94) 9,860 Reclassification adjustment (20,836) (4,692) Subtotal (20,931) 5,168 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss before tax effect (53,475) 33,758 Tax effect 6,457 (1,508) Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax ¥(47,018) ¥32,250 107 15. Property, Plant and Equipment Movement of cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses for property, plant and equipment The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Machinery Tools, and and furniture Construction structures vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥211,164 ¥ 154,051 ¥ 79,235 ¥18,023 ¥ 18,124 ¥ 480,597 Acquisitions 2,599 2,712 4,591 － 14,001 23,903 Business combinations － 258 14 － － 272 Disposals (1,302) (3,658) (5,383) (0) (65) (10,408) Loss of control of subsidiaries (8,775) (8,696) (289) (144) (1,457) (19,360) Reclassification from construction in progress 3,228 12,481 1,083 － (16,792) － Other (2,193) (2,456) (565) (116) (485) (5,816) Balance at 31 March 2017 204,722 154,692 78,687 17,762 13,325 469,188 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2016 (92,416) (123,360) (63,811) － (54) (279,642) Depreciation (7,520) (8,753) (5,598) － － (21,872) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (4,375) (2,030) (46) (128) (1,298) (7,877) Disposals 1,228 3,062 5,297 － 52 9,639 Loss of control of subsidiaries 8,249 8,448 283 128 1,298 18,407 Other 927 1,894 449 － 2 3,272 Balance at 31 March 2017 (93,907) (120,739) (63,427) － － (278,073) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2016 118,748 30,691 15,423 18,023 18,069 200,955 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥110,815 ¥ 33,953 ¥ 15,260 ¥17,762 ¥ 13,325 ¥ 191,115 (Notes) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 108 The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2018 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Machinery Tools, and and furniture Construction structures vehicles and fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2017 ¥ 204,722 ¥ 154,692 ¥ 78,687 ¥17,762 ¥13,325 ¥ 469,188 Acquisitions 3,765 4,646 3,624 － 12,071 24,107 Business combinations 488 155 21 36 － 700 Disposals (8,473) (5,939) (4,159) － (7) (18,577) Reclassification from construction in progress 5,979 3,301 432 － (9,712) － Reclassification to assets held for sale (10,149) (4,102) (127) － (95) (14,473) Other 687 3,502 470 24 (920) 3,764 Balance at 31 March 2018 197,020 156,254 78,949 17,822 14,664 464,709 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2017 (93,907) (120,739) (63,427) － － (278,073) Depreciation (7,468) (8,780) (5,792) － － (22,039) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (1,837) (319) (21) － － (2,177) Disposals 8,277 5,407 4,086 － － 17,771 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1,933 3,056 87 － － 5,076 Other (628) (2,856) (488) － － (3,972) Balance at 31 March 2018 (93,629) (124,231) (65,554) － － (283,414) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2017 110,815 33,953 15,260 17,762 13,325 191,115 Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥ 103,390 ¥ 32,023 ¥ 13,395 ¥17,822 ¥14,664 ¥ 181,295 (Notes) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisitions of Ogeda SA, Mitobridge, Inc., and Universal Cells, Inc. For details on these business combinations, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. The Group recognised impairment losses (or reversal of mainly resulted from the transfer of a U.S. subsidiary to impairment losses) of ¥7,877 million for the year ended another company. The recoverable amount of the 31 March 2017 and ¥2,177 million for the year ended 31 assets, including buildings, of ¥944 million is calculated March 2018, and they are included in “Other expense” in with reference to fair value based on the price agreed the consolidated statement of income. upon for the transfer. Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) of ¥7,877 million for the year ended 31 March 2017 109 The carrying amounts of the assets held under finance leases included in “Property, plant and equipment” are as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings and Machinery and Tools, furniture and structures vehicles fixtures Total Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥－ ¥95 ¥1,133 ¥1,228 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥37 ¥ 6 ¥1,630 ¥1,672 Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥41 ¥ 1 ¥1,344 ¥1,386 16. Goodwill The movement of cost and accumulated impairment losses for goodwill is as follows: (Millions of yen) Accumulated Cost impairment losses Carrying amount Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥153,121 ¥ － ¥153,121 Business combinations 16,360 － 16,360 Exchange differences (960) － (960) Balance at 31 March 2017 168,521 － 168,521 Business combinations 58,288 － 58,288 Impairment losses － (7,200) (7,200) Disposals (7,200) 7,200 － Exchange differences (6,632) － (6,632) Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥212,976 ¥ － ¥212,976 (Notes) 1. The increase due to business combinations in the year ended 31 March 2017 reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. The movement in the year ended 31 March 2017 was retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation in the year ended 31 March 2018. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. The increase due to business combinations in the year ended 31 March 2018 reflected the acquisitions of Ogeda SA, Mitobridge, Inc., and Universal Cells, Inc. For details on these business combinations, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 110 Goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of pharmaceutical business are 8.0% and 6.0%, financial position mainly resulted from the acquisition of respectively. The pre-tax discount rates used for the OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010. impairment test of the Americas cash-generating unit The Group, in principle, regards the geographical and the whole pharmaceutical business are 10.4% and business units, which are managed for internal reporting 7.7%, respectively. purposes, as cash-generating units. Also, a growth rate of 2.0% for the Americas cashFor the year ended 31 March 2017, the majority of generating unit and 1.0% for the whole pharmaceutical goodwill is mainly allocated to the Americas cashbusiness is reflected in calculating the terminal value generating unit, and the carrying amount of goodwill was after the three-year business plan. The growth rate ¥152,455 million. reflects the status of the country and the industry to For the year ended 31 March 2018, goodwill is which the cash-generating unit belongs. allocated to the Americas cash-generating unit and the The value in use sufficiently exceeds the carrying whole pharmaceutical business, and the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit. Therefore, even if amounts of goodwill allocated were ¥113,632 million the key assumptions used in the calculation of the value and ¥68,571 million, respectively. In addition, the Group in use fluctuate within a reasonable range, the Group has not yet completed the allocation to cash-generating assumes that the possibility that the value in use will be units of goodwill amounting to ¥30,773 million acquired lower than the carrying amount is remote. through business combinations in the year ended 31 The Group recognised impairment losses of ¥7,200 March 2018. million for the year ended 31 March 2018 and they are For the impairment test, the value in use, which is included in “Other expense” in the consolidated calculated based on the three-year business plan statement of income. The impairment losses for the year approved at the board of directors meeting, is used as ended 31 March 2018 were recognised on the goodwill the recoverable amount. The Group uses a discount resulting from the acquisition of U.S. subsidiary rate calculated based on a weighted average cost of Agensys, Inc., in connection with the termination of capital (WACC) determined for each geographical area. research operation of Agensys, deeming the The after-tax discount rates used for the impairment test recoverable amount to be zero. of the Americas cash-generating unit and the whole 111 17. Other Intangible Assets Movement of cost, accumulated amortisation and impairment losses for other intangible assets The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ 341,371 ¥ 57,081 ¥145,876 ¥ 43,697 ¥ 319 ¥ 588,344 Acquisitions 163 99 10,416 7,400 1,550 19,628 Business combinations 1 － 86,020 11 － 86,033 Disposals － (5,127) － (2,184) (3) (7,314) Reclassification 7,728 － (7,728) － － － Other (770) (1,599) (1,636) (404) (23) (4,433) Balance at 31 March 2017 348,492 50,454 232,949 48,520 1,843 682,258 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2016 (166,192) (42,493) (16,258) (26,931) (208) (252,083) Amortisation (32,304) (3,533) － (6,073) (9) (41,919) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (6,054) 1,725 (4,064) (70) － (8,463) Disposals － 3,402 － 2,140 3 5,545 Other (224) 1,459 8 829 10 2,082 Balance at 31 March 2017 (204,775) (39,441) (20,315) (30,104) (204) (294,839) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2016 175,179 14,588 129,617 16,766 111 336,261 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥ 143,717 ¥ 11,013 ¥212,634 ¥ 18,416 ¥1,639 ¥ 387,419 (Notes) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 112 The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2018 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2017 ¥ 348,492 ¥ 50,454 ¥232,949 ¥ 48,520 ¥ 1,843 ¥ 682,258 Acquisitions 569 602 3,365 10,641 21 15,198 Business combinations 1,052 － 79,846 － 2 80,899 Disposals (1,360) － － (1,344) － (2,704) Reclassification to assets held for sale － － － (93) － (93) Other (9,343) 1,469 9,509 1,315 6 2,956 Balance at 31 March 2018 339,410 52,525 325,669 59,039 1,871 778,514 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2017 (204,775) (39,441) (20,315) (30,104) (204) (294,839) Amortisation (32,802) (3,037) － (6,975) (11) (42,824) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (529) － (30,592) (0) (1,520) (32,642) Disposals 1,359 － － 1,319 － 2,678 Reclassification to assets held for sale － － － 70 － 70 Other 7,626 (1,371) (56) (237) (6) 5,955 Balance at 31 March 2018 (229,121) (43,849) (50,964) (35,927) (1,742) (361,602) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2017 143,717 11,013 212,634 18,416 1,639 387,419 Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥ 110,289 ¥ 8,676 ¥274,705 ¥ 23,112 ¥ 130 ¥ 416,912 (Notes) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisitions of Ogeda SA and Universal Cells, Inc. For details on these business combinations, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. Amortisation of other intangible assets related to the Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) rights of product or research and development arising for other intangible assets are recognised in the from in-licensing agreements is recognised in the consolidated statement of income under “Other consolidated statement of income under “Amortisation of expense” and “Other income.” intangible assets”. Impairment test and impairment losses for other intangible assets For the intangible assets other than goodwill, the Group impairment test, the value in use is mainly used as the assesses the necessity of impairment mainly by recoverable amount. The discount rate is calculated individual asset. Also, intangible assets not yet being based on the WACC, and the range of post-tax discount amortised are tested for impairment annually whether or rate used for the calculation of the value in use is 6.0% not there is any indication of impairment. For the 113 to 10.0%, and that of the pre-tax discount rate is 7.7% to agreement with UMN Pharma Inc. and the 14.3%. discontinuation of development activities with respect As a result of the impairment test, the Group to IPR&Ds for ASP7374 and ASP7373, cell culture recognised the following impairment losses for the years based influenza vaccine programs that had been ended 31 March 2017 and 2018. licensed from UMN Pharma Inc. For the year ended 31 March 2017, impairment For the year ended 31 March 2018, impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) recognised for losses (or reversal of impairment losses) recognised for other intangible assets were ¥8,463 million, and details other intangible assets were ¥32,642 million, and details of the main items are as follows: on the main item are as follows: (1) The Company recognised an impairment loss of The Company recognised an impairment loss of ¥6,054 million, deeming the recoverable amount as ¥27,548 million on IPR&D pertaining to IMAB362, zero, due to lower-than-expected profitability of resulting from the acquisition of Ganymed patents for products sold in Japan. The recoverable Pharmaceuticals AG, due to reviewing development amount represented the value in use, calculated project plans. The recoverable amount represented the based on discounted future cash flows. value in use, calculated based on discounted future (2) The Company recognised an impairment loss of cash flows. The post-tax and pre-tax discount rates ¥4,000 million, deeming the recoverable amount as used for the calculation of the value in use are 10.0% zero, due to the exercise of its right to terminate its and 14.3%, respectively. Significant intangible assets Significant intangible assets recognised in the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG in 2016, consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 the rights related to the research and development of March 2017 are mainly composed of the rights related to enzalutamide (XTANDI) acquired through the licence IMAB362 resulting from the acquisition of Ganymed agreement with Medivation, Inc., and the rights related Pharmaceuticals AG in 2016, the rights related to the to the research and development of YM311/roxadustat research and development of enzalutamide (XTANDI) acquired through the licence agreement with FibroGen, acquired through the licence agreement with Inc. The carrying amounts of those intangible assets Medivation, Inc., the rights related to the research and were ¥77,609 million, ¥64,017 million, ¥60,930 million development of YM311/roxadustat acquired through the and ¥51,656 million, respectively. The carrying amount licence agreement with FibroGen, Inc., and the rights of the rights related to fezolinetant resulting from the related to “Tarceva” resulting from the acquisition of OSI acquisition of Ogeda SA represents provisional fair Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010. The carrying amounts of value, as the allocation of the fair value of purchase those intangible assets were ¥84,476 million, ¥67,231 consideration transferred had not been completed. For million, ¥51,656 million, and ¥44,698 million, details, please refer to Note “37. Business respectively. Combinations”. Significant intangible assets recognised in the For intangible assets already starting amortisation, consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 the remaining amortisation period was 2 to 12 years in March 2018 are mainly composed of the rights related to the year ended 31 March 2017 and 1 to 11 years in the fezolinetant resulting from the acquisition of Ogeda SA year ended 31 March 2018. The intangible assets not in 2017, the rights related to IMAB362 resulting from the yet being amortised are tested for impairment annually. 114 18. Deferred Taxes The breakdown and movement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Recognised in As of Recognised other As of 1 April in profit or comprehensive Business 31 March 2016 loss income combinations Other 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(11,067) ¥ (263) ¥ 6,457 ¥ － ¥ 66 ¥ (4,807) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 10,448 315 (1,249) － (172) 9,343 Property, plant and equipment 2,506 (1,469) － － (40) 996 Intangible assets (47,540) 2,881 － (25,806) 1,199 (69,266) Accrued expenses 25,792 (1,572) － － (214) 24,007 Inventories 52,116 3,843 － － (736) 55,223 Tax loss carry-forwards 8,637 (270) － 6,954 (920) 14,401 Other 39,841 1,788 － － 310 41,939 Total ¥ 80,733 ¥ 5,253 ¥ 5,208 ¥(18,852) ¥ (506) ¥ 71,836 (Note) The increase in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG. The movement in the year ended 31 March 2017 was retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation in the year ended 31 March 2018. For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. For the year ended 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) Recognised in As of Recognised other As of 1 April in profit or comprehensive Business 31 March 2017 loss income combinations Other 2018 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥ (4,807) ¥ 73 ¥(1,508) ¥ － ¥ (41) ¥ (6,283) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 9,343 809 (661) － 63 9,553 Property, plant and equipment 996 1,376 － (20) 132 2,484 Intangible assets (69,266) 36,805 － (26,615) (2,303) (61,380) Accrued expenses 24,007 (4,452) － 1 (433) 19,123 Inventories 55,223 7,556 － 3 967 63,749 Tax loss carry-forwards 14,401 (11,821) － 1,406 386 4,372 Other 41,939 (2,371) － 209 (584) 39,193 Total ¥ 71,836 ¥ 27,975 ¥(2,169) ¥(25,016) ¥(1,814) ¥ 70,812 (Note) The increases in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to business combinations reflected the acquisitions of Ogeda SA, Mitobridge, Inc., and Universal Cells, Inc. For details on these business combinations, please refer to Note “37. Business Combinations”. 115 Deductible temporary differences, tax loss carry-forwards, and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Deductible temporary differences ¥31,527 ¥33,446 Tax loss carry-forwards 3,350 13,423 Unused tax credits 2,182 2,708 Total ¥37,059 ¥49,577 (Note) The amounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 were retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation for Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG in the year ended 31 March 2018. The expiration date and amount of tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Year 1 ¥ 632 ¥ 72 Year 2 62 271 Year 3 378 356 Year 4 471 152 Year 5 or later 1,807 12,571 Total ¥3,350 ¥13,423 (Note) The amounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 were retrospectively revised due to the completion of the purchase price allocation for Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG in the year ended 31 March 2018. 19. Other Financial Assets The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Other financial assets (non-current) Financial assets at FVTPL ¥10,762 ¥13,334 Loans and other financial assets 10,421 10,745 Allowance for doubtful accounts (14) (13) Available-for-sale financial assets 40,428 43,308 Total other financial assets (non-current) 61,597 67,375 Other financial assets (current) Loans and other financial assets 13,554 13,517 Total other financial assets (current) 13,554 13,517 Total other financial assets ¥75,151 ¥80,891 116 20. Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Other non-current assets Long-term prepaid expenses ¥10,063 ¥ 5,155 Retirement benefit assets 2,372 2,544 Other 720 673 Total other non-current assets 13,154 8,372 Other current assets Prepaid expenses 10,763 9,149 Other 8,087 5,299 Total other current assets ¥18,849 ¥14,448 21. Inventories The breakdown of inventories is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Raw materials and supplies ¥ 36,225 ¥ 39,302 Work in progress 15,389 15,512 Merchandise and finished goods 130,922 92,813 Total ¥182,537 ¥147,626 The carrying amounts of inventories are measured at The write-down of inventories recognised as an the lower of cost and net realisable value. expense for the years ended 31 March 2017 and 2018 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in amounted to ¥3,414 million and ¥6,737 million, “Cost of sales” for the years ended 31 March 2017 and respectively. 2018 amounted to ¥274,048 million and ¥237,717 million, respectively. 22. Trade and Other Receivables The breakdown of trade and other receivables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Notes and accounts receivable ¥297,094 ¥305,930 Other accounts receivable 44,792 48,711 Allowance for doubtful accounts (9,806) (9,848) Total trade and other receivables 332,080 344,794 Non-current assets 22,263 25,282 Current assets ¥309,817 ¥319,512 117 23. Cash and Cash Equivalents The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Cash and deposits ¥331,801 ¥328,669 Short-term investments (cash equivalents) 9,122 3,062 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position 340,923 331,731 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows ¥340,923 ¥331,731 24. Assets Held for Sale The breakdown of assets held for sale is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Assets Property, plant and equipment Buildings and structures ¥－ ¥ 7,789 Other tangible assets － 164 Other － 2,422 Total ¥－ ¥10,374 Assets held for sale as of 31 March 2018 mainly consolidated subsidiary. The Company completed the represented facilities and leasehold rights connected sale of those assets in April 2018. with the research operations of Agensys, Inc., a U.S. 25. Equity and Other Components of Equity (1) Share capital and capital surplus The movement of the number of issued shares and share capital is as follows: Number of Number of ordinary authorised shares issued shares Share capital Capital surplus (Thousands of shares) (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2016 9,000,000 2,221,823 ¥103,001 ¥176,903 Increase － － － 266 Decrease － (68,000) － (78) As of 31 March 2017 9,000,000 2,153,823 103,001 177,091 Increase － － － 286 Decrease － (85,000) － (159) As of 31 March 2018 9,000,000 2,068,823 ¥103,001 ¥177,219 (Note) Decrease in the number of ordinary issued shares during the years ended 31 March 2017 and 2018 resulted from the cancellation of treasury shares. 118 (2) Treasury shares The movement of treasury shares is as follows: Number of shares Amount (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2016 96,844 ¥ 157,111 Increase 60,513 92,193 Decrease (68,540) (111,096) As of 31 March 2017 88,817 138,207 Increase 89,379 130,712 Decrease (85,526) (132,969) As of 31 March 2018 92,670 ¥ 135,951 (3) Other components of equity Subscription rights to shares The Company had adopted share option plans through the year ended 31 March 2015, and has issued subscription rights to shares under the former Commercial Code and the Companies Act of Japan. Contract conditions and amounts are described in Note “27. Share-based Payment”. Foreign currency translation adjustments These amounts represent foreign currency translation differences that occurred when consolidating financial statements of foreign subsidiaries prepared in a foreign currency. Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets These amounts represent valuation differences between the fair value and acquisition cost of available-for-sale financial assets, which are measured at fair values. 26. Dividends For the year ended 31 March 2017 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 21 June shareholders held on 20 June 2016 shares ¥34,007 ¥16.00 2016 2016 Board of directors meeting Ordinary 30 September 1 December held on 28 October 2016 shares 36,134 17.00 2016 2016 (Notes) 1. The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the ordinary general meeting of shareholders on 20 June 2016 includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 2. The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 28 October 2016 includes dividends of ¥15 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 119 (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2017 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 20 June shareholders held on 19 June 2017 shares ¥35,120 ¥17.00 2017 2017 (Note) The amount of dividends above includes dividends of ¥15 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. For the year ended 31 March 2018 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 20 June shareholders held on 19 June 2017 shares ¥35,120 ¥17.00 2017 2017 Board of directors meeting Ordinary 30 September 1 December held on 31 October 2017 shares 36,552 18.00 2017 2017 (Notes) 1. The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the ordinary general meeting of shareholders on 19 June 2017 includes dividends of ¥15 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 2. The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 31 October 2017 includes dividends of ¥23 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2018 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends dividends per share Resolution Class of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 18 June shareholders held on 15 June 2018 shares ¥35,594 ¥18.00 2018 2018 (Note) The amount of dividends above includes dividends of ¥23 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 120 27. Share-based Payment (1) Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme (i) Outline of the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme From the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016, the Group level of attainment of the medium-term management has introduced a Performance-linked Stock targets. The Performance-linked Stock Compensation Compensation Scheme for directors (excluding outside Scheme under which the Company’s shares are directors and directors who are Audit & Supervisory delivered from the BIP Trust is accounted for as an Committee members) and corporate executives for the equity-settled share-based payment transaction. purpose of increasing their awareness of contributing to In addition, the Company will provide cash benefits the sustainable growth in business results and corporate determined based on stock price of the Company to value. corporate executives residing overseas based on the The Scheme employs a framework referred to as the level of attainment of the medium-term management executive compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust targets. The Performance-linked Stock Compensation (hereinafter the “BIP Trust”) for directors and corporate Scheme that provides cash benefits from the Company executives other than those residing overseas. The BIP is accounted for as a cash-settled share-based payment Trust acquires the Company’s shares and delivers those transaction. shares to directors and other executives based on the (ii) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statement of income (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Total expenses recognised for the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme ¥290 ¥304 (iii) Measurement approach for the fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the fiscal year based on the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme The weighted average fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the period is calculated based on the following assumptions. 2017 2018 Share price at the grant date 1,603.5 yen 1,383.0 yen Vesting period (Note 1) 3 years 3 years Expected annual dividend (Note 2) 34 yen/share 36 yen/share Discount rate (Note 3) (0.3)％ (0.1)％ Weighted average fair value 1,501 yen 1,275 yen (Notes) 1. Refers to the number of years from the grant date until the shares are expected to be delivered. 2. Calculated based on the latest dividends paid. 3. Based on the yield on Japanese government bonds corresponding to the vesting period. 121 (2) Share option plans (i)Outline of share option plans The Company had adopted share option plans through rights to shares to individuals approved at the the year ended 31 March 2015, and has granted share Company’s board of directors meeting. options to directors and corporate executives of the Holders of subscription rights to shares can exercise Company. The purpose of share option plans is to their share subscription rights only from the day improve the sensitivity to the share price and the following the date of resignation from their position as Group’s financial results and also increase the value of director or corporate executive of the Company. the Group by motivating the members to whom share Share options not exercised during the exercise options are granted. period defined in the allocation contract will be forfeited. After obtaining approval at the meeting of The Company accounts for those share option plans shareholders, share options are granted as subscription as equity-settled share-based payment transactions. (ii) Movement of the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price 2017 2018 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of (Yen) shares (Yen) shares Outstanding, beginning of the period ¥1 3,022,900 ¥1 2,531,500 Granted － － － － Exercised 1 (491,400) 1 (423,500) Forfeited or expired － － － － Outstanding, end of the period 1 2,531,500 1 2,108,000 Options exercisable, end of the period ¥1 2,531,500 ¥1 2,108,000 (Notes) 1. The number of share options is presented as the number of underlying shares. 2. The weighted average share prices of share options at the time of exercise during the years ended 31 March 2017 and 2018 are ¥1,525 and ¥1,415, respectively. 122 (iii) Expiration dates and exercise prices of share options outstanding at the end of the period Exercise price Number of shares Expiration per share 2017 2018 date (Yen) Granted on August 2005 24 June 2025 ¥1 46,000 46,000 Granted on February 2007 27 June 2026 1 56,500 16,500 Granted on August 2007 26 June 2027 1 121,500 27,500 Granted on September 2008 24 June 2028 1 129,000 50,500 Granted on July 2009 23 June 2029 1 263,500 143,000 Granted on July 2010 23 June 2030 1 396,000 332,000 Granted on July 2011 20 June 2031 1 485,000 460,500 Granted on July 2012 20 June 2032 1 498,000 498,000 Granted on July 2013 19 June 2033 1 318,500 316,500 Granted on July 2014 18 June 2034 1 217,500 217,500 Total − 2,531,500 2,108,000 (Note) There are vesting conditions in which share subscription rights are vested according to the service record over approximately one year from the grant date of the share option to the vesting date. 28. Retirement Benefits The Group, excluding a part of foreign subsidiaries, benefit plans offered, the defined benefit plan adopted in offers post-employment benefits such as defined benefit Japan is a major one, accounting for approximately 80% plans and defined contribution plans. Among the defined of the total defined benefit obligations. (i) Defined benefit plan adopted in Japan as post-employment benefit The Company and its domestic subsidiaries offer Contributions of the employer are made monthly and corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum also determined as 4.0% of standard salary, which is payment plans as defined benefit plans. calculated based on the estimate of the points granted The benefits of the defined benefit plan are during a year to each participant. When the plan assets determined based on the base compensation calculated are lower than the minimum funding standard at the end by accumulated points earned by the time of retirement of the period, the employer will make additional and promised rate of return based on the yield of 10 contributions. year government bonds. Also, the option of receiving Defined benefit plans are exposed to actuarial risks. benefits in the form of a pension is available for plan The Astellas Corporate Pension Fund assigns staff with participants with 15 years or more enrollments. professional knowledge and expertise about the Defined benefit plans are administered by the composition of plan asset to determine the asset mix Astellas Corporate Pension Fund. Directors of the ratio and manages risks by monitoring on a quarterly pension fund are jointly liable for damages to the fund basis. due to their neglect of duties about management of the funds. 123 (ii) Defined benefit plans of overseas subsidiaries as post-employment benefits Among foreign subsidiaries, ones located in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, and some other countries offer defined benefit plans as post-employment benefits. Assets and liabilities of defined benefit plans recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 123,118 ¥ 30,816 ¥ 153,934 ¥2,608 Fair value of plan assets (111,926) (10,374) (122,300) － Net defined benefit liability (asset) 11,192 20,442 31,634 2,608 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) (2,372) － (2,372) － Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) ¥ 13,564 ¥ 20,442 ¥ 34,006 ¥2,608 As of 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 123,513 ¥ 36,386 ¥ 159,899 ¥1,787 Fair value of plan assets (114,280) (13,278) (127,557) － Net defined benefit liability (asset) 9,233 23,109 32,342 1,787 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) (2,544) － (2,544) － Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) ¥ 11,777 ¥ 23,109 ¥ 34,886 ¥1,787 124 The movement of the present value of defined benefit obligations is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥125,717 ¥31,128 ¥156,845 ¥2,788 Current service cost 5,110 919 6,029 255 Interest cost 558 637 1,195 59 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations −actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (5) (360) (365) (6) −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (1,722) 850 (873) 1 −other (139) 271 131 (100) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements － (28) (28) － Contributions to the plan by plan participants － 72 72 － Payments from the plan (6,400) (768) (7,168) (51) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (1,905) (1,905) (337) Balance at 31 March 2017 123,118 30,816 153,934 2,608 Current service cost 4,875 1,048 5,923 218 Interest cost 1,001 677 1,677 61 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations −actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (5) (144) (149) (2) −actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 1,915 1,023 2,937 (126) −other (720) 466 (254) (186) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements － － － (431) Contributions to the plan by plan participants － 79 79 － Payments from the plan (6,671) (1,082) (7,753) (43) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － 3,504 3,504 (310) Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥123,513 ¥36,386 ¥159,899 ¥1,787 125 The movement of fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥111,799 ¥ 9,820 ¥121,620 ¥－ Interest income 494 211 706 － Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets 2,080 525 2,605 － −actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in financial assumptions 411 (17) 394 － Contributions to the plan −by employer 2,756 648 3,404 － −by plan participants － 63 63 － Payments from the plan (5,614) (198) (5,812) － Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － (679) (679) － Balance at 31 March 2017 111,926 10,374 122,300 － Interest income 905 241 1,146 － Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets −return on plan assets 4,637 (11) 4,626 － −actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (111) (25) (135) － Contributions to the plan −by employer 2,746 901 3,647 － −by plan participants － 70 70 － Payments from the plan (5,824) (333) (6,157) － Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates － 2,060 2,060 － Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥114,280 ¥13,278 ¥127,557 ¥－ The Group expects to contribute ¥3,852 million to its defined benefit plans in the fiscal year ending 31 March 2019. 126 The breakdown of the fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Japan Equity ¥ 22,724 ¥ 21,498 Bonds 37,396 36,292 Cash and other investments 51,806 56,489 Total 111,926 114,280 Overseas Equity 4,337 4,267 Bonds 2,420 2,936 Cash and other investments 3,617 6,075 Total 10,374 13,278 Total fair value of plan assets ¥122,300 ¥127,557 (i) Japanese plan assets Equity comprises mainly investment trust funds and it is not active, and they are categorised as Level 2 within categorised as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. the fair value hierarchy. Cash and other investments The fair values of bonds are measured using quoted include alternative investments. prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are (ii) Overseas plan assets Equity is mainly composed of investments with quoted fair values of bonds are measured using quoted prices prices in active markets or with measured value using for identical or similar assets in markets that are not quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets active, and they are categorised as Level 2 within the that are not active, and they are mainly categorised as fair value hierarchy. Cash and other investments include Level 1 or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The alternative investments. Significant actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption are as follows: 2017 2018 Discount rate (%) Japan 0.6％-0.8％ 0.5％-0.7％ Overseas 1.8％-2.5％ 1.7％-2.5％ The impact of a 0.5% increase or decrease in the other assumptions are held constant. In practice, discount rate as significant actuarial assumption used changes in some of the assumptions may occur in a on the defined benefit obligations as of 31 March 2018 correlated manner. When calculating the sensitivity of would result in a ¥11,659 million decrease and ¥13,128 the defined benefit obligations, the same method has million increase, respectively, in the defined benefit been applied as calculating the defined benefit obligation. obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of The sensitivity analysis does not consider financial position. correlations between assumptions, assuming that all 127 The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: 2017 2018 Japan 13.7 years 13.6 years Overseas 18.6 years 18.4 years 29. Provisions The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2017 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ 83,531 ¥1,948 ¥11,462 ¥ 96,941 Increase during the year 81,742 7 3,648 85,397 Decrease due to intended use (71,488) (7) (9,282) (80,777) Reversal during the year (2,429) － (634) (3,063) Other 2,378 (11) 646 3,013 Balance at 31 March 2017 93,734 1,938 5,839 101,511 Non-current 2,214 1,938 769 4,921 Current 91,520 － 5,070 96,589 Total provisions ¥ 93,734 ¥1,938 ¥ 5,839 ¥101,511 The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2018 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2017 ¥ 93,734 ¥1,938 ¥ 5,839 ¥101,511 Increase during the year 110,251 5 9,944 120,201 Decrease due to intended use (81,511) (1) (3,261) (84,772) Reversal during the year (947) － (1,518) (2,465) Other (3,155) 24 (221) (3,352) Balance at 31 March 2018 118,372 1,966 10,783 131,122 Non-current 1,931 1,966 993 4,891 Current 116,441 － 9,791 126,231 Total provisions ¥118,372 ¥1,966 ¥10,783 ¥131,122 Details of provisions are as follows: (i) Trade-related provisions The Group recognises provisions for expenditures adjustments to customers, based on the conditions of expected to be incurred after the end of the period contracts and past experience. related to sales rebates, discounts, Medicare and The outflow of economic benefits is expected within Medicaid of the United States, and other price one year from the end of the reporting period. 128 (ii) Asset retirement obligations The Group recognises asset retirement obligations The outflow of economic benefits is expected more based on past performance in order to provide for the than one year after the end of the reporting period. restoration of rented offices. 30. Other Financial Liabilities The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Other financial liabilities (non-current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Contingent consideration ¥27,253 ¥48,226 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 1,136 904 Other － 293 Total other financial liabilities (non-current) ¥28,389 ¥49,422 Other financial liabilities (current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 626 ¥ 481 Contingent consideration 1,196 5,946 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 499 444 Other 671 688 Total other financial liabilities (current) ¥ 2,992 ¥ 7,559 Total other financial liabilities ¥31,381 ¥56,981 The maturity and the present value of finance lease liabilities are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Minimum lease payments Not later than one year ¥ 499 ¥ 444 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,110 886 Later than five years 26 18 Present value of finance lease liabilities ¥1,635 ¥1,348 129 31. Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Other non-current liabilities Other long-term employee benefits ¥ 17,727 ¥ 18,759 Deferred income 34,153 22,301 Other 1,648 6,309 Total other non-current liabilities ¥ 53,528 ¥ 47,370 Other current liabilities Accrued bonuses ¥ 30,665 ¥ 29,991 Accrued paid absences 11,792 12,017 Other accrued expenses 43,493 53,763 Deferred income 16,443 18,020 Other 4,156 7,946 Total other current liabilities ¥106,548 ¥121,737 (Note) Deferred income under other non-current liabilities and deferred income under other current liabilities include deferred income of ¥30,593 million and ¥14,877 million, respectively, in the year ended 31 March 2017, and ¥19,584 million and ¥12,539 million, respectively, in the year ended 31 March 2018, in connection with the transfer of the global dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S. 32. Trade and Other Payables The breakdown of trade and other payables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Accounts payable-trade ¥115,188 ¥ 75,683 Other payables 68,078 68,741 Total trade and other payables ¥183,266 ¥144,424 Non-current ¥ 440 ¥ 3,515 Current 182,826 140,909 33. Financial Instruments (1) Capital management The Group’s capital management principle is to maintain The Group monitors financial indicators in order to an optimal capital structure by improving capital maintain an optimal capital structure. Credit ratings are efficiency and ensuring sound and flexible financial monitored for financial soundness and flexibility, and so conditions in order to achieve sustained improvement in is return on equity attributable to owners of the parent the enterprise value, which will lead to improved return (ROE) for capital efficiency. to shareholders. The Group is not subject to material capital regulation. 130 (2) Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The breakdown of financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ 10,762 ¥ 13,334 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 332,080 344,794 Loans and other financial assets 23,961 24,249 Available-for-sale financial assets 40,428 43,308 Cash and cash equivalents 340,923 331,731 Total financial assets 748,153 757,416 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 626 ¥ 481 Contingent consideration 28,450 54,172 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,266 144,424 Other 2,306 2,328 Total financial liabilities ¥214,647 ¥201,405 (Notes) 1. Financial assets at FVTPL, loans and other financial assets, and available-for-sale financial assets are included in “Other financial assets” in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2. Financial liabilities at FVTPL and financial liabilities at amortised cost are included in “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position. (3) Financial risk management policy The Group is exposed to financial risks such as credit The Group limits the use of derivatives to risks, liquidity risks, and foreign exchange risks in transactions for the purpose of hedging financial risks operating businesses, and it manages risks based on its and does not use derivatives for speculation purposes. policy to mitigate them. 131 (i) Credit risk (a) Credit risk management (c) Maximum exposure to credit risk Receivables, such as trade receivables, resulting from Other than guaranteed obligations, the Group’s the business activities of the Group are exposed to the maximum exposure to credit risks without taking into customer’s credit risk. This risk is managed by grasping account any collateral held or other credit the financial condition of the customer and monitoring enhancements is the carrying amount of financial the trade receivables balance. Also, the Group reviews instruments less impairment losses in the consolidated collectability of trade receivables depending on the statement of financial position. The Group’s maximum credit conditions of customers and recognises an exposure to credit risks of guaranteed obligations as of allowance for doubtful accounts as necessary. 31 March 2017 and 2018 were ¥444 million and ¥343 Securities held by the Group are exposed to the million, respectively. issuer’s credit risk, and deposits are exposed to the credit risk of banks. Also, derivative transactions that the (d) Collateral Group conducts in order to hedge financial risks are The Group has securities and deposits received as exposed to the credit risk of the financial institutions collateral for certain trade and other receivables. The which are counterparties of those transactions. In regard carrying amount of securities held as collateral is ¥1,420 to securities transactions and deposit transactions in million at 31 March 2018 (¥1,088 million at 31 March fund management, the Group only deals with banks and 2017), and the carrying amount of deposits received is issuers with certain credit ratings and manages ¥72 million at 31 March 2018 (¥72 million at 31 March investments within the defined period and credit limit, in 2017). accordance with Global Cash Investment Policy. In addition, regarding derivative transactions, the Group only deals with financial institutions with certain credit ratings in accordance with Astellas Global Treasury Policy. (b) Concentrations of credit risk In Japan, like other pharmaceutical companies, the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers. Sales to the four largest wholesalers accounted for approximately 75% of the Group’s sales in Japan, and the amount of trade receivables due from those four wholesalers are ¥106,464 million at 31 March 2017 and ¥94,410 million at 31 March 2018. 132 The analysis of aging of financial assets that are past due but not impaired is as follows: (Millions of yen) Past due but not impaired Neither Between Between Allowance past due Within three six months for nor three months and and one Over doubtful impaired months six months year one year accounts Total Balance at 31 March 2017 Trade and other receivables ¥296,263 ¥12,563 ¥1,187 ¥1,076 ¥858 ¥(1,250) ¥310,697 Loans and other financial assets 23,955 1 － － 6 － 23,961 Total ¥320,218 ¥12,564 ¥1,187 ¥1,076 ¥864 ¥(1,250) ¥334,658 Balance at 31 March 2018 Trade and other receivables ¥305,165 ¥12,570 ¥1,253 ¥1,250 ¥914 ¥ (483) ¥320,669 Loans and other financial assets 24,241 1 0 － 6 － 24,249 Total ¥329,406 ¥12,571 ¥1,254 ¥1,250 ¥920 ¥ (483) ¥344,917 Financial assets that are individually determined to be impaired are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Trade and other receivables (gross) ¥29,939 ¥33,489 Allowance for doubtful accounts (8,556) (9,365) Trade and other receivables (net) ¥21,383 ¥24,125 Loans and other financial assets (gross) ¥ 14 ¥ 13 Allowance for doubtful accounts (14) (13) Loans and other financial assets (net) ¥ － ¥ － The movement of the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Balance at the beginning of the year ¥ 2,873 ¥9,820 Increase during the year 9,704 1,629 Decrease due to intended use (229) (961) Reversal during the year (2,351) (748) Other (176) 120 Balance at the end of the year ¥ 9,820 ¥9,861 133 (ii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management The Group is exposed to liquidity risk that the Group of financial obligations and respond flexibly to strategic might have difficulty settling financial obligations. investment opportunities. Also, the balance is reported However, the Group is maintaining the liquidity on hand monthly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). that enables the Group to meet the assumed repayment Financial liabilities by maturity date are as follows: As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 626 ¥ 626 ¥ － ¥ 626 ¥ － ¥ － ¥ － Subtotal 626 626 － 626 － － － Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,266 183,266 181,507 1,319 313 127 － Other 2,306 2,306 927 245 405 703 26 Subtotal 185,571 185,571 182,433 1,564 718 830 26 Total ¥186,197 ¥186,197 ¥182,433 ¥2,190 ¥718 ¥830 ¥26 Maximum Between Carrying payment Within one one year Over amount amount year and five years five years Contingent consideration ¥28,450 ¥103,019 ¥1,198 ¥14,543 ¥13,241 134 As of 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) Between Between Between Carrying Contractual Within six six months one year and two years Over amount cash flows months and one year two years and five years five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts ¥ 481 ¥ 481 ¥ － ¥481 ¥ － ¥ － ¥ － Subtotal 481 481 － 481 － － － Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 144,424 144,424 140,677 232 421 1,313 1,780 Other 2,328 2,328 925 209 384 511 299 Subtotal 146,752 146,752 141,603 441 804 1,824 2,079 Total ¥147,232 ¥147,232 ¥141,603 ¥922 ¥804 ¥1,824 ¥2,079 Maximum Between Carrying payment Within one one year Over amount amount year and five years five years Contingent consideration ¥54,172 ¥172,969 ¥5,981 ¥40,130 ¥9,756 (iii) Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk management currencies. Also, the balance of derivative transactions The Group operates globally and the Group’s business is reported monthly to the CFO. results and financial position are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis The Group’s long-term basic policy is to mitigate the The financial impact on profit before tax for the years foreign exchange risks by controlling the amount of the ended 31 March 2017 and 2018 in the case of a 10% Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currencies to appreciation of Japanese yen, which is the Company’s the level corresponding to the business scale of each functional currency, against the U.S. dollar and euro is area. In the short term, the Group uses derivatives such as follows. as forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the Also, it is based on the assumption that currencies impact of exchange rate fluctuations arising from import other than the ones used for the calculation do not and export transactions denominated in foreign fluctuate and other change factors are held constant. (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Profit before tax U.S. dollar ¥ (34) ¥(908) Euro (745) 329 (Note) The above negative amounts represent the negative impact on profit before tax in the event of a 10% appreciation in Japanese yen. 135 (4) Fair values of financial instruments (i) Fair value calculation of financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL comprise mainly debt Financial liabilities at FVTPL comprise contingent securities and forward foreign exchange contracts. The consideration for business combinations and forward fair value of those financial instruments is measured foreign exchange contracts. based on prices provided by counterparty financial The fair value of contingent consideration for institutions. business combinations is calculated based on the estimated success probability of development activities Loans and receivables and the time value of money. The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts short period of settlement terms. is measured based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. Available-for-sale financial assets The fair value of marketable securities is based on Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost quoted market prices at the end of the period. The fair Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise value of unquoted equity shares is measured mainly trade and other payables and other financial liabilities. based on the discounted cash flows. The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short period of settlement terms. Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short maturities of the instruments. (ii) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis Fair value hierarchy The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: − Level 3: Fair value measured using significant − Level 1: Fair value measured using quoted prices unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities. (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; The level of the fair value hierarchy is determined − Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs other based on the lowest level of significant input used for than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are the measurement of fair value. observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly The Group accounts for transfers between levels of or indirectly; and the fair value hierarchy as if they occurred at the end of each quarter. 136 The breakdown of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, is as follows: As of 31 March 2017 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ － ¥7,864 ¥ 2,897 ¥10,762 Subtotal － 7,864 2,897 10,762 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 26,170 － － 26,170 Unquoted equity shares － － 14,258 14,258 Other equity securities － － 0 0 Subtotal 26,170 － 14,258 40,428 Total financial assets 26,170 7,864 17,156 51,190 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts － 626 － 626 Contingent consideration － － 28,450 28,450 Subtotal － 626 28,450 29,076 Total financial liabilities ¥ － ¥ 626 ¥28,450 ¥29,076 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. 137 As of 31 March 2018 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ － ¥9,197 ¥ 4,137 ¥13,334 Subtotal － 9,197 4,137 13,334 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 28,732 － － 28,732 Unquoted equity shares － － 14,576 14,576 Other equity securities － － 0 0 Subtotal 28,732 － 14,576 43,308 Total financial assets 28,732 9,197 18,714 56,643 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts － 481 － 481 Contingent consideration － － 54,172 54,172 Subtotal － 481 54,172 54,653 Total financial liabilities ¥ － ¥ 481 ¥54,172 ¥54,653 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. 138 The movement of fair value of financial instruments categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2017 1. Financial assets (Millions of yen) Financial Available-forassets sale financial at FVTPL assets Total Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥2,005 ¥13,861 ¥15,866 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note) (60) (150) (211) Recognised in other comprehensive income － 280 280 Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 952 482 1,434 Sales － (10) (10) Other 1 (204) (203) Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥2,897 ¥14,258 ¥17,156 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note) ¥ (60) ¥ (135) ¥ (196) (Note) This is included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 2. Financial liabilities (Millions of yen) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Balance at 1 April 2016 ¥ － Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note) (484) Business combinations 28,934 Balance at 31 March 2017 ¥28,450 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note) ¥ (484) (Note) This is included in “Other income” and “Other expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 139 For the year ended 31 March 2018 1. Financial assets (Millions of yen) Financial Available-forassets sale financial at FVTPL assets Total Balance at 1 April 2017 ¥2,897 ¥14,258 ¥17,156 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note) (332) (450) (782) Recognised in other comprehensive income － 345 345 Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 1,577 693 2,269 Sales － (5) (5) Other (4) (265) (269) Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥4,137 ¥14,576 ¥18,714 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note) ¥ (332) ¥ (452) ¥ (784) (Note) This is included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 2. Financial liabilities (Millions of yen) Financial liabilities at FVTPL Balance at 1 April 2017 ¥28,450 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note) 2,889 Business combinations 22,958 Other (125) Balance at 31 March 2018 ¥54,172 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note) ¥ 2,889 (Note) This is included in “Other income” and “Other expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 140 The financial assets categorised within Level 3 are The financial liabilities categorised within Level 3 are composed mainly of unquoted equity shares. composed of contingent considerations arising from The fair value of significant unquoted equity shares business combinations. is measured using discounted cash flows. The fair value Contingent considerations represent certain of unquoted equity shares is categorised within Level 3 milestone payments based on progress in the because unobservable inputs such as estimates of development of the clinical programs possessed by the future net operating profit after tax and WACC are used acquirees. The fair value of the contingent consideration for the measurement. The WACC used for the is calculated based on the estimated success probability measurement of fair value depends on region or of the clinical program adjusted for the time value of industry. In the years ended 31 March 2017 and 2018, money. The fair value of contingent considerations the WACC used for measurement was 8.0%. Generally, increase if the success probability of the clinical the fair value would decrease if the WACC capital were program, which is the significant unobservable input, is higher. raised. The fair value of unquoted equity shares is In regards to financial instruments categorised within measured by relevant departments of the Company and Level 3, there would be no significant change in fair each Group company in accordance with the Group value when one or more of the unobservable inputs is accounting policy every quarter. The results with changed to reflect reasonably possible alternative evidences of changes in fair value are reported to a assumptions. superior and, if necessary, to the Executive Committee as well. 141 34. Operating Leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Not later than one year ¥13,237 ¥12,636 Later than one year and not later than five years 20,776 30,385 Later than five years 3,167 24,255 Total ¥37,179 ¥67,275 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received ¥1,819 ¥1,486 Minimum lease payments and sublease payments received recognised as expenses are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Minimum lease payments ¥17,050 ¥17,113 Sublease payments received (211) (221) Total ¥16,839 ¥16,891 The Group leases buildings, vehicles and other assets contingent rents payable and terms of purchase options. under operating leases. In addition, there are no material restrictions imposed by The significant leasing arrangements have terms of the lease arrangements. renewal and escalation clauses, but there exist no 35. Commitments The breakdown of commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Intangible assets Research and development milestone payments ¥299,099 ¥248,706 Sales milestone payments 290,749 272,990 Total 589,848 521,696 Property, plant and equipment ¥ 5,114 ¥ 4,804 Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets The Group has entered into research and development payments upon the achievement of agreed objectives or collaborations and in-license agreements of products and when certain conditions are met as defined in the technologies with a number of third parties. These agreements. agreements may require the Group to make milestone 142 “Research and development milestone payments” The amounts shown in the table above represent the represent obligations to pay the amount set out in an maximum payments to be made when all milestones are individual contract agreement upon achievement of a achieved, and they are undiscounted and not risk milestone determined according to the stage of research adjusted. Since the achievement of the conditions for and development. payment is highly uncertain, it is unlikely that they will all “Sales milestone payments” represent obligations to fall due and the amounts of the actual payments may vary pay the amount set out in an individual contract considerably from those stated in the table. agreement upon achievement of a milestone determined according to the target of sales. 36. Related Party Transactions (1) Major companies the Group controls A list of major companies the Group controls is presented in “Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates”. (2) Compensation of key management personnel The table below shows, by the type, the compensation of key management personnel: (Millions of yen) 2017 2018 Rewards and salaries ¥1,353 ¥1,312 Share-based payment 164 206 Other 430 932 Total compensation ¥1,947 ¥2,450 Key management personnel consist of 22 people (21 during 2017) including Directors, Corporate Audit & Supervisory Board Members and members of the Executive Committee. 37. Business Combinations For the year ended 31 March 2017 Acquisition of Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ganymed Pharmaceuticals AG (“Ganymed”) Business description: Development of antibodies against cancer (ii) Acquisition date 20 December 2016 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% 143 (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future. (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Ganymed is a formerly privately-held biopharmaceutical Group will expand its oncology pipeline with an antibody company founded in 2001 and focuses on the program in the late-stage to build upon its leading development of a new class of cancer drugs. Ganymed oncology franchise as a platform for sustainable growth. has several pipeline assets in pre-clinical and clinical stages including IMAB362. Through the acquisition, the (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the acquisition date are as follows: (Millions of yen) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 272 Other intangible assets 86,033 Cash and cash equivalents 629 Other assets 1,103 Deferred tax liabilities (18,852) Other liabilities (5,066) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 64,118 Goodwill 16,360 Total 80,478 Cash 51,544 Contingent consideration 28,934 Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 80,478 Certain items had reflected provisional amounts as of 31 a result, “Goodwill” and “Deferred tax liabilities” each March 2017, however, the Group completed the decreased by ¥6,829 million. purchase price allocation during the fiscal year ended 31 Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected March 2018. Along with this, the Group retrospectively synergies arising from the acquisition and future revised the corresponding balances in the consolidated economic benefits, which is not separately recognisable. statement of financial position as of 31 March 2017. As (3) Contingent consideration The contingent consideration represent certain Maximum potential future cash outflows associated with milestone payments based on progress in the the contingent consideration total 860 million euros development of IMAB362, Ganymed’s clinical program. (¥103,019 million). 144 (4) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 80,478 Fair value of contingent consideration included in purchase consideration transferred (28,934) Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (629) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥ 50,915 (5) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥101 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. (6) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2017: ¥(1,151) million (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2017 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): ¥(3,825) million (Note) This effect is calculated based on the business results of Ganymed from 1 April 2016 to the acquisition date. For the year ended 31 March 2018 Acquisition of Ogeda SA (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ogeda SA (“Ogeda”) Business description: Development of small molecule drugs targeting G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) (ii) Acquisition date 16 May 2017 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future. (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Ogeda is a formerly privately owned drug discovery and development of small molecule drug candidates company founded in 1994 and focuses on the discovery targeting GPCRs. Ogeda has fezolinetant in the clinical 145 development stage. In addition, Ogeda has several acquisition, the Group will expand its late stage pipeline, small molecules targeting GPCRs in pre-clinical thereby further solidifying its mediumto long-term development in multiple therapeutic areas including growth prospects. inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Through the (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the acquisition date are as follows: (Millions of yen) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 560 Other intangible assets 74,415 Cash and cash equivalents 519 Other assets 513 Deferred tax liabilities (25,256) Other liabilities (1,883) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 48,868 Goodwill 26,145 Total 75,014 Cash 62,086 Contingent consideration 12,928 Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 75,014 Certain items above reflect provisional fair values based Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected on reasonable information obtained at 31 March 2018 synergies arising from the acquisition and future as the purchase price allocation is incomplete. economic benefits, which is not separately recognisable. (3) Contingent consideration The contingent consideration represent certain the contingent consideration total 300 million euros milestone payments based on progress in the (¥39,156 million). development of fezolinetant, Ogeda’s clinical program. Maximum potential future cash outflows associated with (4) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 75,014 Fair value of contingent consideration included in purchase consideration transferred (12,928) Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (519) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥ 61,567 146 (5) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥60 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. (6) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2018: Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2018 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. Acquisition of Mitobridge, Inc. (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Mitobridge, Inc. (“Mitobridge”) Business description: Research and development in diseases associated with mitochondrial dysfunctions (ii) Acquisition date 23 January 2018 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests The Company had owned 26.4% of voting equity interests before the acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, the Company owns 100% of voting equity interests. (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future. (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Mitobridge is a biotechnology company founded in 2011 aging. The transaction accelerates the Group’s research and is discovering and developing compounds that and development in diseases associated with target mitochondrial function. These drug candidates mitochondrial dysfunctions and will enable the delivery have the potential to treat genetic, metabolic or of innovative new treatment options to patients. neurodegenerative disorders as well as conditions of 147 (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the acquisition date are as follows: (Millions of yen) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 71 Deferred tax assets 1,594 Cash and cash equivalents 27 Other assets 27 Other liabilities (339) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 1,380 Goodwill 29,329 Total 30,708 Cash 17,951 Contingent consideration 7,048 Fair value of previously held equity interests in Mitobridge 5,709 Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥30,708 Certain items above reflect provisional fair values based value as of the acquisition date, the Company on reasonable information obtained at 31 March 2018 recognised a ¥5,877 million gain on remeasurement as the purchase price allocation is incomplete. related to a business combination achieved in stages. Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected This gain was included as a component of “Other synergies arising from the acquisition and future income” in the consolidated statement of income. economic benefits, which is not separately recognisable. As a result of the remeasurement of the Company’s previously held equity interests in Mitobridge at fair (3) Contingent consideration The contingent consideration represent certain the contingent consideration total 165 million U.S. milestone payments depending on the progress of dollars (¥17,582 million). various programs in clinical development of Mitobridge. Maximum potential future cash outflows associated with (4) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 30,708 Fair value of contingent consideration included in purchase consideration transferred (7,048) Fair value of previously held equity interests in Mitobridge included in purchase consideration transferred (5,709) Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (27) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥ 17,924 (5) Acquisition-related costs Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. 148 (6) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2018: Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2018 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. Acquisition of Universal Cells, Inc. (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Universal Cells, Inc. (Universal Cells) Business description: Research and development of stem cell therapies that overcome immune rejection (ii) Acquisition date 9 February 2018 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Acquisition of all shares of common stock in cash with contingent consideration to be paid when certain milestones are achieved in the future. (v) Primary reasons for the business combination Universal Cells is a biotechnology company founded in functional cells from pluripotent stem cells with Universal 2013, which has a proprietary Universal Donor Cell Cells’ ability to produce pluripotent stem cells that have technology to create cell therapy products that do not lower immunological rejection to further enable require Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) matching, investigation of innovative cell therapy treatments for potentially overcoming a huge treatment challenge by various diseases that currently have few or no treatment reducing the risk of rejection. The acquisition combines options. the Group’s capability of establishing differentiated 149 (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the acquisition date are as follows: (Millions of yen) Other intangible assets ¥ 6,485 Cash and cash equivalents 915 Other assets 82 Deferred tax liabilities (1,354) Other liabilities (812) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 5,315 Goodwill 2,814 Total 8,130 Cash 5,148 Contingent consideration 2,982 Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 8,130 Certain items above reflect provisional fair values based Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected on reasonable information obtained at 31 March 2018 synergies arising from the acquisition and future as the purchase price allocation is incomplete. economic benefits, which is not separately recognisable. (3) Contingent consideration The contingent consideration represent certain specified consideration total 38 million U.S. dollars (¥3,984 clinical milestone payments. Maximum potential future million). cash outflows associated with the contingent (4) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Total fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥ 8,130 Fair value of contingent consideration included in purchase consideration transferred (2,982) Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (915) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥ 4,233 (5) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥64 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. 150 (6) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended 31 March 2018: Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the year ended 31 March 2018 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): Dislosure is omitted due to immateriality. 38. Contingent Liabilities Legal Proceedings Patient Assistance Foundation Government The Group is involved in various claims and legal Investigation proceedings of a nature considered common to the In March 2016 and August 2017, Astellas Pharma pharmaceutical industry. US, Inc. (APUS), one of the Company’s indirect US These proceedings are generally related to product subsidiaries, received subpoenas from the U.S. liability claims, competition and antitrust law, intellectual Department of Justice, represented by the U.S. property matters, employment claims, and government Attorney’s Office in Boston, Massachusetts, requesting investigations. documents and other information concerning APUS’s In general, since litigation and other legal patient assistance programs including its donations to proceedings contain many uncertainties and complex Patient Assistance Foundations in the U.S. APUS is in factors, it is often not possible to make reliable judgment the process of responding to the subpoena, and APUS regarding the possibility of losses nor to estimate is cooperating fully with the investigation. We cannot expected financial effect if these matters are decided in predict or determine the timing or outcome of this a manner that is adverse to the Group. investigation or its impact on our financial condition or In these cases, disclosures would be made as results of operations at this time. appropriate, but no provision would be made by the Group. 39. Events after the Reporting Period Acquisition of Own Shares A resolution was adopted to acquire the Company’s own (2) Outline of acquisition shares under Article 156 which is applicable in (i) Class of shares to be acquired accordance with Article 165, Paragraph 3 of the Common stock of the Company Companies Act of Japan at the meeting of the Board of (ii) Total number of shares to be acquired Directors held on 31 May 2018. The particulars are as Up to 60 million shares follows: (The percentage compared to the total number of shares outstanding: 3.04 %) (1) Reasons for the acquisition of own shares (iii) Aggregate amount of acquisition cost Shareholder return and improvement of capital Up to ¥100 billion efficiency (iv) Period of acquisition From 1 June, 2018 to 20 September, 2018 151 152 Financial Information and Data Investor Information Common Stock (as of March 31, 2018) Transfer Agent for Common Stock in Japan Authorized: 9,000,000,000 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Issued: 2,068,823,175 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan (including 91,373,232 treasury shares) Number of shareholders: 112,028 Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2018) Shares owned Percentage of total common shares (Thousand shares) outstanding (excluding treasury shares) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 175,020 8.85 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 118,200 5.97 Nippon Life Insurance Company 64,486 3.26 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385632 48,939 2.47 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 43,534 2.20 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 39,273 1.98 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 38,925 1.96 State Street Bank and Trust Company 37,620 1.90 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385147 32,201 1.62 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 1) 29,175 1.47 Notes: Shares owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand shares, while the percentage of total common shares outstanding (excluding treasury shares) is rounded down to two decimal places. Astellas holds 91,373 thousand treasury shares, but it is not included in the above list of major shareholders. Breakdown of Shareholders (as of March 31, 2018) Other companies 3.2% Treasury stock 4.4% Securities companies 3.5% Individuals and others 9.3% Foreign companies and others 47.3% Financial institutions 32.3% 153 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Corporate Data Company Name Founded Astellas Pharma Inc. 1923 Head Office Professional Institution Affiliation 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Tokyo 103-8411, Japan Associations (IFPMA), Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers TEL: +81-3-3244-3000 Association (JPMA), Pharmaceutical Research and https://www.astellas.com/en/ Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), etc. Capital (as of March 31, 2018) ¥103,001 million Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo (Securities Code: 4503) Representative Kenji Yasukawa Independent Auditors Representative Director, President and CEO Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates (as of March 31, 2018) Astellas is a group of companies engaged solely in the pharmaceutical business. The Group consists of 92 companies, which include Astellas Pharma Inc., 83 consolidated subsidiaries and 8 affiliates accounted for by the equity method. Major Group companies are listed as follows: Japan Manufacturing Base Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd. R&D Bases Astellas Research Technologies Co., Ltd.*1 Astellas Analytical Science Laboratories, Inc.*2 Other Astellas Learning Institute Co., Ltd. Astellas Marketing and Sales Support Co., Ltd.*1 Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. *1 Plan to discontinue all activities in Astellas Marketing and Sales Support Co., Ltd and Astellas Research Technologies Co., Ltd. by the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. *2 Plan to divest Astellas Analytical Science Laboratories, Inc. to Eurofins Pharma Services LUX Holding Sarl during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 154 Financial Information and Data Americas Sales Bases Holding Company in North America • Astellas Pharma Ges. mbH (Austria) • Astellas US Holding, Inc. • Astellas Pharma B.V. (Belgium) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. • Astellas Pharma s.r.o (Czech Republic) Regional Headquarters • Astellas Pharma A/S (Denmark) • Astellas US LLC • Astellas Pharma S.A.S (France) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. • Astellas Pharma GmbH (Germany) R&D Bases • Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE (Greece) • Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc. • Astellas Pharma Kft. (Hungary) • Astellas Research Institute of America LLC • Astellas Pharma Co., Limited (Ireland) • Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine • Astellas Pharma S.p.A. (Italy) Sales Bases • Astellas Pharma B.V. (Netherlands) • Astellas Pharma US, Inc. • Astellas Pharma International B.V. (Netherlands) • Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. (Canada) • Astellas Pharma Sp.zo.o. (Poland) • Astellas Farma Brasil Importação e Distribuição de • Astellas Farma Limitada (Portugal) Medicamentos Ltda. (Brazil) • JSC Astellas Pharma (Russia) • Astellas Farma Colombia S.A.S (Colombia) • Astellas Pharma d.o.o (Slovenia) Other • Astellas Pharma (Proprietary) Ltd (South Africa) • Astellas US Technologies, Inc. • Astellas Pharma S.A. (Spain) • Astellas Venture Management LLC • Astellas Pharma A.G. (Switzerland) Note: All subsidiaries for which no country has been indicated are located in the U.S. • Astellas Pharma ilac Ticaret ve Sanayi A.S. (Turkey) • Astellas Pharma DMCC (United Arab Emirates) EMEA • Astellas Pharma Ltd. (United Kingdom) Holding Company in EMEA • Astellas B.V. Asia & Oceania Sylviusweg 62, 2333, BE Leiden, The Netherlands Sales and Other Bases Regional Headquarters (Astellas EMEA Operations) • Astellas Pharma China, Inc. (Sales and manufacturing, China) • Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd. • Astellas Pharma Hong Kong Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong) 2000 Hillswood Drive, Chertsey, Surrey, KT16 0RS, U.K. • Astellas Pharma Taiwan, Inc. (Taiwan) R&D and Manufacturing Bases • Astellas Pharma Korea, Inc. (Korea) • Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. • Astellas Pharma Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) (R&D and manufacturing, Netherlands) • Astellas Pharma (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) • Astellas Ireland Co., Limited • P.T. Astellas Pharma Indonesia (Indonesia) (Development and manufacturing, Ireland) • Astellas Pharma India Private Limited (India) • Astellas Pharma Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia) • Astellas Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) • Astellas Pharma Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. (Malaysia) 155 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Corporate Strategy and Corporate Governance Business Review Financial Information and Data Inclusion in SRI Indexes Astellas is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Astellas is a member of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index. Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. Astellas is a member of the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, an equity index developed by MSCI Inc. that provides exposure to Japanese companies with high Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance relative to their sector peers. Astellas is a member of the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN), an equity index developed by MSCI Inc. that comprises leading Japanese companies that promote gender diversity. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 156 Astellas Pharma Inc. 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8411, Japan https://www.astellas.com/en/ Please direct inquiries concerning Annual Report 2018 to: Astellas Pharma Inc. Corporate Communications TEL: +81-3-3244-3202 FAX: +81-3-5201-7473 Issued in September 2018
