Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 1/26 The Danfoss Group www.danfoss.com Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks About this report Danfoss became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002. We continue to support the Global Compact and its principles, which govern our sustainability efforts. The Sustainability Report 2017 reports on Danfoss’ activities in Danfoss’ annual reporting is prepared in accordance with a sustainability perspective and presents Danfoss’ contribution the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA). Together with the Read more at unglobalcompact.org. as a committed signatory to the UN Global Compact. As a UN Annual Report 2017, the Sustainability Report 2017 fulfills the Global Compact member, Danfoss is required to report on requirements of FSA, Sections 99a and 99b, by accounting for an annual basis on its progress in relation to the UN Global Danfoss’ activities relating to social responsibility and reporting Follow us here: Compact’s universally accepted 10 principles for responsible on activities in the areas of human rights, labor rights, diversity, www.facebook.com/danfoss business conduct. environment, anti-corruption, and climate change. For the benefit of stakeholders with particular interests in these topics, www.twitter.com/danfoss The Sustainability Report is framed in the context of our the Sustainability Report provides a detailed presentation of http://plus.google.com/+danfoss sustainability program. In essence, this report is about how our targets, activities and achievements within these topics. we do business responsibly and profitably, with a view to www.youtube.com/danfossgroup maximizing sustainable value creation for society. This Sustainability Report 2017 has been prepared and published in English. The report is released as an electronic www.linkedin.com/company/danfoss This report complements Danfoss’ Annual Report 2017, which publication only and made available at www.danfoss.com. https://www.instagram.com/danfosscareers/ presents our business and financial results over the year and sets out the company’s strategy and priorities. Selected partnerships EP100 – Energy Productivity 100 SEforALL – Sustainable Energy for All PACI – Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Danfoss joined EP100 (Energy Productivity 100) to share best Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL) is a global initiative Danfoss is committing to the PACI Principles for Countering practices and highlight our leadership on energy productivity. launched by UN in support of making sustainable energy Corruption. Thereby we support a global, cross-industry, multiDanfoss supports the goal of the Global Alliance for Energy for all a reality by 2030. SEforALL mobilizes action from all stakeholder anti-corruption initiative established by World Productivity to double energy productivity by 2030. Thereby sectors of society, including governments, business and civil Economic Forum. The purpose is to raise business standards we have committed to double our economic output from society to deliver on three objectives by 2030: the universal and build a competitive, transparent, accountable and ethical every unit of energy consumed. At the same time, we will access to modern energy services doubling the global rate of business environment. We commit to implement and develop achieve reductions in energy costs and greenhouse gas improvement in energy efficiency, and doubling the share of an effective anti-corruption program and to play an active role emissions. renewable energy in the global energy mix. in advancing the global anti-corruption agenda. Sustainability Report 2017 2/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks In Danfoss, we believe that smart energy technology is When we turn down energy consumption, fundamental to long-term value creation – both when it comes to protecting the environment, securing a healthy we turn up growth climate, and ensuring a healthy economy. By combining digitalization, innovation and energy efficiency to create smart, Energy efficiency can accelerate the economy. According sustainable solutions, we not only improve our environmental to the European Alliance to Save Energy, we can achieve footprint, but also free up money to be spent elsewhere. impressive growth, if we set more ambitious targets for energy efficiency. We operate in a world challenged by a growing population, booming urbanization and clear issues related to climate change, and our energy-efficient solutions – doing more with Today’s available technology can support: less – are a ready-to-use answer. This is why we manage our business in accordance with our Core & Clear strategy and Reduced CO2 emissions consider the financial, environmental and social impacts of our Europe can reduce CO2 emissions by business decisions. By doing so, we consider Danfoss to be a 1.5 billion tonnes sustainable business. every year until 2030 – a 30% reduction As we move forward, participating in the Global Compact Postponing energy investments as well as working with the Sustainable Development Goals Higher energy efficiency postpones the need to gives us a platform to develop our sustainability efforts further, expand energy production, which could lead to for example through even more partnerships and learning €30 billion activities, which directly address sustainability. You can read investment savings per year more about our activities in this report. More jobs Sustainable Development Goal no. 7 – Ensure access to A more ambitious policy on energy affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all efficiency can create – is at the core of what we do. Smart energy technology is Thinking energy – 1.5 million already available, but our next priority should be connected, full-time jobs flexible and future-proof smart energy systems. For example, smart by connecting electricity, heating and cooling. Connecting Lower energy use supply side and demand side. Using big data to anticipate and By reducing energy consumption, alleviate system peaks, and allowing consumers to become Europeans could achieve a net saving of prosumers. These are examples of true connectivity and collaboration in a smart energy system that will create the €200 billion synergies needed to increase efficiency beyond the targets set out in the Paris Agreement. “We operate in a world challenged by a Lower energy prices growing population, booming urbanization The less energy we use, the less we demand. We can potentially reduce accumulated energy expenses by and clear issues related to climate change, and €50 billion our energy-efficient solutions – doing more Kim Fausing by 2030 with less – are a ready-to-use answer.” President & CEO Sustainability Report 2017 3/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Contents Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainability Energy and climate We want to make a difference in the world. Today. That’s what We believe that smart energy technology is key to a more We help our customers and the world to use less energy, and we Engineering Tomorrow is all about. That is why we put many efforts sustainable climate and fundamental to growth and prosperity. have not forgotten our own footprint. Our climate ambition is that into improving knowledge of sustainability in society as well as While delivering growth and strong financial results, we care for by 2030, we will spend half as much energy running our business involving partners and local communities in learning activities. our people and aim at leaving the world to the next generation as we spent in 2007. And the energy we do spend must emit half in a better state than we inherited it. as much CO2. Business model 7 Sustainability program 12 Energy reductions on track 16 Community engagement 8 Targets and achievements in 2017 13 CO2 emissions 16 Our way of prioritizing the SDGs 10 Targets in 2018 15 Environment 17 People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Danfoss has a long tradition of social responsibility to create Danfoss is committed to living up to increasing legislative and Danfoss’ compliance programs ensure constant focus on keeping sustainable results. From pursuing a diverse workforce in terms customer demands for safe and sustainable products and solutions. our house in order and maintaining our integrity and credibility. of professional skills, nationality, age, and gender to support Danfoss continues the strong focus on processes and data Compliance and risk management are the foundation of our employees in need and create a great place to work. needed to report and meet our compliance obligations. sustainability work. Our people 18 Danfoss Negative List 22 Human rights 23 Diversity and inclusion 20 Conflict minerals 22 Responsible supplier management 24 Health and safety 21 Circular Economy 23 Risks in a sustainability perspective 25 Sustainability Report 2017 4/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Danfoss in brief Key facts 26,645 1,399 72 Danfoss engineers technologies that enable the world employees dedicated to patent families factories in 20 countries, engineering solutions that and Danfoss sells its of tomorrow to do more with less. We meet the growing make a difference to people products in more than need for infrastructure, food supply, energy efficiency, and and businesses worldwide 100 countries climate-friendly solutions. Our products and services are used in areas such as refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, motor control, and offhighway machinery. We also operate in the field of renewable energy, as well as district energy infrastructure for cities and A more sustainable outdoor Main contributors to achieve the 2050 target of the Paris Agreement urban communities. climate starts indoors Visit our website – www.danfoss.com – to learn more about The Paris Agreement set out a global action plan to keep global Energy efficiency warming below 2°C by 2050. If we are to achieve this low-carbon Renewables how we are helping to realize the vast potential for better future, we must leverage energy efficiency. Energy efficiency is Low-carbon infrastructure, improved living standards, higher energy a relevant contributor to a more sustainable climate – and the 20% energy sources efficiency and food supply for our growing world. technologies are already available today. 38% Other 10% 32% The Danfoss heritage Danfoss has grown from a one-man business into a global leader by having a clear focus on innovative engineering right from the beginning. Today, Danfoss is still a privately-held company controlled Source: International Energy Agency: Energy Technology Perspective 2016 by the Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation. Group highlights Net sales, DKKbn Growth in local currency EBIT margin Energy reduction since 2007 CO2 reduction since 2007 43.3 12% 11.1% 43% 27% Sustainability Report 2017 5/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Sustainability highlights 2017 Energy neutrality via connected energy systems Promoting a low-carbon In cooperation with the Royal Danish Saving energy is saving future Embassy, Danfoss Poland organized money Danfoss joined the European a seminar that focused on how to At the UN event on Sustainable Union's Sustainable Energy become energy neutral. Danfoss Energy in Belgrade, Serbia, Danfoss Week Conference to underline shared experiences from a Danish spoke about the enormous the importance of sustainable wastewater treatment plant, which potential for energy savings. Energy cooling. Cooling is important on not only ensures clean water, but savings can be achieved through Engaging in learning the international agenda as it is also produces more electricity and optimized controls, which can activities thought to produce around 10% heating than it consumes itself. reduce energy bills and increase The Iowa State University’s of the world’s CO2 emissions. We The generated excess energy is comfort with low investments and Corporation and Foundation, USA, support the new Cooling EU forum, benefitting the local community. short payback times. awarded Danfoss for its year-long bringing together stakeholders and support to students and donations promoting a more efficient and of equipment and instrumentation. cleaner cooling supply. The award reflected 45 years of close collaboration to help educate and inspire young people to Pursuing the best achieve in the classroom, in the sustainable solutions Reducing environmental Promoting sustainable laboratory, in their working lives, Danfoss joined the UN climate impact from production cities and communities and in their impact on our world. conference, COP23, in Bonn, Danfoss India was honored with Danfoss invited Chinese government Germany. Danfoss sent a clear the prestigious Golden Peacock officials and industry leaders to a message to business and Award, which is considered a seminar on district heating in Beijing. government leaders to continue to benchmark of corporate excellence District heating can play a key role Safety first in all Danfoss be ambitious, when creating climate worldwide. The award was received on China’s path toward a greener factories plans and taking energy measures. for the excellent environment future, and the seminar marked the Danfoss Mexico hosted a Safety management initiatives, within first time that key opinion leaders in Day with the purpose of showing and outside the site, especially the the Chinese district energy sector colleagues just how difficult even a green manufacturing facility based had met to discuss and plan. simple everyday task can become out of Chennai. if they get injured. Through practical exercises, it was made easier to understand, why Danfoss' “Safety First” focus is so important. Sustainability Report 2017 6/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Why what 35-50% energy savings with oil-free variable speed compressors 50% increase in power plant efficiency 40% energy savings from variable speed 10-15% energy savings from control valves we do matters for heating, ventilation, and with combined heat drives controlling in heating and air-conditioning systems and power solutions fans and pumps cooling systems We drive competitive advantage through our core competencies, which enable smarter energy thinking. Our business model links to global megatrends, which represent future growth opportunities and areas, where we contribute to a sustainable global development. Business model Examples of how Danfoss’ technology and solutions are creating value for our customers and society as a whole. 98% 6% 10-25% 30% Climate Infrastructure of the available solar more efficient energy savings with fuel savings with electronic energy goes to the grid farm machines variable speed drives in throttling valves for with solar inverters with hydraulic motors refrigeration systems refrigeration systems in trucks Application Innovation knowledge Differentiate through Close to customers new technology Competitive advantage 90-95% 50-75% 20-50% reuse of heat with heat energy savings energy savings with recovery ventilation for optimal with air and ground aqua variable speed Leading comfort and energy savings source heat pumps drives in water positions applications Exploit scale Energy Food Read more in the Annual Report 2017 Sustainability Report 2017 7/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Community Chile: Animal first aid engagement After a series of fires in the South of Chile, a group of Danfoss employees got together to buy first aid supplies, medicine, water, food and other necessities for burn-afflicted animals in emergency centers. Danfoss also worked with a few other companies and the Chilean Refrigeration Chamber to donate and install a refrigerated container in Santa Olga, one of the most affected cities. Germany: Smile – if just for a day When you have fled war and devastation, it can be very hard to find Danfoss wants to contribute to improving knowledge of reasons to smile and laugh. To try and remedy that, however briefly, the sustainability in society and engage in the development of Danfoss factory in Neumünster, Germany, has helped organize day trips the local communities, in which we operate. for young people from two nearby refugee camps – most recently to Hamburg’s Miniatur Wunderland, which is the largest model railway in Danfoss is an active partner through sponsorships, the world. The factory also sponsors German language teaching in the involvement in trade organizations, and through participation Denmark: camps and donates clothes and writing materials. in social work. For example, colleagues take action and make a difference in their local communities by packaging relief International scout camp 2017 boxes, helping out in a local soup kitchen, or supporting a nearby school to give children the best start in life. This is Danfoss helped thousands of scouts test their science skills at the organized by local Danfoss projects around the globe and international scout camp 2017. The activities included how to make a through our foundations. thermometer using a bellow from a Danfoss expansion valve, how to build a water rocket, design a structure allowing them to lift a car, and much more. In 2017, the camp was held in Sønderborg close to the Furthermore, Danfoss engages with multiple stakeholders, Danfoss headquarters, and attracted more than 37,000 scouts from 33 such as customers, authorities, NGOs and global organizations, countries. And, as one of the main sponsors of the event, the Bitten like Global Compact. We do this to pursue the best sustainable and Mads Clausen Foundation donated about EUR 900,000 to improve solutions worldwide. public access areas and infrastructure at the campgrounds. For example, Danfoss cooperates with Sønderborg Municipality, which – through its initiative “Project Zero” – has the vision of becoming Europe’s first CO2 neutral municipality. This vision also mirrors that of the international scout camp, which took place in Denmark in 2017. Because of common interests in caring about nature and sustainability, Danfoss was involved in learning activities at the scout camp and helped sending a signal to the greater community regarding energy efficiency and CO2 neutrality. Sustainability Report 2017 8/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation The Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation was founded in 1971 by Bitten Clausen. The Foundation’s primary objective is to strengthen Danfoss A/S in all areas through the Foundation’s ownership of shares in Danfoss A/S and appointment of the most qualified board members to the Board of Directors in Danfoss A/S. The Foundation may choose to support Danfoss A/S indirectly through initiatives within three focus areas: • Research and education. Poland: • Local community support. • Sustainability. 5,537 kilometers for children in need Within these focus areas, activities that have a positive impact From Warsaw to Delhi. That is the total distance covered by Polish on Danfoss A/S can gain support, including all employees of Danfoss employees in a charity run organized since 2009. Every Danfoss A/S and the local communities, where Danfoss A/S has its year, Danfoss employees and their families spend a Saturday activities. in September running as far as they can to benefit community children in need. Danfoss donates EUR 16 per kilometer – totaling EUR 89,000 since 2009 – and the donations go to health, education and sports. Other foundations associated with Danfoss Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation was established in 1960 Nepal: Malaysia: by the founder of Danfoss. The purpose of the foundation is to A helping hand from co-workers Cooking for the homeless provide support to projects within education, health, sports and culture. The support is provided in the local communities of the When devastating earthquakes killed more than 7,000 people in It was not just another day at the office, when Danfoss employees Group's business units. Nepal, a Danfoss employee and Kathmandu native was deeply in Malaysia spent their Friday cutting vegetables, peeling onions, distressed for his compatriots and quickly started collecting scrubbing floors, and cooking at a local soup kitchen that provides donations for medicine, food and water-filtering containers among free meals for homeless and poor people. For Malaysian Danfoss his colleagues. A few weeks later, he was able to hand over donations employees it was only natural to do their part to help. Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation, totaling EUR 3,500 to a local relief organization and join the relief which works to provide consultation and financial support workers as they handed out aid packages in the affected areas. to employees in Danfoss A/S as well as the Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation and associated companies in Denmark and in their Danish subsidiaries. Danfoss Foundation for Education provides financial support for the education of persons who have relationships with companies within the Danfoss Group. Sustainability Report 2017 9/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Our way of prioritizing the SDGs Although our passion for energy efficiency is most directly linked to four of the 17 SDGs, they cannot be considered isolated, and we impact all of them in one way or another. In September 2015, the 193 UN member states unanimously 6: Clean water and sanitation 7: Affordable and clean energy adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Ensure availability and sustainable management of water Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and and sanitation for all modern energy for all The SDGs take a broad perspective and are relevant for all countries. For the Paris Agreement and the SDGs to become We provide solutions for water and wastewater handling to optimize Danfoss is a world leader in energy-efficient technologies. a reality, all countries, businesses, and organizations must and reduce energy consumption. This leads to increased energy Improved energy efficiency will help us meet the growing demand contribute to achieving the goals. efficiency and lower operating cost in, for example, a waste water for energy and ensure access to reliable and modern energy, which treatment plant, ensuring sustainable management of water for all. all can afford. For Danfoss, the journey started in 2015 by assessing, on which SDGs our business had the most direct impact, and which SDGs represented the most significant market opportunities for us. 11: Sustainable cities and communities 12: Responsible consumption and production Danfoss supports and contributes to all SDGs, but we focus our Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Ensure sustainable consumption and production efforts towards the four SDGs, which touch our core business: resilient, and sustainable patterns SDG no. 6, 7, 11, and 12. By 2030, an additional 1.5 billion people will live in our cities. We help Our sustainable technologies and service concepts ensure the build roads, buildings and energy systems for the world’s growing cities perfect conditions for food in temperature-controlled environments and support progress for people, communities and businesses across the and help achieve near-zero downtime on store applications to improve world. food safety and reduce food loss and waste. Sustainability Report 2017 10/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks The Urban Global housing challenges Rigger project Around the world, urban areas need to In Europe's major cities alone, there's Today, buildings account for 40% of the accommodate 180,000 new residents a projected shortfall of more than four world's energy consumption and one every day million student beds by 2025 third of CO2 emissions The Urban Rigger project is an example of how Danfoss has Danfoss solutions inside the Urban Rigger an impact on achieving SDG no. 7 and 11, but several other SDGs are impacted as well. The Urban Rigger project shows how “smart thinking” depends on collaboration across stakeholders and can lead to creative ways of solving housing challenges – Like placing buildings on water, rather than land. Developed by Kim Loudrup of Udvikling Danmark, in close collaboration with Bjarke Ingels and architects from BIG, these floating dorms are an ambitious Hydronic floor heating Heat pump Heat recovery ventilation attempt to meet Copenhagen’s student housing challenge. Danfoss has played an important role in The Urban Rigger uses so-called “Hydro Source We have implemented an innovative recovery Made out of upcycled shipping containers, construction of implementing the Rigger’s heating and Heating”. This is an efficient, economical and ventilation unit which removes stale air and the prototype was finished in the summer of 2016. The Rigger ventilation infrastructure. For example, by sustainable solution that uses the surrounding supplies constant fresh air, while keeping implementing our best-in-class floor heating water as a free and clean heating source. associated heat loss to a minimum with up to is now located in Copenhagen’s harbor and along with its technology, which ensures a comfortable Together with solar panels, it ensures the 95% heat recovery. modern style, the green benefits can also make people feel indoor-climate. Danfoss 13kW heat pump functions with very proud about living there. little electricity. Our results 15% energy consumption saved with 75% of the energy for heating and hot Up to 95% of heat recovered through the light floor heating water extracted from the sea ventilation system Sustainability Report 2017 11/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Our commitment Sustainability program 2014-2017 to sustainability Energy and climate Environment, health and safety Product compliance and transparency Ethics, human rights and compliance Main initiatives Main initiatives Main initiatives Main initiatives • Ambitious climate • Safety on the shop floor • Compliance with • Ethics Handbook strategy • Global Incident product legislation • Human rights due • Energy savings in Management System • Product & material diligence buildings • “One EHS“ governance, declaration • Compliance programs • Energy savings in policies, and targets • Product regulatory • Mergers & acquisitions processes • Reduce Lost Time Injury governance • CO2 reduction in transport Frequency • Conflict minerals • EU energy audits • ECO-design • Circular Economy We are on a journey, where we want to grow and care about how we do it. We operate our business in a sustainable and Expected outcome responsible way to safeguard and develop Danfoss’ reputation and profitability. While delivering growth and strong financial Efficient utilization Assessment and Business opportunities Employee results, we care for our people and aim at leaving the world of resources mitigation of risks and reputation engagement and to the next generation in a better state than we inherited it. commitment Our business and organizational culture is built on these basic principles, which we know today as individual and corporate responsibility. Responsibility for sustainability at Danfoss resides with the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group Executive Team. The The aim of the sustainability program is to ensure a For more information about our business model, strategy, and financial distribution of roles and responsibilities in our sustainability sustainable and responsible business conduct performance, see the Annual Report 2017 on www.danfoss.com. program is consistent with the general governance and risk management principles, and the corporate sustainability During 2017, we have initiated an update of our sustainability The new sustainability focus areas from 2018 are Business and function is mandated with responsibility to support and program. Overall, the focus areas will remain the same, but we Products and People and Community . challenge the organization’s actions in pursuit of its strategy aim at simplification to reduce complexity and highlight the importance of working with the Sustainable Development Goals The efforts and achievements as well as new targets are described to be a sustainable business. and contributing to improve knowledge of sustainability in society. on the following pages. Read more about Danfoss’ management structures and governance mechanisms in the Statutory Report on Corporate Governance 2017 on www.danfoss.com. Sustainability Report 2017 12/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Targets and Prioritized focus areas 2017 achievements Targets 2017 Achievements 2017 in 2017 Energy and climate Implement program for energy savings, including employee Program launched and progressing according to plan. engagement program. Focus is on creating behavioral changes leading to energy savings. Reduce energy intensity in buildings through global energyDanfoss’ global energy-saving project progressing saving project in the 27 largest factories. according to plan. Major savings achieved. Develop processes for validation of products’ climateValidation methodology developed and implemented. performance claims. Environment, health and safety Develop, implement, and validate processes and procedures Processes and procedures are being developed according to comply with ISO 14001:2015. to plan. Implement Global Incident Management System for workThe incident management system has been specified related injuries and incidents, including training and statistics. and vendor's solution adapted accordingly. We are driving the implementation according to plan. Reduce LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) by 10% compared to LTIF for 2017 was 3.4 compared with 3.3 in 2016. In 2018, 2016. the focus will be on reducing the LTIF by at least 10% from the 2017 level using a new system and optimized root cause analysis. Achieved Achieved with minor gaps Not achieved Sustainability Report 2017 13/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Prioritized focus areas 2017 Our business is built on values and behaviors, Targets 2017 Achievements 2017 which relate to responsibility, credibility, integrity and sustainable growth. Product compliance Group processes and tools for monitoring, communicating, Processes and tools defined. Implementation and implementing new regulations defined and implemented. commencing. All suppliers with a Danfoss framework agreement have Suppliers, covering 72% of the spend, have signed the subscribed to the Danfoss Negative List, restricting certain Danfoss framework agreement, and 86% of these have chemicals, substances and minerals. subscribed to the Negative List. Conflict minerals due diligence with 1,300 suppliers and with Conflict minerals due diligence with 1,400 suppliers response rates of 75% for Danfoss Cooling, Danfoss Drives, and and with response rates of 75% for Danfoss Cooling, 70% Danfoss Heating, and 55% for Danfoss Power Solutions. for Danfoss Drives, 67% for Danfoss Heating, and 76% for Danfoss Power Solutions. Ethical conduct and human rights Conduct human rights due diligence and integration projects Human Rights due diligence process rolled out in China in India and China. and India. Compliance training of all relevant employees, managers, and Relevant employees, and managers are enrolled in directors, within ethics, anti-corruption and fair competition. compliance trainings. Face-to-face trainings have been conducted in specific countries, including the roll-out of an ethics initiative in China and India. Further develop and improve compliance programs regarding The export control compliance program was strengthened export controls and data privacy. by including processes for product and sanctioned party Achieved screening. A data privacy handbook, training and other Achieved with minor gaps elements required by the new data privacy legislation were developed and are ready for implementation in 2018. Not achieved Sustainability Report 2017 14/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Targets in 2018 Prioritized focus areas 2018 Targets 2018 Targets 2018 The targets for 2018 follow the simplified structure of our sustainability program with two focus areas: Business and products , and People and community . Business and products People and community Strengthen Danfoss’ engagement in the Sustainable Drive Global Incident Management System for work-related Development Goals. injuries and incidents, including root cause analysis, training and statistics. Further reduce energy intensity and CO2 intensity through global energy-saving project in the largest factories. Reduce LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) to 10% below realized 2017 level. Further strengthen processes for validation of products’ climate-performance claims. Deploy the initiative Taking ethics to the next level and human rights due diligence processes in Latin America and Implement strengthened processes and tools for monitoring, Russia. communicating, and implementing new product-related regulations. Build concept for Group Product Chemical Compliance program. Sustainability Report 2017 15/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Energy and Strategy Danfoss takes leadership within Climate Mitigation – focusing on energy efficiency in our products and our own business climate Objectives 50% Reduction of the company's 100% Increase of the company's 50% Reduction of the UN Global Compact principles energy intensity compared energy productivity compared company's CO2 intensity to 2007 to 2007 compared to 2007 Businesses should: 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 2030 targets 12 MWh 80 DKKm 4 ton 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally per DKKm net sale net sale per GWh CO2 per DKKm net sale friendly technologies. (2007: 24 MWh/DKKm) (2007: 40 DKKm/GWh) (2007: 8 ton CO2/DKKm) Danfoss policies: 1. Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030. 2. Danfoss Sustainability Program. Definitions Energy intensity Energy productivity CO2 intensity MWh consumed energy DKKm net sale per Ton CO2 emitted per per DKKm net sale GWh consumed energy DKKm net sale Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com Most of the world’s energy consumption comes from industry, Energy reductions on track The annual energy consumption in these buildings amounts buildings and transportation, and the potential for reduction In 2017, Danfoss’ energy consumption was 593,795 MWh to more than 245 MWh, of which 30% can be saved. Half of is huge. With the Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030, we have set compared to 568,930 MWh in 2016. Since 2007, Danfoss’ the expected energy savings was achieved in prior to 2016, ambitious targets for our own business processes, production energy intensity fell to 13.7 MWh/DKKm in 2017 against 14.5 and the remaining savings will be obtained in 2018. and buildings. The aim is two-fold: to halve the amount of MWh/DKKm in 2016. A reduction by 43% achieved through energy, which Danfoss uses, and to halve the CO2 emissions energy-saving projects in the largest factories. CO2 emissions from the energy actually used, both measured against the In 2017, Danfoss emitted 244,515 ton CO2 against 233,716 ton base year 2007. In the same period, energy productivity has improved by 77% in 2016. The sources were our own plants generating power from 41.2 DKKm/GWh to 72.9 DKKm/GWh in 2017. and heat as well as the purchase of power and heat from To achieve these goals, we have implemented many measures external sources. to further reduce our energy consumption and drive greener Energy-saving projects in buildings technology investments in buildings and processes. We In 2017, we continued the implementation of energy-saving The CO2 intensity of the energy used fell to 5.6 ton CO2/DKKm measure our achievements by monitoring our own reduction projects at the 27 largest factories worldwide, accounting from 6.0 ton CO2/DKKm in 2016. The CO2 intensity is impacted of energy intensity and CO2 intensity, which should be for 84% of Danfoss’ total energy consumption. Half of the by increasing electricity consumption in countries with high reduced by 50% before 2030. Furthermore, we monitor energy consumed is used for buildings, and the rest is used in carbon intensity in the electricity supply. Danfoss’ energy productivity, which should be doubled. production processes. Sustainability Report 2017 16/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Danfoss’ electricity consumption was the source of 87% of the The global emissions is estimated to 864.000 ton CO2, which Group’s total CO2 emissions, corresponding to 214,057 ton. is 3.5 times the emissions from Danfoss’ own processes and Realizing our own potential Other energy (e.g. used for heating) led to 30,458 ton of CO2 buildings. The largest sources of emissions are turned or cast emissions. metal parts (60%), electronics and electromechanical parts At Danfoss, we want our customers and the world to use (18%), and plastics (13%). less energy, but we haven't forgotten our own footprint. Our Electricity accounted for 73% of total energy consumption. climate ambition is that by 2030, we wil spend half as much 34% of the electricity came from renewable sources, such Environment energy running our business as we spent in 2007. And the as solar, water, wind and biomass. Electricity from nuclear For many years, Danfoss has worked systematically to reduce energy we do spend must emit half as much CO2 as it does power plants accounted for 16% of the Group’s consumption, the environmental impact of the company’s operating today. and the rest derived from fossil sources, such as coal, oil and activities, including production and transportation. gas. Compared to the previous year, energy consumption for heating fell by 1.6%, primarily due to the reduction in our One of the Group’s targets is for all production companies Since 2007 we have achieved: consumption of natural gas and district energy. 3.6% of the to maintain environmental management systems and energy used for heating came from fossil sources. become certified according to the ISO 14001 standard to manage performance and identify potential environmental 43% Supply chain emissions improvements. drop in energy use compared to sales As a global company, we have a global and diverse supply chain. Approximately 4,000 suppliers of direct materials supply In 2017, focus has been on strengthening the “One EHS” their products to Danfoss, driving energy consumption and approach to manage environment, health and safety issues greenhouse gas emissions. in the Danfoss Group. A project coordinator has been hired 27% CO2 reduction compared to sales to drive further initiatives, supporting our goal of being an environmentally conscious company. Danfoss' climate strategy results Consumption of materials, chemicals, energy, and the 2MW Energy productivity CO2 intensity Energy intensity generation of waste and waste water is monitored to minimize solar park installed at headquarters – equal to the Index (2007 base year) the environmental impacts of our operations. annual power use of 400 homes. A similar solar park was installed at the Chennai factory in India. 180 Environmental due diligence 160 +77% We follow a strict due diligence procedure when dealing with 140 potential environmental risks from the acquisition of land and companies. Thorough reviews of potential land acquisitions Danfoss reports climate-related risks and opportunities as well as 120 are conducted, examining the site and the environmental CO2 emissions to CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project. Our reports and 100 history of the surroundings. Regional hydrogeological and other information can be found on www.CDP.net. geotechnical conditions are evaluated as field surveys to 80 discover ground pollution or historical deposits. 60 27% -43% Water 40 In 2017, consumption of water for processes and sanitary 20 purposes increased to 933,000 m3 from 888,570 m3 in the 0 previous year. The difference is mainly due to increased water 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 use in the facilities in China. Initiatives will be taken to reduce the consuption of water over the coming years. Sustainability Report 2017 17/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Our people New ways of working at Danfoss How we do Performance Management In an ever-changing world, it is important to stay open to trends that inspire new ways of working. We are experimenting with new UN Global Compact principles methods and new types of workspaces, for example hackathons. Businesses should uphold: “Develop a new IT solution for a Danfoss product in 48 hours.” Such 3. The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the hackathon challenges are posed in different Danfoss departments right to collective bargaining; around the world to shorten the product and business development 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; cycle. 5. The effective abolition of child labour; 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and The agile approach – where relevant colleagues make quick occupation. decisions to achieve faster execution – is highly appreciated by our hackathon participants. Danfoss policies: 1. Environment, health & safety in Danfoss. 2. Safety at the Shop Floor. 3. Global Recruitment. 4. Performance management. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com We continue to develop Danfoss as a great place to work. We what we do well and what needs to be improved in areas We have a simple approach, focusing on clarity, strive to foster a collaborative, agile and flexible organization, such as job motivation, performance enablement, strategy, quality and high effect. where employees can make a difference and leaders inspire behaviors and leadership. people to deliver the best results through strong teamwork, • The year begins with setting objectives and creating a strong global career opportunities and a continuous focus on driving The survey results showed a high level of commitment and link between the individual contribution and the Danfoss a high-performance culture. loyalty – reaffirming that we have people willing to go the strategy. extra mile for Danfoss. Furthermore, the perception of working Very high employee engagement environment, team work and development opportunities • From here, managers and employees have on-going conversations to review progress and discuss the individual In 2017, the bi-annual engagement survey, Voice, was carried was high, and an increasing number of our employees would development. Conversations are documented in a digital out in the Danfoss Group. The overall picture of Danfoss actively recommend Danfoss as a workplace. system, which also allows employees and managers to ask for as a workplace is indeed positive and has improved in all feedback from dotted-line managers, peers and others. dimensions over the past two years. As part of the follow-up process, strengths and weaknesses revealed in Voice ’17 will be discussed in a dialogue in the • When the financial results are approved, managers assess the Voice ’17 showed a very high engagement score of 79 on teams and departments. The departments also decide, performance and objectives, forming the basis for incentive a 100-point scale, up from 76 in 2015. Voice ‘17 gives a very which issues have to be addressed, and how these payout. accurate picture of Danfoss as a workplace, since nearly all changes are to be implemented, thereby enabling further managers and employees (91%) gave their feedback about improvements. Sustainability Report 2017 18/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Ensuring the right organizational skills It is important for Danfoss to get the right talents for the open positions. Potential employees not only include professionals, but Challenging status quo on the job Opportunities for students and graduates also students looking for an internship and graduates looking for an entry position. Work is changing rapidly. Everything we thought we knew about Unitech International organizational structures, management and career planning is being The best engineering and management talents from 8 top Recruiting has significantly changed over the past couple of questioned. Future employees do not just want a permanent job – universities in Europe can apply for six-month internships they want something that fulfills them as individuals. with Danfoss as a corporate partner of the association Unitech years. Due to our digital transformation, we have intensified International. our search for, e.g., specialists within engineering, IoT and Rodica Neagu did not have to think twice when her manager pulled electrification, but also talents with market and customer her aside to ask if she would consider moving to Flensburg, Germany, Postgraduate Program (PGP) insight in addition to knowledge of the necessary digital tools to help build Danfoss’ One ERP template. That was in April 2016, and Highly-skilled postgraduates can apply for Danfoss’ two-year to support our strategic direction. Rodica has found no reason to regret her decision. Postgraduate Program, which offers professional development and international career opportunities. We make an ongoing effort to build and develop employee “I like being part of projects like this, because you get to challenge the qualifications through on-the-job learning, courses, workshops, status quo and make improvements. Being part of something as big Internships and student jobs feedback, coaching, and other activities. as One ERP is very exciting – and a huge opportunity that will most Students can seek 4-6 months internships, flexible student jobs for certainly help me throughout my career. Working with more than 200 8-12 hours per week, or write their master thesis in collaboration people on a single task has really furthered my development – both with a Danfoss department. professionally and personally,” says Rodica Neagu. The One ERP program will run for the next three years – and based on her experiences so far, Rodica Neagu will be part of the program for all of them. Sustainable building at Penn State What is One ERP? Since 1974, the Danfoss Postgraduate Program has accepted 519 Partnering with the Pennsylvania State The One ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) Program will create a postgraduates from France, Russia, Poland, Slovenia, China, India, detailed template for the alignment of data treatment and processes Denmark, the United States, Indonesia, Mexico, Brazil, Germany, and A University in Philadelphia is to advance sustainable building across segments and departments in Danfoss. The finished template Greece. More than 200 of the postgraduates are still employed by and low-carbon communities. A Danfoss grant will support an will be used by 150 legal entities around the world. Danfoss. internship program and the “Engineering Tomorrow’s Cities” research project. “Danfoss is an invaluable partner with deep expertise in district Danfoss European Works Council energy and building technologies that are central to our research. In a global company like Danfoss, decisions made in one country Students from many first-class institutions around the world will often have a direct impact on the work situation of employees in other benefit from their financial and intellectual support, and carry that countries increasing the demand for information, consultation and benefit back to their countries,” states Dr. James Freihaut, professor dialogue across borders with the employees. at the Department of Architectural Engineering. The Danfoss European Works Council origins back to 1997 and deals 30 graduate and undergraduate interns from leading universities with matters of importance to Danfoss employees in more than one around the world are part of the research project. The project country or the Danfoss Group as a whole. Consequently, matters only findings will be the subject of workshops at Penn State, a affecting individual employees or a group of employees in a single symposium at the Philadelphia Navy Yard, and a final report issued country are not within the scope of the Danfoss EWC and should be by the participating students. dealt with within the employee’s own organization and in accordance with the national agreements. Sustainability Report 2017 19/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Employees Helping people with special challenges Female Managers Work, which requires you to focus on the same thing for hours Females Males Male Managers 31% 69% 19% 81% – some find it boring and lose concentration. Danfoss Drives in Gråsten, Denmark, has hired employees who love it. A very specific task requiring self-discipline and high concentration. That’s the skills needed to operate the machine, which handles quality checks of print cards at Danfoss Drives in Gråsten, Denmark. And that’s why exactly this task was reserved Diversity and inclusion In 2017, the Board of Directors had two female members, for an employee with autism, whom the factory hired in 2017. We aim to employ a diverse workforce that reflects society one AGM elected and one employee elected. Furthermore, in terms of culture, nationality, gender, and age. In 2017, the Board of Directors consists of persons with very diverse People with autism can be exceptionally good at work requiring employees of more than 90 different nationalities worked in backgrounds in terms of professional skills, nationality and age. intense attention to detail. Often, they also spot irregularities very fast the Danfoss Group. We are focused on maintaining an inclusive – in technical manuals, IT systems, or the way a machine operates. work environment with room for diverse backgrounds, skills Gender composition targets similar to that of the Board of and perspectives. Directors will be implemented in the relevant subsidiaries Leaders and co-workers have been trained in how to create a work environment, so people with autism can thrive and enjoy working of a certain size and type. Danfoss does not meet the with Danfoss. The Gråsten factory cooperates with a Danish With 19% of women in management positions, we are still 1 gender composition target for the Board of Directors of the external consultancy, which has a goal of helping 1,000 people percentage point behind our target of reaching 20% in 2017. subsidiaries Danfoss Power Solutions ApS, Danfoss Power with autism into jobs in Denmark by 2025. We are still aiming for the 20% ratio, but have to accept that it Electronics A/S (Danfoss Drives), and Sondex A/S; However, will take more time to reach the target than anticipated in 2014. Danfoss Drives has a female board member elected by As a socially responsible company, Danfoss wants to help people In 2018, the target will be reviewed as part of the work with the the employees. In these relevant subsidiaries, the gender who face special challenges to gain a foothold on the job market. updated sustainability program. To help get a more diverse group composition target for the Board of Directors is expected to be Due to our common interests, the cooperation is a win-win for all. of managers, Danfoss emphasizes diversity in the recruitment met after their Annual General Meetings in 2018. policy. When recruiting a new employee, the objective is to identify at least three qualified candidates, who represent diversity in terms of culture, nationality, gender and age. If two or Age distribution 15-24 years 25-34 years Seniority <1 year 1<3 years more candidates are equally qualified, Danfoss will aim towards 35-44 years 3<5 years diversity in the workplace in the final selection process. 5% 45-54 years 5<10 years 14% 55+ years 14% 14% 10<20 years Gender composition in management 20+ years Section 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) requires that corporate entities of a certain size and type report 27% 13% on the gender composition in management. 23% 26% Danfoss aims at a gender composition in the Group's Board of Directors, which reflects that of the rest of the Group, and has 10% a target of having at least one female member of the Board of Directors, who is elected at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Danfoss meets this target. 31% 23% Sustainability Report 2017 20/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Health and safety A cross-segment project team, the “One EHS” (Environment, Health and Safety) Steering Committee has been established to develop and align the company’s activities and efforts Health and safety 2016 2017 within environment, health and safety. The aim is to ensure Safety First! that the systematic approach to process management Lost time injuries (LTI) 121 135 We want to take care of our people and therefore it is a top established through the Core & Clear strategy also applies to Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 3.3 3.4 priority to improve the health and safety of our employees. health and safety at Danfoss. Days of absence 2,309 1,406 Lost day rate (LDR) 63 36 “Safety First!” was established in 2015 as Danfoss’ systematic In 2017, Danfoss continued to align policies, internal Medical treatment incident rate (MTIR) 3.0 2.9 approach to a safe workplace. Focus is on clear, aligned standards as well as the EHS organization to build a Minor incident rate (MIR) 17.7 18.8 procedures and standards to ensure a safe working resilient and ambitious EHS model; driving significant Near-miss incident rate (NMIR) 96.9 86.9 environment and avoiding accidents across all Danfoss sites. improvement in all areas, while at the same time reducing costs. Shared processes within the management of quality, The global “Safety at Danfoss” initiative enhances the focus on environment, health and safety has been developed to safety in all factories around the world. Safety shoes and safety ensure consistency, and a revised Group Policy for Business glasses are mandatory for anyone entering the shop floor Conduct has been prepared. in any Danfoss factory worldwide, or performing gardening or outdoor maintenance work. Hearing protection is also A Global Incident Management System (GIMS) is being mandatory for employees working at machines with high implemented at all factories worldwide as the future platform noise levels, and safe walkways have been identified and for collecting, analyzing and communicating work-related marked in all factories. accidents, incidents and near-misses. The implementation is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018. LTIF – Lost time injury frequency Work-related incidents (Injuries per one million hours worked) In 2017, Danfoss continued the dedicated management focus on safety with highly dedicated management, safety staff and employees at all of Danfoss’ factories around the world. 6 The total LTIF – Lost Time Injury Frequency – ended at 3.4 in 2017 from 3.3 the previous year. LTIF is the number of 5 incidents that result in absence from work of one or more days per one million hours worked. In 2018, the focus will be on reducing the LTIF by at least 10% from the 2017 level using the 4 new GIMS system and optimized root cause analysis. The Lost Day Rate (LDR) in 2017 was 36 (the number of 3 days of absence, due to LTIs per one million hours worked). This is a decrease from 63 in 2016 and indicate that the severity of the LTIs has been reduced from previous year. 2 The injured employees were absent for a total of 1,406 days, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 corresponding to an average absence of 10 days per Lost Time Injury. This is a significant improvement from previous years. Sustainability Report 2017 21/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Product In 2017, mandatory reporting requirements and a global increased focus on environmental compliance, transparency and responsible sourcing have strengthened Danfoss' focus Compliance with REACH Danfoss is committed to improving the protection of human health and the environment through compliance with the compliance on product compliance as an enabler for growth, worldclass product quality and risk mitigation. European REACH regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals and similar regulations in our markets. These regulations address the The Danfoss product compliance program is integrated in our production, import and use of chemical substances. To management systems. It enables Danfoss to make safe and strengthen Danfoss' compliance with REACH, we have sustainable products, proactively meeting compliance obligations implemented Group processes and tools in 2017 to ensure UN Global Compact principles to customers and regulators. The Danfoss Product Compliance that we live up to customer and regulatory requirements. For Team and specialist sub-work groups with representatives example, we have developed on-line training materials and Businesses should: from all business segments and key Group functions ensure we have trained [xxx] of our employees within procurement, 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; a strong focus and alignment of processes and tools across development, manufacturing and sales. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental the organization. In 2017, the team has aligned competencies, responsibility; processes, tools, and best practices within defined priority areas Conflict minerals 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally across the Group. This work will continue in 2018. As a supplier to US-listed customers, Danfoss must comply friendly technologies with section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Danfoss policies: Monitoring regulations Consumer Protection Act as mandated by the US Securities 1. Danfoss Supplier Quality Manual. Due to increasing regulatory landscapes, Danfoss must keep and Exchange Commission, known as the Conflicts Minerals 2. Danfoss’ Negative List of chemicals and substances. track and comply with product and supply chain regulations Rule. This rule requires that Danfoss reviews whether tin, 3. Danfoss’ conflict minerals policy. and standards at national, regional and international levels. tantalum, tungsten, or gold (3TG) are necessary to the 4. REACH product compliance at Danfoss. Danfoss monitors and communicates new requirements to production of its products, and determines whether the 5. Compliance with European RoHS directive. all business segments and functions through the Danfoss minerals originate from conflict regions in or around the Product Compliance Team. In 2018, Danfoss will strengthen Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). These minerals are used Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com the monitoring processes to further drive internal sharing of in electronic and electromechanical components, but also in relevant information about existing or upcoming regulatory some alloys that are sourced from Danfoss’ suppliers. requirements to ensure on-going compliance. During 2017, we have collected smelter reports from 1,400 Danfoss Negative List suppliers that have been identified to potentially deliver The Danfoss Negative List is the backbone of our continuous materials or components with 3TG materials. The suppliers efforts to avoid the use of harmful chemicals and substances are requested to submit their report to our external service in products and production processes through the ban or provider, which follows up on timely and correct responses. restriction of defined chemicals and substances. The Negative Danfoss supervises progress and facilitates customer requests List must also be complied with by all our suppliers, including for specific reports. tenants, and contractors working on Danfoss’ premises. It is based on European chemical legislation, but the bans and In 2017, the average response rate for all our business restrictions are applicable worldwide and can only be replaced segments was 70%, which is satisfactory. In 2018, we will strive by stricter local legislation. to further increase our response rate via our engagement with the external service provider. All suppliers with regular deliveries to Danfoss must subscribe to the Danfoss Negative List to stay updated on any changes or new requirements affecting their deliveries. Sustainability Report 2017 22/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Ethics and Circular Economy To maintain and develop Danfoss’ position and good The Circular Economy is the future business model that reputation on the global market, it is important that we promotes the sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing, create results in an ethical manner. The Danfoss name and recycling of existing materials and waste in an almost closed loop. compliance must always be associated with respect for human rights, proper working conditions, and social and environmental considerations. The potential for implementing Circular Economy thinking at application level is huge. For example, in district energy systems, Since 2008, Danfoss has had its own ethical guidelines, “The effective utilization of excess heat from production processes or UN Global Compact principles Ethics Handbook”, followed up by mandatory e-learning for all recovered surplus heat from the cooling system in supermarkets managers on ethics. is essential to achieving SDG goal no. 13: “Take urgent action to Businesses should: combat climate change and its impacts”. 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed In 2017, Danfoss launched the initiative “Taking Ethics to the human rights; next level . The initiative is a result of discussions in the Danfoss 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danfoss supports initiatives by the EU and others to strengthen Ethics Advisory Board, where leaders have requested even 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the global focus on the Circular Economy, including the efforts the right to collective bargaining; more in-depth training in a regional context. to reduce the waste from products at end of life. 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; A pilot project was carried out in Danfoss China, including For several years, we have included circular thinking in our 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour; how to identify unethical behavior, how to counteract it, product design, focusing on reduction of in-process waste 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of and how to prevent it from happening. With input from and on the reduction of material use in products. For example, employment and occupation. Danfoss’ Ethics Hotline and our advice function AskUs, a Danfoss Drives was used as a case in a project about circular 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and tailor-made ethics course was developed and more than business models. Danfoss Drives was also Danfoss’ pilot bribery. 140 leaders in China trained. Going forward, the training project in the development of an eco-design guideline and will be carried out in Chinese language by Danfoss’ Danfoss policies: an Environmental Product Declaration. We closely follow company lawyer in China. A similar project has been carried 1. Business Conduct. developments within the Circular Economy and participate in 2. Ethics Handbook. out in Danfoss India. the development of standards and processes for the Circular 3. Anti-Corruption Manual. Economy through various organizations and stakeholder 4. Competition Compliance Manual. Transparency about ethical issues is important for maintaining groups, of which Danfoss is a member. 5. Export Control Compliance Manual. an ethics culture in the company. To track ethical behavior, 6. Reporting unethical behavior. Danfoss monitors the number of dismissals due to unethical 7. Roles and responsibilities with respect to ethical cases. behavior. In 2017, 51 employees left Danfoss due to unethical 8. Binding corporate rules data protection. behavior, compared to 32 in 2016 and 30 in 2015. The figure includes both dismissals and voluntary resignations connected Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com with ethical issues. The main reasons for the dismissals are fraudulent behavior, disloyal behavior or violation of company policies. Human Rights For many years, Danfoss has monitored its human rights impact and mitigated where relevant. Danfoss is committed to living up to the UN Guiding Principles for Human Rights and has, during 2017, deployed the company’s process for human rights due diligence and integration in Danfoss China, APAC Sustainability Report 2017 23/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks and India. The due diligence process is focused on integrating we perform regular supplier audits to verify compliance and to human rights considerations in the organization and ensuring ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. regional ownership. Compliance hotlines Danfoss supplier risk assessment model forms the basis how Human rights issues are considered on country level and to risk evaluate and mitigate risks at the suppliers. The risk The Group’s employees can find answers to any compared to actual practice, which forms the baseline for assessment model includes the location of the supplier, which questions and doubts regarding ethics and compliance identifying, assessing, prioritizing and mitigating potential ensures that the highest priority is given to suppliers in areas, through AskUs. The purpose is to minimize uncertainty human rights issues in regional workshops. The process is which pose the greatest risk of non-compliance. among the Group’s employees and prevent unintended maintained through annual meetings and includes how to non-compliance. This inquiry function has been in work with stakeholders. As human rights issues can be quite All new as well as existing suppliers must accept our Code place since 2012, and provided answers in 2017 to 47 complex, Danfoss has decided to implement the process of Conduct. Danfoss’ Code of Conduct Competence Center dilemmas posed by employees and managers. internally before introducing it in the supply chain. conducts training of all employees, who are in contact with suppliers on an ongoing basis to ensure that they are Danfoss also has a whistle-blower function, the Ethics Compliance programs familiar with Danfoss’ Code of Conduct and the roles and Hotline, which employees can use to anonymously Danfoss supports the growing international focus on responsibilities within the area. report suspected breaches of internal guidelines and regulation and legislation in areas such as anti-corruption, legislation. In 2017, a total of 71 reports were managed competition law, export control, and good business ethics. Danfoss has joined the Conference Board’s Responsible by the Ethics Hotline. Corrective actions, including Internal compliance programs and control mechanisms have Sourcing Council , which is a global, independent business disciplinary action, were taken for all substantiated been established to minimize the risk of rule violations. These and research association working in the public interest, where allegations, and none of the reports have had a material programs contain clear ownership, policy setting, operational best practice on responsible sourcing is shared. impact on Danfoss. procedures, as well as recurring training and awareness In 2017, 137 additional suppliers signed our Code of Conduct, activities. and 39 new third-party audits were conducted to verify suppliers’ compliance with the rules. 33 of the audits were The new and stricter Data Privacy regulation becomes first-time audits, while 5 were follow-up audits. Follow-up effective in 2018. During 2017, the roll-out of activities audits are carried out to follow up on the raised issues, such as supporting a higher level of awareness in the organization inadequate safety measures, missing or blocked emergency was prepared. Data privacy concerns exist wherever exits, missing or malfunctioning fire extinguishers, lack of personal data is collected and stored – digitally or otherwise. personal protective equipment, incorrect handling or storage They could arise from inappropriate handling of sensitive of hazardous chemicals and discharge of wastewater. and ordinary personal data about employees, customers, suppliers, etc. A data privacy handbook and e-learning In 2017, the compliance percentage was improved from activities were developed and will be rolled out in the first 84% to 91%, indicating the share of suppliers, who comply quarter of 2018. Thus, a framework for compliance with with the Code of Conduct. Danfoss will continue to target the General Data Protection Regulation is in place so that 100% compliance as well as starting to revisit suppliers, who the focus for 2018 is on the improvement of operational previously had serious high-risk compliance issues. processes. Responsible supplier management In 2017, Danfoss continued the systematic work with supplier management and risk assessment. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers defines the Group’s environmental and social requirements. All suppliers are required to sign the Code, and Sustainability Report 2017 24/26 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO comment Why what we do matters Our commitment to sustainabilitys Energy and climate People, health and safety Product compliance Ethics and compliance Risks Risks in a sustainability perspective Danfoss policies: Sustainability risk Mitigation 1. Risk Management. 2. Risk management handbook. Read more about our policies on www.danfoss.com Ethical conduct Danfoss has implemented ethical guidelines and compliance The ethical behavior of companies and their employees is a programs on anti-corruption, competition compliance, export focus of attention, with stricter laws and possible sanctions control, and data privacy. Danfoss has an inquiry function, introduced worldwide in areas such as anti-corruption, data AskUs, where employees can seek advice and guidance on As a responsible company, Danfoss regularly confronts a privacy and fair competition. Unethical conduct by Danfoss ethical conduct. Danfoss operates an Ethics Hotline, which variety of risks that could challenge sustainable business employees could cause considerable damage to Danfoss’ employees can use to anonymously report suspected operations. reputation and result in substantial financial sanctions. breaches of legislation or internal guidelines. Danfoss therefore works internally and externally with a wide Severe weather or natural disasters A comprehensive insurance program covers for rerange of stakeholders to monitor, assess and, when necessary, Changes in weather conditions following global warming establishment of property and for loss of business. Business mitigate these risks. or natural disasters might disrupt Danfoss’ manufacturing Continuity Planning is implemented to reduce the impact of facilities or supply chain. capacity shortage. Proactive risk mitigation as well as best-inRead more about our approach to risk management in the Annual Report class building safety standards and a Global Fire Risk Program 2017 at www.danfoss.com are established to reduce the risks. Product compliance Danfoss’ Product Compliance Program is an integrated part This risk deals with the potential failure to comply with the of our management systems and enables the company to increasing number of safetyand environmentally-related make safe and sustainable products proactively meeting product regulations. Non-compliance could have severe compliance obligations to customers and regulators. Danfoss consequences for Danfoss. Compliance with product-related Product Compliance Team and specialist workgroups with legislation is important to uphold Danfoss’ “license to sell”. representatives from all business segments and key Group functions ensure a strong focus and alignment of processes and tools across the organization. Danfoss Group Regulatory monitors legislation and coordinates the Group’s efforts to align and implement the legislation. Sustainability Report 2017 25/26 The Danfoss Group Further information available on Danfoss’ website: www.danfoss.com Date of publication: February 22, 2018 Contact address: Danfoss A/S Nordborgvej 81 6430 Nordborg Denmark Tel.: +45 7488 2222 CVR no. 20165715 (registration number with the Danish Business Authority) Email: danfoss@danfoss.com
