Open joint-stock company «BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS — management company of «Byelorussian metallurgical company» holding» PROGRESS REPORT on social responsibility and corporate sustainability 2016 OPEN JOINT-STOCK COMPANY «BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS – MANAGEMENT COMPANY OF «BYELORUSSIAN METALLURGICAL COMPANY» HOLDING» REPORT on activity in the area of sustainable development for 2016 Zhlobin 2017 Content Preface to the report  5 General Director’s Appeal 6 Description of the enterprise  8 General information 8 Business approach 12 Strategy and goals in the area of sustainable development 14 Enterprise’s approach to sustainable development  14 Principles of strategy implementation 14 Management of sustainable development 16 History of sustainable development 18 Participation in external initiatives 31 Interaction with stakeholders  31 Interaction with the community 32 Interaction with mass media 33 Interaction with authorities 34 Interaction with science 35 Process of determination of essential subjects 37 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of sustainable development38 Financial-economic activity 38 Economic effectiveness 39 Key indicators 40 Profit 40 Payment to the owner 40 Taxes and compulsory payments 41 Enterprise’s risks 41 Investment risks 41 Industry risks 41 Country and regional risks 42 Legal risks 43 Industrial safety, labor protection and ecological risks43 Financial support by the government 43 Market presence  44 Indirect economic impacts 45 Medium-term targets of the plant 46 Information on achievements and awards 47 Environmental activity50 Environmental policy50 Key principles and approaches50 Implementation of the ecological strategy51 Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital activity51 Minimizing of the plant’s impact on flora and fauna52 Efficient use of natural resources56 Efficient use of energy resources56 Air basin protection58 Water basin protection62 Utilization of industrial wastes64 Training66 Improvement of ecological culture of the personnel66 Development and implementation of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally safe technologies67 Expenses for environment protection and monitoring. Ecological payments67 Medium-term targets of the Company68 Social activity70 Labor relations and adequate labor70 Personnel management policy 70 Key principles and approaches71 Description of the personnel72 Employees rights75 Professional and career development76 Training and education77 Motivation system82 Material stimulation82 Non-financial incentives86 Short-term targets in the area of social responsibility87 Labor protection and ensuring of industrial safety87 Improvement of labor conditions89 Training and competence evaluation91 Social control of observance of human rights in the area of labor protection91 Health protection 92 Effectiveness of medical and health promotion programs 94 Social package of privileges and guarantees for employees 95 Health promotion and rest time of the employees and their families 97 Physical culture and sport development 97 Cultural life of the plant employees 98 Solving of employees housing problems 101 Support for large families 102 Social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for 102 Social partnership 103 The trade union organization of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding 103 Primary organization RPO «Belaya Rus» 106 Primary organization PO BRYU 106 Veterans’ union 109 Women’s union 109 Union of soldiers-internationalists 111 Union of young specialists 111 Union of foremen 112 Union of physical training and sport 112 Monitoring of public opinion about social programs effectiveness 112 Responsibility for the goods produced114 General provisions 114 Product life cycle 115 Customer’s health and safety 117 Product marking with appropriate information 118 Marketing communications 118 Mutually beneficial cooperation with consumers of the plant’s products  119 Mutually beneficial cooperation with suppliers 121 Annexes Aims of the enterprise for medium-term outlook 124 List of abbreviations 125 General standard reporting components of GRI (G4) 127 Specific standard reporting components 129 Feedback questionnaire 133 Notes134 YELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Preface to the Report This Report on the plant’s activity in the area of The Report is prepared in conformity with the general sustainable development for 2016 (hereinafter version of reporting according to GRI G4 Guidance. referred to as “the Report”) prepared by Open Content and significance of the Report Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel Works – Management Company of “Belorussian MetallurTaking into consideration the approach recomgical Company” Holding is the ninth Report of the mended by GRI G4, the process of determination of enterprise. Maintaining the tradition of sustainability the Report content was carried out in compliance reporting, the enterprise confirms its readiness for with the principles of significance, coverage of the an open dialogue with the stakeholders. BSW implestakeholders, development sustainability context and ments the obligations undertaken and follows the completeness of the information disclosure. To dechosen course of improvement and reorganization in termine the Report context and to form its content, all directions: management of sustainable developthe enterprise carried out assessment of important ment, economic activity, work with the staff in the topics in correspondence with the requirements of area of social activity of the enterprise in the region GRI Guidelines. Topics and questions disclosed in and cooperation with suppliers and customers, and the Report are considered policy of environmental and industrial safety. significant in terms of their In the reporting influence upon BSW activyear the enterprise The Report discloses the plant’s achievements in ity and interests of the key started to use GRI, the area of sustainable development. Its priority issue is BSW activity directed towards production of stakeholders: customers, version G4 to report suppliers, employees, auon sustainable quality goods, provision of safe and adequate labour thorities and local commudevelopment. conditions for the employees, decrease of the econities. Special attention is logical impact and promotion of healthy way of living. paid to development of the projects of the national Scope of the Report and regional level in the Report; complex information about implemented initiatives aimed at improveThe enterprise adopted an annual report cycle. ment of ecological efficiency of the production is This Report reflects the results of BSW activity in presented, labour protection and industrial safety the period from January 1, 2016 till December 31, issues are disclosed in detail as well as personnel 2016 including main approaches to achievement of and social policy and interaction with local communithe goals and task fulfillment as well as plans and ties and suppliers of the plant. goals of the Organization. Electronic versions of the Reports can be found on our corporate web-site So as to maintain a constructive dialogue with all belsteel.com. The Report does not contain informainterested parties, the plant values every opinion tion regarding joint-ventures and the enterprises about its activity in the area of sustainable developlocated outside the Republic of Belarus. ment. That is why contact information and a feedback form are given in the report. Essential changes in the Report Your opinions and proposals regarding the form and This Report does not K ey implemented ar content of the Report as well as questions may be contain any essential rangement that helped sent to: secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by or to the postal changes of the into strengthen the enter address: formation disclosed prise ’ s image are marked in the previous reOpen Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel with the sign “NOVELTY” ports of the plant. Works – Management Company of “Belorussian Metin the R eport . Economic indicators allurgical Company” Holding (OJSC “BSW-Manageare given in US dollars corresponding to the average ment Company of “BMC” Holding), 37 Promyshlenannual rate of the National Bank of the Republic of naya str., Zhlobin, Gomel region, 247210, Republic Belarus existing in 2016 equaled to Br1,9885. of Belarus. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 5 General Director’ message Dear Friends! results of the first quarter showed that BSW managed to achieve positive dynamics thanks to I’m glad to acquaint you with the Report of OJSC well-organized work of the team of employees. “Byelorussian Steel Works – management company As a result, the enterprise completed 2016 with of “Byelorussian Metallurgical Company” holding a positive profitability. As regards volume of proin the area of sustainable development for 2016. duction, the plant produced 2,2 million of steel This versatile document contains comprehensive in 2016. It is far from our maximum achievement information about our enterprise’s activity. Tak(2,7 mio t), but in the existing circumstances this ing into consideration requirements of the global performance is worthy of respect. Considering practices, we prepare this report every year to these figures we may say that BSW steel melthelp our business partners and representatives of ing capacity was loaded to over 80% in 2016. Beother interested audiences to form an idea about sides, the production capacity utilization factor in BSW operation, its potential and prospects. steel making of 65 countries members of World2016 was a very important and rather compliSteel was at the level of 70 percent. At the same cated year for Byelorussian Steel Works. It was time, we did not simply produced steel, we manucritical in many respects. After 2015, which was factured our products under customer orders: in rather exhausting for the enterprise’s economy the reporting year BSW products were exported due to sharp price drops on the global steel marto 52 countries worldwide. Export share in the ket, absence of stability on the currency market, production output was over 85 percent in this and tendency of governments of many countries period. to use every stick in the book to protect their Indisputably, positive results of 2016 operation own producers from foreign competitors, the are an important indicator of the plant’s activyear 2016 became the beginning of recovery. The ity but another achievement is more valuable for 6 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS us: in spite of all difficulties we managed to preof the circumstances its employees have always serve our team of employees and fulfill all soaspired to work adequately and make a significant cial obligations undertaken. Though we worked contribution into the development of their plant in the mode of a severe resource saving , BSW and the national economy. I hope that the Report never forgot about improvement of working consubmitted to your attention will be a weighty conditions of its employees and reduction of negative firmation of this fact. influence on the environment in the region of its Best regards, activity. These directions have always been at the A.N. Savianok, head of the policy pursued by the plant during the General Director. entire history of the enterprise. There were golden and critical periods in the history of Byelorussian Steel Works but in spite SOCIAL REPORT 2016 7 Plant’s Profile Byelorussian Steel Works is the largest enterprise obligatory individual decisions, coordinates strategy not only in the Republic of Belarus, but also in Euof the plant’s development and investment projects. rope, and is a basic enterprise for the national steelThe plant determines strategic directions of develmaking. It has been among competent steelmakers for opment and approaches for achievement of the taralmost three decades already. gets set, makes decisions of operative nature, forms financial budget on its own. Adherence to the principles of sustainable development and implementation of the strategy focused on Description of the key structural customers helps the enterprise to disclose new possubdivisions sibilities and prospects for further development in The whole production is carried out on a single prothe conditions of the unstable economic situation. duction site in the Republic of Belarus that allows General information the plant to save due to the scale and manufacture products with low expenses. A wide set of production In terms of marketable products, BSW is among five facilities makes it possible to flexibly form produclargest enterprises of the country. tion streams considering market conditions and mainThe contract for the design and erection of the plant tain stable sales volumes during a long period of time and all required infrastructure was signed on March From the structural point of view, the plan consists 19, 1982 by Austrian company VOEST-ALPINE AG of two main productions -metallurgical (steelmaking and Italian DANIELI. Project development, supply and rolling) and hardware production, infrastrucof equipment, construction, and tural shops and divisions controlling vital activity 245 development of technology was of the enterprise. Steelmaking includes a scrap yard, fulfilled with participation of 30 two electric melt shops, and a technological transcompanies from Germany, Italy, port shop. The rolling production consists of rollBSW Sweden, Hungary and other couning shop No.1 including three rolling mills producing area (ha) tries with consideration of the different sections, section rolling shop No.2 and a latest global achievements of scipipe mill. Hardware production includes three steel ence and technology. October 15, 1984 is considwire shops and a tare and die shop. Configuration of ered the birthday of the plant. the plant infrastructure is represented by shops reAt the end of August 2012 Open Joint-Stock Compapairing steelmaking, power and mechanical equipment, ny “Byelorussian Steel Works” was renamed in Open shops providing the production process with media Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel Works – and electric power and other divisions. Plant production catalogue includes: concast and hot-rolled management company of “Byelorussian Metallurgical Company” holding (hereinafter BSW) which refers to billet, shaped rolled products, rolled sections, reinforcing material for concrete structures, pipe bilthe class of mini-plants. In terms of its territory, BSW is a compact enterprise located on one induslet, wire rod, tire cord, hot-deformed seamless pipe, steel anchor and wavy fiber, microfiber and steel trial site (245,0165 ha) in the town of Zhlobin with wire for various applications. the population 76 thousand people, 220 km away from Minsk, the capital of the Republic of Belarus. OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is a highly technological steelmaking facility with Legal address of the plant (mailing address), heada complete production cycle. Total production is quarters address: 37 Promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, Gomel region, 247197, Republic of Belarus. carried out on a single production site in the Republic of Belarus which allows saving due to the scale 100% of BSW shares belong to the state, namely to of production and manufacture products with low the Ministry of Industry (Minprom) of the Republic expenses. A large set of production facilities makes of Belarus which determines a set of annual targets, it possible to form flexible production flows taking 8 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS into consideration market conditions and maintain capitalization . 11 425 Total number of BSW employees stable amount of sales during a long period of time. Organiza«Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» tional structure of management Holding The organizational structure is based on a hierarM inprom determines BSW as the parent company chical principle. The plant is headed by the general of “B yelorussian M etallurgical C ompany ” holding . director who acts in accordance with the national T he holding comprises 22 enterprises ( steelmak law and Articles of Association of the organization, ing , engineering , agricultural productions , etc .). determines policy and objectives, distributes responT otal number of employees is over 24 000 people . sibilities and authority among the heads of the plant M ain aims of its establishment are : use of BSW pos divisions. As of December 31, 2016 total number of sibilities for development of lagging enterprises employees equaled to 11 425 people. included in the holding , formation of a competitive Geography and activity scale innovative production , strengthening of financial and economic condition , improvement of manage In 2016 main export regions were European markets ment structure of the enterprises in the holding , and R ussian markets . 79,2% of the total exports reduction of non production expenditures , mod fall on these regions . D uring 2016 our products ernization and technical revamping of the existing were delivered to 52 countries , B elarus included . productions of the holding ( investment volume : D uring the whole period of operation of OJSC approximately $3330 million during 2012-2020), “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding , it growth of export potential and increase of asset has supplied products to 117 countries . G rowth General shareholders' Auditing committee meeting Supervisory Board Office work Assistant director General director Directorate Press secretary Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director for technical development – for FER and sales for economy and finances for personnel and ideological for hardware production of OJSC for commercial issues for technology and quality chief engineer of OJSC of OJSC «BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management work of OJSC «BSW«BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management management company of OJSC «BSW-management «BSW-management company company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding Marketing Associate general Associate general Director for capital Production director – director – director for production Associate general director and technical issues – construction – Head of the production head of (for economic safety Head of production director for FER Head of CCB department and contractual activity monitoring and corporate issues marketing dpt. and legal work) department Chief Chief Chief Chief Chief Deputy chief Deputy chief engineer for Deputy chief engineer for Chief specialist mechanical electrical power specialist specialist Chief specialist Chief specialist reconstruction engineer for labour protection, for transport Chief engineer engineer engineer for steelmaking for rolling and technical industrial safety for hardware for economic development logistics accountant revamping – and environment production issues of section rolling protection Head of D&RDpt. Capital Deputy chief SP&AD Repair CMEDpt. CEEDpt. CPEDpt. Production Labour Construction organization Steelmaking specialist Environment Accounting, Technical for rolling – protection board Marketing payment Personnel Board and technical department D&RB Product Legal board reporting board (TB) diagnostics Head of rolling and industrial Transport board organization board and control board logistics sales board board department sanitary board board department Planning and economic RMS MSEERS PS Rolling analysis Personnel Quality Repair and SY production Labour Consumables L&B Automation Rolling department development Auditing technical PTD TAS management construction board development protection RMPD and by-products and assessment Economic PAMD board department department department shop department department sales department safety board of PA “BSW” (RPTDD) and OJSC Staff “BSW” Material MERS MD&A PERS EMS-1 SRS Industrial Dispatch Finance board RWS training Housing TCD and resource safety SWS-1 and declaration and refresher department rating MTPD department department department training centre М TL NS&TMS EMS-2 Protocol Price Information Preschool Tender department Security CPL PM SWS-2 and visa and ideological establishment OKDSKS department department department work department sector EPD Radiation TA&EDL Mode RSPS Representative Chief Medical control adjustment SWS-3 office in Minsk МC metrological department service and Moscowv department lab Stores Written TDS “Metallurg” Nondestructive off TTP Tare Palace newspaper testing dismantling and of Culture dies shop editorial laboratory department office И сследоваEnergy тельский saving SHIF центр bureau Private trade and producti Private trade and Private agricultural Private construction Private transport on unitary enterprise “BSW Service Centre” production unitary enterprise “Metallurgtorg” unitary enterprise “Paporotnoe” unitary enterprise “Metallurgstroi” unitary enterprise “Metallurgtrans” Organizational management structure  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 9 Plant’s Profile  rate in natural terms made up 84,1%, and 78,2% in Italy. In value terms, this share equaled to 68,9 pervalue terms . cent . S teel product supply growth in natural terms was 82%, in value terms – 73,3 percent . D uring A new small-section mill (section rolling shop No.2) 2016, diversification of export supplies to a number was commissioned in 2015. W ith its start up OJSC of E uropean countries took place ( supply of new “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding products to the old market ): B elgium ( rebar coils ), started planned reduction of 52 Germany (rebar coils), Spain (round coils d.20-50), sales of semis ( billets / blooms ) Latvia (rounds d.20-80), Lithuania (rounds d.20with subsequent expansion of 80), Luxemburg (steel wire), Finland (wire rod), Number of countries rolled product mix . I n NovemCroatia (wire rod), Sweden (rounds d.20-80), Norexporting BSW ber 2016, small section wire way ( rounds d .20-80), S erbia ( rounds d .20-80, 80mill reached its designed ca products in 2016 160), Switzerland (rounds d.20-80). pacity . Supplies of the manufactured product : rolled coils d .20-80, rolled M ain reason for BSW E uropean supply decrease is coils d .20-50, and high carbon and medium carbon the antidumping investigation relating to supplies of wire rod grow systematically . Belarusian rebar to EC initiated in the first quarter 2016. BSW decreased supplies of rebar to Europe Largest importers of products of rolled section almost twice in 2016 as compared with 2015, beshop N o .2 in 2016 were : the N etherlands , the USA, sides , rebar occupies the largest share in the total Israel, Poland, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Lithuania, supplies to this market. Russia, and Hungary. Europe has the biggest share in export distribution : 72,2% in natural terms . CIS market, including the Republic of Belarus . T he market of CIS countries is the second At present, OJSC “BSW – management company of in size market from the point of view of sales of “BMC” holding directs its activity to maintain and products of OJSC “BSW – management company increase its presence on the existing outlets and of “BMC” holding . Supplies were performed to 4 search for new economically profitable regions . countries of this region (in 2015 – 4 countries): Detailed supply distribution in 2016 the R ussian F ederation , A rmenia , M oldova , and the U kraine . T he key role among CIS countries is European market. In 2016, main steel export played by the market of the Russian Federation. share of BSW belonged to the E uropean market . T he enterprise supplied 96,6% ( in natural terms ) The plant supplied its products to 30 countries of of the total exports to CIS in 2016. CIS market, this market (31 countries in 2015). T he main vol including the R epublic of B elarus . T he market of ume of supplies (74,2%) falls on such countries as CIS countries is the second in size market from the Germany, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Poland, and point of view of sales of products of OJSC “BSW Destination 2016 Rating 2015 Rating Europe 56,68 1 60,5 1 Middle East 6,77 4 7,45 4 Africa 3,94 5 9,35 3 South-East Asia 0,25 7 0,25 7 America 9,06 3 4,09 5 Russian Federation 22,51 2 17,75 2 Ukraine 0,76 6 0,57 6 Moldova, Armenia 0,02 8 0,05 8 Table: Shipment of products for export, USD thou., % 10 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – management company of “BMC” holding . Supplies Egypt, Mauritania, Tunisia, and Senegal. The main were performed to 4 countries of this region ( in amount of product (92,2%) was shipped to E gypt . 2015 – 4 countries): the Russian Federation, ArmeIn 2016 this market was the main one in terms of nia , M oldova , and the U kraine . T he key role among sales of semis . E xport share equaled to 3,9% ( in CIS countries is played by the market of the Rus2015 – 9,3%). Decrease of the share of the African sian F ederation . T he enterprise supplied 96,6% ( in market in the total export amount is related to its natural terms ) of the total exports to CIS in 2016. changed structure . T he strategy of sales of the products of the new small section mill is directed Domestic market in the Republic of Belarfirst of all towards reorientation of sales from the us is one of the largest markets in terms of volume semis market in the Middle East and North Africa to of BSW product sales. It is assessed that BSW ocmore expensive markets of high tech metallurgical cupies 100% of the domestic market sales of steel products of the E uropean U nion with a high share Europe Europe 411 600 561 871 56,7 % 60,5 % Export distribution and share of the largest importing regions in 2015-2016, in value terms, % cord and bronze plated bead wire , 90% — of wire of added value. rod sales , 37% — of rebar sales , and 9% — of M arket of M iddle E ast A sia . T he enterprise seamless pipes . supplied its products to 4 countries of M iddle E ast Middle East and African market. The enAsia (in 2015 6 countries): India, Japan, South Koterprise supplied its products to 3 countries in rea , and S ingapore . the M iddle E ast ( in 2015 4 countries ): T urkey , Jordan, and Israel. The main amount 72,2% was American market. Due to antidumping investigashipped to I srael . T he export share of the M iddle tion relating to supplies of BSW rebar to EC, it East countries made up 6,8 % (in 2015 it was 7,4%. was necessary to reorient part of rebar supplies to other markets . T hus , in 2016 BSW began to supply Drop of the sales market in the Middle East by 0,6 steel to Canada. As a result, the plant increased % was caused by a high level of competition on this American export share by 5%, growth rate of shipmarket which leads to a sharp aggravation of the ments to A merica made up 173,4% in value terms . market conditions . T urkey and C hina are the main steel supplies in this region . Totally, the plant supplied steel products to 5 American countries (in 2015 5 countries): EcuaAs for Africa, the plant supplied its products dor, Mexico, the USA, Brazil, and Canada. The new to 5 countries ( in 2015 5 countries ): G hana , market (C anada ) occupied 71,8% of the total BSW  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 11 Plant’s Profile  supplies to the American market in 2016. Values and strategic principles of the enterprise Competitive advantages of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding»: OJSC “BSW — management company of “BMC” holding is a stably developing and continuously renewing — strong position on global steel markets; organization considering changes , tendencies and risks of the external environment . — complete metallurgical cycle aiming at produc tion of goods with the highest added value ; Mission – production of high-tech steel products (including products for automotive industry) to — cooperation with the largest tire producing conimprove productivity of the enterprise taking into cerns ; consideration environment and employees ’ health — diversified commodity distribution network safety , provision of a high living level of the staff worldwide ; and stakeholders satisfaction . — own training centre; Vision – be the best supplier of steel products (including products for automotive industry ) meeting — innovative activity, the requirements of national and foreign custom — investment in research and development activity; ers on all developed segments of the steel market due to use of up to date and environment friendly — own metallurgical research centre; safe technologies , effective use of resources and optimal organization of production processes and — the enterprise is one of the ten global tire cord management . producers ; Values – employees ; environment , natural and — leader in hose wire production; other types of resources ; partners , quality , knowl — the largest European producer of bead wire , a edge and community . monopolist in the CIS market ; Strategy of the enterprise is directed towards — favorable geographic position of the plant; satisfaction of interests of all stakeholders in : — employees’ professionalism; output of products of required quality and range ; — high competitiveness of products; — provision of sustainable development , personnel included ; — timely investment program; — retention and strengthening of its position on — high reputation among customers due to product the developed markets ; quality level . — improvement of the employees welfare; Business approach — preservation of health and life of every member At present , the macroeconomy of Belarus goes of the employees team ; through difficult times , and integrity of strategy , its realization efficiency and unity of the team play — continuous decrease of environmental impact of a very important role in the plant ’ s achievement of the production activity ; positive results of its activity and business growth . — retention and further development of corporate So as to determine bottlenecks and to overcome management standards . them , the plant carries out a regular assessment of its activity and effectiveness of achievement of Implementation of the strategy and mission financial and non financial targets . supposes : 12 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • achievement of the targets set for the plant achievement of the targets of the plant ’ s activity ; • timely respond to continuously changing external conditions with the use of P-D-C-A cycle ( plan – do – check act timely respond to continuously changing external condi tions with the use of P-D-C-A cycle (plan – do – check act); • introduction of progressive technologies bility , protection of information , finances , energy during design , and development of produc saving , labour protection and industrial safety , tion processes of new competitive types of prod and environment in accordance with the require ucts aimed at reduction of dangers and risks of ments of international standards , existing law and the production processes , prevention of harmful other requirements , including those related to impact of the production factors on the employ ecological aspects of activity , production or ser ees , decrease of contaminant emission in the air , vices , dangers in the area of occupational health discharges into water basin , waste generation , use and labour safety ; of natural and energy resources ; • fulfillment of regular monitoring of the pro • continuous improvement of the effectiveness duction processes and management fulfillment of of the management system functioning in corre regular monitoring of the production processes spondence with the requirements of international and management ; standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, 26000 and industrial requirements of the automo • improvement of product quality, provision of lative and oil industry ISO/TS 16949, API spec Q1; bour safety and health protection , environment development and inclusion of subsections “E nergy protection , energy saving including suppliers , saving management ” according to ISO 50001, “F i subcontractors and customers of the enterprise ; nancial management ” according to ISO 10014, “I n formation protection management system ” accord • implementation of purposeful training of the ing to ISO 27001 into the management system ; staff , arrangement of conditions for high quality labour , demonstration of personal abilities and • forecast of risks related to the enterprise’ s acinitiative by each employee and the staff interest in tivity ; provision of high product quality level , efficient use of raw materials , auxiliary materials and en • fulfillment of continuous control of the risks ergy resources; related to the production processes , implementa tion of corrective and preventive measures direct • improvement of production culture and ensuring ed towards prevention of occupational diseases of personal moral and material responsibility for and accidents in the production process ; the quality of the work done . • prevention of environment contamination , inju M anagement of the organization is interested in ries and worsening of the employees ’ health during fulfillment of the Corporate Policy and will ar their production activity ; range conditions required for that so as to pro vide for an adequate level of living of the employ • activity in the area of quality , social responsi ees and their confidence in the future . SOCIAL REPORT 2016 13 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development Enterprise’s approach to sustainable deOJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding velopment carries out modernization and reconstruction of its production, implements investment projects including Byelorussian Steel Works actively introduces princicommissioning of new production facilities. The result ples of sustainable development into its business activof the complex modernization of the existing and esity. The main aim of the plant development is developtablishment of new innovative production of the enterment of economy of the enterprise based on innovative prise will be growth of steel production and casting, renewal, increase of economic effectiveness, environensuring manufacture of products with a high added mental safety, resource saving and improvement of value due to a deeper degree of processing and proviproduct competitiveness, achievement of an adequate sion of production growth due to innovative products level of living of BSW employees. The management and manufactured. the employees of the plant carry out their activity in accordance with the Code of Ethics which is brought Modernization of the plant is an integral part of the to the notice of the staff and external partners. The policy pursued by the enterprise aimed at further deCode of Ethics of BSW is developed considering key velopment, reconstruction and establishment of new values such as truthfulness, sincerity and respect productions. Introduction of state-of-the-art techfor mutual interests, and their obligatory fulfillment nologies and equipment considering the latest technileads to mutual confidence, openness and transparcal and technological achievements is the key to the ency of relations. Stakeholders’ confidence is one of plant’s operation effectiveness. the key values for our plant. Outlook for social and economic development of the Taking into consideration the specific character of enterprise for 2015-2017 anticipates provision of a production, the priority directions of the enterprise continuous growth of financial and economic indicain the area of sustainable development include: tors for expanded production and improvement of the employees’ welfare. Increase of industrial production, — increase of the technical and economic level of as in previous years, is supposed to be carried out with production due to reconstruction, modernization and a relative reduction of the volume of material and fuel new construction, further decrease of specific conand power resources consumption based on the ussumption of raw material, fuel, energy, and labour reage of resourceand energy-saving technologies as sources for steel product manufacturing; well as structural shifts in production. Along with realization of investment projects, a complex solving — introduction of progressive technologies ensuring of questions of selection, training and retraining of energy and material resource saving; employees is foreseen. — expansion of production of steel with a high added Directions of the strategy implementation value; Directions of realization of the plant development — improvement of the export supplies structure in strategy suppose achievement of an adequate level the direction of growth of the share of downstream of living of BSW employees, set conditions for the products; growth of industrial product output and determine — improvement of environmental characteristics of key parameters of social and economic development. the existing productions (introduction of environmentfriendly technologies, reduction of waste generation The enterprise continuously develops new types of products. During 2016, 28 types of innovative prodand specific emission of contaminants into the air and ucts were developed at the plant and documentation water basins, increase of volumes and improvement of effectiveness of production waste processing). for production of 161 types of products was agreed. 353 145,066 Belarusian rubles were spent for manuTo retain its position in the international markets, facturing of innovative products in 2016. Specific 14 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In February BSW became prize winner of Department of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in science and engineering fields. In nomination of “Machining, foundry and forging equipment (including special engineering)” the project of plant specialists “Development and launching the production of pumpcompressor pipes used during hydraulic formation breakdown” was given the award. weight of the innovative products in the total amount Belarus for achievements in the area of quality (2001, of shipments in 2016 equaled to 21,3% (compared to 2004, 2007, 2011, 2016); not less than 18 percent planned). ”Best goods of the Republic of Belarus in the market Qualified employees having appropriate facilities, reof the Russian Federation” (2001, 2003-2015); quired knowledge, experience and professional training participate in development of new production pro“Best goods of the Republic of Belarus” (2002cesses and new types of products. 2016); BSW maintains high mark and keeps pace with the pres“CIS award for achievements in the area of product ent time which is confirmed by multiple awards and and services quality” (2007, 2011); achievements. “Best quality manager” (2007, 2008, 2009); OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding is the winner of the following awards: “Best exporter” in the nomination “Engineering, metallurgy, and metal working” (2007, 2010-2011, 2014award of the Government of the Republic of Belarus 2016); for achievements in the area of production and services (2001, 2004, 2007, 2015.); The 4th International quality tournament of Central and East-European countries in the nomination “Proaward of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of duction of industrial engineering application” (2008);  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 15 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  — “Brand of the Year” in the nomination “Socially re— Laureate of the international Honor Mark “Comsponsible brand” (2009-2010, 2016); monwealth Star” in the nomination “Best CIS company” (2006) — The winner of the 5th national tournament “TECHNOSPHERA” in the nomination “The best trade mark” Enterprise’ achievements in its product promotion (2009); were highly appreciated in Poland during the XIX Economic Forum “Neighbourliness 2015”. General Direc— “The beast construction product of the year” tor of BSW A.N. Savianok was awarded by Belarusian(2010-2016); Polish Chamber of Commerce for long-term work in the Polish market, contribution in development of — “Competence” in the area of measuring tolls caliinternational trade relations, and strength and selfbration (2014); constraint in achievement of the goals set. — “Power efficiency leader” (2015-2016); Participation of the plant in quality contests con— “Award of the Ministry of Industry of the Repubtributes to improvement of the plant’s image and comlic of Belarus in the area of science and technology” petitiveness of the product manufactured and allows (2016); assessment of the enterprise’s activity and making comparison to the best enterprises of different coun— “Award for the high level of competence” within tries for further improvement. the framework of the International conference “Development of accreditation in the system of technical Management of sustainable development regulation” (2012); In accordance with the Corporate Policy, the plant — European quality award (EQA) established by management ensures development and realization of the European Foundation of Quality Management technical, production, and investment programs di(EFQM), the level of “5 stars excellence recognition” rected towards improvement of product quality mak(2009, 2013); ing an actual contribution to sustainable development Ministry of Industry I Level  General Director II Level  Deputies General Director, III Level Main specialists  Production shop heads, IV Level Heads of structural subdivisions  Heads of shifts / departments V Level Foremen of shifts / departments  Shift personnel VI Level Organizational structure of sustainable development management 16 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of the plant. bility of discrimination of the employees, struggle A set of measures aimed at provision of high consumer against corruption in any characteristics of the product manufactured is inoccurrence. 2008 The year of BSW joining the cluded in a business-plan which development procelocal network of the UN dure is regulated by STP 840-SMK-4.1.2. The enterprise does not admit corruption, Global Compact To improve product quality and ensure its competitivebribery, and fraud. To ness and improve the production technical level, the ensure economic safety and prevent corruption ocplant developed a long-term program of BSW develcurrence, the plant carries out its production and opment for 2011-2015; plans of research work, deeconomic activity openly and responsibly. velopment (technological) activity are approved and fulfilled based on contracts and by the plant’s own According to the generally accepted international force. principles of a free economic activity specified in the UN Global Compact, OJSC “BSW – management comMain measures for product quality improvement and pany of “BMC” holding considers fair competition to production effectiveness growth are included in anbe a guarantee of realization of the right to free businual special-purpose orders approved by the General ness activity. No legal actions were undertaken reDirector and specifying the timeframe and responsible garding the Organization in connection with resistance persons: to competition. — No.1 “About improvement of business activity and In 2016 the plant continued to implement the reinvestment programs”; quirements of Directive No.1 dd. 11.03.2004 “About measures of strengthening of public safety and dis— No.2 “About measures for improvement of quality cipline”. Many times questions of labour discipline, and competitiveness of marketable products”; implementation standard, and labour protection have — No.3 “About measures insuring safe labour condibeen considered at the meetings of executive organs tions”; of the community, and personnel meetings; reports of the subdivision heads were heard. 8 such issues were — No.4 “About measures ensuring fire safety of the examined during 2016. To meet the requirements of plant’s facilities”; Directive No. 1, indicators of labour discipline and implementation standards, provision of labour protec— No.5 “About personnel development”; tion and industrial safety are included in the list of criteria of manager work assessment: contract termi— No.6 “About progressive technologies, mastering nation is foreseen in case of their breach. of new types of products, rationalization and inventive work”; Following the Directive “About measures for strengthening of public safety and discipline”, the law — No.7 “About measures for environmental protection”; of the Republic of Belarus “About struggle against corruption” and supporting the principles of the UN — No.8 “About measures to decrease production Global Compact, the plant established a service recosts”. sponsible for prevention of corruption display and abuse in this area, optimization of risks when selectIn 2008 BSW joined the local network of the UN Globing raw material suppliers and users of the product al Compact which is based on the principles of ethic manufactured in the conditions of a strong market and fair business. Such principles include respect for competition, provision of safety of the state property the employee’s right to join trade unions and inadmissimanaged by the enterprise.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 17 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  Legal support and economic safety board excludes any employees of the enterprise are acquainted with the possibility of unlawful acts occurrence at the entercontent of the articles of the law of the Republic prise including acts of corruption in respect of new of Belarus “About struggle against corruption” and employees and those working at OJSC “BSW – mancorresponding articles of the Criminal Code of the agement company of “BMC” holding. All employees of Republic of Belarus related to them and managers the security service have special higher education. In bear personal responsibility for that. A commemora2016 the employees of the service were trained in the tive booklet containing main concepts and articles of policies and procedures related to human rights. the anticorruption law is placed on the internal site “info-BMZ” continuous access to which have more BSW has developed and implemented the Plan of antithan 3500 employees; 232 executives and specialists corruption measures in accordance with which conwere trained in legal and organizational aspects of tinuous monitoring of the results of financial and ecothe struggle against corruption delinquency at spenomic activity of the Organization is carried out and cial courses on the basis of different educational esnormative acts regulating the order of preparation tablishments in 2016. During training of foremen and and execution of tender documents and supplier selectheir reserve at the course “Linear manager” studytion are updated. To minimize business risks and to fuling of legal and organizational aspects of struggle fill functions of the economic safety control, a preagainst corruption delinquency is organized; 47 peocontract check is performed to control legitimacy of ple studied at the course in 2016. potential counteragents and agreements supplied for examination from structural subdivisions of the enterWhen human resource decisions are taken regarding prise. All structural subdivisions implement a number persons occupying leading positions in the Organizaof measures to prevent corruption and law infringetion, an obligatory assessment of effectiveness of the ment: control of purposeful and rational consumption measures taken by them to ensure adherence to the of tangible property is strengthened, unplanned rananticorruption law is carried out. dom check of assets is carried out, rotation of the employees of commercial services of the Organization No penalties and fines were applied to the Organizais fulfilled, presentations of the organs of internal tion for breach of the law and order in 2015 No penaffairs and Committee of Inquiry of the Republic of alties and fines were applied to the Organization for Belarus regarding the facts of corruption crimes breach of the law and order in 2016. committed by the employees of the organizations under the Ministry of Industry, financial investigations are Fulfilling its obligations to investors, employees, busistudied. ness partners, and community in general, Byelorussian Steel Works strictly follows the existing law, civil The progress of the anticorruption plan implementaliability norms, the Code of Ethics of business activity tion is controlled by the anticorruption commission and is guided by the principles of effective management, which held 5 meetings in 2016. information openness, financial discipline, lawfulness, and ethics. Due to openness, transparency, partnership, mutual respect of interests of all stakeholders and accordDates and events ing to the information of the law machinery of the Republic of Belarus, 1 corruption crime committed March 19, 1982 – signing of the contract for the by employees of OJSC “BSW – management company plant erection. of “BMC” holding inside the Organization were registered in 2016. October 15, 1984 – start of the electric melt shop operation, production of the first heat of steel. The Organization takes unprecedented measures to prevent corruption crimes and unlawful actions. All November 4, 1984 – start of the rolling production 18 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS operation – first shipment of section metal produced cilities. A.S. Yakobson, Chairman of Gomel Regional in rolling mill 320/150. Executive Committee, L.N. Opanasyuk, Chairman of Zhlobin District Executive Committee, and N.V. AndriNovember 21, 1987 – start of operation of the secanov, General Director of BSW, A.M. Ryabkov, direcondary metallurgy unit and continuous casting machine tor of construction and erection organization No.27, No.3 (CCM-3) in electric melt shop No.2 (EMS-2); had the honor to cut the red ribbon. large section mill 850 in section rolling shop; production facilities of steel wire shop No.1 (SWS-1) and March 6, 2008 – 62nd meeting of the Board of proproduction of the first shipment of Belarusian steel ducers and exporters of ferrous materials of CIS cord. countries was held at BSW. Members of the Board discussed the situation of the ferrous materials marMarch 1, 1991 – start of operation of steel wire shop ket, made assessment of the prospects of its develNo. 2, lime kiln No. 2, EAF-3 and a ladle vacuum deopment, and worked out an outlook for export price gasser in the electric melt shop. average level for key types of ferrous materials. August 1, 1996 – opening of Zhlobin metallurgical June 18, 2008 – Belarusian Metallurgical Forum «Intechnical school. tegration of science, production and education in development of metallurgy in the Republic of Belarus up September 15, 2000 – commissioning of a new wire to 2020» was held at BSW. The event allowed us to rolling mill 150, visit of President A.G. Lukashenko. determine a concept of the national metallurgy develNovember 30, 2000 – start of operation of steel wire opment in the nearest future. shop No. 3 (SWS-3). June 30, 2008 – reconstruction of the sulfuric acid May 19, 2002 – start of operation of the 2nd stage of regeneration unit of the chemical plant of SWS-2. the oxygen plant. August 8, 2008 – modernization of dust removing units May 24, 2005 – start of erection of the pipe mill. of electric-arc furnace No.2 (EAF-2) of EMS-1. February 24, 2006 – commissioning of brass plating December 2008 – the pipe mill reached its designed line No.6 after reconstruction in SWS-2. capacity. October 2006 – new six-block and ten-block drawing March 2009 – modernization of the finishing line of machines were installed in SWS-3 within the framerolling mill 320. work of the Dnepr project. July 9, 2009 – presentation of a new type of BSW December 28, 2006 – commissioning of a new bead product – steel fiber. bronzing line No.2 at SWS-1. October 9, 2009 – country first public hearing of the December 30, 2006 – commissioning of a new ion-exCorporate Social Report of the enterprise presented change unit at SWS-1. to participants of the UN Global Compact. July 13, 2007 – commissioning of the pipe mill in the December 6, 2009 – completion of a large investment presence of President A.G. Lukashenko. project – reconstruction of continuous casting machine No. 3 (CCM-3). January 17, 2008 – inauguration of a water block for health improvement at the Hockey and Swimming CenDecember 14, 2009 – A.N. Savianok, General Directre of the Olympic Reserve. It includes modern water tor of BSW, was appointed to the position of the viceattractions, saunas, a solarium, a café, and other fapresident of the International Union of Metallurgists.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 19 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  2009 –this crisis year the plant expanded its export were produced in electric-arc furnace No.3. Now deliveries by 17 countries. EAF-3 produces 12 heats per shift, not 4 as before. February 2010 – start of operation of the department November 2010 – a jubilee ton of steel cord – the of mandrel and disc saw preparation at the pipe mill. 500th one! – was produced in SWS-2. The department is equipped with the equipment which is unique for our country. December 2010 – SWS-2 crossed the boundary of one million tons. This is the amount of goods produced March 2010 – methods of production of sectional by the shop from 1991 till 2010 included. (square) wire for high-pressure hoses mastered at steel wire shop No.2. December 2010 – the team of rolling mill 320 produced one millionth ton of reinforcement in 2010. April 2010 – mastering of pipe rolling from round billet diameter 200mm cast in CCM-3 started at the From February 1 till March 7, 2011 80 specialists pipe mill. from Slovak Republic were trained in the section rolling and electric steel-making shops within the frameMarch 29, 2010 –contract for erection of the third work of international cooperation of steelmakers. lime kiln signed with TECHCOM (Germany). February 2011 – two universal machines for wire reJune 2010 – implementation of one of the 11 projects winding for fiber production manufactured by GCR for expansion of the rough and medium drawing departEurodraw, Italy, were installed at thermal etchingments of SWS-1. Two new rough drawing machines ingalvanic department of SWS-1. stalled. March 17, 2011 – the 1st International conference July 2010 – a contract for delivery of equipment for of suppliers was held with 90 representatives of difthe lime kiln signed with Maerz (Austria) in the result ferent companies cooperating with BSW in the area of negotiations between BSW and Тесhcom. of supplies of materials, raw materials, and equipment. July 2010 – 10th International scientific and techniMarch 23, 2011 – team of rolling mill 320 of the seccal conference «Metal-2010» held at BSW; it united tion rolling production started to roll rebar No.14 80 employees of the plant and 45 representatives of with the help of a 4-strand slitting process. The rollthe enterprises and educational establishments of Beers needed a little more than a month to start comlarus, Russia, the Ukraine, Lithuania, and Kazakhstan. mercial production of the material. August 2010 – a new method of flat wire production March 24, 2011 – IXth meeting of the members of for high-pressure hoses mastered. the Club of Quality Leaders of Central and East September 2010 – a contract for reconstruction of European countries. Representatives of more than the unit for cleaning of gases discharged from EAF 10 enterprises of different countries participated in No.1 and No.3 signed with Water Group. The project the meeting. was developed exclusively for steel furnaces operatApril 6, 2011 – 1st significant milestone in the history ing at BSW. of the pipe mill: а 250 thousandth ton of products was manufactured. October 2010 – members of team No. 4 of rolling mill 150 set up a new record –1200 tons of wire rod proApril 2011 – a machine for flame processing of steel duced during one shift. Previously, maximum perforwas installed at the mechanical repair shop. The new mance raised only up to the mark of 1070 tons. equipment produced by Turkish AKYAPAK opens new possibilities for maintenance personnel in terms of November 2010 – 20 years ago the first tons of steel recovery and production of largesize parts. 20 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS April 21, 2011 –10-millionth ton of steel was cast October 20, 2011 – the 1st scientific-practical semiin electric melt shop No.2 since commissioning of nar «Main directions of innovative-technological deCCM-3. velopment of the Production Association «Byelorussian Steel Works» with participation of rectors of the June 2011 – the plant bought by auction the territory leading higher institutes of Gomel region. of total area of 11 hectares previously belonging to Agrotechservice for the expansion of the scrap yard. October 2011 – labour teams of electric melt shops This additional area allowed the plant to increase the No. 1 and No. 2 established a record in production of storage area of the winter stock of scrap. concast billet: 229 673 tons. June 20, 2011 – 35-millionth ton of steel was proNovember 28, 2011 –a decision was made to reorganize duced by the plant. the republican unitary enterprise in an open joint-stock company at the conference of the plant’s employees. July 2, 2011 – The first in the plant’s history Open Day was held. December 2011 – rolling mill 850: 9 millionth ton of cast billet rolled in it. July 7, 2011 – the 11th International scientific and technical conference of young employees «MetDecember 8, 2011 – rolling mill 320 crossed the al-2011» was held at Zhlobin metallurgical technical boundary of 1 million tons. school. Apart from Belarusian representatives, young specialists from Russia, the Ukraine, Latvia, Great December 2011 – first square billets 140х140mm cast Britain, and Austria participated in the conference. in machine No.2 of EMS -1 after the machine reconstruction. July 2011 – new equipment for air drying produced by Atlas Copco, Belgium, was commissioned at the comDecember 20, 2011 – a constituent assembly was held pressor station of the repair shop block. by Byelorussian Steel Works, DUFERCO S.A. (Switzerland), Pisec Group GmbH (Austria) to establish a August 18, 2011 – Ministry of Industry signed an orjoint-venture for OSTG pipe processing as a limited der on joining of GO «Belvtormet» comprising six recompany named BMZ TUBULARS. gional plants procuring and processing ferrous scrap and UE «Beltsvetmet» with the daughter company January 1, 2012 – the tare and packing shop and the «Tsvetmet» (the town of Zhodino) to the PA «BSW. powder metallurgy shop merged into one tare and dies During last years, three more enterprises joined shop (T&DS). «Belvtormet»: OJSC «Technopribor» (Mogilyov), OJSC «Polesieelectromash» (the town of Luninets), January 2, 2012 – Open Joint-Stock Company «ByeloOJSC «Kobrinsky Tool plant» «Sitomo». russian Steel Works (OJSC «BSW») was registered in the Unified State Registry of Legal Entities and August 26, 2011 – SWS-3 crossed the border of 1 Individual Entrepreneurs with the registration No. million ton of produce. 400074854. August 31, 2011 – a contract for erection of a new March 7, 2012 – the first foundation with a capsule section rolling mill with the designed capacity 700 containing a message to our descendants was laid for thousand tons per year with an outlook to produce 1 construction of lime kiln No.3 by A.B. Savianok, Dimillion tpy was signed with Danieli, Italy. rector General. September 22, 2011 – electric melt shop No.2 had March 11, 2012 – the first Belarusian museum of produced 10 000 000 tons of steel since its commissteelmaking for children was opened in kindergarten sioning. No. 34 of Byelorussian Steel Works.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 21 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  March 2012 – based on March results, electric melt July 4-6, 2012 –12th International scientific and shops achieved the best in the plant’s history steel technical conference of the young employees «Metal output 233 thousand 880 tons, it is an increase by 2012». Representatives of Russia, the Ukraine, Kaover 4 thousand tons of the record established in Oczakhstan, and Belarus participated in it. tober 2011. July 7, 2012 – the second BSW Open day that had April 1, 2012 – Metallurg hockey team became the become traditional was held on the eve of the Day of champion winning the match with Neman team from the Metallurgists. city of Grodno in the extra-league final series tournament of play-off of the Open championship of Belarus. July 13, 2012 – 5 years since the pipe mill commissioning. April 4-5, 2012 – the Second International conference of suppliers was held at the plant. July 18, 2012 – 20th anniversary of the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists. April 22, 2012 – awarding of Metallurg hockey team champions of Belarus, winners of the 20th Open July 20, 2012 – OJSC BSW joined the World Steel Championship of the Republic of Belarus 2011/2012. Association (WSA) – a prestigious professional industrial association numbering over 170 global steelmakMay 15, 2012 – a capsule containing a message to ers as well as research institutes carrying out invesour descendants was laid in the foundation of the new tigations in this area. small-section rolling mill for wire production. August 17, 2012 – 5 million tons produced in mill 150. May 16, 2012 – a visit of B.B. Makey, head of the This amount had been manufactured since rolling mill President’s administration, to BSW. 320/150 was divided in two separate mills (September 15, 2000). May 17, 2012 – business conference «Belarus Russia: cooperation of steel market players». Over 50 August 24, 2012 – Registration of Open Joint-Stock leaders of metallurgical enterprises met at BSW. Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» May 24-25, 2012 – scientific and technical conference holding (OJSC «BSW – management company of of young specialists of OJSC «BSW» «Metal-2012» «BMC» holding) in the Unified State Registry of legal was held at the plant. entities and individual entrepreneurs with the registration number 400074854. May 25, 2012 – 20 years since commissioning of the shop of networks, substations and technical mainteAugust 31, 2012 – a ceremonial commissioning of the nance (NST&MS). first stage of pipe finishing line No.3 (PFLD No.3) of the pipe mill. June 11, 2012 – OJSC «BSW» took the first place in the nomination «Export Sales Leader» among clients September 3, 2012 – the plant is recognized as the of OJSC «Priorbank». It was a high appraisal of our winner of the Republican professional contest «The work by the Board of Experts of one of the leading best construction product of the year 2012» for its banks of our country. On June 11 a special badge was steel fiber (anchor, wavy, microfiber) for concrete awarded to General Director A.N. Savianok. reinforcement. June 20, 2012 – BSW became a laureate of the conSeptember 10, 2012 –20th anniversary of metallurgitest for the Award of CIS in 2011 in the category cal equipment repair shop (MERS). «Manufacture of goods for production application» (in the organizations with over 250 employees). September 14, 2012 – 30th anniversary of BSW 22 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS foundation laying. Derozhant Akopov, director of the environment protection exceeded the level determined plant, and Alfred Probst, Voest-Alpine chief engineer, by Michelin for suppliers in the purchasing chain. laid down a capsule with a message to our descendants in two languages. It was concreted in the foundation The achieved results showed the level of a significant of electric melt shop No. 1. maturity of BSW in the area of social responsibility and environment and were an integral part of Michelin October 11, 2012 – a ceremonial opening of the gamily criteria for choosing suppliers. hostel No.3 after reconstruction. February 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works became a October 31, 2012 – public hearing of the Social laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry of Progress Report of the plant for 2011. the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and engineering in 2012. This prize is awarded every year for November 6, 2012 – an unofficial hockey match bedevelopment and introduction of new types of materitween the champions of 2011/2012 of two countries: als and technologies enabling the national science to Belarus and Austria. The match between Metallurg reach the international level and increase efficiency (Zhlobin) and Austrian Black Wings (Linz) was timed of the industrial facility. to the 30th anniversary of the beginning of the plant construction. February 11, 2013 – a new eighth ambulance room was opened on the basis of the administrative building November 20, 2012 – the first column was erected on of electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1) of Byelorussian the site of the small-section mill. Steel Works. Here plant’s employees may receive the required medical assistance, including first aid. November 21, 2012 – 25 years since commissioning of SWS-1. March 1, 2013 – based on the work results of 2012 Byelorussian Steel Works became the winner in the November 21 2012 –the 25th anniversary of electric nomination «Best investor and exporter» among entermelt shop No.2 (EMS-2) and rolling mill 850 of the prises of Zhlobin and Zhlobin district. section rolling shop (SRS). March 28, 2013 – 10 years since establishment of the December 2, 2012 – 30 years since establishment of unitary enterprise «Metallurgtorg». BSW personnel service. April 1, 2013 – 20 years since commissioning of the December 2012 – at the night shift December 6 – 7, fourth stage of BSW: the pump station. one millionth ton of rolled section was produced in mill 320. Reference point January 2012. April 1, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team became the silver prize winner of the 21st Open Championship of January 1, 2013 – two auxiliary shops merged: the the Republic of Belarus. power shop and the oxygen plant. A new structural subdivision was formed – energy department (EnD). April 5, 2013 – Gomel regional executive committee expressed gratitude to the work collective of BSW January 13, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team sucfor a considerable contribution in social and economic cessfully played in the super-final of the Continental development of the region. Cup and took the second place in the prestige European tournament. April 16, 2013 –to implement investment project «Organization of a section bar production with construcJanuary 24, 2013 – according to the results of an extion of a small-section mill» General Director A.N. pert assessment of EcoVadis (Michelin), BSW achieveSavianok issued order No.340 to establish rolling ments in the social area in 2012 and in the area of  shop No.2 (BRM-2). SOCIAL REPORT 2016 23 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  April 18, 2013 – 10 years since Byelorussian Steel vate joint-stock company «ROSAVA» – the largest Works receipt of the first ecological certificate in tire producer in the Ukraine – awarded the «excellent Gomel region. This event required a two-year work supplier» rating to Byelorussian Steel Works. of the employees. BSW got two environment management certificates at a time to evidence correspondence June 21, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 the of the plant to the requirements of the international union of veterans of Byelorussian Steel Works bestandard ISO 14001-1996 and national standard STB came the winner in the completion for the best primary ISO 14001-2000. organization of Zhlobin district. April 17-18, 2013 – the fourth scientific conference July 6, 2013 – the third traditional Open Day was held of young employees was held at BSW. This forum at BSW. gathered over 170 representatives of various strucJuly 10, 2013 – 50th birthday of the General Directural subdivisions and students of leading higher institor of OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works-management tutions of the country company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok. April 20, 2013 – a national subbotnik was held at the July 18, 2013 – BRM (mill 850, team No.1) produced plant. 10-millionth ton of rolled steel since its commissionApril 25-28, 2013 – the second international children ing in 1987. hockey tournament «Steel cup» for the awards of July 18, 2013 – an agreement was reached and corGeneral Director of OJSC «BSW-management comresponding documents signed with Eurasian Bank of pany of «BMC» holding A. N. Savianok was held in Development regarding joint financing of the conZhlobin. «Metallurg» team was awarded bronze medstruction of the small section mill at BSW by EBD als. and OJSC OAO Belarusbank. May 18, 2013 – at Belarusian industrial forum-2013 July 19, 2013 – a capsule with a message to our BSW was awarded the 1st degree diploma for the projdescendants was laid down in the foundation of airect «Development and introduction of energotechnoheating unit No. 3 of the limited liability joint-venture logical modes of electric-arc furnace operation aimed «BSW-OP». Cost of the project – over USD33,8 at increase of productivity of EAF-3 and reduction of million, cost of equipment – USD19,4 million, cost of power consumption for steel melting». civil and erection work – USD7,9 million. May 18, 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works was awardAugust 2013 – based on the results of the annual ed a diploma for active participation in the XIV Interrepublican professional contest «Best construction national Exhibition «Spring in Gomel-2013» within the product (article) of the year» welding reinforcing bar framework of the X Gomel economic forum. class В500С for concrete reinforcement produced by BSW was announced the best construction product May 25, 2013 – based on the results of competitions of 2013. held by Gomel regional trade union organization, primary trade union organization of BSW was declared August 29, 2013 – first audit of correspondence with the best among 31 industrial enterprises of Gomel the Code of Ethics of Pirelli’s supplier was held at region in 2012. the plant. Requirements of the international standard of social responsibility SA8000 were met. June 5, 2013 – coach of Zhlobin «Metallurg» team was announced the best coach of the season 2012September 6, 2013 – BSW primary organization with 2013 of the open hockey championship of Belarus. the rights of a district committee of the Public Association «Belarusian Republican Youth Union» became June 15, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 Prithe winner of the Republican contest for the best pri24 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS mary organization of the PA «BRYU». countries of the world. September 20, 2013 – 30 years since establishment of May 3, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the centhe repair-mechanical shop (RMS). tral plant laboratory (CPL). December 12, 2013 – a parking for our 410 employee’s May 3, 2014 – 20 years since opening of Slavyanskaya private cars was put into operation at BSW. Hotel located in the central street of the town at the January 4, 2014 – EMS-2 had produced 9 million tons address: 13 Pervomaiskaya str. of steel since its commissioning. The jubilee heat was June 5, 2014 – a ceremonial commissioning of a remanufactured by team No. 3 under the leadership of active-power static thyristor compensator at the subthe head of the shift N.E. Rozhkov, foreman of EAF-3 station Stal to ensure a more stable operation of the and SMD P.E. Rozhkov. furnace transformers. January 16, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the power repair shop (PRS). June 11, 2014 – 15 years since laying down of a capsule with a message to our descendants at one of January 17, 2014 – ceremonial commissioning of the our main new projects of the decade – rolling wire reconstructed objects of steel making production: mill 150. EMS-1, EAF-1 and DP-1. June 12, 2014 – the first in the plant’s history footJanuary 28, 2014 – 750-thousandth ton of steel cord ball match between plant’s managers and young emproduced at SWS-1. The jubilee lot was shipped the ployees of BSW at the Locomotive stadium. Continental plant in Ecuador. July 26, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the February 1, 2014 – 20 years since establishment of Technical Control department (TCD). the repair and construction shop (RCS). October 1, 2014 – 20 years since establishment of February 3, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of «Zhlobinmetallurgstroi». the metallurgical shops electric equipment repair shop (MSEERS) October 8, 2014 – General Director of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding A.N. SaviFebruary 14, 2014 – according to enactment No.4 anok was elected the Chairman of the Association of of Gosstandart, OJSC «BSW-management company casters and metallurgists (AS&M of the Republic of of «BMC» holding became the winner of the tournaBelarus. ment «Best goods of the Republic of Belarus» 2013 in the nomination «Industrial – technical application October 14, 2014 – the day of the formal opening of products» for the following items: rolled rounds of the renovated Training Centre. alloy structural steel 40Х acc. to GOST 4543-71; reinforcing cold-deformed plain nonprestressed steel October 15, 2014 –the 30th anniversary of Byelofor concrete reinforcement diameter 5,0 mm class S russian Steel Works. acc. to STB 1341-2009. October 15, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of February 21, 2014 – transfer for operation of two electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1). important facilities: a new lime kiln (LK-3) and reconstructed continuous casting machine No. 2 (CCM-2). October 15, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the automation board (AB). April 24, 2014 – the Third International supplier conference was held; it gathered 100 delegates from 11 October 15, 2014 – a bust of the first BSW direc SOCIAL REPORT 2016 25 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  tor D.L. Akopov was opened opposite the engineering ment in SWS-2. During testing, three billets were building No.2 on the 30th anniversary of BSW. rolled and a trial square was made in the roughing train. November 5, 2014 – 30 years since establishment of the section rolling shop (SRS). January 28, 2015 – signature of the agreement on extending a revolving credit line in the amount of &35 November 6, 2014 – renovated Palace of Culture of million granted by UniCredit Bank Austria to OJSC Metallurgists was opened after reconstruction. The «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding» in Chairman of Gomel Regional Executive Committee, Vienna. Loan agreements for credit line extension for member of the Council of the Republic of the National Belmet Handelsgesellschaft mBH (Austria), a jointAssembly of the Republic of Belarus V.A. Dvornik venture and a subject of the commodity distribution took part in the ceremony. network of the plant, were also signed. These loan facilities are used for pre-financing of export transNovember 20, 2014 – During a working visit to BSW actions for buying products from BSW. This is a very of the first deputy prime-minister of the Republic of important evidence of reliability of the plant in the Belarus V.L. Semashko based on the decision of the opinion of its international partners. team of employees and the management of the plant, his name was recorded in the Book of Honor and a February 11, 2015 – second hot test with the use of a badge «Honorable worker of BSW» was handed to him hot billet in section rolling shop-2. Square 140х140 thanks to his inestimable contribution, assistance and mm heated in the furnace was rolled in the roughsupport for Byelorussian Steel Works in its current ing train and a number of stands of the intermediate activity and implementation of the investment program. train (stands 8-13), after that the rolled square was cut with the second shears of intermediate train and November 25, 2014 – 30 years since signature of the thrown into the container for cutting. acceptance report on the first stage Byelorussian Steel Works commissioning. February 24, 2015 – hot tests of 19 stands of SRS -2. December 18, 2014 – employees of Byelorussian Steel Works V.N. Zuev, Y.G. Nikolaenko, and M.Y. TereshMarch 4, 2015 – one millionth ton of steel was cast chenko were awarded a high state award medal «For in CCM-2 at EMS-1 after reconstruction of the malabour services». chine. From 8.37 till 9.27 heat No. 351417 weighing 108,038 t was cast. 54th ton of the heat became oneJanuary 20, 2015 – Presentation of the guidebook – millionth ton. The honor to cast is fell to team No.1: atlas of steel defects edited by BSW General Direcacting foreman of steel casting D.I. Olkhovik, senior tor A.N. Savianok. The scientific and practical manual steel caster S.G. Danchikov, upper caster S.N. Zhusummarizes the 30-year experience of the enterprise kovets, and casters D.G. Murar, D.I. Korotkevich, in systematization and analysis of various defects ever V.N. Timoshenko, D.S. Rabtsevich, M.S. Tarnovsky, detected in BSW semis and finished products. O.V. Bruenkov, and operators A.I. Ganak and D.N. Zhuravlev. January 23, 2015 — 30-years since signature of the contract for the design, erection and commissioning March 16, 2015 – the first four coils of wire rod on the turn-key basis of the second stage of BSW. diameter 13,5mm were produced at SRS -2. Hot trials With the support of reliable partners — Austrian of the entire technology of the line showed a comVoest-Alpine and Italian Danieli— the history of Beplete functionality of the equipment for this product larusian steel cord and steel wire production started. manufacturing. January 27, 2015 the first hot testing of the equipMarch 26, 2015 – employees teams of EMS -1 and 26 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS EMS-2 managed to achieve another record — daily June 12, 2015 – based on the results of BSW operaproduction of steel in the three furnaces equaled to tion in 2014, the plant occupied the 2nd place in the 9134 tons. Main contribution was made by the employregional tournament for the best organization of ideoees of electric melt shop No. 2 who produced 3310 logical work among the enterprises of the industry. tons. Steel making and casting daily record of EMS The diploma of the winner was awarded to General -2 was established by teams Nos. 3 and 1 headed by Director A.N. Savianok at the republican seminar of Nikolai Evgenievich Rozhkov and German Valentinovideological activists of Gomel region. ich Derevyanko. June 18, 2015 – canteen No. 10 of the UE «MetalMarch 31, 2015 – the first shipment of products manlurgtorg» was opened in the administrative building of ufactured in section rolling shop No. 2 (SRS-2) was the new section rolling mill No.2 (SRS-2). The candispatch for export. These were 20 tons of wire rod teen is designed for 80 seats and it can accept up to sold to our customer from Bulgaria via BSW commod500 visitors during a shift. ity distribution network limited company Belmet (Austria). From 16.03.2015 till 31.03.2015 over 190 tons June 18, 2015 500th employee was hired in the new of marketable products were rolled in mill 370/150. section rolling shop No.2 (SWS-2). It was a 5th grade The largest part of it was directed to Rechitsa hardmaintenance electrician Konstantin Aleksandrovich ware pant. Gaev. March 2015 – teams of EMS-1 and EMS-2 established June 30, 2015 – technological forum «Innovative a new production record: their total production made technologies for modernization and production perup 246 170 tons. Previous maximum performance was formance improvement of Belarusian enterprises» was demonstrated in October 2012 — 236 728 t. held at BSW. It was participated by representatives of business community of Saxony federative land (GerApril 16, 2015 – a maple peace alley was laid down in many) and enterprises of «Byelorussian Metallurgical front of engineering building No.1 in commemoration Company» holding. of the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. It is a kind of tribute paid to all veterans who struggled for July 1, 2015 – the plant newspaper «Metallurg» peace and made possible present achievements of the crossed the 30-year boundary of its operation. Duremployees of Byelorussian Steel Works and its busiing these 30 years its circulation grew from 2 000 ness partners. copies to 8 500 copies. At present the newspaper is distributed not only in the region of the Organization May 14, 2015 – based on the results of 2014 perforoperation but in Rogachov and Svetlogorsk districts mance, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» of Gomel region. holding was acknowledged as «The best exporter of 2014». The honorable prize of the winner of the simiJuly 16, 2015 commissioning of the project «Modernlar tournament was presented to General Director of ization of recycling water supply circuit of EMS-1 and the enterprise Anatoly Nikolaevich Savianok. SRS» which permitted to increase amount of water used for equipment cooling, improve qualitative comMay 28, 2015 – commissioning of a limited JV BMZposition of water and its temperature mode. OP founded by OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding, Belmet (Austria), «Belastahl (GerJuly 16, 2015 – acceptance of the new facility of the many), Iron Trade Limited (Russia), and OJSC «Pskovscrap yard: site for cutting of large scrap to outline vtorchermet» (Russia). The new oxygen plant allows dimensions. us to satisfy BSW demand for technical gases and direct about 10% of the products to satisfy needs of July 19, 2015 – a star in the Orion constellation was other enterprises of Gomel region. given the name of Byelorussian Steel Works. This  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 27 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  present was given to the BSW by its partner Baltic October 16, 2015 – BSW was acknowledged as the Shipping (Klaipeda) in commemoration of its achievewinner in the nomination «Power-efficient technoloments and successes. gies and processes» at the national contest «Leader of effectiveness -2015’. The project «Oxygen techAugust 8, 2015 – a field college of the Ministry of Innology of steelmaking in the EAF» was awarded a didustry of the Republic of Belarus was held on the baploma. sis of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. During the meeting the results of operation October 19, 2015 – team No. 4 produced the first of enterprises and organizations of the industry in 100 thousand tons of high-tech product in section January June 2015 were summed up and goals for rolling shop No. 2. fulfillment of the forecast performance of social and economic development during 9 months of the current October 21-22, 2015 the 23rd International scienyear were determined. tific and technical conference «Foundry engineering and steelmaking 2015. Belarus» was held at BSW. August 2015 – electric melt shop No. 2 reached a new It gathered over 130 delegates from different counproduction boundary. Steel melting in EAF-3 made up tries. BSW was acknowledged the best in the nomi76 876 tons. Previous performance indicator of the nation «The best innovative project implemented in furnace was 76 042 tons in March 2013. foundry and steelmaking production» and «The best scientific – production work of a young scientists or August 2015 – rolling mill 150 reached maximum peran engineer» at the ceremony of award presentation to formance: 51 200 tons of hot-rolled material. The laureates of the Award of the Association of founders previous figure of rolling mill 150 reached in 2012 and steelmakers of the Republic of Belarus. was 49 521 tons. October 30, 2015 on the day of its 15th anniversary, September 8, 2015 winners of the Republican proSWS3 crossed the boundary of 2 million tons outfessional contest «The best construction product put. The «jubilee» metal was shipped to BSW trading -2015» were announced. BSW products were marked firm «Baltiya». in the nomination «The best construction material (product) of the year». Such title was awarded to November 2015 – BSW won the cup for the best reinforcing welding rolled section class А500С acproduct presented at the 21st International exhibition cording to GOST R 52544-2006. «Metal-Expo 2015» (10-13.11.2015). The metallurgical forum replenished the collection of awards of the September 22, 2015 during XIX economic forum enterprise with two «Nikas» for the best videoprod«Neighbourliness 2015» Polish Chamber of Comuct in steelmaking. merce awarded BSW General Director A.N. Savianok for a long-term work on the Polish market, contribuNovember 17, 2015 – the plant KVN team «Vse V Station to development of international trade relations, li» became the winner of the KVN prime league (Minsk) strength and tenacity in achievement of the goals set. of 2015. September 25, 2015 a symbolic event both for BSW December 16, 2015 – specialists of the plant research and the country as well as for the global steelmaking: centre became the winners of the national contest of commissioning of section rolling mill No.2. President innovative projects. The project «Organization of Lukashenko participated in the event. production of high-tech bearings with a nano-comOctober 7, 2015 employees of SWS-2 produced posite coating on the basis of OJSC «Minsk Bearing 500-thousandth ton of hose wire. This symbolic for plant» won the second place in the nomination «The BSW lot was shipped to a well-known European combest innovative project»; the project «Manufacturing pany Eaton (Germany). application of the stretching process for production 28 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of reinforcement class 500 MPa in coils with a row BSW third production stage. winding up to 5 tons, ductility class B and C, diameter 6,0 mm to 16,0 mm at BSW» won the third place in March 19, 2016 — BSW joined the international the nomination «The best innovative project of a young environmental action “Earth Hour”: Additional lighting specialist». of administrative buildings of the central office and electric appliances were switched off from 20.30 till January 1, 2016 – 30 years since establishment 21.30 p.m. of the scrap yard which is a starting point of BSW production; 20 years since organization of the copying April 4-8, 2016 — BSW participated in the centre (CC) providing the plant with printed products; international specialized exhibition “WIRE/TUBE 2016” (Dűsseldorf, Germany). January 10, 2016 — 15 years since establishment of the chief metrological engineer department ensuring April 5-8, 2016 — BSW took part in the international quality measurements at all stages of production. exhibition of foundry and metallurgical technologies “LitMetExpo” (Minsk). January 2016 — based on the results of 2015 operation, the enterprise was awarded a Diploma of April 6-8, 2016 — an international seminar dedicated the winner in the nomination “Time-tested Partnership” to the practice of collective agreements signing was by OJSC BelWEB Bank. held at BSW participated by representatives of the trade union activists of Gomel and Bryansk regions. February 2016 — BSW became a laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus April 11, 2016 — Prime-Minister of the republic of in the area of science and technology. The project of Belarus A.V. Kobyakov visited BSW during his working the plant’s specialists “Development and mastering visit to Zhlobin district. of production of lifting pipes used in hydraulic seam fracture” was awarded in the nomination “Machining, April 23, 2016 — team of employees of EMS-1 made casting, forging, and other equipment (including fresh gains in production: 2 million tons had been special production equipment)”. produced since reconstruction of continuous casting machine No. 2. February 19-22, 2016 — 22nd festival of militarypatriotic songs “Long live, Victory” took place in the April 2016 — steelmakers were officially thanked for town of Bagrationovsk, Kaliningrad region. Denis effective innovative activity in 2015 by Gomel Regional Korol, engineer of SRS technical bureau, became the Executive Committee. winner in the nomination “Authorial songs”. May 5, 2016 — based on operation results of 2015, February 26, 2016 — video “BSW. Holding as an OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding Orchestra” won in the nomination “Best musical and was named the best exporter of 2015 in the nomination sound accompaniment” at the V Moscow International ”Metallurgy”. Festival of Corporate Video -2016. May 6, 2016 — Byelorussian Steel Works became February 29, 2016 — Dmitry Shashkov, rollerman a laureate of the Government award for the of SRS-2, set up a new record of the Republic of achievements in the area of quality in 2015. Belarus in press in lying position (300 kg) in the town of Beloozyorsk, Brest region. May 19-21, 2016 — BSW became the winner in the nomination “Cooperation” at the 17th International March 1, 2016 — 25 years since commissioning of Universal Fair “Spring in Gomel-2016” and was steel wire shop No.2 (SWS-2) producing tire cord – awarded a diploma for “Active participation”.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 29 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  May 21, 2016 — BSW team was the winner of the Research Centre. year-round district sports contest of 2015 among sport teams. August 4, 2016 — daily record set in steel rolling shop No.2: 2 617,174 tons of round 8,8 mm produced May 2016 — BSW project “Reduction of the electric from square billet 140. power specific consumption due to optimization of energotechnological modes of melting in EAF-3 of September 11, 2016 — main specialist of steel making EMS-2” was considered the best in the nomination V.I. Dyachenko was elected a deputy of the House “Technologies, equipment, and materials for power of Representatives of the National Assembly of the and electrotechnical application in industry and fuelRepublic of Belarus. energy complex” at the 13th International competition of power-efficient and resource-saving technologies September 19, 2016 — steel wire rod from structural steel was considered “The best construction product and equipment. -2016”. June 1, 2016 — 20 years since establishment of the technological motor transport shop. September 19, 2016 — 30 years since production of the 1-millionth ton of Belarusian steel; June 1, 2016 — opening of a department of the plant’s consumer goods and byproducts at the Trade House September 23, 2016 — 20 years since opening of of the UE “Metallurgtorg”. Zhlobin metallurgical technical school; June 2016 — BSW was officially thanked for “High September 30, 2016 — steel rolling shop No.2 produced 500th ton of products. level of ideological work in 2015” by the senior management of ideological work, culture and youth October 20, 2016 — BSW project “Organization of matters of Gomel Regional Executive Committee. production of rolled section and building of a smallJune 2016 — BSW team won the 1st place at the section wire mill” became a laureate of the award of the Association of foundry workers and metallurgists district contest of volunteer squads of civil defense of the Republic of Belarus in the nomination “Best of business entities. innovative project implemented in foundry and June 2016 — veteran organization of the plant won metallurgical productions aimed at product quality the 1st place in the regional veteran organizations improvement and power and resource saving” at the of the regional centres of social defense of the 24th International scientific and technical conference population of Gomel region. and information exhibition “Foundry and metallurgy 2016”. June 28, 2016 — the national action “Beads museum “Flowers of the Great Victory” took place at BSW. November 10, 2016 — Anatoly Nikolaevich Savianok, General Director of OJSC “BSW-management June 30, 2016 — Sergei Mikhailovich Borshchov, company of “BMC” holding was awarded the badge BSW veteran, who was Deputy General Director for “Quality Leader” for personal contribution into technical development – chief engineer, was awarded achievement of the highest results in the area of the title of Honourable Metallurgists of the Republic product quality and system management. of Belarus”. November 11, 2016 — based on the results of the 22nd July 21, 2016 — 400th ton of product of steel International industrial exhibition “Metal-Expo 2016”, rolling shop No.2 was produced. BSW was awarded a cup “For the best exposition” and a Diploma “For highly professional organization of August 1, 2016 — 5 years since establishment of the product and services promotion”. 30 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS November 21, 2016 — on its 29th anniversary, steel – European Foundation of Quality Management wire shop No.1 produced 1 million 700-hundredth ton (EFQM); of product shipped to OJSC “Belshina”. – Quality Leaders Club of Central and East EuroNovember 24, 2016 — employees of steel rolling pean countries. shop No. 2 made fresh gains: its daily production made up 3156 tons. Membership in these organizations allows the plant to champion its interests in the world community more efNovember 29, 2016 — employees of steel rolling fectively and develop its business considering general shop No. 2 reached the design capacity of the smalltendencies and strategic tasks. section mill as per monthly production ahead of time: teams Nos. 1 and 3 produced 57 500th ton of rolled Cooperation with stakeholders section under orders of certain customers. The long-term successful development of the enterDecember 16, 2016 — plant’s primary organization PA prise is based on construction of confidential rela“Belarusian Union of Women” became the winner of the tions with the stakeholders. BSW strives for active national contest of primary and regional organizations engagement of different groups of stakeholders into of this Association. its activity in the area of sustainable development guided by the principles of social partnership, mutually adParticipation in external initiatives vantageous cooperation, respect, openness, and trust OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdhas its representatives in different national organizaing cooperates with an extensive number of the staketions including the organs of legislative authorities of holders, which goes beyond the frameworks of its all levels; this allows the pant to participate in lawproduction activity. Byelorussian Steel Works sets making activity, exert influence on decision making in forth a unified approach to the social activity manthe area of economic development of the region, carry agement, including a great majority of various instruout an open dialog with authorities and thus steadily ments; thereat, the principle of targeted and individual decrease its activity risks. approach is always preserved with respect to every group of the parties concerned. Successful business To cooperate with the international professional comis impossible without favorable socio-economic envimunity and represent its interest, the plant became a ronment both internal and external. Investing into the member of the following associations: development of the region of our presence now, we are currently creating potential for economic, social, – Belarusian Chamber of Commerce; material and spiritual growth of thousands of people. It also means that we form a stable and free society – Council of Business Cooperation Belarus EU; confident in tomorrow. – Belarusian Union of Casters and Metallurgists; Being a socially responsible enterprise, OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding cooperates – International Union of Steelmakers; with the stakeholders adhering to the following approaches: – International Union of Rollers; – observance of the legislation and legal norms of the – Belarusian-German Non-governmental Union of Republic of Belarus as well as principles of the UN Business Cooperation; Global Compact; – World Steel Association (WSA); – engagement of all elements and participants of co SOCIAL REPORT 2016 31 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development operation; with a skating rink and an aqua-park. With the help of  BSW financing Sports game palace was built. – disclosure of a complete and reliable information about the results in the field of economic, ecological The town streets were renewed, convenient transand social activity; port communication of the developing “metallurgic capital” is assured by 3 viaducts. Today Zhlobin is a – promotion of responsibility for the assumed obligarapidly developing town with modern districts, varitions and their fulfillment; ous sport and cultural facilities. – observance of universal norms and values; The plant’s management realizes that social and economic stability in the region of its operation af– formation of favorable internal and external envifects the long-term stability of business. That is why ronment; it is strategically expedient to abide by the corpo– maintaining of reasonable balance of interests of rate responsibility policy both with respect to the the plant and the community. employees and with respect to the local communities. Investigating the peculiarities of the social and Byelorussian Steel Works is a part of the society economic development of the region of its operation, and it supports civil initiatives in the field of ecothe plant defines the priority directions and forms nomic, social and cultural development of the region of social activity. Besides fulfilling tax obligations, of operation, preserving cultural heritage, national OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdoriginality, environmental protection, healthcare ing initiates cooperation with regional partners and and welfare of the population and employees. supports programs and projects aimed at social infrastructure development. Interaction with the civil society Helping the region, the plant thereby establishes efByelorussian Steel Works is a town-forming enfective relations with the local authorities and comterprise defining not only the appearance but also munity opening opportunities to develop its business the character of Zhlobin. Throughout its history over the certain territory, to implement new projthe plant was involved into construction creating ects and engage qualified personnel. industrial and social infrastructure of the town. The first facility built by BSW was the boiler house OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” hold“Severnaya” commissioned in1983. ing is searching for optimal correlation of its social obligations and actual potential, maintaining balance Due to BSW Zhlobin takes advantage of 5 educationbetween the needs of the region and business conal schools, 9 nursery schools, 7 stores, a restaucerns. As for its practical activity, the plant creates rant, a hotel, children’s department for 120 people relationship with the civil society with due considerand a surgical building for 240 patients of the reation of the results of the comprehensive research gional hospital. For a convenient highroad service, a “External impact of the enterprise on the community, viaduct over the rail track was build connecting two the plant’s image in the town”. Annual multidimenparts of the town. sional research is carried out with the purpose to study the opinion of the townspeople within the reThere was time when we had no stable reception gion of the plant’s operation as concerns the degree of the republican and regional TV programs. This of BSW influence on the vital activity of the region. problem was solved with the help of a relay station installed by the plant. Liberators’ Square became a Steady development of the region of operation is real adornment of the town. A new building of school an important component of the plant development No.1 was built by the plant as well as a sport centre strategy aimed at solving the priority tasks within 32 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS the field: allocated on the external site of the enterprise. – assistance to steady development of the territory Key information topics: modernization, performance of operation; results, expansion of outlets, achievements in specialized contests. Heroes of the publications were – maintaining stable social and economic environment BSW employees who achieved the best results in in the local communities; their work and in social life of the enterprise. – development of partnership relations with the reIt is worth mentioning that to improve efficiency of gional authorities and local administration; cooperation with mass media, a new organic assignment of a press secretary was introduced at the – creation of comfortable living conditions for the plant employees and population of the region; plant since 2012. The press secretary is obliged to supply replies to mass media requests and prepare – establishing and maintaining the image of conscienand delivery of press releases about BSW events. tious and attractive employer. Its regular distribution base includes 6 information agencies, 6 periodicals, 5 TV channels, and 4 InterInteraction with mass media net portals. During its entire history, OJSC “BSW – management Speaking about effective communication with target company of “BMC” holding follows the principles of audiences it is important to underline that BSW pays openness and transparency of its activity. A strikmuch attention to introduction of the enterprise in ing example of this policy is continuous cooperation the Internet environment. Our corporate site www. with different mass media. The enterprise operatively belsteel.com has functioned since 2003. It is a modreacts to journalists’ requests supplying them with ern resource of the international level addressed objective evidence and true data and initiates distrito a wide audience of users. It does not only contain bution of information about the results of its prouseful information and is a communication channel, duction activity, important events, and arrangements but serves the aim of strengthening of BSW image. in the community. Taking into consideration that most BSW partners are foreign companies, the site is executed in two Forming its informational policy, BSW aims at maxiversions: Russian and English. mum coverage of the interested target groups and uses all possible communication channels to disOur external site contains information primarily orisiminate information: newspapers, journals, televiented to our business partners. But in also includes sion, news tapes of information agencies, Internet a section entitled “Press Centre” containing news, resources. This comprehensive approach allows the photo and video materials as well as publications plant to achieve maximum effectiveness of this work. about our enterprise from various mass media. Here we can also find an Internet version of the plant’s During 12 months 2016, 94 materials about the newspaper “Metallurg” – http://www.metallurg.belplant’s activity were allocated on pages of printed steel.com. mass media (newspapers: “Sovetskaya Belarussiya”, “Respublika”, “Gomelskaya Pravda”, “Novyi Den” and Along with the external site, there is our internal journals: Metals of Eurasia, “Industrial Safety”, site – infoBMZ – to be used exclusively by the plant’s “Quality Mark”, “Foundry and Metallurgy, etc.) 17 employees. items were shown on TV (Belarus 1, Belarus 2, ONT, STV, TRK “Gomel”); 44 publications were allocated Key news about the plant’s life and the industry in on the news tapes of informational agencies (BelTA, general is allocated on this resource. There is an Pime-Tass, Business-news), 58 information items were access to the archive of our plant newspaper ”Met SOCIAL REPORT 2016 33 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development allurg”, leading national publications and special peOJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” hold riodicals. There is also a reference to the plant’s ing builds up cooperation with all stakeholders on electronic library. Every day over 2,5 thousand emthe basis of the following basic principles: respect ployees visit the site. and consideration of interests, opinions and preferences, openness and transparency, trust and sincerThe main function of infoBMZ is operative provision ity, implicit abidance by the legislation, international of the employees whose working places are equipped and Belarusian standards, responsible fulfillment with computers, with housekeeping information. On of the assumed obligations, respect of the history, this resource any specialist can find an electronic culture, traditions, way of living and heritage of the version of the required information, clearly sorted people residing within the business territory. out according to the sections: quality, labour protection, environment, economy, personnel. Ensuring compliance of the activity and strategy of the plant development with the general social and It is necessary to point out that recently Byeloruseconomic direction and interests of the country and sian Steel Works pay much attention to dissemination region of the business activity is a highly important of image-related information via internet channels. task for the plant employees. Constructive interacExactly this channel permits to achieve maximum opertion with the governmental bodies helps OJSC “BSW ability and maximum coverage of the young audience. – management company of “BMC” holding to find soIn particular, we speak about social networks. Nowlution of this rather complicated task adays, Byelorussian Steel Works is represented in such social networks as Vkontakte, Facebook (news Decisions on burning issues of the social and ecoin English), Twitter, Plus.google. We also have our nomic development of the region, work with the own channel in the largest video hosting YouTube. It youth, holding joint events, and optimization of mediis necessary to underline that BSW groups in Twitcal care for the population are taken by the plant’s ter and Plus.google were established in 2015. management and local authorities in the course of monthly business meetings. BSW group Vkontakte is the most popular among the above. At present, more than 3400 people are Prospects of Gomel region development, progress subscribed to its updates. In addition to regularly of the socially important programs, extension of updated news tapes, the subject group contains subthe plant’s export policy, plans for achievement of ject photo albums, and different sections allowing the designed capacity of the small-section mill, and achievement of most efficient feedback. According to reconstruction of the steelmaking production were the statistics of the community, the news is read not regularly discussed by the general director at his only by users of the region of BSW operation, but by meetings with the President of the Republic of Beusers in such countries as the Ukraine, Russia, Gerlarus, Deputy Prime Minister of Republic of Belarus, many, China, and the USA. Monthly coverage of the First Deputy Minister of Industry of the Republic of audience reached 8000 people and the total number Belarus, Deputy Chairman of Gomel Regional Execof the news available is over 12000. utive Committee B.K. Pirshtuk, Chairman of the ComIn accordance with the principles of the UN Globmittee on Labour, Employment and Social Defense al Compact OJSC “BSW – management company of of Gomel Regional Executive Committee, etc. during “BMC” holding ensures free access to information, their multiple visits to Byelorussian Steel Works develops external communication, and acknowledges its readiness for open dialogue with the stakeholdThe plant’s management believes that participation of its representatives in the work of elected authorities ers. would be important for the formation of parity relaInteraction with authorities tionships with the governmental bodies and formation 34 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of the state policy. The loyalty of the region populadevelopment of new types of products and their tion to the plant and its employees is proved by the introduction into the production process; outcomes of the election campaigns resulted in 11 plant employees being elected to local, regional and work with scientific and educational establishments; republican regulatory bodies: improvement of the existing production methods. – Zhlobin District Soviet of Deputies — 10 persons;; The Technical Board (TB) is a division determining – Gomel Regional Soviet of Deputies — 1 person. scientific and technical policy of the enterprise. Decisions made by this division play a very important role Alongside with that, OJSC “BSW – management comfor the level of engineering and technical support pany of “BMC” holding has not provided donations in and product quality. The main TB structure includes: favor of any political party or individual politicians. steelmaking, rolling, pipe rolling and hardware services, scientific and technical department including Interaction with science a rationalization, invention and new technics bureau, a standardization bureau, and a scientific technical Activity of OJSC “BSW-management company of information department. BMC” holding for development of production, improvement of quality and competitiveness is based on The TB functions are as follows: the results of scientific and research work, achievements in the area of production technologies aimed planning, development and introduction of up-toat efficient results of development and mastering of date technologies; new types of products, prospective technologies and production processes as well as cooperation with implementation of programs of technical and techvarious scientific and research organizations in the nological revamping of the plant; Republic of Belarus and abroad. determination of the reasons of defects and breachSeveral key divisions of OJSC “BSW-management es of production modes. company of BMC” holding are involved in development of new up-to-date technologies and new types The design and reconstruction board (D&RB) is a diof competitive innovative products. vision fulfilling development of design documentation and supporting projects to provide operation, mainThe Research Centre (RC) is a division determining tenance, and reconstruction of the plant’s facilities the scientific and research policy of the enterprise. and equipment. 2 candidates and 13 masters of technical science work here. At present, a number of specialists conBSW specialists continue active developments in the tinue their studies at MA courses and postgraduate area of hardware and pipe production, develop and courses of different higher educational establishexpand the product mix of automotive steel grades ments. The RC includes the following laboratories: and production of bearing steels in accordance with steelmaking, rolling, hardware, and research. the requirements of the highest international level. The Centre activity is carried out in 4 important diIn 2016 OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” rections: holding mastered a number of innovative (new) types of products. acceptance and approval of new materials and products used in production and influencing the finished In rolling production: simple carbon steel WA-1010; product quality; S235JR reinforcing section simple carbon steel  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 35 Strategy and management approach to sustainable development  WS221; SAE 1008, SAE 1018; WS231 S400W; Minsk); hot-rolled section steel grade C45X10, Cf53X20, 11SMn30, StE460, 20MnV6, 30MnVS6 ,С45Е, May 5 – based on 2015 operation results, OJSC 11SMn30, S355J2, С20С,C45R; round section ball “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding bebearing steel grade 100Cr6, 100CrMnSi6, etc. came “The best exporter-2015” in the nomination “Metallurgy”; In pipe production: alloy steel pipe of 7 dimensiontypes made of steel grades 40XH and Е470; bare in July young employees of the plant took part in pipe of carbon quality steel of 37 dimension-types; the International conference “Metal 2016” held at bare alloy steel pipe of 16 dimension-types, etc. the enterprise; In hardware production: tire cord 2х0,28 ST acBSW project “Organization of production of cording to specification No.1588-0/1-С1800-2014; rolled section and building of a small-section wire bronzed bead wire Ø1,20 mm with increased tin conmill” became a laureate of the award of the Assotent, etc. ciation of foundry workers and metallurgists of the Republic of Belarus in the nomination “Best In whole, serial production of 74 types of innovainnovative project implemented in foundry and mettive products started. This work allowed the plant allurgical productions aimed at product quality to reach the specific weight indicator of innovative improvement and power and resource saving” at the products equal to 20 percent in the total amount of 24th International scientific and technical conferthe products shipped in 2016. ence and information exhibition “Foundry and metallurgy 2016”. Due to work fulfilled in 2012-2016, approval of section coils was obtained and the plant started its December 15 – seminar “Outlook for application serial supplies to such European customers as Maof hot-rolled round produced In accordance with hindra Forgings AG (Germany), Amtek Tekfor (GerEuropean Norms by engineering industry of the RB” many), Hammerwerk Fridingen AG (Germany), Johann was held. Its aim was organization of investigations HAY Automobiltechnik GmgH (Germany), Schondeland tests of hot-rolled steel produced by OJSC maier (Germany), Kuźnia Matrycowa Lublin (Poland), “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding in acSEW Eurodrive (Germany), URANIE International cordance with the European norms at Belarusian (France). etc. – suppliers of component parts to enterprises. leading automotive concerns and car producers (DAIMLER, Volkswagen, MAN, BMW, etc.).During based on the results of 2016, a group of BSW this period, production methods of more than 30 new authors became a laureate of the award of the steel grades were mastered. Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and technology in the nominaIn 2016 BSW specialists took an active part in diftion “Machining, foundry, forging and other equipferent scientific and technical arrangements, semiment (including special production equipment)”. The nars, and exhibitions: project “Development and mastering of production of hot-rolled round section for West European in April BSW participated in the international speproducers of automotive component parts at OJSC cialized exhibition WIRE/TUBE 2016 (Dűsseldorf, “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding got Germany); an award. April 05 08 and October 18 – 20 BSW parOJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holdticipated in International exhibitions of foundry and ing actively cooperates with the NAS of Belarus metallurgical technologies “LitMetExpo: (BNTU, and scientific-research establishments of the Acad36 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS emy of Science: NSU “Applied physics institute of most important economic, social, and environmental the NAS of Belarus”, Metal technology institute aspects having the highest importance both for the of the NAS of Belarus”, NSU “Powder metallurgy enterprise and its stakeholders. institute of the NAS of Belarus”, Gomel branch of the NAS of Belarus”, NII of BNTU, EE “BelGUT”, BSW approach to the process of determination of EE GSTU named after P.O. Sukhoi”, etc. which essentiality was based on the principles specified in render a thorough assistance to the enterprise. the Guidelines of the global reporting initiative in the Partnership relations were developed with scienarea of sustainable development (GRI) version G4. tific and research teams of NITU “MISiS”, FGUP CNIIChermet named after I.P. Bardin”, OJSC AC In the process of essentiality determination the Orga“VNIIMETMASH” named after A.I. Tselikov”, Fernization followed the recommendations of GRI Guiderous metallurgy institute of the NAS of Ukraine, lines. The process comprised the following steps: Czestochow polytechnic university, etc. During 1. Analysis of internal sources of information inlast years, different joint technical projects were cluding materials of presentation of the sustainable implemented with the above organizations: introducdevelopment progress report for 2016 taking into tion of manufacture of copper shells with wearconsideration the opinion of stakeholders regarding resistant coating for continuous casting machine the topics that are most interesting for them. molds at electric melt shop No. 1; introduction of X-ray diffraction analysis methods for assessment 2. Compilation, discussion and approval of a list of of hardware products quality characteristics; deessential topics to be included in the sustainable development of power-saving technology of wire rod velopment progress report for 2016. sorbitizing in rolling mill 150; improvement of heat treatment technology of chromolibdenum containAll essential topics are compared with the discloing steels in rolling mill 850, etc. sures of GRI G4. The list of essential topics to be included in the Progress report is given below: 2 OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding has joint programs of scientific and technical Customers and employees: cooperation with such global concerns as Continental AG (Germany), Group Michelin (France), importance for customers and customers’ preferBridgestone Corp. (Japan), Eaton Corporation ences; (USA), Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (USA), Nokian Tyres P.L.C. (Finland), Yokohama Rubber Co., Ltd pants employees. (Japan), and Manuli Rubber Industries (Italy). The latter company founded a joint-venture with the enCommunity: terprise: SOOO Manuli Hadraulics Manufacturing cooperation with the local community; Bel” in the town of Orsha. promotion of a healthy way of living. Based on the results of operation in 2016 and previous periods, the committee of experts of the NAS Environment protection: of Belarus and SSTC made a decision to assign the status of a scientific organization to OJSC “BSWminimization of production activity impact; management company of “BMC” holding. improvement of the employees’ ecological culture. The process of determination of essential topics The above essential aspects became the basis of the Progress Report in the area of sustainable developEssentiality is a principle of determination of the ment for 2016 and are disclosed in it in detail. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 37 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity A strategic goal of the plant in the economic area is – maintenance of a reasonable balance of the interachievement of maximum sustainable and effective deests of the enterprise and the community. velopment of production, high financial results along with a reasonable balance of interests of all stakeAlong with growth of productivity, operation intensiholders, satisfaction of social and economic needs of ty, product quality, and complication of the technical the civil and business community of the region of the level of the production processes, rate of decision plant’s operation. making, requirements to the personnel of all services grow. The economic service team existing at the plant OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdconsists of qualified specialists with higher education ing considers social responsibility to be an integral whose professionalism is very high. They are regularly part of the business strategy and its corporate ethics trained in policies and procedures related to the isbased on the principles of respectability and justice, sues of production process efficiency and effectivesincerity in relations with all partners and competiness of business-processes. tors. Financial-economic activity 104,1 Economic effect Economic development of the plant means inMain tasks of the enterprise in 2016 were: retention crease of its profitof production, search for new customers, strict savability through growth ing of resources at each work place, improved saving of the measures of output of high-tech of material and power resources, strict observance of taken to decrease the products in compliance financial discipline by a tough control of fulfillment product cost ($ mln) with the strategy, and of the budget of cash flow. The year 2016 is characterized by complicated conditions on global markets, growth of the producas well as difficult financial situation at the entertion effectiveness. In this activity the Organization prise. These factors caused some decrease of ecois guided by the law of the Republic of Belarus, parameters of sustainability and development of the nomic performance as compared to 2015. To oppose all negative processes taking place on global markets, production activity, economic reasonability as well as the plant developed a complex program for stabilizaits responsibility to the owner, investors, employees, tion and development of production, and decrease of and business partners, local communities, and other product cost. stakeholders. Byelorussian Steel Works carries out its economic Strict control of fulfillment of the program at all levels gave a positive result. Economic effect of the activity adhering to the following approaches: measures directed towards decrease of prime cost – observance of the law and legal norms of the Rewas USD104,1 million or 13,0% of the product prime public of Belarus; cost. The saving was achieved due to production output growth and improvement of the production pro– engagement of all levels and participants of the cesses as well as due to fulfillment of energy-saving business processes; measures and decrease of general production and business expenses. – disclosure of a complete and reliable information about the results of the plant operation; To obtain a substantiated expert opinion concerning the representation of the true results of financial – improvement of responsibility; accountability, an international independent auditing company carries out audits at OJSC “BSW – manage– provision of optimal relation of the costs and the ment company of “BMC” holding in accordance with economic results achieved; the requirements of the International finance report38 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ing standards (IFRS). mill capacity continued considering new science-intensive export-oriented types of products. In November Top management is informed about production and fi2016, section rolling shop No.2 reached the planned nancial-economic activity by means of monthly summary monthly capacity. Amount of rolled section produced reviews, economic councils, and analytical reporting. in 2016 equaled to 484 270 tons. Project investments in the amount of Br772 069 thousand were utilized For the purposes of communication development and including Br3 105 thousand in 2016. expanding opportunities of interaction with the stakeholders, employees’ professional advancement and The following projects were implemented in 2016 to exchange of experience, the enterprise arranges the renew and develop the plant’s production base: “EMSannual international scientific conference “Metal.” 2. Complex reconstruction of DPP-1, 3rd stage”; Apart from participants from the CIS countries, the “EMS-1. Installation of 95 MVA furnace transformer “Economics and Finance” section of the conference inat EAF-1”; “EMS-1. Utility and dust transportation of cludes specialists from the plant’s financial, economic the gas purifying unit of EAF -1”; “SWS-1. Modernand marketing departments. During the conference, its ization of patenting line No. 1”; “SWS-1. Installation participants make reports on current issues and exof the device for dismantling and mounting of blower change their experience in implementation of strategic devices of the IEU of chemical block No.2”; “SWS-1. objectives and introduction of recent engineering soInstallation of FRC at rough drawing machine No.-3”; lutions in the field of sustainable production develop“ESS. Installation of a 125MVA transformer at the ment and corporate social responsibility. SS “Stal”. Economic efficiency In 2016, OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding continued to implement the following signifiIn 2016 the global market did not experience any movecant investment projects: ment, stagnation of the world steelmaking, decrease of demand and prices continued. All these had a direct – “Growth of productivity of the out-of-furnace proeffect on the outcome of the Company activity. The cessing of steel at plant experienced considerable difficulties in servicEMS-2”. ing accounts payable. The plant experienced difficuling to the project, Accordties with servicing of the accounts payable. Deficit of two single-position 1 762,9 Marketable product sale circulating was felt at the enterprise. ladle furnaces proceeds in 2016 (Br million) will be installed as In spite of this difficult financial situation, this period well as a vacuum degasser and accompanying infraof the plant’s development is characterized by implestructure. Investments in the amount of Br167 752 mentation of large investment projects. In 2015 the thousand have been already used under the project. plant implemented the investment project “OrganizaEstimated economic benefit is elimination of imbalance tion of production of rolled section and construction between the capacity of the electric-arc furnaces and of a small-section wire rolling mill” aimed at growth continuous casting machines and the capacity of the of steel production so as to increase or retain its marsecondary metallurgy of 148 thousand tons per year ket share by introduction of new capacities, expansion to reach the total level of steel production of OJSC of the product range and improvement of the product “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding of 3 milmix. The planned productivity of the new mill is about lion tons per year. 700 thousand tons per year with the possibility to increase its annual production up to 1 million of finished – “Building of treatment facilities for processing of products. Since September 2015, the new production saline waste water“. The project provides for confacility started to fulfill the plan of finished prodstruction of treatment facilities for saline waste uct manufacture. In 2016, planned development of the water processing according to the technology of  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 39 significant. Marketable product sale proceeds amounted to Br1 762,9 million, i.e. 3,6% higher than in 2015. 2 085,2 thou. t of products were shipped to customers. 2 192 thou. t of steel were produced. Positive profitability of sales reached 1,6% against (minus) 0,7% in 2015. Net profit equaled to Br39 thousand. Foreign trade balance made up USD327 million. Power saving indicator was “minus” 5,7 % as compared to the planned Indicators “minus” 5,4. of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic 1 762,9 activity Marketable product sale proceeds in 2016 (Br million)  AWAS. Product, Since the beginning of the project implementaUSD327 million. Power saving indicator was “minus” work, services sale proceeds in USD in 2016 decrease as compared to tion, Br28 378,9 thousand have already been utilized. 5,7 % as compared to the planned “minus” 5,4. 2015 due to decrease of production in natural terms and price drop in external markets. The implementation of the project will ensure troubleProfit free zero-discharge operation of the circulating waProduct, work, services sale proceeds in USD in 2016 In 2016 product sales were profitable, ter supply of the plant. USD14,2 decrease million as compared profitduewas to 2015 received to decrease of against losses of 2015. As for external markets, the prices are lower than last year. production in natural terms and price drop in external Currency proceeds – “Installation loss furnace of a 95 MVA transformer in loss and consequential of profit due to price decrease made up markets. EMS-2”. Replacement of the existing furnace transformer with a new one produced by ABB AG (GermaProfit ny) is planned within the framework of the project to ensure a higher energy power characteristics of the In 2016 product sales were profitable, USD14,2 milsteel melting process in EAF -3. Since the beginning of lion profit was received against losses of 2015. As the project implementation, Br Since the beginning of for external markets, the prices are lower than last the project implementation, Br4 490,6 thousand have year. Currency proceeds loss and consequential loss been spent. of profit due to price decrease made up USD75,9 million which is practically comparable with the product Key performance sale proceeds for one month operation of the plant indicators The enterprise disbursed payments to its employees in In spite of all difficulties, the results of the plant’s the amount of USD0,3 million, stimulating and compenoperation in 2016 are rather significant. Marketable sating payments, additional payments to non-working product sale proceeds amounted to Br1 762,9 million, pensioners, as well as maintenance of social facilities i.e. 3,6% higher than in 2015. 2 085,2 thou. t of prodin the amount of USD 3,5 million ucts were shipped to customers. 2 192 thou. t of steel were produced. Positive profitability of sales reached Payment to the owner 1,6% against (minus) 0,7% in 2015. Net profit equaled to Br39 thousand. Foreign trade balance made up Due to the loss from financial-business activity based 40 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS on the results of 2015, part of the profit was not tions, effective at the time of business plan validation. transferred. However, as projects proceed to subsequent stages of implementation, these pricing conditions could Taxes and compulsory payments change due to global economic changes. Based on the above, it was important and essential to carry out a OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding reliability (sensitivity) analysis, providing for evaluais a responsible taxpayer and provides for consolidation of possible effects on project efficiency due to tion of the state’s financial foundation by regular tax variations of external factors and identification of payments made into budgets of various levels. Timely acceptable and critical scopes of changes. Results and correct tax payment by the plant in favor of the of the cost efficiency evaluation given in the project state determines economic stability in the region of its were calculated for the basic pricing conditions, efactive production activity and in particular opportufective at the time of business plan validation. Hownities of infrastructure development by regional and ever, as projects proceed to subsequent stages of local authorities. In 2015 the Company transferred implementation, these pricing conditions could change income tax amounting to USD8,9 million (Br140,6 bildue to global economic changes. Based on the above, lion), and USD23,6 million (Br374,4 billion) to the it was important and essential to carry out a reliability population social protection fund). (sensitivity) analysis, providing for evaluation of possible effects on project efficiency due to variations of Enterprise’s risks external factors and identification of acceptable and critical scopes of changes. Investment risks Any project implementation is associated with certain When carrying out the sensitivity analysis, possible organizational, technological and financial risks. changes in the following factors of major influence However, investment projects launched by OJSC on economic indicators were considered: When car“BSW – management company of “BMC” holding are rying out the sensitivity analysis, possible changes in implemented at an operating enterprise which has sufthe following factors of major influence on economic ficient experience in use of the process equipment and indicators were considered: construction of new production facilities. That’s why organizational, technical and technological risks are – selling price as a factor which is most susceptible to changes due to metal market variations; of little significance in this case. High qualifications of the enterprise’s employees, application of modern – production costs, which depend on prices for melttechnological, organizational and administrative soluing stock, energy resources and other materials and tions in the production activities ensure enhanced efservices essential for the production processes; ficiency and sustainability of the implemented projects against probable contingencies, while availability of in– investment amounts which largely depend on convested funds makes it possible to minimize any financial tractual prices of equipment; risks. – debt-to-equity ratio. To mitigate and account for probable risk effects in business-plans, the Company carries out multi-variant The sensitivity analysis included evaluations concerned calculations to identify projects’ financial perforwith the ways in which the above factors influence the mance and efficiency indicators against various varitwo major efficiency indices – simple pay-back period able factors (capital input amounts, product selling and internal rate of return. price, input costs, debt-to-equity ratios). Industry risks Results of the cost efficiency evaluation given in the project were calculated for the basic pricing condiMetallurgic industry is distinguished by its suscepti SOCIAL REPORT 2016 41 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity bility to cyclic variations of prices for raw materials larus, for instance, these activities are represented by  and steel. Demand for steel is determined by countrya single enterprise – Belvtormet) or under a stringent specific levels of economic development and consumpstate control (licensing of activities, setting export tion by major steel-consuming industries. Variations quotas, export duties levied). As a result, consumers in raw materials prices are of significant influence on are rather dependent on a limited group of scrap supthe financial-economic state of Belarusian steelmakpliers and/or bound by certain geographical limits of ing as most of raw materials consumed by steel works scrap-supplying regions. are imported. Recently, steel pricing trends have been rather unfavorable. That’s why potential metallurgyBy consolidating, manufacturers of metal products inherent risks due to cyclic price reductions are still provide for a reduction of risks associated with marpresent. At the same time, world’s market prices for ket environments, however, for Belarusian enterprimary raw materials and consumables used by the prises the said risks still present a certain hazard. plant, namely for scrap metal, cast iron and ferroalConcentration of mining companies and take-over of loys, are exhibiting a growth trend. Reduction of scrap-producing enterprises by steelmaking companies prices for metal products with simultaneous increase can result in an additional increase in prices for raw of raw materials prices significantly affects the enmaterials with rather limited alternative opportunities terprise’s operational activities and its financial perfor steel raw material supplies. Lately, metallurgic formance. enterprises are more and more actively engaging in modernization of the equipment installed at the enterAlong with the price variations, steelmaking, on a prises of their scrap metal suppliers and in activities in global scale, faces risks of excessive production caconnection with take-over of the most efficient scrap pacities. Currently, a bunch of new large enterprises producing companies. appeared all around the world, while a great number of leading producers have plans for a substantial exSo, it is possible to minimize the above risks by developpansion of their production capacities, particularly, ing a scrap-producing network of one’s own. Industry those associated with manufacture of reinforcing risk management should be based on establishing longbars. With a view to advances in steel production term and mutually beneficial relations with major suptechnologies and transition from blast-furnace and pliers and optimization of procurement and resource open-hearth furnace melting of cast irons and steels management processes. to electric furnace melting, giving steels of improved quality, scrap metal acquires still more significance. The fact that metal production is partly intended for Alongside with that, resource-saving technologies inin-country supplies, where prices are regulated by troduced at industrial enterprises result in relatively the state, accounts for respective risks, which, just reduced scrap production rates in developed counlike on foreign markets, are associated with possible tries with simultaneous growth of demand for unused negative effects due to price variations. And this could metal. Consequently, Europe is experiencing an unsatproduce a certain effect on the enterprise’s activities. isfied demand for metallurgic raw materials, such as However, with a view to gradual transition to the marscrap metal. Planned steelmaking industry expansion ket-controlled price setting observed in the republic, (increases of melting capacities at the already existit is possible to consider this risk as negligible. ing plants, construction of new enterprises equipped Country and regional risks with electric furnaces), first of all, in the European part of the Russian Federation, aggravate the situaProduction and business activities of OJSC “BSW – tion even more and could result in total termination management company of “BMC” holding are largely of scrap metal supplies from the Russian Federation. dependent on cooperation with Russia. Such close Besides, supplies of this kind of raw materials in most interaction with a single independent region presents countries are either substantially monopolized (in Becertain risks associated with differences in legisla42 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS tion and regulatory framework, which could affect special arrangements in connection with disposal of sustainable development of the enterprise. Common solid and liquid industrial waste. Due to the above, customs space and further economic integration allow steelmaking enterprises have to provide for strict us to consider such risks as negligible. compliance with rather stringent regulations with regard to labour protection, industrial and fire safety Besides, geographical position of the Republic of Beand environmental protection. larus will contribute to minimization of regional economic risks and possible effects on the enterprise’s Ecological requirements include compulsory payments activities resulting from them. Priorities will include for air and land pollution and installation and modernflexible supply geography, ensuring prompt response ization of special pollution-control equipment. Should to the environment challenges and protection against any critical concentrations set for industrial wastes possible regional crises. be exceeded, the enterprise will have to pay fines. Possible reinforcement of environmental regulations and Winter supplies of major raw materials can be affectlowering of critical pollutant concentrations could ed by weather conditions. To minimize risks associated result in increased amounts of obligatory payments with interrupted raw materials supplies, it is essential and fines stipulated for violations of the law. to provide for availability of “winter buffer” reserves Financial support provided of such raw materials. by the Government Legal risks Within the framework of the state program of innovaNotwithstanding the state-implemented policy aimed at tive development of the Republic of Belarus approved by resolution No. 669 “About the state program of reduction of tax burden assumed by economic entities innovative development of the Republic of Belarus for of the Republic of Belarus, legal provisions on taxes and duties are constantly changing. Every year, an en2011-2015” dd. May 26, 2011 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus, BSW started to tirely new package of tax regulations comes into force implement the investment project “Building of a smalland the previous regulations are amended. At that, the section wire mill at Open Joint-Stock Company “Byeamendments are partly for the benefit of taxpayers lorussian Steel Works” since May 2012. and partly – to their disadvantage. Similar situation is observed in the field of tax administration. However, In the result of the expertise a positive conclusion of taken the state’s aspiration to ensure a sustainable the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus growth of production rates and the stable political No. 23-02-12/4902 dd. 30.06.2012 was made and imsituation, a significant increase in the enterprise’s toplementation of the above project was supported by tal tax burden in the near future is highly improbable. the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus, State Council of Experts in engineering and metal Also, one could consider as negligible those risks working and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic which are associated with changes in the regulatory of Belarus. framework as related to customs control. But there are certain risks associated with customs regulations Planning of the realization procedure of this project and duties in the countries of the enterprise’s exports. was carried out with consideration of tax and customs privileges in connection with entering into an investIndustrial safety, labour protection and ecological ment agreement with Gomel regional executive comrisks mittee in accordance with Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus No. 10 “About creation of We are aware that metallurgy is a potential hazard additional conditions for investment activity in the Reto the environment and to people, as such production public of Belarus” dd. 06.08.2009. activities involve high-temperature processes, invasive chemicals, volatile by-product emissions and require In accordance with the resolution No.1001 dd. No SOCIAL REPORT 2016 43 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  vember 21, 2013 of the Council of Ministers of the mill” to Eurasian Bank of Development and OJSC “SavRepublic of Belarus, Open Joint-Stock Company “BSWings Bank “Belarusbank”. management company of “BMC” holding is included in the Presence on markets List of legal entities implementing investment projects which starting with January 1, 2011 receive compensaMarketing strategy of BSW is directed towards retention of interest for bank credits pursuant to resolution and active growth of its presence on the existing tions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of outlets as well as search for new, economically profitBelarus; the list was approved by resolution No. 1262 able regions. Traditionally, key markets of OJSC “BSW dd. September 20, 2011 “About some measures for re– management company of “BMC” holding are European alization of Decree of the President No.231 dd. June 6, countries and CIS. 2011. December 30 2013 the Company received compensation of the interest for use of bank credits for impleThe range of products sold in 2016 was represented mentation of the project of construction of a smallby the following: cast billet and bloom, reinforcing section mill in the amount of Br22,0 million (EUR10,2 bar, wire rod, structural rolled section, seamless pipe, mln) according to the National bank rates as of the date tire cord, bead wire, hose wire, other steel wire and its produce. Key segments consuming BSW products of compensation. are steelmaking, construction, engineering and car inThe above amount of state support received by Open dustry, oil and gas industry, tire making, and industrial Joint-Stock company “BSW-management company of rubber industry. “BMC” holding reduced the deficiency of the circulating assets and allowed the Company to use this source In 2016 global economic activity remained low. Global of assets for replenishment of own circulating assets growth in 2016 is assessed as being at the level of post– payment for raw materials, energy resources, etc. crisis minimum (dropped to 2,4%). The following continued to influence the glob al prospects: stagnant world Pursuant to Resolution No.583 dd. July 4, 2013 “About trade, low investments, increased uncertainty in the attraction of a loan of Eurasian Bank of Development policy of countries with a developed economy. and granting a guarantee for its repayment of the government of the Republic of Belarus” and resolution No. For diversification and more effective sales level, the 584 “About granting a guarantee of the government of plant management planned reorganization and a number the Republic of Belarus”, in 2013 the government of of measures to improve effectiveness of own commodity the Republic of Belarus issued guarantees of repayment distribution network activity in 2016. of 10-year loans granted by the above banks for financing of the investment project “Arrangement of rolled Contractual campaign of BSW for 2016 was directed towards retention and active extension of its presence section production with construction of a small-section in the existing outlets as well as search for new ecomill” to Eurasian Bank of Development and OJSC “Savnomically profitable regions. Main export regions of ings Bank “Belarusbank”. OJSSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding in Pursuant to Resolution No.583 dd. July 4, 2013 “About 2016 were European countries and the Russian Federaattraction of a loan of Eurasian Bank of Development tion. 73,7% of the total steel exports fall on these reand granting a guarantee for its repayment of the govgions. During 2016, our products were supplied to 52 ernment of the Republic of Belarus” and resolution No. countries including Belarus (in 2015 to 56 countries). 584 “About granting a guarantee of the government of Canada became a new market of the enterprise. Major the Republic of Belarus”, in 2013 the government of changes of steel sales distribution are related with the the Republic of Belarus issued guarantees of repayment antidumping investigation of Belarusian rebar supplies of 10-year loans granted by the above banks for financto EC initiated in the 1st quarter 2016 and change of ing of the investment project “Arrangement of rolled regional steel price conditions. section production with construction of a small-section To achieve the planned performance and taking into con44 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS sideration dynamics of development and change of the to the WSA assessment, the structure of the global situation in the key consuming industries, a number of steel consumption in 2016 looked as follows: develmechanisms of product sale was used: monthly signature oped countries – 26,3%, developing countries and of contracts based on the monthly bidding (spot group countries with a transient economy 73,7%, including of steel products), monthly signature of contracts China 45%. (rolled steel and steel wire), quarterly signature of contracts (pipe products), annual signature of with Indirect economic impacts quarterly price determination (hardware products). Byelorussian Steel Works’ policy in the field of charBased on BSW long-term work with customers, a cliity and sponsorship is aimed at facilitation of the forents’ base for the coming contractual campaign has been mation of the socially accepted image of the efficiently formed considering reliability of a consumer company, operating and socially responsible enterprise, to afits ability to pay and fulfill obligations undertaken, posfect the public recognition of the social importance sibility to work in case of a declining market and positive of metallurgy, to consolidate its standing and enhance dynamics of development. Taking into account experithe loyalty to BSW on the part of all interactive ence acquired in steel sales, a list of permanent customgroups and the civil society ers is formed and approved; the customers are assigned the name of a joint-venture, trading firm, distributor, The priority directions of corporate charity and trader, end user depending on the task set and results sponsorship are determined as follows: environment, achieved. To a great extent, successful promotion of support of social facilities in the area of the plant our goods to new outlets was favored by BSW image as presence. In 2016 in spite of a complicated financial an enterprise selling only high-quality goods. situation, OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding sponsored hockey club “MetallurgIn 2016, recovery of steel demand was stronger than Zhlobin” CC. Total amount of sponsor assistance and planned. Developed economies supported moderate recharity equaled to USD 0,42 mln. covery and developing countries which suffered from low raw material prices and geopolitical conflicts Distribution of funds allocated by the plant for this showed signs of stabilization. In general, according purpose is given in the table below. Category 2015 2016 Sponsorship, total ($ thou.), including: 772,2 425,3 Financial aid to the development of physical culture and sports in the RB, total: Aid to the association «Hockey federation of RB» Aid to the «Hockey Club CJSC» «Metallurg-Zhlobin 719,8 425,3 Organizations of Zhlobin and Zhlobin districts, including: current and capital repair of housing facilities in Zhlobin capital repair with modernization of the cinema house «Rodina» AUE «Paporotnoe» 31,5 Educational and cultural establishments, including: SE «National historical museum of the Republic of Belarus» 20,9  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 45 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity  BSW employees personally participate in charity actions. served . Results of Q1 show that there is growth During the years of realization of this direction, an efat all production stages . Taking this into account , fective mechanism of operative assistance to people has forecast for 2017 industrial product output will been developed. In 2016 plant’s workers actively paramount to B r 2 226 million , which corresponds to ticipated in the following charity actions: “All children 135,0% as compared to 2016 in actual prices and are ours”, “Do good”, “We to children”, “Kind Hearts”, 110,0% in FRS prices . etc. Results of personal participation of the employees in charity activity are given in the table below. Awards and achievements During many years BSW maintains its brand and conRealization of the scheduled activities had a fa tinues to keep pace with time . I t is evidenced by many vorable impact on the plant cooperation with the awards and achievement : main groups of stakeholders : authorities , civil so ciety , ecology community employees . It helped to Winner of the award of the Government of the strengthen BSW reputation as a socially respon Republic of Belarus for achievements in the area sible enterprise and achieve the highest social and of product and services quality (2001, 2004, 2007, economic efficiency from the money spent on charity 2015); and sponsorship purposes . Short-term targets of the plant Winner of the award of the Ministry of Industry of the R epublic of B elarus for achievements in the In 2017 stabilization of the plant ’ s economy is ob area of quality (2001, 2004, 2007, 2011, 2016); Amount collected, Description of the action USD 2015 2016 Belarusian peace fund 126 100,5 Belarusian Red Cross Society 158 150,8 Repulican action «We remember! We honor!» 1 575 251,4 OBOOBNUS «Ozarichi» 189 «We to children» (children’s district hospital, design and construction of children’s hospice in Borovlyany, employee’s assistance to medical treatment of children, assistance to the secondary school in Paporotnoe, SEE Zhlobin 85 770,5 social pedagogical orphan asylum)) «Do good» (dedicated to disabled people day) 1053 910,45 «All children are ours» (collection of money for purchasing of school 672 232,7 accessories together with the regional centre of social service) «Kind September 1» 228,1 «Kind Hearts (collection of money for employees of the enterprise and 8 164 3 976,46 their families who are in a difficult situation) «Offer hands to help» (collection of money for strange physical entities 140 34,6 who are in a difficult situation) «We are proud and we respect» (for the day of elderly people) 104,8 Total 12 162 6 760,31 46 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In 12 sections of International scientific and technical conference “Metall-2016” the participation in forum brought 11 of the first places, 4 of the second ones and 8 of the third places to plant workers. At the same time in steel cord and wire section prizers and holders of special nominations became exclusively people of Zhlobin. Winner of the competition “Best goods of the Requality tournament of Central and East European public of B elarus in the market of the R ussian F ed countries ”, nomination “Products for production eration ” (2001, 2003-2015); and technical application ” (2008); Winner of the competition “Best goods of the ReWinner of the competition “Brand of the year” in public of B elarus ” (2002-2016.); the nomination “S ocially responsible brand ” (20092010, 2016); Winner of the competition CIS award for achievements in the area of product and services quality ” W inner of the fifth national competition “TECH(2007, 2012); NOSPHERE” in the nomination “Best trade mark” (2009); Winner of the competition Best quality manager” (2007, 2008, 2009); Winner of the competition “Best construction product of the year ” (2010-2016); Winner of the competition “Best exporter” in the nomination “E ngineering , metallurgy , and metal W inner of the competition “C ompetence ” in the working ” (2007, 2010-2011, 2014-2016); area of measurement means calibration (2014); Winner of the competition «IVth International Winner of the competition “Leader of energy ef product export USD 857,2 mln Product export to production output ratio, min. 85,6% Product export growth rate 118,0%  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 47 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility. Economic activity ficiency ” (2015-2016); -5 star excellence level assigned in the compe  tition for European quality award (EQA) estabWinner of the competition Award of the M inistry lished by the European Foundation of Quality of I ndustry of the R epublic of B elarus in the area M anagement (EFQM) (2009, 2013); of science and technology ” (2016); award for “High level of competence” within the L aureate of the I nternational award Sign of Honframework of the international conference “Deour “C ommonwealth S tar ” in the nomination “B est velopment of accreditation in the system of techni CIS company” (2006); cal regulation ” (2012); L aureate of the third I nternational quality tourSuccess of Byelorussian Steel Works in promo nament of C entral and E ast E uropean countries tion of its products was highly appreciated in P o (2007); land during XIX th E conomic F orum “N eighbourli ness ”. P olish C hamber of C ommerce awarded BSW M ember of the quality leaders club of Central G eneral Director A.N. Savianok for a long -term and E ast E uropean countries ( since 2008); work in the P olish market , contribution to devel opment of international trade relations , strength Diploma of a participant of the exhibition «Adand tenacity in achievement of the goals set . vanced technologies in the area of efficient use of nature and protection of environment ” for a Accreditation as a scientific organization was reconsiderable contribution in development and in ceived from the S tate C ommittee of S cience and troduction of advanced technologies in the area T echnologies of the R epublic of B elarus (C ertifi of wastes handling (2010); cate N o . 239) (2016). 21 of November in its 29th birthday Steel Wire Shop №1 produced 1 million 700 thousand tons of products, which was sent to OJSC “Belshina”. 48 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 11 of April during business trip in Zhlobin region Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus A.V.Kobyakov visited BSW. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 49 Environmental activity E nvironmental policy adopted by OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is ensured with the assistance T he plant realizes that its production activi and under guidance of the top management . O ffi ties are associated with certain environmental cial managerial views on ecological and environ hazards and takes its best efforts to mitigate mental issues are presented in the enterprise ’ s negative influences on vital activity of citizens . C orporate P olicy and other regulatory docu OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” mentation of the corporate management system holding takes certain steps to reduce environ mental impacts and mitigate global climate change BSW intends to increase the share of products risks . T hese steps are a part of strategy intend complying with the quality management system ed to provide for a sustainable dynamics of the standards , provide its production with ecological plant ’ s development . T he enterprise is engaged in quality and safety data and appropriate marking . a large scale equipment and process moderniza tion , paying particular attention to the enhanced K ey principles and approaches ecological requirements , which enables the plant to reduce pollutant air emissions and waste quan L ong term strategic objectives determined by the plant for ecological and environmental activities tities generated . include : L ong term strategic objectives deter mined by the plant for ecological and environ B yelorussian S teel W orks is an enterprise , mental activities include : which relies on one of the priority state policy strands in its activities – that of ecological safe • minimizing the plant ’ s impact on the region ’ s vi ty . I mplementation of the state policy is ensured tal activities ; by an efficient E nvironmental M anagement S ys tem ( the EMS). T he EMS is a part of the unified • minimizing the plant ’ s impact on flora and fauna ; enterprise management system , which is responsi ble for working out a systematic approach to en • efficient use of natural resources ; vironmental protection within entire production activities of the plant and is integrated into qual • efficient use of energy resources ; ity management , labour safety and social respon sibility processes . T he EMS is a tool , enabling • air basin protection ; the enterprise to ensure regular monitoring and minimize ecological impacts associated with pro • water basin protection ; duction activities in the region of its location . • industrial waste utilization ; W ithin the frames of the current E nvironmental M anagement S ystem , the enterprise identified a • training ; number of ecological factors of environmental influence and evaluated them by their signifi • improvement of the personnel ’ s ecological cul cance . To minimize environmental impacts con ture and development of ecological conscious nected with the production activities of OJSC ness ; “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding , the enterprise annually introduces new environ • development and implementation of re mental protection measures aimed at reducing de source saving , low waste and environmentally velopment pressures on the environment . safe technologies ; E fficiency of the ecological management system • monitoring of emissions , hazardous wastes and 50 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS qualification testing of work places ; rod , seamless pipes , steel cord , wire and steel fiber . T he requirements of STB ISO 14001-2005 • compliance with ecological standards and re cover production of concast billet , section and quirements in design and production , construc shaped materials , wire rod , seamless pipes , steel tion , reconstruction , and process facilities ex cord , steel wire and fiber . T his is the evidence of pansion ; the systematic approach implemented to reduce ecological risk probability , minimize ecological • incident alertness compliance with ecological payments , represent OJSC “BSW – management standards and requirements in design and pro company of “BMC” holding as an ecologically re duction , construction , reconstruction , and pro sponsible enterprise and improve interaction with cess facilities expansion ; the stakeholders on issues of ensuring compli ance with ecological norms and requirements • incident alertness . E xcept the currently effective approved medi um term ecological programmes , BSW provides In its ecological activities , the plant relies on for annual development and approval by respec the following : tive supervision authorities of ecological con trol programmes and environmental protection compliance with the legislation and statutory plans , which , among other things , envisage regu norms of the R epublic of B elarus ; lar ecological monitoring and control activities in accordance with the I nstruction on E nviron – engagement of all business process segments mental C ontrol of P roduction , rational use of and participants ; natural resources . – EMS upgrading ; U se of natural resources and environmental pro tection at the enterprise are managed by admin – minimizing impacts in connection with expanding istrative control actions and economic methods . production activities ; I mplementation of ecological strategy – complete and reliable disclosures of the plant ’ s performance information ; M inimizing the plant ’ s impact on the region ’ s vital activities – responsibility enhancement ; C arrying out its production activities , OJSC – providing for optimal expenditure / performance “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding ratios ; accounts for its environmental impact and strives for minimization of its consequences as stipulated maintaining a reasonable balance between the by international legal provisions on ecology and plant ’ s interests and those of the community . the environmental legislation of the R epublic of B elarus . F or the purposes of minimizing its impact T he EMS system adopted by OJSC “BSWman on the region ' s population , the plant was located agement company of “BMC” holding was certified in the south eastern part of the city with due ac for compliance with the requirements of ISО count for wind rose diagram . T he established san 14001:2004 and STB ISO 14001-2005 stan itary zone has the radius of 1000 m and its area dards . T he requirements of ISО 14001:2004 together with the adjacent industrial site makes cover such activities as design and production up 674.1 ha . A t that , 55% of the area between the of rolled sections and structural shapes , wire enterprise ’ s territorial borders and those of the  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 51 Environmental activity  sanitary zone are taken up by cultivated conifer — S ilva of the territory concerned : lignose of ous and hardwood forests and scrub vegetation . both natural and cultural origin including for T he nearest settlement ( the village of S olonoye ) ests of the lands belonging to the state forest is 1.075 km away from the enterprise ’ s territori resources , protection wood plantations along the al borders . R esidential buildings and districts of railroad bed and motor roads . the town of Z hlobin are 3 – 3,5 kilometers away . I ndustrial site is located on plain surface lands , W oodlands belong to the subzone of conifer li neutral in terms of smoke contents and spread of chen low bush forests . O n the forest covered smoke jets towards residential areas . E very year , territory located to the north east of the plant , the plant carries out certain actions to ensure such tree breeds as a S cotch pine (P inus sylves air and water basin protection and reduction of tris ), a common birch (B etula verrucosa ) grow . land buried industrial wastes . T he S cotch pines (P inus sylvestris ) and the black alders (A lnus glutinosa ) grow in the north west M inimizing the plant ’ s impact on flora area and the S cotch pines (P inus sylvestris ) – in the south west .); and fauna I n the structure of the lignose of the lands of the — S egetal vegetation is developed on the agri cultural lands , sowed hayfields to the south east forest resources of the region conifers occupy and to the east of the plant , in S olonoe area , and around 70%, softwood – 27%, hardwood – 3%. to the south west of the plant between the wood D ominating position belongs to the plantations land and the D obysna river . of natural origin – 56,3 %. M ain forest forming breed in the region is a pine tree (68,5% for — R esidential vegetation is developed in human est covered lands ). As for the age structure , settlements , and in the areas with the apartment medium aged timber stand prevail (49,2%). Y oung blocks and utility constructions ; growth makes up 34,4%. — M eadow vegetation of the terraces above the R esources of grassland plantations are rather flood plain M eadow vegetation of the terraces big . T he region belongs to P olessko -B erezinsky above the flood plain ; region rich of meadows , and a part of which is rep resented by a low wavy plain formed by a system — R uderal vegetation near the area of ash and of flat terraces located above the flood plain of slag storage , concrete scrap storage , open pit , the B erezina river and the D nieper river . C enosis and other affected habitats formed in the result is formed by sharp sedge which is often combined of the human activity . I t is necessary to point out with manna grass (9,8%), more seldom with mire sagebrush (A rtemisiavulgaris ), white clover (T ri blobs (4,8 %). S ometimes it forms clear tangle of foliumrepens ), and couch grass (E lytrigiarepens ) a monodominant type . among the ruderal types . M ire vegetation can be met in low parts of the F auna relief , on the lands with a constant excessive hu midification . M iscellaneous herbs mainly of the me — D escription of the fauna of the territory con sohydrophytic row ( types : C alliergongiganteum , cerned is given based on literary data . D repanocladusintermedius , D repanocladusvernic osus , D repanocladusaduncus , A ulacomniumpalus — A ccording to the literary data insects are rep tre ) predominate in the grass stand . T he follow resented by a typical faunistic composition . ing types of vegetation dominate in the radius of approximately 2 km from the plant ’ s site : A mphibia on the territory under study are met ev 52 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS erywhere in plentiful and are represented by three nella ). On swampy territories one can run across types : a brown frog (R anatemporaria ), a green a common heron (A rdea cinerea ). D uring spring toad (B ufoviridis ) and a common toad (B ufobufo ). migration few migrating types of birds cross the territory in transit . A utumn migration is less pro S and lizards (L acertaagilis ) predominate among nounced ; birds do not form large clusters . the reptiles . V ariety of mammals on this territory is not large S pecies composition of the theriofauna is repre and is not characterized by habitation of rear and sented by a four toed hedgehog a (E rinaceuscon protected species . A brown hare (L epuseuropae color ), a pigmy shrew (S orexminutus ), common us ), a common fox (V ulpesvulpes ), and a wild hog shrew (S orexaraneus ), a root vole (M icrotu (S usscrofa ) are met here . soeconomus ), a common vole (M icrotusarvalis ), and a campagnol (A podemusagrarius ). S pecial protected natural territories (SPNT) of Z hlobin district are represented by a hydrologi A vifauna of the surroundings of the territory un cal and landscape preserves of local significance der study is characterized by a small variety of (T able 4), and by natural monuments of local and species diversity . M ain biotypes used by birds are republican significance . open agricultural lands . B ackground types on ag ricultural lands are : a field lark (A lauda arven T here are no special protected natural territo sis ), a whinchat (S axicola rubetra ), a whitethroat ries within the sanitary zone of the plant . T he (S ylvia communis ), a yellowhammer (E mberiza citri existing ones are located approximately at the Natural areas of preferential protection in Zhlobin district  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 53 Environmental activity  Distance Total area, Organization carrying Name from BSW, location operative administration km 2635 ha: Zhlobin and Rechitsa DisLandscape reserve of republican 2060 – Zhlobin district trict Executive Committees 32 significance «Smychok» 575Rechitsa district within their authority 17560 ha: Zhlobin and Svetlogorsk Landscape reserve of republican 7793 Zhlobin district District Executive Commit20 significance «Vydritsa» 9767Svetlogorsk district tees within their authority 55 ha, northern part of Radusha, Hydrological reserve of local Krasnoberezhsky Zhlobin district and borders with 22 significance «Dubovka» agricultural enterprise Volshedubsky canal 33 ha, located in the north-east part of Luvirnyansky forestry Hydrological reserve of local Zhlobin forestry enterprise along significance MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 12 the motor road Gomel-Zhlobin, 0,5 «Aleksandrovsky Mokh» kilometers from Aleksandrovka settlement 31 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Kosakovsky agricultural Kosakovsky agricultural 17 significance «Mokh» cooperative cooperative 100 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Dvorishchanskoe forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 29 significance «Roveki» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 223 ha, consists of two sectors and located in the north-west part Hydrological reserve of local MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» of priberezinskoe forestry of the 22 significance «Kanavnoye» and DUE «Yaznach» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» and AEB «Vperyod» 97 ha, southern part os Streshin Hydrological reserve of local forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 34 significance «Orli» Forestry» 54 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of local Dvorishchanskoye forestry of the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 35 significance «Rugorova Polyana» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» Reserves in Zhlobin district 54 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS distance of 12 km and more from the OJSC “BSW flora objects of the land plots of OJSC “BSW-man– management company of “BMC” holding ” site agement company of “BMC” holding was fulfilled in ( see the figure ). 2016. Based on the results of this work, all flora objects growing on the territory of the main proThere is no hunting ground in Zhlobin forestry. duction site and being in continuous use of OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding OJSC The plant’s premises proper are a sort of a green “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding were park. At present, the area free from buildings is alregistered. The amount of Br8 500 was spent to fulmost completely green. For the most part, green fill this work. spaces within the industrial site are represented by conifers and hardwood trees. Besides, the plant’s To encourage and expand land improvement and amenpremises include some flower beds. Total green space ity planting activities, to motivate the plant’s employarea within the industrial site amounts to 53,07 ha. ees, both morally and materially, to implement the Land Improvement Program, to involve the personnel Within the framework of the program “Environment in activities connected with aesthetic improvement of protection and stable use of natural resources” and the plant’s appearance, the enterprise arranged a to fulfill measures aimed at protection of land and land improvement competition among the plant's regulation of distribution of invasive types of plants shops with bi-annually cast-ups. The competition ingrowing on the plant’s territory, work to register volves more than 75% of the employees Land improvement (scope of work) for 2015  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 55 Environmental activity  Efficient use of natural resources Production of OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is a complete metallurgic cycle with annual outputs amounting to over 2,5 million tons of molten steel. Major raw materials used for steel production in 2013-2016 were as follows: Material Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Metal charge t 2 542 902 2 856 367 2 855 885,6 2 512 142 Ferroalloys t 35 822 41534,9 40 933,4 39 656 Electrodes t 4 741 4 698 4 784,2 4 278,1 Slag-forming, deoxidizing and purifying t 146 733 163 284 145 113,8 151 069 mixtures Carbonizers т 33 986 50 252 44 828,4 33 286 Heat insulating materials т 1 611 812 675 715 Refractory materials т 25 592 27 245 27 615,2 27 555 BSW used raw materials which were obtained from recycled or reclaimed wastes. Share of recycled materials in the total amount of raw materials in 2013-2016 was as follows: Material Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ferrous scrap, scale % 96,4 95,5 95,5 94,3 Refractory scrap % 17,1 3,6 13,3 1,04 Electrodes % 0,5 0,7 0,9 0,16 Lime stone and lime wastes % 0,4 3 2,3 4,5 Efficient use — motivation of the personnel; of energy resources — precise determination of key roles of the staff OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdin the management system; ing adopts managerial and investment decisions on the basis of multi-variant scenarios of development — distribution of responsibility and authority taking into consideration environmental priorities starting with the top level ; providing for power saving, efficient use of natural — maintaining of a corresponding level and comand power resources. petence of the staff ; In accordance with the section of the corporate — provision of the staff awareness of the benemanagement system “Power consumption control fits including financial ones, which one can get if system” (PCCS), developed in conformity with the he/she improves effectiveness of power consumprequirements of the national STB ISO 50001 stantion; dard, the base for the development of the system approach to energy saving is arranged on a clear — effective information exchange; documenting and control of interrelated processes significantly influencing the effectiveness of power — maximum complete inventory of factors influconsumption, in particular: encing power consumption; 56 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS — determination of areas of priority significant for with daily summing-up and corrective actions fulpower consumption management; fillment. This form of control allows the plant to control power intensity effectively and carry out — planning of activity aimed at improvement of powsystem specification of technical actions. Actually, er consumption efficiency. an innovative intellectual system is created. It uses ACS of PP, SAP R/3 and the plant’s computer netIn accordance with the national strategy of energy work. A number of measures were taken to transsaving and energy security, the plant developed an form information technologies from a tool to an acEnergy Saving Action Plan, setting energy policy tual scientific and technical resource to decrease priorities and approaches. The Plan comprises: expenses and as a result to collect extra gains. In — actions providing for a comprehensive energy 2016 the plant managed to preserve positive dynamics of reducing of FER specific consumption by the saving system; main power-consuming productions . — arrangements for employees’ training, retraining and advanced training on issues of energy saving Total amount of power resources saved in 2016 was 355 228 GJ (629 866,6 GJ in 2015). and efficient use of resources; — upgrading the system of equipment and producTo increase involvement of the staff in the processes of power and resource saving, OJSC “BSW – tion processes evaluation and analysis; management company of “BMC” holding developed — implementing energy-saving procedures; and uses the following: — introduction of modern advanced technologies; — Regulations About staff competition for the best ideas aimed at increase of power effectiveness — efficient use of the existing power facilities; of the production”; — introduction of new scientific achievements to — Regulations About competition for the best provide for efficient energy use. structural division of the plant from the viewpoint of power saving ; Traditional energy-saving measures include: Traditional energy-saving measures include: — Regulations About Awarding of the employees for power saving Regulations About Awarding of — initiatives related with introduction of powthe employees for power saving ; er-saving products and methods, use of renewable power sources, decrease of requirements in the re—active on-line “Power saving proposals” window sult of the initiatives fulfilled; in the Info-BMZ information system . saving of power due to conservation and increase of In 2016 the most important power-saving measures consumption effectiveness ; were: — use of thermal secondary power resources; 1. Introduction of RFC in the fine drawing area; — initiatives aimed at decrease of indirect use, sav2. Modernization of the control system of patenting, etc. ing line No. 1 and installation of RFC in SWS-1; Due to the introduction of an automatic system of 3. Decrease of energy resource specific consumptechnical recording (ASTR), real-time monitoring tion due to optimization of technology and increase of fuel and power resources (FPR) is carried out of production volume;  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 57 Environmental activity  4. Optimization of operation and modernization of “BMC” holding are air emissions of pollutants . pump control software; T he enterprise operates 595 sources with permitted gross emissions of 11975,13391 tpy . T o 5. Minimization of energy losses due to optimization minimize negative impacts , major emission sources of energy-technological modes of steel melting with largest contributions are equipped with gas and casting in the EMS; treatment plants , with their total number amount ing to 118 units . 6. Change of operation modes of KKS-1 and KKS2. V ehicles owned by the enterprise include 206 units using various types of fuel out of which 164 Use of secondary thermal power resources in vehicles run on diesel fuel , 42 – on gasoline . F uel 2016 equaled to 64,7% of own thermal energy for motor vehicles is unleaded gasoline grades AI production . 92, AI 95, condensed gas and diesel with sulfur content of 0,005 percent . Saving of FPR not only reduces financial load of the enterprise, but decreases negative impact of R ailroad transport includes 7 diesel locomotives. the enterprise’s activity on the natural environment R ailroad 493 156transportation 130 530 is only 167 194 within the enter MWt*h prise(563 ’ s premises 374,8) ; automotive (469vehicles 911) are used (601 for898) Electric power Source Unit (GJ) transportation within the borders of the enter 2013 2014 2015 2016 prise ’ s sanitary zone Natural gas s.c.t. 160 901 168 354 184 057 190 203m thou. 3 5720 4 392,3 945,1 Natural gas Direct use of power from the primary sources (GJ) A nalyzing (192 735,4)indicators of(147 669,1) pollutant emissions(27 968,6) in the in 2013-2016 air , it is necessary to point out that gross emis sions increased by 28% (1860,958 t ) in 2016 as compared Airtobasin 2015. protection T he increase is conditioned by Source Unit 2013 Sources 2014 2015 2016 of major negative increase environmental of the operation impacts at OJSC time of some pollutant “BSW – MWt*h company of716“BMC” 1 736 633 1 855 holding 1 837 809 air emissions 1 719 053are sources , commissioning of pollutants. of new The enterprise production facil operate Electric power with permitted gross emissions ities of as 11975,13391 well as change tpy.of To minimize accounting negative i methods GJ 6 251 879 6 680 578 6 616 112 6 188 591 emission sources with largest of contributions pollutant air areemission equipped. D uring gas treatment withinventory of pla Thermal G cal total number -11 068 -11 175 amounting -14 412 units. 848118 pollutant -13to emissions in 2016, emissions from ven energy Vehicles owned Intermediate energy quantities obtained and consumed by the enterprise tilation include skylights 206 and in EMS-1 units using EMS-2 were mea types various from non-renewablewhich 164sources power vehicles run on diesel in 2013-2016 sured fuel,( previously motor vehicle Fuel foremissions gasoline.skylight 42 – onventilation gasoline grades AI 92, AI 95, condensed gas and diesel were determined by calculation ). with sulfur content of 0,00 Power Unit Railroad transport includes 7 diesel locomotives. resource 2013 Railroad 2014 transportation 2015 2016 isS teel onlymelting in electricpremises; the enterprise’s within process arc furnaces automotiv used for transportation 95 Electric MWt*h 156 493 130 530 167 194 within 576 the wasborders intensified , anenterprise’s of the advanced oxygen sanitary zonetechnolo power GJ 563 374,8 469 911 601 898 344 074 gy with the use of wall mounted M odule system Natural thou. m3 5 720 4 392,3 945,1 gas GJ 192 735,4 147 669,1 27 968,6 11 154 Energy saved due to measures on consumption rates reduction and efficiency improvement taken in 2013-2016 A ir basin protection S ources of major negative environmental im Percentage of pollutants pacts at OJSC “BSW – management company of in gross emissions in 2016 58 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 Percentage of pollutants in gross emissions BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Actual emissions, Specific pollutant generation rates, Substance (t/year) (kg/t of melted steel) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Carbon monoxide 5049,332 5525,328 4641,069 6226,8 2,2 2,17 1,8 2,8 Nitrogen dioxide, nitrogen oxide 814,929 900,818 940,072 1191,097 0,37 0,35 0,39 0,53 Sulfur dioxide 384,11 389,279 338,044 324,8 0,16 0,15 0,13 0,32 Solids 619,042 655,899 598,007 728,3 0,26 0,26 0,23 0,14 Steel melting process in electric-arc furnaces was intensified, an advanced oxygen Total pollutants 6966,462 7526,979 6640,831 technology with the use of wall-mounted Module8501,789 3,0 system multi-nozzle 2,95 device 2,6 3,8 was introduced. Steel Considering growingmelting process in electric-arc furnaces was intensified, an advanced oxygen The production output, inintensification proportion of pollutants and the gross output for thecapacity growth of the production years 2013-2016 technology equipment,with we the use maximum of wall-mounted defined and gross Module systemofmulti-nozzle air emission pollutants more device was introduced. exactly. Considering growing production output, intensification and capacity multi nozzle device was introduced . C onsidering growing production output , intensification growth of the and production capac equipment, we defined maximum ity growth of the production equipment and gross Dynamics air , we defined emission of air pollutant maximum of pollutants and emissions more exactly. gross air emission of pollutants more exactly . Dynamics of air pollutant emissions Dynamics of air pollutant emissions  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 59 Environmental activity  * S*pecific specific , kg/t kg/t emission, emission . of steel. of steel Being a major greenhouse gases emitter, Byelorussian Steel Works is constantly B eing a major greenhouse gases emitter , B ye for the activities associated with the use of nat monitoring their air emission rates. In pursuance of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that lorussian S teel W orks is constantly monitor ural resources and environmental impacts , and , deplete the ozone layer, the plant continues its work aimed at stepwise decrease of the use of ing their air emission rates . I n pursuance of the precisely , in the part where rules for handling substances listed in Annex C of the Protocol by 2020. OJSC “BSW – management company of M ontreal P rotocol on S ubstances that deplete of ozone depleting substances are set out . “BMC” holding provides for compliance with the state requirements on reduction of consumption the of rates ozone layer , the plant ozone-depleting continues its substances work ODS quantities used within the enterprise are (ODS). stepwise decrease of the use of sub T h e R e p ubli c o f B elarus , bein g a parti c i pat constantly aimed at decreased. in g party un d er t h e U nite d N ations F ra m e The listed stances in A nnex C of ozone-depleting the P rotocol substances at the by enterprise are handled as established in the work C on v ention on C li m ate C h an g e an d t h e 2020. for license OJSCthe “BSW – management activities associated with the company of use of natural resources and environmental “BMC” and, impacts, holding providesin precisely, forthe part where compliance the for handling of ozone-depleting substances are withrules K yoto P roto c ol , p ro v i d es f or f ul f ill m ent out. requirements on reduction of consumption o f its obli g ations sti p ulate d by t h e abo v e set state international a g ree m ents . A c tions i m p le rates of ozone depleting Data substances (ODS). activities on ODS handling in 2013-2016 гг. ODS quantities used within the enterprise are m ente d by t h e B yelorussian S teel W orks to intro d u c e ener g y sav in g te c h nolo g ies an d . the Residuals in constantly decreased Amount of residues as of beginning of the year, Purchased, kg The amount m aterials an d used, to enkg h an c e e fend c y year, ienthe f i cof o f tkg he ODS kg T he ozone depleting substances at the enter p ro d u c tion p ro c esses result in re d u c e d air 2013 2014 2015 20162013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 prise are handled as established in the license e m issions o f g reen h ouse g ases . R-22 27,2 176,8149,681,6 163,2 0 0 0 13,6 27,2 68 27,2 176,8 149,6 81,6 54,4 R-12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 R-114В2 0 in the 0 Residuals 0 beginning 0 0 0 0 kg 0 Purchased, 0 The 0amount 0used, kg0 Amount 0 of0 residues0as of end 0 of the year, kg of the year, kg ODS Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of ODS use in 2013-2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 ye ar Fulfillment; results, Description of ODS reduction methods R-22 27,2 176,8 149,6 81,6 163,2 0 0 0 13,6 reason 68 for 27,2 non-fulfillment 27,2 176,8 149,6 81,6 54,4 Decrease of the environmental impact Station ITE Blue-R-95 for regeneration and R-12 0 Exclusion 0 0 0 0 substances of 0ozone-depleting 0 0 0filling-in of0 ITE coolants 0 0 0 0 acquired. 0 0 (R 22) by 123 R-114В2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 Acquisition of a station for regeneration and filling-in of ITE coolants Data on ODS handling activities in 2013-2016 Transfer of refrigeration equipment working Transfer of refrigeration equipment working on R on R 22, 60 SOCIAL REPORT filling capacity 123 kg, to ozone-safe 2016 22, total capacity: 129,5 kg coolants BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Year Description of ODS reduction methods Description of ODS reduction methods Decrease of environmental impact. Refusal to use ODS (R 22) by 123 ITE Blue-R-95 regeneration and filling station Purchasing of ITE coolants regeneration and purchased filling station 2013 Transfer of refrigeration equipment working on R 22, filling capacity 123 kg, to ozone-safe Transfer of refrigeration equipment working on R 22, total capacity: 129,5 kg. coolants Decrease of environmental impact. Exclusion usage of ozone-depleting R 22 by 116 kg, R 12 by 4,5 kg, R 401 А by 6 kg. Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of 116 kg to ozonesafe coolants Transfer to ozone-sage coolants for cooling equipment used to work on R 22 with 2014 the filling capacity of 317,8kg, to R 12 with the filling capacity 4,8kg, to R 401 А Transfer cooling equipment operating on R with the filling capacity of 12,4 kg. 12 with the filling capacity of 4,5 kg, to ozonesafe coolants Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 401 А with the filling capacity of 6 kg to ozone-safe coolants Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of 120 kg to ozonesafe coolants FULFILLED Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 12 2015 with the filling capacity of 4,7 kg to ozone-safe transfer of the cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of coolants 191 kg, on R 12 with the filling capacity of 4,75 kg, on R 401 A with the filling capacity of 24 kg to ozone-safe coolants. Transfer cooling equipment operating on R 401 А with the filling capacity of 12,4 kg to ozone-safe coolants FULFILLED Transfer cooling equipment operating on 2016 R R22 with the filling capacity of 160 kg to transfer of the cooling equipment operating on R 22 with the filling capacity of ozone-safe coolants 160 kg. Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of ODS use in 2013-2016 D e c rease o f har m ful e m issions into th e air is ensured by im plem entation o f invest m ent proj e c ts dire cted towar d s m o d erniz ation an d tech ni cal re vam ping , intro du ction o f hig hly eff ective state o f t he art e q ui pm ent an d m et h o ds .  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 61 Environmental activity  OJSC “BSW – m ana g e m ent c o m pany of 0,12% of the river flow. “BMC” h ol d in g f ollows t h e e x istin g law an d nor m s o f t h e international en v iron m ental The plant introduced a circulating water system law in c lu d in g international a g ree m ents an d to supply key users – production equipment. Wac ontra c ts rati f ie d by t h e R e p ubli c of Beter from surface sources (the Dnieper) is used to larusaan d c arries waterout c ontinuous compensate the irrevocable losses in the equipThe plant introduced circulating system tom onitorinsupply key g users – production ent. Water from surface sources (the Dnieper) is used to compensate o f t h e en v iron m ental c on d ition in t h e terri ment the cooling systems. For household irrevocable and drinkin the equipment cooling tory o fsystems. its p ro For household d u c tion andt hdrinking e m ain needs a c ti v ity ai m ing water from needs artesian water from artesian wells is used. used. o f w h i c h is p rote c tion o f t h e h ealt h o f t h e p eo p le li v in g in t h is area an d t h e Plant water consumption structure C o m pany To reduce consumption of water drawn off from e m p loyees . the Dnieper, the enterprise uses rainwater col lected and treated at special areas. circulating water 99,1% Results of the measures taken to reduce water resource consumption in 2015: decrease of rainwater use as compared to 2015 was 200,0 thou. m3; river water decrease of industrial water consumption as com0,4% pared to the level of 2015 equaled to 84 thou. m3; rain water 0,3% drinking water 0,2% decrease of drinking water consumption as comPlant water consumption structure pared to the level of 2015 made up 0,1 thou. m3 Water basin protection To reduce consumption of water drawn off from the Dnieper, the Process enterprise effluents usesgenerated by the plant are dister collected and treated at special areas.. Acting in the area of environment, the plant procharged into the treatment facilities located at the vides for efficient use of energy and water for plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the its own needs and does2013 Description 2014 their 2015 its best to decrease production for 2016 further recycling. consumption. ss water, [thou. m3/year] 1230,4 776,0 1576 1492 The plant’s utility fluids are drained off into the ng water consumption,Water m3/year] flow648,2 [thou.diversion for production 637,3needs is 646 645,9 maintained by the town of Zhlotreatment facilities carried out from the Dnieper river which is one bin. Pollutant contents (hard metals, oil products, 3 /year] ating water, [thou. mof 277 043,3 319 832,9 377 375 365 928 the main rivers in the Republic of Belarus. Its salt content) in the discharged fluids were within head-to-mouth length is 1182 kilometers. Annual the established limit concentrations. ater use, [thou. m3/year] 1259,7 1588,8 1 160 1 234 flow of the Dnieper equals to 1 261 440 000 m3. Annual water diversion of OJSC “BSW – manThere are no water objects significantly Results of the measures taken to reduce water resource consumption in 2016: affected agement company of “BMC” holding amounts to by the production activities of the plant. ase of rainwater use as compared to 2015 was 200,0 thou. m3; ase of industrial water consumption as compared to the level of 2015 equaled to 84 thou. Description 2013 2014 2015 2016 ase of drinking water consumption Process water, [thou. mas3/year] compared to the level of 1230,4 2015 made up776,0 0,1 thou. 1576 1492 Drinking water by Process effluents generated consumption, the plant [thou. are discharged into648,2 m3/year] the treatment637,3 facilities 646 645,9 at the plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the production for further recycling. Circulating water, [thou. m3/year] 277 043,3 The plant’s utility fluids are drained off into the treatment facilities maintained 319 by 832,9 the town 377 375 365 928 bin. Pollutant contents (hard metals, 3 oil products, salt content) in the discharged fluids Rainwater use, [thou. m /year] 1259,7 1588,8 1 160 1576 ithin the established limit concentrations. There are no water objects significantly affected by the production activities of the plant. 62 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Industrial water consumption, thou. m3 Specific consumption of industrial water, m3, per, 1 t of steel produced Specific consumption of industrial water, m3, per, 1 t of steel produced  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 63 Environmental activity  Rain water use, thou. m3 U tilization of industrial wastes Y8 W aste mineral oils unsuitable for preliminary designated use ; C urrent technologies of metal production are Utilization of industrial inevitably associated with generation of various Y9 W astewastes oil ( water ) and hydrocarbon ( water ) Current technologies of metal production are inevitably wastes which belong to different hazard class based mixtures emulsions associated ; with generation of various wastes which belong to different es . T his is a major aspect contributing to en -hazard classes. This is a major aspect contributing to environmental pollution.. TThe vironmental pollution plant he plant provides provides for for W astescompliance Y16 strict associated with with all requirements the production , re associated with wastes utilization and strict compliance with all requirements asso disposal and seeks covery and to limit pollutant application of discharges, photo chemicals ensure and re-use of natural resources and wastes reclamation. Depending on the hazard ciated with wastes utilization and disposal and consumables used for film development W astes class of wastes and their physical properties, the enterprise defined stringent requirements at each of the seeks to limit pollutant discharges , ensure re associated with the production , recovery and industrial wastes utilization stages (generation, collection, transportation, storage, handling and use of natural resources and wastes reclama application of photo chemicals and consumables neutralization), minimizing possible environmental impacts. tion . D epending on the hazard class of wastes used for film development ; Utilization of industrial wastes in 2016 and their physical properties , the enterprise defined stringent requirements at each of the Y17 W astes generated from metal and plastic industrial wastes utilization stages ( generation , surface machining ; collection , transportation , storage , handling and neutralization ), minimizing possible environ Y31 L ead and lead compounds ; mental impacts . Y34 A cid solutions and solid acids . D uring 2016 there were registered no spillages of chemicals , oils and fuels which could have an T he listed wastes are utilized by the plant as adverse effect on the environment and present stipulated by the environmental legislation of a potential hazard to the soil , water , air , biodi the R epublic of B elarus . T here was no export versity and human health . or import with these groups of wastes . P roduction activities of OJSC “BSW – manage W ithin the framework of its production activi ment company of “BMC” holding are associated ties , OJSC “BSW – management company of with generation of the following wastes , corre “BMC” holding offers and implements initiatives sponding to wastes groups as set out in B asel intended for mitigation of its environmental im C onvention : pacts and damage effects . A lso , as the major raw Year Sold, t Used, t Buried, material used for thet plant ’ s production Stored,is tmetal Y1 M edical 611 2015 wastes resulting from patients 158,784 ’ care scrap , the enterprise 101 407,51 5 949 is capable to 44dispose 496,44 of its provided by hospitals , health centers and clinics ; production after it is no longer in active use . 2016 533 988,9 75 002,0 8 932,128 39 049,5 64 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 -77 169,884 -26 405,51 +2 983,128 -5 446,94 es utilization stages (generation, collection, transportation, storage, han , minimizing possible BYELORUSSIAN environmental STELL WORKS impacts. Utilization of industrial wastes in 2016 Utilization of industrial wastes in 2016 Year Sold, t Used, t Buried, t Stored, t Sold,2015 t 611 158,784 Used, t 101 407,51 Buried, t 5 949 16 168,8 Stored, 611 158,784 101 407,51 5 949 44 496,4 2016 533 988,9 75 002,0 8 932,128 39 049,5 533 988,9 -77 169,884 75 002,0 -26 405,51 8 932,128-5 446,94 +2 983,128 39 049, * considering alienation -26 -77 169,884 processing enterprise of+2 to the405,51 the 983,128 total amount of electric -5 446,9 melting slag previously accumulated at BSW. Production wastes allocation at special facilities, kg/t of steel * specific allocation (waste rock excluded), kg/t of steel  * specific allocation (waste rock excluded), kg/t of steel. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 65 During 2016 there were registered no spillages of chemicals, oils and fuels which could Environmental activity  Training the plant identified , documented and familiarized its employees with their duties , responsibilities To provide for an enhanced efficiency of its eco and powers . logical activities , the enterprise arranges train ing courses on issues of environmental protection Training , retraining and advanced training activi at all administrative levels . Employees’ vocation ties arranged for managers , technicians and oper al training is continuous and is effectively inte ational personnel on issues of ecological safety grated into the daily labour activities throughout and environmental protection are as established their career . I t is aimed at gradual broadening and in the annual vocational training plans and pro enhancing of professional knowledge and compe grams . tence in environmental and industrial sanitation issues . To ensure efficient environmental manage For guaranteed observation of legal and other ment in connection with the production activities , requirements in the area of environment , the plant ensures access to the existing reference legal system “Consul tant P lus B elarus N etwork ” and information search systems “S troi document ” and “S tandard ” for each employee . For general data on the training activities see the “Social responsi bility ” section . Improvement of ecological culture of the personnel BSW uses its employees’ knowledge and experience in ecological safety and healthcare issues to provide for security and welfare of people living in the vicinity of the plant and in the whole region. The Company employees arrange lectures for youth and training activities on ecological requirements and aspects for subcontracted personnel, carrying out works on the enterprise’s premises. To improve the communication system, expand opportunities of interaction among interested parties, ensure employees’ individual development and exchange of experience, OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding annually holds international scientific and techni66 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS cal conference “Metal”. Besides participants from of the Republic of Belarus, the plant’s ecological CIS countries, the “Energy and ecology” section standards and other regulations and was intended comprises specialists of the Company. During the for enhancement of violators’ responsibility and conference, its participants present their reports encouragement of the plant’s employees, engineers on topics of current interest and exchange their and technicians to provide for compliance with the experience with regard to implementation of straabove documents. tegic objectives and introduction of recent developments in the steadily expanding production areas Development and implementation and in the field of corporate social responsibility. of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally-safe technologies Information about ecological activities of the enterprise and those concerned with improvement of Byelorussian Steel Works takes actual steps to the environmental management system is regularly provide for environmental protection and imple published in the corporate and regional mass media ment environmentally safe technologies as well . and the republican “Casting and Metallurgy” and To mitigate environmental impacts, OJSC “BSW “Steel” trade journalsInformation about ecological – management company of “BMC” holding annually activities of the enterprise and those concerned introduces new environmental actions . U nder the with improvement of the environmental management ecological program for 2016 the plant provided system is regularly published in the corporate and for the following : regional mass media and the republican “Foundry commissioning of an automatic system of air emisand Metallurgy” and “Steel” trade journals. sion of contaminants from EAF1 EMS-1 ( emission To evaluate environmental impacts, the enterprise source No .901); holds public hearings, inviting representatives of construction of a gas purifying system within imsupervision authorities, general public and the plementation of the project “I ncrease of second plant’s employees to participate in them. ary metallurgy capacity in EMS-2”; The plant takes part in environmental actions and Arrangement fulfilled to implement the project has initiated such actions itself several times. “Complex reconstruction of GPS-3”, EMS-2; To provide for a systemic approach to improvement I nventory (recording) of flora objects; of employees' ecological culture the plant worked out and implemented: introduction of technology of contaminat ed quartz sand use for precipitation of foamed – Provisions on tear tags and prevention of viosteel smelting slag . lations with regard to environmental protection Expenses for environment protection and and occupational sanitary, which are introduced to monitoring. Ecological payments enhance preventive work on precautionary, recommendatory and control functions for the purposes Annually, the plant assigns considerable funds to of environmental protection. Activities to prevent environment protection activities. Money is invested environmental law infringements are carried out in repair, reconstruction, and modernization of enwith the use of notice tear tags; vironmental equipment. – Provisions on encouraging environmental activiIn its activities, OJSC “BSW – management company ties. This regulatory document was introduced to of “BMC” holding places special emphasis on the motivate the plant’s employees to abide by the eninteraction with the stakeholders – both with suvironmental requirements set out in the legislation pervising authorities and communities, consumers,  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 67 Environmental activity  Total, Br mln (at own costs) Current environmental expenses 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* Total 196 458,6 224 910,1 294 069,7 384 701,1 38 146,4 including: protection and efficient use of water resources total 76 051,1 100 583,7 133 432,1 177 936,3 18 641,4 including payments to other organizations for acceptance and 27 536,2 34 080,4 43 475,0 70 440,8 5 902,1 waste water cleaning air basin protection, ozone layer and climate preservation 94 172,8 93 302,6 119 710,1 161 367,1 15 312,8 protection of the environment from pollution with industrial 24 557,8 29 072,3 38 296,0 42 863,9 9 971,0 wastes total including payments to other organizations for collection (stock5 336,0 6 519,1 11 365,0 21 502,1 2 057,5 ing), acceptance, storage, burial, and neutralization of wastes protection and efficient use of land – total — — — — — Including recultivation of land — — — — — for ecological rate setting, 136,9 243,2 234,5 589,4 21,1 expertise and passport issue for ecological certification 78,0 — — 45,5 5,1 for ecological audit 17,0 94,1 59,6 -— — for ecological insurance — — — — — for local monitoring 1 445,0 1 614,2 2 337,4 1 898,9 194,7 others — — — — — Current expenses suppliers, and contractors. Information exchange production facilities but also introduction of the is according to the diagram included in the section world ’ s best practices in the field of environ “Interaction with the stakeholders”. ment safety . Medium-term targets of the Company W ithin the framework of the investment program , the plant also identified a number of actions aimed I n addition to production facilities expansion , the at improvement of ecological situation and mitiga plant also plans to modernize its equipment to tion of negative environmental impacts associated improve environment safety and mitigate nega with BSW production activities . tive environmental impacts . I nvestment projects to be implemented by OJSC “BSW – management M ajor actions aimed at mitigation of the negative company of “BMC” holding include not only new environmental impacts include : 68 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Total, Br mln Indicator description 2015 2016* Amount of discount set for the organization for ecological payments subject to 12 089,4 1 753,519 decrease of environment pollution due to environment protection measures undertaken Amounts paid to compensate damage caused by violation of the environment law 47,5 0,231 (penalties, claims, damage, etc.) Current expenses 2013 2014 2015 2016* Aspect Description payment, payment, payment, payment, Br million Br million Br million Br Drinking and service water consumption 520,981 509,8 759,9 84,173 Sewage discharges 7,585 10,3 0 0 Air emissions from stationary and mobile 2 467,494 0 0 0 sources Waste disposal 10 235,84 7 369,3 2855,5 488,415 Waste storage 1 633,497 2 301,8 618,2 0,00085 Production and import of tare 0 0 0 0 Exemption from taxes to the amount of money used for environment protection Exemption 0 11 154,8 12089,4 1 753,519 from taxes to the amount of money used for environment protection Ecological payments in 2013-2016. *the amount indicted in denominated Belarusian rubles – installation of an automatic system of control through aeration lanterns ; of harmful emission in the air from IPU 1,2 of the scrap yard ; – construction of a dust and gas collecting unit at lime kiln No. 3 in the scrap yard ; – complex reconstruction of dust and gas col lecting unit of EAF-3 and installation of a – construction of treatment facilities for saline hood to reduce unorganized emissions in the air waste water processing . SOCIAL REPORT 2016 69 Social activity As far as the social sphere is concerned , the – enhancing responsibility related to the assumed strategic target of OJSC “BSW – management obligations and their fulfillment ; company of “BMC” holding in the social area of its activity is improvement of the corporate so ensuring the optimum ratio of the social activity cial responsibility system with the following basic expenses and the labour results achieved ; principles : observing social equality and respon maintaining reasonable balance of the plant ’ s sibility , nondiscrimination , ensuring safe working interests and those of the community and the em conditions , maintaining employees ’ health , creat ployees . ing positive social psychological climate in the working team alongside with keeping reasonable P reservation of life , health and human rights is balance of the plant ’ s economic interests and so considered by the C ompany of a higher priority cial interests of the civil society including that than economic results of production activity . of the employees of B yelorussian S teel W orks . E mployees ’ loyalty and satisfaction is a crucial BSW considers social responsibility to be an in factor that influences business stability . T he tegral part of the business conduct strategy and personnel relations priorities are improvement its corporate ethics based on the principles of of employees ’ social well being , building up clear decency and justice , honesty in dealing with all communication channels , improvement of the de partners and competitors . BSW considers social gree of personnel awareness and the most im responsibility to be an integral part of the busi portant thing – creation of a strong corporate ness conduct strate culture . 2009 Introduction of the unified gy and its corporate ethics based on the principles of decency It is essential for the plant’s employees to feel themselves members of one family, realize their beand justice , honesty in longing to one of the largest enterprises of the integrated corporate dealing with all part republic. Since 2009 elements of a single integratculture at BSW ners and competitors . ed corporate culture have been introduced at the plant. Two of them are the Corporate Policy and In its social activity OJSC “BSW – management Code of Ethics Their major values respect and company of “BMC” holding is guided by the leg collaboration, efficiency and results, leadership islation of the R epublic of B elarus , parameters and dynamic development, initiative and responsibilof stability and production development , econom ity – are formulated on the basis of the stakeholdic expediency as well as its responsibility to the ers’, primarily employees’, opinions. owner , investors , employees and business part ners , local communities and other stakeholders . Labor relations and adequate labor C arrying out its social activity the plant adheres Personnel management policy to the following approaches : Adhering to the principles laid in the foundation – conformity with the legislation and legal norms of the UN Global Compact, OJSC “BSW – manof the R epublic of B elarus ; agement company of “BMC” holding considers its employees to be of the prime value and builds up involvement of all units and business processes the relationships with them on the basis of social participants ; partnership, solidarity in purpose and respect for their mutual interests. disclosure of full and precise information re garding the results of the social activity ; Long-term strategic targets of the Company cor70 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS porate policy for personnel management stipulate of “BMC” holding management system presupposes the following: involvement of the staff into decision-making process, business processes optimization, improvement – formation of a labor relations regulation system of production and social activity of the company. and development of social partnership based on the Hence, each person feels own contribution into the balance of interests of the plant and its employees; common target achievement. – improvement of employees motivation systems, Working with a numerous number of employees in ensuring the competitive level of the employees’ ever-changing production conditions, development compensation package connected with the labor efof a competent and efficient personnel management ficiency increase, collective and individual results system is very important. of working activity; The implemented Personnel Management Policy of – personnel development (selection, recruitment, the Company based on the principle of partnership evaluation, training, promotion) to supply the Comrelations of an individual and the organization is pany subdivisions with the employees having the reaimed at forming integrated corporate surroundquired professional and qualification characterisings, preserving work places, sustaining decent tics; salary level, optimum redistribution of labor recourses contributes to enhancement of the invest– improvement of the labor safety level, improvement attractiveness and dynamic development of the ment of social and living conditions on the proenterprise. The plant’s employees are the main elduction site and offering supplementary health ement of success in reaching our goals, that’s why improvement opportunities for the employees and we put particular emphasis on solving staff issues. their family members; High efficiency of the “Personnel Management” pro– development of corporate culture, ensuring of cess is confirmed by the results of recertification social stability and favorable moral and psychologand supervisory audits of quality management system ical climate in the working teams; conformance to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, STB ISO 9001-2009, ISO/TS 16949:2009, API Q1, – development of corporate social programs. conducted at BSW in 2016 by representatives of naKey principles and approaches tional and international certification organizations (Gosstandart of the RB, TÜV Türingen (Germany), Policy of OJSC “BSW – management company of CARES (Great Britain), TÜV International (Czech “BMC” holding in the personnel management sphere Republic), API (American Petroleum Institute). is formed and realized on the system basis according to the labor legislation of the Republic of Belarus. Alongside with development and continuous improvement, the plant links its success to the well-consolidated and active team of professionals. One of the main targets of OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is creation of a “prime choice company” based on honesty, dedication, creative approach, optimism and self-improvement of each employee. Building up of OJSC “BSW – management company SOCIAL REPORT 2016 71 Social activity  Personnel Profile laborates with state OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is the largest employer in its productive institutions , employee unions and other orga nizations in the sphere 30,7 of the employees activity region and is aware of its economic and so of regulating labor have higher cial obligation to the society influencing it by cre and related relations . education (%) ating high level of social security and favorable C ontributing to dis working conditions for its employees , realization closure of profession of efficient social and ecological programs , proj al and personal capabilities of its employees , the ects and activities in the area of personnel manage enterprise creates conditions for their profes ment . 95% of the workers and 99,5% of managers sional and career progress . working at OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding are from local population T otal amount of the personnel as of 31.12.2016 equals to 11 425 people and decreased as com The segment of the works employees in the region pared to the corresponding period of the previ economically active population makes about 30 %. ous year by 519 people . Portion of the top managGender composition of the workers hasn’t con30 Portion of the plant’s ers out of the local pop ulation including members of the board of directors siderably changed as compared to 2015. As of 31.12.2016 BSW employed: employees in the economiand lead specialists equals 72,5 % men; to 100 per cent. cally active population of 27,5 % women. the region of the plant’s OJSC “BSW – manage operation (%) ment company of “BMC” Prevalence of male employees is due to hard and holding is responsible in very often dangerous labour conditions in the metits approach to solving employment issues , col allurgical industry. Number of the employees by categories, % Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number 12 463 12 376 12 447 11 896 11 747 11 944 11 495 72 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Decrease of the number od employees in 2016 was due to optimization of the number of the staff. Category 2010 1 184 (9,9%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dev. Total number of people 12 463 12 373 12 447 11896 11747 11 944 11 425 -519 1159 1190 1 216 1 226 1 214 1 184 1 102 Managers, pers. -82 (9,3%) (9,6%) (9,8%) (10,3%) (10,3%) (9,9%) (9,6%) 1793 1790 1 871 1 883 1 593 1 585 1 501 Specialists, pers. -84 (14,4%) (14,5%) (15,0%) (15,4%) (13,6%) (13,3%) (13,2%) 167 158 159 164 40 31 Office workers, pers. 35 (0,3%) -4 (1,3%) (1,3%) (1,3%) (1,4%) (0,3%) (0,3%) 9 344 9 235 9 201 8 673 8 900 9 140 8 791 Workers, pers. -349 (75,0%) (74,6%) (73,9%) (72,9%) (75,8%) (76,5%) (76,9%) OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding has a well-balanced age composition of the employees. The main contingent is composed of workers aged from 38,5 to 42,0 having the required knowledge and professional skills. Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average age of the employees, years 39,7 39,9 40,0 40,4 39,6 39,3 39,3 Manpower turnover in 2016 equaled to 4,2%. Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Manpower turnover, % 2,4 2,7 2,59 4,78 4,8 3,41 4,2 More than half of the plant’s employees have higher and specialized secondary education. Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dev. Total number pers. 12 463 12 376 12 447 11 896 11747 11 944 11 425 -519 % 25,1 25,5 27,0 28,5 29,9 30,1 30,7 Higher education pers. 3 132 3 150 3 360 3392 3508 3 597 3 505 -92 Secondary technical % 26,0 26,3 26,0 25,5 24,9 25,1 24,9 education pers. 3 243 3 255 3 239 3036 2924 2 994 2 843 -151 Specialized % 17,6 17,5 17,5 18,5 19,3 19,9 secondary education pers. 2 174 2 179 2085 2169 2 306 2 273 -33 % 48,9 30,6 29,5 28,5 26,8 25,5 24,5 Secondary education pers. 6 088 3 797 3 669 3383 3143 3 047 2 804 -243 Candidates of science pers. 8 9 8 8 7 7 6 -1 Postgraduates pers. 6 7 5 11 4 3 4 +1 18 16 16 Undergraduates pers. (inc. 8 (incl.4 (incl. 3 19 35 39 21 -18 studying) studying) studying  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 73 Social activity  Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of young specialists 111 113 166 143 251 338 184 The image of a strong and continuously working enpersonnel evaluation , local regulations have been terprise makes OJSC “BSW – management company developed and are operating ; they regulate the of “BMC” holding attractive procedure of assessment and certification of the 184 number of young for potential workers solves the issue of the prospective human resource proand Company management and specialists . The assess ment procedure is based on the constructive dia logue between a worker and a manager . vision specialists hired to I n 2016, 385 managers and specialists of the plant BSW in 2016 In 2016 the plant selected were assessed in terms of fulfillment of the goals candidates and recruited 595 set . people from the residents of the region taking into consideration the level of their competence so as In its practical activity BSW recognizes inviola bility of the human rights and takes all required to satisfy its need in personnel. measures to assure and protect them . G uided by The enterprise puts great emphasis on recruitment the approaches of the UN Global Compact in the and adaptation of young specialists . Taking account human rights sphere , OJSC “BSW – management of the production output growth rate, the plant company of “BMC” holding seeks to prevent pos placed 184 youbg specialists in 2016. sible conflicts of interests of the employees , managers and the C ompany . P rinciples of non ad O rganization of a methodical work with young mission of conflicts of interests and their set specialists is one of the priority directions of tlement are given in the plant ’ s C ode of E thics . the enterprise personnel policy . Availability of Preventing conflicts of interests, the Company constantly developing potential of the personnel seeks improvement of the efficiency of its activity , represented by young specialists is the most im creation of the atmosphere of trust and openness portant condition of the management succession , in the relationships with the persons concerned , enhancement of management efficiency , ensuring enhancing business image and reputation of the en stable social economic development of the plant . terprise . The working tools for preventing pos O ne of the most significant events within the Syssible conflicts are : a direct telephone line with tem of work with young specialists is a scientific the plant ’ s top management and representatives of and technical conference annually held in J uly. the state authorities , “Signal” hotline and others, The personnel policy of OJSC “BSW – manage the work of which is performed on a confidential ment company of “BMC” holding is aimed at discovbasis . I n order to ensure the feedback , the enter ering the individual potential of each employee and prise appointed responsible persons who review its development in coordination with the strategic the employees ’ appeals concerning various issues goals . The existing evaluation system allows the including the safety and labour protection issues , plant to determine compliance of each employee environment and professional ethics . T ransparenwith the position occupied and create conditions cy and openness of BSW becomes one of the lead for carrying out employment duties more success ing management principles which allows the plant fully and efficiently . The founding principles in to create confidential relations with all stake the area of the personnel efficiency management holders including the Company employees. are objectivity and openness . Within the framework of the personnel motivation In order to improve the base required for the program the sociological service of the plant car 74 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ried out a study “Diagnostics of the social and – enhancement of social legal protection of the psychological climate among the labour teams of employees of the C ompany ; the plant ”. The results of the study allow us to evaluate the psychological and social climate in – stabilization of the social economic situation in the teams and subdivisions of the enterprise . the labour teams of the plant as stable : the over whelming majority of employees are satisfied with B eing guided by the principles of the UN G lobal the work and the plant in general . T he complex C ompact , B yelorussian S teel W orks considers index of satisfaction is 0,715. This index is within human rights protection and ensuring to be a the range of a high level of satisfaction and cor priority relative to economic performance and responds to the target value planned for 2016. guarantees their fulfillment . The employees ’ rights OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is against all forms of discrimination and holding admits inviolability of the human rights builds up its activity on the basis of generally in its practical work and takes all measure pos acknowledged principles and norms of the inter sible to ensure and protect them . national law , standards and conventions of the I nternational L abour O rganization , and the law B eing a socially responsible enterprise B yelo of the R epublic of B elarus . I n 2016 no discrim russian S teel W orks considers interests and ination was registered at the enterprise neither rights of its employees based on the principles of by gender and nationality , not by religious be social partnership . T hese principles are specified liefs and political views ; there were no cases of in the most important document of social part forces or child labour either . nership reflecting interests of all employees of the C ompany – the C ollective A greement . I n БМЗ, имеющий в своей структуре производства A pril 2016 a trade union conference of the em с повышенным уровнем опасно BSW having dan ployees of the enterprise was held which summa gerous productions in its structure bears re rized the results of 2015 C ollective A greement sponsibility for production facilities safety as fulfillment and adopted amendments and changes regards the employees and the community . T he in C ollective A greement for 2015-2018. plant establishes healthy and safe labour con ditions by replacement of outdated equipment – development of contractual relations between and technologies and is guided by the labour the enterprise and its employees being parties of protection law , international standards in the social partnership ; area of production safety and prevention of oc – coordination of interests of the enterprise cupational diseases , as well as internal norma and its employees in developing general princi tive documents . I ssues of employees ’ health and ples of regulation of social labour relations ; safety are given consideration in the C ollective A greement . – provision of the personnel with work places and work remuneration in compliance with the T he plant acknowledges that its production ac labour contracts signed , social and economic tivity is related to a negative impact onto the rights established by the existing law of the Reenvironment and takes all possible measures to public of B elarus ; minimize this influence on the vital activity of the population . – observance of labour and production disci pline , labour protection , industrial safety and OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” production sanitation requirements ; holding guarantees the right of trade unions to  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 75 Social activity  carry out their activity freely , without any limita application was not agreed upon , 3 applications tions , within the framework specified by the law . were declined due to groundless requirements , The right of the employees and the trade union 4 applications were withdrawn from the commit to participate in contractual regulation of labour tee because the administration had resolved the relations is realized in the procedures of prepara matter before , and as per 1 more application , the tion and signing of collective agreements , in the requests of the employee were satisfied . employees ’ right to participate in establishment and improvement of labour conditions and produc I n order to observe and ensure human rights, tion environment . B yelorussian S teel W orks pays great attention to improvement of the level of information aware L egal regulation of labour relations at OJSC ness and legal competence of all employees within “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding is the framework of the existing system of continu fulfilled in accordance with the C ode of L abour ous training and professional development of the of the Republic of Belarus and the C ollective employees . O ver 85% of the employees trained in Agreement of the enterprise: 2016 studied basic foundation of the law in the area of economic , environmental , and responsibil – labour agreements are signed and employments ity issues . contracts are concluded considering substantia tion of production , organizational , and economic A ccurate and strict observance of the human reasons ; rights and freedoms is the basis of the up to date socially responsible business directed not only – notification of an employee about work condi towards gaining profit , but towards sustainable tions change is fulfilled an least one month prior development of the plant and the region in gener to contract signature ; al . OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” – notification of an employee about expiration of holding intends to continue fulfillment of the re the contract , about the intention to extend the quirements of the law and international principles contract for a new period or terminate it takes in the area of social responsibility in future . place at list one month prior . Professional and career development Byelorussian Steel Works strives for prevention Realization of the personnel policy based on the of labour disputes and conflicts , and if they oc principles of equality, justice and award depending cur , participates in open discussions with employ on personal skills and irrespective of origin, age, ees admitting mutual responsibility of the parties gender, race, nationality and religion of an employee of social partnership . To ensure equal rights of is performed in conformity with the requirements of the employees of the C ompany and observance of the existing legislation of the Republic of Belarus, the law R epublic of B elarus , a committee is es universally acknowledged norms and principles of the tablished to resolve labour disputes which unites international law including the UN Global Compact equal number of representatives of the plant ’ s and the Convention of the International Labor Oradministration and labour collectives . The aim of ganization. the committee is a qualified examination of individ ual disputes between individual employees and the OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdadministration as regards labour relations . T he ing ensures equal possibilities for all employees to committee performed its functions continuously realize their potential in the process of their working during the year acting as an arbitrator . During activity, fair and unbiased assessment of the work re2016, 11 applications of the employees of the sults, selection of the personnel during recruitment Company were examined. Based on the results of and career promotion according to the professional the examination , 2 applications were satisfied , 1 skills and knowledge. 76 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The Company scale allows the employees to realize their ment of the work activity content due to a greater professional ambitions, gain new experience and enhance variety of functions and as one of the labor motivation their qualification degree. Realizing the approaches in factors. Besides, the rotation contributes to acquiring social sphere, the Company places special emphasis on a more diverse practical experience required for being the internal human recourses potential during selection promoted to one or another management position. and appointment of managers and specialists. In 2016 temporary appointments took place in order In order to implement the long-term strategy of the to increase specialists’ qualification, determine their enterprise’s development, OJSC “BSW – managepotential abilities for putting into the personnel rement company of “BMC” holding formed a multi-level serve as well as for the purpose of promoting careers personnel reserve of the management. The reserve of the young workers having higher education: is meant for meeting the requirement of the Company in management employees having a range of basic During the annual integrated study of the social-psychological climate in the teams of structural subdiviadministrative competence. In order to develop the sions held by the sociological service of the works, competence required for a manager and create a real the respondents gave an average estimate regarding perspective for professional and career promotion of the promotion and career opportunities (the satisfacthe workers, staged training of human resources was organized according to the existing System. The traintion index made up 0,69 against 0,75 in 2015). ing programs stipulate education of the reserve from Training and education the level of a foreman to the top-manager level considering the specific character of the work fulfilled OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding (“Young Manager School” and “Management School”). sees its personnel as its major asset and takes correThe programs and trainings for developing corporate sponding measures regarding its retaining and developand manager competence were aimed at the personnel ment creating conditions for professional growth and reserve as a priority category of human resources. education. Byelorussian Steel Works gives all its emSpecialists of the leading educational establishments ployees the right for professional education at differof the Republic of Belarus are engaged in the trainent stages of labor activity orientating at long-term ing process under bilateral contracts signed. For the relations with the personnel and considers education accounting period over 70% of management appointto be an investment into the human capital assets. ments from among the employees included into the works Personnel Register and certified after passing In the present conditions of a severe competition such training took place. OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding aims at searching for current sales markets, technolFulfilling the personnel potential development proogies of the future, cost-saving reserves and other grams and enhancing the efficiency of the structural possibilities for optimization. subdivisions activity, OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding annually organizes rotation of Personnel quality became a determining factor of the specialists. The staff rotation is used as a method of works competitive ability. Ensuring personnel quality decreasing labor monotony and routine, and enrichis one of the priority targets of the corporate Social Factor 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of the rotation program participants 56 103 152 84 63 59 58 PROMOTION TO A SPECIALIST POSITION appointment to a manager position 20 29 71 23 36 12 18 qualification improvement 2 11 15 13 3 5 5 qualification improvement 34 63 66 48 24 42 35  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 77 Social activity  Responsibility Policy. It is impossible without the depations from among the residents of the region of veloped internal training system. Guided by the labor the plants’ activity; and education legislation, the professional education system is controlled by the corporate Training Center. organization of experience and knowledge exchange in the course of rendering of educational services By carrying out an efficient operation of the conto organizations and enterprises of our republic, tinuous professional education system, the Training neighbouring and far foreign countries. Center solves the following objectives in the personnel management system: In order to solve the above tasks the Training Center is equipped with the newest training aids. Everyproviding the subdivisions of the plant with profesthing is arranged in such a way that trainings are sional staff of the required qualification level; maximally efficient. Availability of the training aids and multimedia applications developed by the teachproviding the personnel support of innovative proers and masters of the Training Center based on cesses; the technologies and equipment implemented at the enterprise facilitates learning the material. In the – retaining and development of the professional poeducation process both traditional forms and modtential and staff competitive ability; ern education technologies are applied. – providing the subdivisions with a management staff reserve having a developed corporate and manageThe main form of the education process organization is dual that means a well-balanced combination of acment competence; quiring theoretical knowledge and practical skills. – organizing training of the specialists, management staff and their reserve; A particular attention is paid to the modular education technology that lays stress both on acquiring – creating the system of tutorship and sharing of particular knowledge and developing the personnel’s knowledge; ability for self-education and self-improvement. – improvement of the forms and methods of trainEducation and development of the personnel is caring, introduction of advanced educational methods ried-out in conformity with the current and perspec(development of the remote electronic system of tive demands of the Company. module training “LearnBMZ” with the subsequent allocation on the internal plant’s site); A differential approach to the education programs formation is applied depending on a worker’s qualifi– formation of a personnel reserve of the required cation level. Programs of continuous professional qualification with regard to nonprofessional occutraining stipulate studying the issues of special techItem Annual plan, Actual numFulfillment Description No. people ber, people % 1 Improvement of qualification of leading employees and specialists 225 238 105,8 Improvement of qualification of leading employees and specialists 2 458 487 106,3 servicing facilities controlled by Gospromnadzor. 3 Training of leading employees and specialists and their reserve 340 438 128,8 4 Training of workers 3 466 3 855 111,2 Total of the plant 4 489 5 018 111,8 78 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 2 Byelorussian employees andSteel specialists servicing facilities Works is always ready for the dialog with the stakeholders regardingcontrolled issuesby of Gospromnadzor. improvement of professionalism, scholarship and employees’ 3 Training of leading employees and 340 438 128,8 competence development. Number of hours dedicated to employees professional training specialists BYELORUSSIAN and their reserve STELL WORKS in 2016 4 equaled toworkers Training of 41,0 per one employee. 3466 3855 111,2 Total of the plant 4489 5018 111,8 Byelorussian Steel Works is always ready for the dialog with the stakeholders regarding issues of improvement of professionalism, scholarship and employees’ competence development. Number of hours dedicated to employees professional training nologies, civil, political, economic, social and culIn order to improve procedures of employees in 2016 equaled to 41,0 per one employee. tural human rights, requirements of environment training in any new or changed production operprotection systems, quality management, labor and ation influencing product quality at the Training industrial safety, energy saving issues. Centre and directly at work places as well as for and informing about the consequences of Number of academic hours per one employee non-conforming product quality for customer, motivation of the employees for achievement of the target performance and fulfillment of the plant ’s standard STP 840 –KSM 6.2. “Human Resources, 16 external and internal audits were In order to improve procedures of employees training in any new held at the Training Centre together with strucproduction operation influencing product quality at the Training Centre and dir places as well tural subdivisions as for and informingto check aboutconformity to STP the consequences of non-confor 1163 840 KSM –motivation quality for customer, 6.2. 2013 “H the Remployees esources ”. for achievement of of uman Number of employees who improved qualification performance and fulfillment of the plant’s standard STP 840 –KSM 6.2. “Human in 2016 W 16 external and internaltraining their qualificationaudits were heldenterprise at the Training Centre together w orkers at the 1023 employees had to improve in 2016, actual number of C ontinuous education is ensured by subdivisions rational combi to check conformity to STP 840 KSM – 6.2. 2013 “Human Resou employees who improved their qualification Mequaled ain aims ofto 1163 people continuous professionalor training 113,7%.of nation of professional education in educational esWorkers training workers (office at the ) are: enterprise workers tablishments, systematic self-education as well as Main aims of continuous professional training of workers (office workers) 1163 studying in the Training Center and at work places . provision provision of structural of structural subdivisions subdivisions profeswithprofessionals with of the req Number of employees who improved qualification preservation in and2016 sionalsdevelopment of the required level , preservation of professional potential and competitiveness of and 1023 employees Comparative had toimprovement improve diagram of qualification their by LE&S exclusion of the risk qualification development ofinfactor 2016, of the professional untrained actual number potential of formation of t employees, and com employees who improved their qualification equaled reserve of the required qualification. petitivenesstoof 1163 the staff ; people or 113,7%. Main tasks of continuous professional training of workers (office w achievement exclusion of the aims ofofthecontinuous risk factor professional training of the untrained workers (office w emof Continuous professional training of workers ployees , formation of the employee reserve of (office workers) includes types: professional training, retraining, advanced training, educational courses. the required qualification. Results Main tasks of of professional training of the plant’s workers in 2016 continuous professional training of workers (office workers) are: achievement of the aims of continuous professional training of workers (office workers). Comparative diagram of the plant´s employees training 5018 employees (44% of the total number of the staff ) took varied types of education and acquired new knowledge in 2016. Byelorussian Steel Works is always ready for the dialog with the stakeholders regarding issues of improvement of professionalism, scholarship and employees ’ competence development . Number of hours dedicated to employees professional training in 2016 equaled to 41,0 per one employee. 1023 employees had to improve their qualification Continuous Determination of professional correspondence professional training of workers (of(theoretical knowledge, skills, and competence) for the workers in 2016, actual number of employees who improved fice workers) includes the following types: pro who reached the highest grades or reason had not improved their qualification during 4 years of practical work, t their qualification equaled to 1163 people or fessional training , retraining, advanced training , organized and carried out certification of the professional level (grade). 113,7%. educational courses. Thus, 757 employees were certified in 2016 to confirm their professional Work time losses due to repairs, product size change, equipment failu quality worsening lead to growth of productionSOCIAL costs,REPORT decrease 79 2016of labour prod Training Centre works out training programs together with division heads to e prevent the above. Social activity  Results of professional training “MISiS”) Moscow, Academy of post-graduate edof the plant’s workers in 2016 ucation , Moscow chemical institute named after Determination of professional correspondence D.I. Mendeleev, Centre of innovation management of Belarusian State University, ”Republican High(theoretical knowledge, professional skills, and er School Institution . competence) for the workers who reached the highest grades or due to some reason had not So as to provide production with highly qualified improved their qualification during 4 years of personnel, affiliated departments “Metal Formpractical work, the Company organized and caring” and “Metallurgy and foundry engineering” ried out certification of the professional level of Gomel State Technical University named after (grade). P.O. Sukloi work at the plant. In 2012 the Company started to implement a three-stage project Thus, 757 employees were certified in 2016 to aimed at organization of getting the second stage confirm their professional level . of higher education in mathematics taking into conWork time losses due to repairs, product size sideration the specific character of the rolled change, equipment failures, product quality worssection and pipe production at Byelorussian Steel ening lead to growth of production costs, deWorks with attraction of the scientific potential crease of labour productivity . The Training Cenof GTU named after P.O. Sukhoi and MISiS. tre works out training programs together with division heads to eliminate and prevent the above. A longside with solving the issues of person nel qualification improvement , the collabora In 2016 OJSC “BSW – management company of tion with higher educational establishments is “BMC” holding continued international cooperaaimed at reaching long term strategic objec tion in experience and knowledge exchange in the tives of the works . T his cooperation is ben area of steelmaking processes with specialists of eficial both for educational establishments core enterprises and companies of neighbouring and OJSC “BSW – management company of and far foreign countries: Danieli (Italy), rep“BMC” holding . T he plant offers students the resentative office of Siemens in the Republic of opportunity to undertake manufacturing prac Belarus, and BSW trade firm in Moscow (Russia). tice at the enterprise . I n the reporting year , 693 students underwent practical training at In the area of professional training OJSC “BSW BSW. D uring the manufacturing practice the – management company of “BMC” holding forms students are guided by experienced workers up long-term relations with a number of leading and specialists . D etailed acquaintance with educational establishments having recommended the production takes place at the working themselves in rendering of educational services: place . A student can feel being a member of educational establishment “Institute of qualificathe working team , try his skills and adopt the tion upgrading and retraining according to new mentors ’ experience , thus OJSC “BSW – man directions of development of technology and eco agement company of “BMC” holding openly nomics of Belarusian National Technical Univerdemonstrates its potential employees the pos sity , State educational establishment “Institute sibility of acquiring an interesting work and of qualification upgrading and retraining of manpersonal realization . agers and industrial specialists Industry Staff , educational establishment “G omel state university P ractical training was organized in the fol named after F. S korina” and Belarusian state unilowing specialties : machines and metal forming versity of transport , federal educational estabtechnology ; machines and casting technology ; lishment of higher professional training “National steelmaking and material processing ; electric research technological university “MISiS (SRTU metallurgy of ferrous and non ferrous met 80 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS als ; engineering technology ; hydraulic and F ormation of the reputation of the most ap pneumatic systems of mobile and production pealing employer is an essential condition for machines , packing production ; technical op involvement of creative , active and techni eration of power equipment of organizations ; cally competent personnel in the plant oper industrial electronics ; industrial heat and ation . By rendering assistance to the young power engineering ; electric power supply ; er generation in receiving modern education economy and management of enterprises ; man and strengthening the material and technical agement ; marketing ; informational systems and foundation of the region educational estab In technologies , etc . OJSC “BSW – management ; logisticstraining the area of professional lishments of “BMC” S teel W orks cre , B yelorussian company holding forms up long-term relations with a number of leading educational establishments ates own promising personnel reserve . F or having recommended themselves in rendering of educational services: educational S olving medium term strategic goals in the these purposes the corresponding means establishment “Institute of qualification upgrading and retraining according to new directions sphereof of of development training technology andof highly -of economics professional Belarusian National were Technical to pre school educational in directed University , personnel is connected with the S tate E duca stitutions State educational establishment “Institute of qualification upgrading and retraining , schools of , creativity centers for managerstionaland industrial specialists Industry Staff , E stablishment “Z hlobin M etallurgical the kids . educational establishment “Gomel state university named after F. Skorina” and Belarusian state university of transport, C ollege ”, which federal educational conducts its activity at the establishment of higher professional training “National research expense of OJSC technological university “MISiS “BSW – management (SRTU “MISiS”) Moscow, S pecial emphasis compa Academy is placed on the work re of post-graduate education, of “BMC” nyMoscow chemical holding institute named .after investments PEAB D.I. FMendeleev, or garding Centre pupils innovation of and students vocational guid management of Belarusian State University, ”Republican Higher School Institution . organizing the college activity in 2015 the ance that is carried out on a regular basis So as to provide production with highly qualified personnel, affiliated departments C ompanyand “Metal Forming” spent USD872and “Metallurgy thousand its prof with foundryofengineering” of GomeldirectState Technical of OJSC “BSW – participation Universityit .named T he college after P.O. Sukloi work conducts at the training of plant. technol In -2012 the Company management startedof company to “BMC” holding spe implementogists for basic production subdivisions from cialists . W ithin this course a range of the a three-stage project aimed at organization of getting the second stage of higher education in mathematics taking into consideration the specific character of the rolled among the best representatives of the region following programs is implemented : section and pipe production at Byelorussian Steel Works with attraction of the scientific young potential of generation GTU named , who after P.O. Sukhoipassed competitive and MISiS. selection according to the educational pro – pupils participation in “O pen D ay ” feast at grams coordinated with the works . the plant and basic educational establish ments ; Comparative diagram of practical training of students of higher institutions, colleges, and SSEE – excursions to the plant ’ s museum ; – organization of youth competitions , cultur al events engaging students of schools and specialized educational establishments . OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding ensures the right of the employees to education and deems intellectual poten tial and professionalism of its employees to At all times corporate social development Alongside with solving the issues of personnel qualification improvement, the collaborationbe withanhigher essential factor required for its own educational and social investments remain sources establishments is aimed at reaching long-term strategic objectives of of the works. development . This cooperationenhancing is beneficialthe bothworks competitive for educational abilities . and OJSC “BSW – establishments management P ossessing company of “BMC” holding. modern The plant educational offersand base A ccording students the opportunity to the to results of an integrated undertakehighly manufacturing practice at the enterprise. In the reporting year, 693 qualified specialists , OJSC “BSW study of the social and psychological climatestudents underwent practical training at BSW. During the manufacturing practice the students are guided by–experienced management company workers of “BMC” and specialists. holding Detailed in the subdivisions acquaintance with the production, satisfaction with the per takes place at theits makes working place. A student contribution can feel being aofmember in the development of theof spective working team, qualification enhancement , pro try his skills and adopthelping community the mentors’withexperience, training of thus OJSC “BSW qualified – management company fessional and educational level obtained was of “BMC” holding openly demonstrates its potential employees the possibility of acquiring workers for the industrial enterprises of highly assessed and made up 0,70 ( satisfac an interesting work and personal realization. the town Practical , the was training region , and the organized country in the . following tion index specialties: in 2015 machines and was at the level of 0,71). metal  forming technology; machines and casting technology; steelmaking and material processing; electric metallurgy of ferrous and non-ferrous metals; engineering technology; SOCIAL REPORT 2016 81 hydraulic and pneumatic systems of mobile and production machines, packing production; technical operation of power equipment of organizations; industrial electronics; industrial Social activity  M otivation system lation existing in M aterial The stimulation main objective of one of the strategic lines the Republic Belarus. The en terprise realizes of 386,4 Average annual salary the following of the Company policy is constant increase of at the enterprise principle : the ac productivity and quality of the personnel labor , in 2016 ($) crued salary of a efficient application of the existing norms and worker , who ful wage systems aimed at manufacturing high quality ly completed the labor hours and working norms , competitive products based on the rational use of cannot be lower than the established amount of each worker ’ s labor potential and enhancing per sonnel welfare gains . the minimal salary in the Republic of Belarus that made up B r 239,42 (USD120,4) in D ecember 2016. O ne of the most precise indicators of the plant ’ s social policy effectiveness is the salary level . The principle of equal remuneration of equally valued labour is used at the enterprise . The tar Salary is the major source of income of the workiff part of the salary is determined based on the ers and the main factor for ensuring a certain monthly tariff rates established by the unified standard of well being . All payments and benefits workers wage tariff system of the employees of granted to the plant ’ s employees are distributed to those working full time and part time in propor OJSC “BSW-management company of “BMC” holding and the collective agreement in conformity tion to the hours worked . with job evaluation in the organization according In order to achieve unity of interests of all cat to the categories as follows : egories of workers in insuring high final results – as far as workers are concerned , it is deter of the Company production and commercial operamined by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tions in general based on accounting and encour tariff multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate agement of labor contribution of every division established for a worker in compliance with the and a single worker , the enterprise developed the general provisions of the Uniform Wage-Rates bonus scheme for labor stimulation . and Skills H andbook based on the tariff-qualifying In the existing economic situation it is most timely characteristics of the workers professions ; to observe the lowest limit of labor payment for – as far as clerks are concerned , it is calculated weakly protected groups of employees . by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff Average annual salary at the enterprise made up multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate of the Br768.5 (USD386,4) in 2016. Average salary unified wage tariff system established for a workof workers and office employees made up B r 722 er with reference to its position ; (USD 363) in the Republic of Belarus in 2016, – as far as men and women are concerned, accordwhich is 6,5% lower than at OJSC BSW. ing to the work done or position held in conformi OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» ty with the unified wage tariff system and collecholding improves the normative base in the area tive agreement . of labor relationship and informs every single em Average salary of the enterprise clerks is 21,5% ployee of the labour remuneration conditions . A c higher than workers ’ salary . A verage salary of cording to the principles of the UN G lobal C om the management is 50,1 % higher than workers ’ pact the enterprise realizes the principle of equal salary . T his correlation is explained by the com award for equally valuable labor . plexity of the performed obligations stipulated by Salary accounting is made according to the legisthe job descriptions as well as the organization 82 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS (separate structural subdivisions) activity effigiven one extra day-off a month at her request ; ciency , quality of the performed works ( services ), this day is not paid for . efficiency of the set targets and objectives ful fillment . Average salary of men at the enterprise is 39.4 per cent higher than that of women . Difference R elation between payments to the top between the average salary of women and the av management and C ompany’s effectiveness erage salary of men is explained by the increased payment for the heavy service work , works with Stimulating payments to the top management are harmful and dangerous labor conditions , where effected depending on the efficiency of the C ompawomen’ labor is prohibited. ny performance and fulfillment of the social eco nomic development indicators set forth by the M in P lanning of labor remuneration expenses is based istry of I ndustry of the R epublic of B elarus . on the salary level reached and the output per one employee . A longside with the labor productiv Women have the same salaries and tariff rates as ity growth , the average salary increase is planned men , if they occupy equal positions ( have similar accordingly . professions ). I t is necessary to point out that with the la Women are given and guaranteed the same rights bor productivity growth rate of an employee of as men and have additional benefits and guarantees the main production in USD in 2016 equaled to aimed at their health and maternity protection . 106,8%, salary growth rate in USD equaled to Thus it is prohibited to use women’ labor in: 72,6%. – heavy operations and operations with harmful So the top management of the enterprise at and / or hazardous labor conditions ; tempts to restrain drop of the welfare of its employees . jobs related with lifting and manual handling of weights ; It is important that in these challenging times the enterprise worked for decreasing the labor co some professions and positions (steelmaker, efficient of the manufactured products . I n 2016 steelmaker ’ s assistant , farrier , battery assem implementation of this approach lead to the de bler , etc .). crease of the labor coefficient of the operations Pregnant women are given easier jobs excluding fulfilled in basic and auxiliary shops by 41,2 thou. n/h. The economic efficiency made up over Br30,2 the impact of harmful and / or hazardous labor fac thou . tors but their salary remains equal to the average amount of their previous salary . As far as the salary level is concerned, the plant takes a decent place among the gross output mak A mother (farther) of three or more children aged ing enterprises of the M inistry of I ndustry of the under 16 ( or having a disabled child aged under 18) are given one extra day-off in a week at her/ Republic of Belarus, which is shown in the below diagram : his request which is paid for in the amount of the average daily payment . All technical economic development programs A mother bringing up two or more children under of the enterprise are worked out for one year sixteen , is given an additional day off a month at and are reported to the personnel . The results her request ; this day is paid for in the amount of of their implementation are summarized monthly one basic payment . during a year and are reported to the employees during forums , meetings and in the plant ’ s newspa A mother bringing up children under eighteen , is per “M etallurg ”.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 83 accounting and encouragement of labor contribution of every division and a single worker, the enterprise developed the bonus scheme for labor stimulation. In the existing economic situation it is most timely to observe the lowest limit of labor payment for weakly protected groups of employees. 532 Social activity Average annual salary at the enterprise in 2016 ($) Average annual salary at the enterprise made up Br768.5 (USD386,4) in 2016. Average salary of workers and office employees made up Br722 (USD 363) in the Republic of Belarus in 2016, which is 6,5% lower than at OJSC BSW.  Salary accounting is made according to the legislation existing in the Republic of Belarus. The enterprise realizes the following principle: the accrued salary of a worker, who fully completed the labor hours and working norms, cannot be lower than the established amount of the minimal salary in the Republic of Belarus that made up Br239,42 (USD120,4) in December 2016. The principle of equal remuneration of equally valued labour is used at the enterprise. The tariff part of the salary is determined based on the monthly tariff rates established by the unified workers wage tariff system of the employees of OJSC “BSWmanagement company of “BMC” holding and the collective agreement in conformity with job evaluation in the organization according to the categories as follows: – as far as workers are concerned, it is determined by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate established for a worker in compliance 84 SOCIAL Average 2016 REPORTsalary of men at the enterprise is 39.4 per cent higher than that of women. Difference between the average salary of women and the average salary of men is explained by the increased payment for the heavy service work, works with harmful and BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Note: Calculation if fulfilled in the national currency *) in USD It is necessary to point out that with the labor productivity growth rate of an employee of the main Note: Calculationin production USD in if fulfilled 2016 in the equaled national to *)106,8%, in USD salary growth rate in USD currency  equaled to 72,6%. So the to It is necessary toppoint out that with management the enterprise of the labor productivity attempts growth rate ofdrop to restrain employee an SOCIAL of theREPORT welfare of 85 2016 of the main production in USD in 2016 equaled to 106,8%, salary growth rate in USD its employees. equaled to 72,6%. It is important that in these challenging times the enterprise worked for decreasing the labor coefficient of the manufactured products. In 2016 implementation of this approach lead to the decrease of the labor coefficient of the operations fulfilled in basic and auxiliary shopsSocial by 41,2activity thou. n/h. The economic efficiency made up over Br30,2 thou. As far as the salary level is concerned, the plant takes a decent place among the gross-output-making enterprises of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus, which is shown in the below diagram:  Non-financial incentives of moral stimulation, strengthening glorious laAll technical-economic development programs of the bor traditions enterprise , increasing are and the role worked outfor strength A one year and are reported to the personnel.ening significant element of the enterprise corporate Theof results a Man of plant conducts are implementation their, the of Labor summarized culture is themonthly system of non-financial during a year and are incentives of reported to the employees during forums, festive events dedicated to initiation into young meetings and in the plant’s newspaper “Metallurg”. the employees which comprises social psychologi metallurgist, celebration in honor of work dynascal, staff and professional aspects . ties, entering the names of best employees in the Non-financial incentives Company Book of Fame or placing their photos Byelorussian A significant Steel element Works paysofspecial attention the enterprise in corporate the Hall of Fculture is the ame, honoring the system winners ofofthenonto stimulation and personnel interest in saving of financial incentives of the employees which productive comprises social-psychological, competitions at the annual Laborstaff Festi-and material and energy resources, growth of produc professional aspects. val “Professional Olympus”. All categories of the tion efficiency , enhancement of responsibility for Byelorussian Steel Works pays special plant ’s employeestowho attention stimulation attained better andresults personnel in the quality of products manufactured, improveinterest in saving of material and energy resources, their productiongrowth activityof production , actively efficiency, participate in the ment of theof enhancement production responsibility for theasquality effectiveness well asof products manufactured, improvement of the enterprise social life, gained authority and are redevelopment of creative activity withasthedevelopment help of production effectiveness as well of by spected creative activity their working team with members , are the help grantof30 30 types of the production competitions types of the production competitions and contests and con ed the held honorin to individual and collective have their pictures posted in theforms tests (“Best in held in individual and profession”, “Bestcollective shop”, forms (“Best “Best Hall of Fame Canteen”, of OJSC “Best “BSW – management in profession amongcompa private unitary enterprises”, “Professional Olympus”, ny in profession ”, “B est shop ”, “B est C anteen ”, “B est of “BMC” “Best holding .of innovator Allthe “Best young year”, subdivisions structural in profession among private unitary enterprises ”, specialist”, contest of plant teams and structural subdivisions of the works in“Fconformity of the works have “A lleys of G lory ”, oremost “P with the system “BE AWARE OF A HUMAN!”, etc. rofessional O lympus ”, “B est innovator of the Workers ) ” stands with the pictures of the best year ”, “B est young specialist ”, One of the main constituents of the corporate contest of plant culture workers . and efficient way of enhancing the workers motivation is corporate awarding. For the purpose of moral stimulation, strengthening teams and structural subdivisions of the works glorious labor traditions, in conformity increasing with the system “BE AWARE the roleOF Aand385 employees of our enterprise were awarded strengthening of a Man of Labor, the plant HUMAN!”, .) L etters of Commendation and thanked officially conducts festive events dedicated to initiation into young metallurgist, celebration in honor etc by OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” of work dynasties, entering the names of best employees in the Company Book of Fame or O ne of the main constituents of the corporate culholding in 2016. Services of the plant’s employees placing their photos in the Hall of Fame, honoring the winners of the productive ture and efficient way of enhancing the workers were also appreciated at the district , regional, competitions at the annual Labor Festival “Professional Olympus”. All categories of the motivation is corporate awarding. For the purpose and national level plant’s employees who attained better results in their production activity, actively participate 86 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS It grew into a tradition to congratulate the emclimate in the working ployees with anniversaries, birth of a child, wedding, and to organize parties dedicated to recruitment for the armed forces or retirement. team, professional tions, organization sport celebraand of cul385 Number of employees awardtural events for the ed Letters of Commendation Since 2008 the plant organizes celebration in employees, their family and official appreciation of honor of labor dynasties of OJSC “BSW – manmembers and the popuagement company of “BMC” holding . Assignment of BSW in 2016 lation of the region (see an honorable title of ”A Labor Dynasty of OJSC section “Social package of benefits and guaran“BSW – management company of “BMC” holding” is tees for the staff”). The approaches in planning of based on the principles of succession, continuity the corporate events are determined based on the of generations from older to younger one, and analysis of the results of annual integrated study continuity of labor activity (at least three generof social -psychological climate of the working ations of the relatives of the first-degree kinship teams of the Company. should work at the plant at the same time) Short-term targets in the area of social In 2010 a new tradition was born at BSW: presenresponsibility tation of a corporate calendar takes place at the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists in the form of Achievement of the following level of the main a brilliant and colorful celebration. Pages of the target values related with the Company soplant’s calendar for 2016 contain the best piccial-economic development is scheduled for 2017: tures drawn by the future metallurgists chosen according to the results of the regional contest – training of the executive employees and specialand photos of the women working at the plant. ists, pers — 1346 The possibility of professional education and im– workers professional training, pers. — 3525 provement of workers’ qualification is of a par– general satisfaction of the personnel, % min — ticular importance for motivation of the staff. 72 Professional training organized and carried out at the enterprise by the Training Center ensures – personnel turnover, %, max — 45 execution of the three motivating functions: Labor protection and ensuring – production -economic (Company competitive abilof industrial safety ity growth, enhancement of the quality of duty performance and manufactured products ); OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding sees a human life as its supreme value. The – administrative (providing with qualified personplant does not accept any compromises between nel, its formation, reproduction , adaptation and the health of its employees, safety and profit-makpersonnel development ); ing. Labor safety and health are the key priorities of the corporate labor protection management social-cultural (personality socialization, prosystem. Realizing its mission, the Company ensures vision of occupation, social confidence, offering the employees’ labor protection , takes measures equal opportunities for professional and career for reduction of accidents risks and occupationdevelopment ). al diseases, strives for creation and sustaining of Byelorussian Steel Works puts particular emphasuch labor conditions that are not dangerous to sis on sustaining favorable social-psychological employees’ health and human dignity.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 87 Social activity  U sing dangerous industrial facilities in the pro terprise system of labor protection and industri duction process , the enterprise management al safety to the requirements of the standards . bears responsibility for conservation of the em ployees ’ life and health . T he existing labor pro I n M arch 2016, representatives of N orm -T est tection and industrial safety management system L td . – partner of TÜV T hüringen e .V. (M insk ), is built according to the requirements of B elar body for certification of systems and person usian legislation and considering international nel , carried out the first supervisory audit to practices . confirm the certificates of correspondence of the labour protection and industrial system cor L abor protection service of the plant bases respondence with the requirements of OHSAS its activity on the priorities of the internation 18001:2007. 9 structural divisions were in al norms . L abor protection management of the spected during the audit . N o non conformities enterprise is based on the key international were detected based on the results of the audit standard of labor safety OHSAS 18001 “O c and no protocols were issued . cupational health safety assurance systems ” and national standard STB 18001 “L abor protection I n N ovember 2016, representatives of the state management systems . R equirements ”. educational establishment ”T he R epublican I nsti tute of H igher S chool ” – a certification body A s before , key strategic aims of OJSC ‘BSWman fulfilled a supervision audit of the system of agement company of “BMC” holding in the area of environment and industrial safety management to labor protection are : evaluate its compliance with the requirements of the state standard STB 18001-2009 “S ystems – continuous improvement of efficiency of labor of labour protection control . R equirements ”. protection in accordance with the requirements D uring the audit , 33 divisions were inspected. of OHSAS 18001:2007 and STB 18001-2009; N o non conformities were detected based on the results of the audit . T he certification body – constant control of risks related to producwill extend the validity of the certificate of the tion processes , implementation of preventive and labour protection and industrial safety system corrective actions directed towards prevention of occurrence of occupational diseases and inju conformity for 3 more years . ries in production ; A fter the standards were implemented at the en – labor protection and industrial safety activiterprise , we accept contemporary , universally acknowledged international safety technologies . ty in conformity with the requirements of inter national standards , the existing law , and other T his allows OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding to speak the same language with requirements relating to dangers in the area of its international partners and organize coopera occupational health and labor safety ; tion more effectively . A t present , in many cases – prevention of equipment failures , incidents , for signing joint contracts the enterprise needs emergency , prevention of injuries and worsening to confirm the availability of the certified labor of the employees ’ health during production ac protection management system . I t is evident con tivity ; sidering western partners ’ mentality . A vailability of the certificate acknowledging the conformity – provision of all processes with competent , with the international standards characterizes highly qualified personnel . the enterprise as a reliable partner , increases its prestige , and the products competitive ability . E very year certification bodies carry out exter nal audits to check correspondence of the en Implementation of this system allowed our plant to: 88 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – decrease the costs due to a more efficient use bor protection and indus of labor recourses ; diminish the expenses relat ed with traumatism and morbidity ; trial safety management and adjusts it in accor dance with the require 2,4 Investments in provision – improve legal safety , guarantees of corre ments of international of safe and healthy labour spondence to the changing legislative labor standards . T his safety requirements ; allows conditions in 2016 considerable reduction of the production costs due to lowering the – minimize the risk of judicial punishment ; specialists incapacitation related with accidents , – respect the interests of the parties – the em occupational illnesses , emergencies and fires . ployer and working team in the process of the enterprise productive activity ; I n 2016 investments of OJSC «VSW – manage ment company of «BMC» holding into the labor – improve the enterprise image on product and protection made up B r 2 442 014 . labor markets as well as in the eyes of govern ment authorities as a socially responsible orga I n 201 investments of OJSC “VSW – management nization ; company of “BMC” holding into the labor protec tion made up B r 2 442 014 denominated . – aim the management team at detecting and de creasing the basic risk types related with the T he enterprise does not only increase produc negative impact of the production activity and the tion capacity and industrial product output from released products on the health of its employ year to year , but carries our continuous and ees , population and consumers ; purposeful activity to create and improve safe working conditions . – simplify the system approach to problem solv ing , achieve greater responsibility , more distinct I mprovement of labor conditions responsibility distribution ; A large amount of work to remove outdated – increase labor productivity due to improvement equipment from production and installation of of conditions and reduction of unproductive time advanced equipment meeting all international re and labor waste . quirements of labor safety is carried out within the P rogram of technical revamping . OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding continuously improves the system of la T hese measures helped us to improve labor con Item Indicator 2013 2014 2015 2016 No. 1 Number of recorded accidents 6 7 8 13 Number of the injured including: 6 7 8 13 mortal 0 0 0 1 2 severe 2 2 1 2 group 0 0 0 0 3 Frequency coefficient, Fc 0,44 0,64 0,71 1,2 4 Gravity coefficient, Gc 35,8 57 43,6 21,15 5 Wasted days of working ability 179 399 349 275 Production traumatism indicators  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 89 Social activity  The enterprise does not only increase production capacity and industrial produc output from year to year, but carries our continuous and purposeful activity to create and improve safe working conditions. The enterpriseofdoes Improvement labornot only increase production capacity and industrial produc conditions output from year to year, but carries our continuous and purposeful activity to create and A large2016 amount of work to remove outdated equipment from production and improve 90 safe working conditions. SOCIAL REPORT installation of advanced equipment meeting all international requirements of labor safety i carried out within the Program of technical revamping. BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ditions of the Dynamic development of labor protection law, in31 Number of implemented employees a considerable extent and deto troduction of new technologies and techniques, use of advanced materials in production stipulated the necessity to improve training and qualification measures directed towards crease impact of employees in labor protection. of dangerous ensuring labour safety and hazardous In order to fulfill the educational training of the and improvement of labour p ro d u c tion personnel that services and operates high-risk faprotection conditions. factors. cilities, the corporate Training Center was audited to check its conformity with the national legislaEvery year the plant works out a plan of measures tion and received the consent of the Department providing for labor safety and labour conditions for Supervision of Safe Operation in Industrial improvement. In 2016, the plant implemented 31 and Atomic Power Engineering of the Ministry of measures. Due to the measures taken, working Emergency Situations of the Republic of Belarus conditions of 289 (390 in 2015) employees were for the right to train employees required by the improved. Company and other organizations. Byelorussian Steel Works strives for continuous improvement of its performance in the area of laSocial control for observance of human rights in the area of labor protection bour safety due to improvement of safety of the production processes, motivation of the personnel All stakeholders including the employees are acand interest of the staff in observance of labor tively involved in the process of managing the lasafety requirements. bor protection and industrial safety system. OJSC Obligations of the employer in providing for safe “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding and healthy labor conditions are stipulated in created a system of a two-stage public control. the section “Labor Protection” of the CollecAt the first stage, daily control of observance of tive Agreement of the plant. In accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Belarus in the the provisions of the Collective Agreement the sphere of labor protection, ensuring the employemployees are timely provided with free certified ees right to safe labor and health maintenance is working clothes and shoes, personal protective fulfilled by the public service of health and safety and hygienic equipment, undergo a periodical medexecutives . The service of public executives conical inspection . Some categories of workers are sisting of 473 persons includes reputable employprovided with milk. ees selected by the working team members by open Training and competence evaluation voting. An integral part of the labor protection and inThe executives ’ activities and their authorities redustrial safety system of the enterprise is teachgarding the control of compliance with the labor ing of safe operation of hazardous production faprotection legislation are regulated by Decree cilities, occupational sanitation and labor hygiene. No.179 of the Ministry of Labor and Social SeAn employee’s labor safety greatly depends on curity of the Republic of Belarus “About the prothe thoroughness of his/her professional traincedure of public control of the compliance with ing. Sustaining the high standard of knowledge is the labor protection legislation carried-out by insured by conducting an obligatory labor safety the persons authorized to control an organization instruction, periodical knowledge check and peremployees’ labor protection” dd. 28.11.2008 and sonnel certification regarding safe operation. the Articles of Association of the Belarusian Fed SOCIAL REPORT 2016 91 Social activity  eration of Trade Unions. The executives proceed For stimulation and improvement of personal reto individual work after taking a special training sponsibility of the employees for observance of course at the private unitary enterprise “Educasafe labor rules and norms, a corresponding local tional-Methodic Center of Gomel Regional Trade normative-legal act stipulates material incentives Unions”. of employees who have no violations of the requirements of labor and fire safety, and industrial saniЗа 2016 год проведено 52 324 проверки tary. Besides, Labor Safety column functions in the соблюдения законодательства о труде и охране plant’s information-reference system InfoBMZ (inтруда, в ходе которых выявлено 46 459 нарушений, ternal site). It includes and updates national and loпо результатам проверок выдано 29 875 cal acts related to labor protection and industrial рекомендаций , рассмотрено 508 обращений по safety, the following journals: Labor protection, охране труда. Industrial Safety, Labour and Social Protection, 52 324 Number of inspections in At stage the the second control Rescue Service, Civil Protection, etc. Following the principles of social responsibility of compliance with in addition to obligatory insurance, the employer structural divisions of BSW the legislation and signed an agreement with Promtransinvest Ltd. regarding fulfillment of labour checking operating “About voluntary insurance of civil responsibililegislation and labour safety organization ty of the employer for its employees’ health and protection law. in conformity with life injury”. According to the agreement, beside inlocal regulations surance cases anticipated by obligatory insurance is carried out by 22 public commissions including every employee of the Company was additionally representatives of the structural subdivisions maninsured from non-production accidents occurring agement. Their activity is specified by the Decree within one hour during the way to and from work. of Presidium of the Belarusian Trade Unions Federal Council No. 59 dd. 2.04.2003. Achievement of the following level of the basic target values regarding the works social-economic During 2016, 52 324 inspections were carried out development (in the sphere of labor protection and to check observance of the labour protection law, industrial safety) is scheduled 2017: in the result, 29 875recommendations were issued and 508 requests related to labour protection –– prevent the occupational traumatism growth by were considered. 8% as compared to the level of 2016; At the second stage the control of compliance – provide for additional safety of labor for workwith the legislation and checking operating safety ers of the shops, pers. – 94; organization in conformity with local regulations is carried out by 30 public commissions including – improve production environment of workers of the shops, pers.– 181; representatives of the structural subdivisions management. Their activity is specified by the Decree – improve sanitation and household conditions for of Presidium of the Belarusian Trade Unions Fedthe employees, pers. – 108; eral Council No. 59 dd. 24.04.2003. – improve drinking condition of workers of the During 2015, 50 166 inspections were carried shops, pers. – 35 out to check observance of the labour protection law, in the result, 56 121 non-conformities were Health protection detected, and 3 737 recommendations were issued, 772 requests related to labour protection. Health protection of the plant’s employees is the 92 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS most important integral part of the social policy clinic for 250 visits per shift (total area excluding of OJSC ‘BSW-management company of “BMC” corridors, auxiliary and other rooms) equals to holding . 2386,1 sq.m). It comprises: reception, therapy, department for daily stay for 20 beds, physiotherapeuThe Company medical prophylactic assistance rentics department (including exercise therapy room, dered to the employees is organized in accordance mechanotherapy, inhalatorium, therapeutic massage with the state program of ambulatory assistance to room, and lazar therapy), clinicodiagnostic labothe population and fulfills the tasks related with ratory (with clinical and biochemical departments health protection, medical and sanitary support of to fulfill clinical and biochemical investigations), the production process, disease prevention and folX-ray diagnostics room, WS diagnostics, centrallow-up care, and ensures cooperation of the plant’s ized sterilization dpt., functional diagnostics room divisions in solving issues of labor safety and pro(electrocardiography, spirography, Holter monitection of the employees’ health. toring, SMAD Cardian MD to monitor the level of arterial blood pressure, investigation of cerebral Formation of the strategy and tactics in the area haemodinamics), medical certificate registration of health protection is stated in the comprehensive room, room for preliminary examination, special program “HEALTH-2016” which coordinates the doctors’ rooms: neurologist, traumatologist, ophinteraction of the administration, medical staff, thalmologist, otolaryngologist, urologist, dermaindustrial safety board, members of the community tologist. and consumer facilities, trade union in the area of disease and traumatism prevention and promotion of The medical department is the basis of medical sera healthy lifestyle. vice of the enterprise. Modern medical equipment and high professionalism of medical workers alThe major items of the works social policy and the low investigation with laboratory, functional, and “HEALTH -2016” are: enhancement of the preveninstrumental diagnostics. Doctors of narrow spetive medical aid level; orientation of the medical aid cialties render a wide range of medical services. system at increasing the ambulatory segment efficiency; compliance of the on-site work places with The clinic is equipped with state-of-the-art equipthe technological and sanitary-hygienic norms; imment and its material – technical base is continuprovement of ecological events and environmental ously improved. Medical service can be rendered protection norms; development of the plant perwith temporary interruption of production activisonnel’s strong orientation at healthy lifestyle and ty. In 2016 this form of medical care was used by creation of conditions for improvement of the life more than 97 people, thus giving the possibility to quality. maintain the level of labor productivity and save resources of the social security fund. Treatment and The Company develops and improves its own medical physiotherapeutic procedures are rendered close facilities aimed at bringing medical assistance close to the production on the basis of rehabilitation centhe employees and rendering medical assistance to tres located in the production shops. the citizens of the town and inhabitants of the region. Medical department personnel consists of 136 people including: 31 doctors, 81 – medical personnel OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdwith secondary specialized education and 19 paraing spent USD681 thousand for medical center fimedical specialists . nancing in 2016. 71 % of doctors have qualification categories. 74 The clinic of OJSC “BSW – management company of % of the paramedical personnel are attested for “BMC” holding includes: 9 first-aid stations, a polycategories.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 93 Social activity  The clinic has 7 shop therapeutic stations serving adequate employment. approximately 2017 people each. A local computer network is available at the med208 325 people visited the clinic in 2016. 77,0 % of ical department. In 2009, E-Doctor software was the total number of visits were related to diseasinstalled and has been used in operation; an eleces. During 12 months of 2016, medical assistants tronic ambulatory patients’ cards are maintained. An working at medical rooms fulfilled 496 866 preelectronic mail is available. The medical department shift and pre haul medical examinations. A positive is connected to corporate network of the enterthing in seasonal disease prevention is the possiprise and is equipped with the programs: Personnel, bility for employees to have a voluntary anti flu Lotus-Notes, Consultant +, Working clothes, and vaccination free of charge. SAP. InfoBMZ site has a “Medicine” section where information about medical department work, formaContinuous attention is paid to disease prevention, tion of a healthy way of living, medical articles, and their timely detection and medical treatment. Peripresentations are located. odic medical examinations remain the basic mechanism of the employees’ health control. Examinations give Due to countrywide distribution of chronic disa possibility immediately to detect presence of harmeases, demand for more effective and convenient ful and dangerous production factors and take meamethods of treatment grows. This problem can be sures for their elimination thus allowing prevention solved only subject to the principal emphasis being of professional disease development and helping placed on prevention of diseases and popularization to prevent production traumatism. Workers who of healthy lifestyle. are influenced by dangerous and harmful factors at their work places are additionally thoroughly Medical services are demanded by the citizens of examined including instrumental laboratory studour region. In 2016 proceeds from paid medical series and consultations given by narrow specialists vices made up 27268. considering industry peculiarities and profession Effectiveness of medical and health of a worker. Within the framework of this project, promotion programs more than 13952 employees including 10100 people obliged to pass medical examination and 2296 women Means invested in the Company employees’ health, were thoroughly examined in 2016. A single promedical service quality enhancement and implemenfessional disease was detected. Due to dispensary tation of modern treatment methods together with group change 179 people were recommended a more successful realization of the employees’ health 94 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS promotion program in sanatoriums and vacation arate annual plan is developed at the plant’s hostel houses allows us to sustain the positive dynamics for single people to prevent HIV /AIDS. of lowering the employees’ disease. During 2016 Byelorussian Steel Works arranged In the result of prevention and early detection of a number of events under the program “Health @ diseases, indicators of the employees’ health imwork” were arranged including information and proved at OJSC “BSW – management company of consultative meetings with the Company personnel, “BMC” holding as well as quality of their life. Displacing of information and educational materials eases with temporary disability made up 829,78 days dedicated to the problem of HIV-infection disseminaper 100 employees in 2016, which is 16,66 days less tion and preventive measures on specialized stands than in 2015. Since 2011, the disease level of BSW located at hostels, the sport facility, the Palace of employees decreased from 1228,54 to 829,78 days Culture, structural divisions and medical center as per 100 of employees or by 32,46%. well as informing of the employees via mass media. OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdWhen hiring new employees, they are informed ing takes part in implementation of the national proabout the “Health @ work” program. Specialists of gram of demographic safety aimed at improvement the pant medical department participate in the work of the condition of pregnant women and those who of the district interagency committee for prevengave birth to children, preparation for childbirth tion of HIV/AIDS and venereal diseases. and upbringing. Within the framework of implementation of the reSpecialists of the medical centre directly particigional action timed to the Worldwide day of AIDS pate in a purposeful sanitary educational work reprevention a representative of Byelorussian Steel lated to prevention of tuberculosis and AIDS. Works participated in the seminar – workshop “Organization of information-educational work dedicatSince 2010, Program “Health @ work” operates ed to HIV.AIDS prevention at enterprises, organiat Byelorussian Steel Works realized within the zations, and institutions of Zhlobin district” on the framework of the project of Belarusian Red Cross basis of Zhlobin district organization of Belarusian “HIV prevention in the labour field”. Aim of the Red Cross. project: improvement of HIV prevention means in labour field and improvement of efficiency of their For monitoring of the quality of medical-preventive implementation, as well as solving of employees’ aid and target programs we use the practice of inproblems relating to maintenance of reproductive terviews with the specialists of the medical center health, arrangement of events relating to disease and the recipients of the services. The management prevention, formation of a responsible behavior and of the medical center takes their recommendations adequate attitude to people having human immunodeinto account. ficiency virus. Rating of the medical center work in 2016 is pos“Health @ work” program allows the plant’s emitive and is at the high level of 0,70 (in 2015 the ployees to realize the importance of the problems satisfaction index was 0,68). relating to HIV-infection and timely protect their health. Social package of benefits and guarantees of the employees BSW developed a policy of counteraction to HIV-infection spread approved by the General Director. Supporting social development of the employees Every year, an annual plan of measures to prevent and local community, Byelorussian Steel Works folHIV-infection is developed at the enterprise. A seplows the principles of a responsible business practice  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 95 Social activity  formulated in the UN company of “BMC” holding social policy are: 2,5 The amount of financGlobal Compact other acts. and international – creation of favorable conditions for the workers and their families for solving all the welfare issues: treatment and medical service, saving of reproductive ing of social programs OJSC “BSW – manhealth, health improvement and vacations, promotion in 2016 ($ mln) agement company of of healthy lifestyle standards, improvement of living “BMC” holding realconditions and cultural service; izes that in present day business conditions sustainability of an enterprise is determined not only by the – rendering of social and voluntary support for peneconomic efficiency factors, but by parameters of sioners, the disabled, children, the Company employees having large families; effectiveness of the corporate social policy as well. Long-term business stability depends on the so– offering of a sponsorship and beneficent aid for cial-economic stability of the region of the enterprise’ sport organizations and organizations representing operation. Corporate social responsibility policy in other spheres of social life; respect of own employees and local communities is offering of a wide scope of quality services for the a strategic direction of the enterprise’ activity. Eminhabitants of the town and surrounding area by the ployees are the main resource of the Company for obsocial services. taining competitive benefits. Long-term business stability depends on the social-economic stability of the OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holdregion of the enterprise’ operation. Corporate social ing makes considerable investments into education and responsibility policy in respect of own employees and personnel qualification enhancement, labor conditions local communities is a strategic direction of the enimprovement, ensuring employees social security. It terprise’ activity. Employees are the main resource of participates in solving socially significant issues in the the Company for obtaining competitive benefits. region considering this activity to be a constituent part of its business and social investments into the The plant invests considerable resources in formation inherent element of corporate responsibility. In orof an interested, responsible personnel, improvement der to stimulate labor productivity improvement and of labour conditions, and provision of social protecpersonnel management cost optimization, in addition to tion to the employees. salary, Byelorussian Steel Works uses a social packThe social policy of the enterprise promotes mainteage that made up over USD807 per employee in 2015. nance of competitive benefits of the Company, forms a The Company social sphere expenditures at the exhighly-qualified team of employees able to work effipense of profit equaled to USD 3,2 million including: ciently in the conditions of a tough competition. – medical service USD0,9 mln FB In 2016 OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding fulfilled social programs based on the – metallurgical college USD 0,9 mln; Collective Agreement in accordance with the budget for the social area at the expense of own assets of – hostels USD 0,3 mln; the plant and Social Insurance Foundation of the Republic of Belarus. In 2015 OJSC “BSW – management – Palace of Culture of Metallurgists USD 0,1 mln; company of “BMC” holding continued to fulfill its ob– others (museum, canteens)USD 1,0 mln. ligations of the main directions of social programs in spite of a complicated economic situation in 2015, Byelorussian Steel Works implements its social politheir financing made up USD3,2 million. cy in the following priority directions: Priority directions of OJSC “BSW – management – labor safety; 96 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – rest and health promotion of the employees and of social insurance is regularly brought to the attentheir family members; tion of chairmen of the trade union committees of the shops, is allocated on information stands and issued – physical culture and sport development; in the newspaper “Metallurg.Information about avail– cultural life of the works employees; ability of vouchers in the area of social insurance is regularly brought to the attention of chairmen of the – solving of the living conditions issues of the emtrade union committees of the shops at the meetings ployees; of the trade union activists, is allocated on informa– support of large families; tion stands and issued in the newspaper “Metallurg. – social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids Physical culture and sport development and other categories of lower-income citizens; Physical culture and sport is a constituent part of a healthy lifestyle, hence forming the demand in – child care. regular sport activities with workers is a priority Health promotion and rest time direction of the social policy of OJSC “BSW – manof the employees and their families agement company of “BMC” holding. This type of activity is specified by the corresponding provisions and OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding clauses of the Collective Agreement with direct parstrives for improvement of the conditions for health ticipation of and financial support by the trade union promotion and rest of its employees as well as all committee of OJSC “BSW – management company of stakeholders in the town of Zhlobin and region. At “BMC” holding. present Byelorussian Steel Works offers high-quality services that can satisfy any client. “Dneprovskiye At present, the plant offers its sport and recreation Zori” recreation center is located on a picturesque center for the employees and the town residents to bank of the Dnieper river, in a pine forest and is meant go in for sports and conduct outdoor activities. Refor organizing sport and cultural events. In 2016, alization of the Company social mandate regarding the 1847 people had rest there (1670 people in 2015). development of the mass physical culture and sport and following healthy lifestyle are assigned to this Every year Company employees and members of their facility having three gyms: for exercising, playing families spend holidays in sanatoriums and vacation games and tennis. houses of the Republic of Belarus. Financing of health promotion programs and sanatorium-resort During school vocations a traditional New Year chiltherapy is fulfilled on the principles of a joint pardren’s tournament in mini-football was held in the centicipation at the expense of the works budget, state ter. Sport contest “The Fatherland Defender” was social insurance and employees’ means. also held in 6 kinds of sport among youth teams of the enterprises of “Byelorussian Metallurgical ComHealth promotion of the employees and their family pany” holding and the plant’s structural divisions, members is fulfilled out of profit and social insurance as well as XXVIII International light-athletics race assets. In 2016, 124 vouchers were received from the dedicated to the Day of Metallurgists participated by social insurance assets. 183 people had rest at health 259 sportsmen including athletes from Russia and the resorts and sanatoriums of the Trade Union FederaUkraine. tion at 25% discount. The Company employees support the honor of the enFor health promotion and summer rest of the employterprise at the competitions of various levels; some of ees’ children in 2016 the plant bought 920 vouchers them are acting participants of the national teams of and spent Br551700,00 out of the plant’s profit. the Republic of Belarus. Plant’s basketball team is a Information about availability of vouchers in the area member of the non-professional basketball league of  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 97 Social activity  the Republic of Belarus, plant’s volleyball players collective visits to the town sport and recreation make the basis of the team playing in the 1st league of center, Ice Palace, swimming pool and aqua-park, the Republic of Belarus. sport facilities of the republic: Silichi, Logoisk, and others. Priority work directions of the sport and recreation center are: Engaging the Company employees into sport activities contributes to both their health-improvement – organization of sport and health promotion as well and forming specific corporate spirit of the enteras mass sport work at OJSC “BSW – management comprise that helps to solve the most challenging propany of “BMC” holding; duction problems. – strengthening the Company employees’ health, enThe trade union committee of the enterprise plays hancing their working efficiency, stress resistance, a significant role in realization of the policy of a healthy lifestyle promotion; healthy lifestyle at Byelorussian Steel Works. – satisfaction of the Company employees’ needs for Br73841,00 were spent for organization of sport systematic sport and physical culture activities, the activity from the trade union budget. Season tickets employees’ health promotion, formation of physically for hockey matches and swimming pool membership developed and healthy citizens; cards at SDC of Zhlobin (Br30390,00) were bought by the trade union committee. – engaging children and teenagers in regular sport activities. Investing in sport infrastructure, the plant supports the development of the sport of high achieveMain form of involving employees in sport activities is ments, sport popularization in particular among annual all-the-year-round young people. 1858 Number of participants sport contest. In 2016 the Company arranged 61 events Cultural life of the plant employees participated by 2455 people. An important part of the social policy of OJSC “BSW of the all-year-round The main form of engage– management company of “BMC” holding is creation sport contest ment of the employees in of conditions for promotion and spreading of modin 2016 sport activity is the allern culture of effective corporate social practice year-round sport contest. and development of the creative potential of the emNumber of people participating in the ХIII contest in ployees. During 25 years, a key role in organization 2016 equaled to 1858 people. of cultural life of the employees and the region has been played by the Palace of Culture of MetallurPlant’s teams took part in the following sport events: gists. It is true to consider the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists to be the center of mass, cultural district sport contest among enterprises of the town and educational work directed towards satisfaction of Zhlobin (1st place); of spiritual and cultural needs of all categories of light athletic relay race dedicated to the Victory citizens Day (1st place); in 2015 Dance Show “Chance” was given the title of a running in the festival Minsk Polo Marathon (30 emclassic group. 16 creative teams and amateur associaployees of the plant). tions work at the Palace of Culture: 8 for grown-ups and 8 for children which unite 670 people (568 of In order to organize the workers’ leisure time and them are children). 6 collectives were given the honpromote healthy lifestyle among employees and their orable title of “People’s” and “Classic’: in 2015 Dance family members the Company implemented a program of Show “Chance” was given the title of a classic group. 98 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 29 of November the staff of Steel Wire Shop № 2 achieved designed capacity of small section wire mill for monthly production ahead of time: the workers of brigades №№1,3 produced 57 500th tons of rolled product for particular customers’ orders.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 99 Social activity  Various cultural events of educational, aesthetic, enderly People Day, Plant’s Birthday (October), Agritertaining character for different audiences and age cultural Workers’ and Processing Industry Worker’s groups take place at the Palace of Culture. A list of Day (November), etc. events is varied: different parties, discotheques, perAmateur actors of the Palace of Culture took part formances and shows, concerts dedicated to holidays in the festive program dedicated to the day of Unity and jubilees, contests, amateur arts festivals, karaoke of Russian and Belarusian people, events timed to the shows, etc. Day of Belarusian written language in the town of RoThe Palace of Culture does not only cheer people gachyov, etc. but develops talents, gives people the possibility to On the Day of Children’s Defense, dance show team be occupied with their favorite hobby, make the leisure “Shans” participated in the requiem meeting organized time of steel makers and the inhabitants of the town at the memorial to children – war victims in the settlespiritually rich and interesting. ment of Krasny Bereg. Amateur drama team “Viaduk” 19 creative teams and amateur associations work at and dance show team “Shans” took part in the festive the Palace of Culture: 8 for grown-ups and 11 for fair “Lessons of Handicraft” held in the estate of Kochildren which unite 700 people (620 of them are chilzel-Poklevsky in Krasny Bereg organized within the dren). 6 collectives were given the honorable title of EC/PROON project “Assistance to local develop“People’s” and “Classic’. ment in the Republic of Belarus”. Teams of the Palace of Culture presented their creative programs in the All events held at the Palace of Culture are intertown of Rechitsa, Rogachyov, and other towns of related and directed towards Gomel region. 6186 Number realization of certain programs of an enlightening, In March 2016, a very bright and original program “Nice aesthetic, entertainment Pancake Festival” was organized. Citizens and guests of character for various audiZhlobin became direct participants of a dramatized show of participants ence and age categories. with games, contests, and competitions. of cultural mass events 388 events were held in the A great emphasis of its activity is placed by the Palace Palace of Culture in 2016 engaging 6186 people: of Culture on work with children. Thus, a traditional song and dance festival “Christmas Music Staircase” among them 3608 children and 275 plant’s employees. was successfully held in January 2016. Over 200 chilDuring 2016 a number of cultural mass events were dren took part in it. Entertaining dance programs for organized dedicated to different holidays including children, concerts with participation of members of professional ones. children’s groups of the Palace of Culture are always in demand with the citizens. Traditionally a concert of -Solemn events dedicated to the 20th anniversary children’s collectives “A radiant sun – a present to my of the copying centre, 15th anniversary of the chief mum” was organized on March 8 dedicated to the Wommetrological engineer’s department (January), 25th en’s Day. In April-May amateur groups of the Place anniversary of steel wire shop No.2 (march), 20th of Culture presented their summary programs to the anniversary of the TMS (June), 5th anniversary of attention of spectators based on the results of the the Research Centre of BSW (August), ceremonial “school year” and in June a contest program “Princess awarding of the winners of the “Professional Olymof the Fairyland” was held. pus” (February), an event dedicated to the Women’s Day “Women, Love, Spring”, concerts dedicated to the A big work was done by specialists of the Palace of Militia Day (March), Medical Worker’ Day (June), VicCulture to arrange vacations rich in content. Entertory Day (May), Independence day , Metallurgists’ Day taining dance parties were organized for children: (July), Teacher’s Day (September), Mother’s Day, ElBirthday parties, “In Search for Treasures”, “Funny 100 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Adventures of Minions”, “About Etiquette SeriExemplary variety dance group “Feierverk” (Fireworks) ously and Just for Fun”, “We are Pirates”, a perfortook part in national patriotic action of the TUF of Bemance “A Chained Wolf or a Magic Seal”, etc. larus We are together” (the town of Svetlogorsk), in the international festival “Danсe of Europe” (Minsk) Organization of family parties serves to strengthen and became the1-class winner in the nomination “Chilfamily values and unity. Contest for families “Janudren Dance”, it was among the three finalists of Belarary Carnival”, “Father’s Daughters” aroused a great usian championship in sport ballroom dances (Minsk). interest. In 2016, a new game program for family rest was arranged: a quest journey “Along the MagThe creative team of the Palace of Culture in in conic Pathways”. Opening of a café “ARToshka” allowed stant search for new forms of organization of leisure arrangement of regular entertainment programs: “In of the citizens. Its activity completely justifies its high the Country of Unlearned Lessons”, “Corporation mission. Being the centre of cultural life of the plant, of Miracles” “Daughters-Mothers”, birthday parties town and region, the Palace of Culture is an important for children “Eniki-Beniki” etc. Since October 2016, constituent part of the corporate strategy of OJSC a school for early development of children from “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding. 2-4 years old “Ostrovok” (little island)” started its work. Work of the school is aimed at harmonious Solving of employees’ housing problems development of children: their cognition, indepenAn important part of the social policy of OJSC “BSW dence, desire for learning, and development of their – management company of “BMC” holding is engaging creative potential. and promoting young highly-professional production Participation in contest and festivals helps amateur staff. Provision with housing is one of the key factors groups of the Palace of Culture to raise the level of the working team stability and social attractiveof their professional skills. Within the framework ness of the enterprise. of the year of culture, the Trade Union Federation As of 31.12.2016, the list of employees in need of of Belarus made special mention of work of the improvement of their living conditions contained 766 brass band and vocal group “Alore” on November people (31.12.2015 723 people), 188 families are 24. In January, “Alore” group took part in the nawaiting for a room in a family hostel (31.12.2015 tional trade union creative contest of work teams 229 families). During 201, 127 employees were reg“New names of Belarus-2016”. In July, dance group istered as needed accommodation and 181 are waiting “Crystal” won the grand prix of the youth music for a place in a hostel. 42 people were taken off the festival “We are united we are young” in the town book due to the receipt of a flat and 222 due to the of Mikashevichy. In February, exemplary folk song receipt of a place in a hostel. group “Skomoroshina” became the winner of the regional contest prize “A Russian Portrait in BeThe plant’s balance includes 6 family hostels with 726 larusian Interior”. In April, a soloist of the vocal families (or 2316 people dwelling in them) and one group “Fantazyory” became the 1st class winner in hostel for single people with 328 dwellers. Living the nomination “Solo Singing” of Belarusian festival conditions of the hostels are considerably improved of children’s humour “Yumorinka” (Minsk), in Ocbecause of capital repairs held in accordance with tober the soloists of the group took part in the II the schedules and modernization of utilities and heat International Festival-Contest of Musical creative points resulting in reduction of municipal payments. activity “New Style” (Minsk) and won the 1st class The housing department considers employees applidiploma in the nomination “Vocal Singing” and the 1st cations related to living issues. The housing comclass laureate diploma. In November, they participatmittee carried out 19 inspections of living condied in the IV Open Contest “Chrystal Lyre” (Minsk) tions of the employees. and occupied the 2nd place in the nomination “Vocal Singing (juveniles)“. For maintenance of living-municipal facilities $325  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 101 Social activity  Description 2015 2016 172 women 187 women Material assistance Mat. assistance Payments for birth of a child (lump sum allowance) 206 200 000 0 allowances 3 307 804 200 allowances 390 391,09 514 477 Payment for nursing a child under 3 women women 13 975 949 530 1 627 284,19 Payments for purchasing school uniform 277 020 000 37 107,00 Providing one day-off 277 848 000 2 490,60 vouchers vouchers The means for children’s health improvement 6 461 789 070 555 979,68 73 children 72 children Payments for the families raising the disabled children Material assistance Mat. assistance under 18 18 250 000 2 160,00 allowances 986 461 090 allowances 114 607,25 Arrangements for the workers’ families support 292 were spent in 2016. h ol d in g , For maintenance of living-municipal 292 were spent in 2016. facilities $325 f a m ilies are provided priv51 699 Amount of supplements paid by Support of large families ileged and BSW to non-working pensioners Implementation of the purposeful social support of p artially in 2016 (Br) paid vouchemployees of OJSC “BSW-management company of ers to san“BMC” holding is carried out by way of a flexible sysatoriums and vacation houses. One of the events for tem or benefits and compensations. Based on the printhe workers’ families social support are annual payciples of the state policy declaring that children have the right to a special care and assistance, and a family ments for purchasing school uniforms and monthly should be provided with the required protection and provision of a paid day-off for the mothers who have encouragement as the main social unit and natural envimore than three children. ronment for growth and wellbeing of all its members, Social support of unemployed pensioners, OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding invalids and other categories of people arranges events to support complete and incomplete not sufficiently provided for families and those having four and more children under 18 so as to continue the development of the maBusiness initiatives have great impact on the proternity and childhood support. The aim of the activicesses of social development in the country and ties is to increase the status of families and improve their results change the public ideas of the living their life quality. According to the provision regardquality norms. A pensioner, who receives a corpoing health-improvement and sanatorium-resort therarate pension in addition to the state one, is better py at OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” protected when he/she gets old. Work with veter102 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ans, invalids and other categories of the needy is organizations representing the interests of various carried out at OJSC “BSW – management company categories of the employees, the works implemented of “BMC” holding based on “recipient-oriented” so«Be Aware of a Human!» system since April 2005. cial support both in the form of financial payments and using a wide range of social facilities: the clinOJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding creates the social partnership system that is a ic, the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists, sport foundation for mutually beneficial cooperation in and recreation center. collaboration with the trade union organization and There are more than five forms and directions of other social organizations. rendering social support which were used by over Sustaining a close relationship with the manage1000 people. ment, the Public Organizations Council conducts An important line in the social support policy is a its activity at the enterprise. It acts in the interests monthly material aid for unemployed pensioners. of the employees forming an active public position Since 01.11.2012 changes and amendments were inof each work team member. troduced in the Collective Agreement anticipating The Council includes the representatives of: growth of additional payments to some categories of former employees. At present, the amount of the – trade union organization; monthly pension supplements varies depending on the record of service and awards. In 2016 these primary organization of “Belarusian Republican supplements made up Br790 557,05. Youth Union” public association; The financial aid is provided in connection with re– Veteran’s Union; tirement. In 2016 the amount of this aid was Br51 – primary public organization “Belarusian Women’ 699,44. Union”; Those pensioners who do not work get material – international soldiers’ organization; assistance on holidays, jubilees, because of hard economic condition, for medical treatment and purYoung Specialists’ Union; chasing of expensive medicine; other social payments – Foremen Union; are effected. Physical Culture Team’s Union. A material aid is rendered to those employees who have disabled children. In 2016 this aid amounted to In order to ensure the efficient realization of the Br2160. employees’ rights and establish confidential relations with all stakeholders, the Public OrganizaA special place in the social program is occupied tions Council keeps an active collaboration with by provision of the unemployed pensioners with the representatives of the regional social service treatment in the plant’s clinic, sport and recreation centre; region and district law enforcement agencenter services, the services rendered by the Palcies; central regional; hospital and clinic of OJSC ace of Culture at a reduced charge. Every year the “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding; leveterans are subscribed to the plant’s newspaper gal services of the Company and the region. “Metallurg” free of charge. The trade union organization Social partnership OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” In order to improve moral and physiological climate holding establishes a mutually beneficial relationof the work team, solving the issues regarding the ship and develops a collective agreement with the collaboration coordination of the management and trade union organization based on the norms and  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 103 Social activity  principles of the Tariff Union Committee being members of the Regional Trade 96,5 Agreement between Trade union memberProfessional Union of concluded Union Association Council, members of the Belarusian Belarusian Trade Union Federation Council. Based on the results of the contest of Belarusian ship of the plant’s Industrial Workers, trade union of industrial employees, primary trade employees (%) Belarusian Profesunion organization of OJSC «BSW-management sional Union of Metalcompany of «BMC» holding confirmed the title of workers, the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of the best in 2015 (similar to 2014). Belarus, Republican Association of Industrial Enterprises. The Agreement sets the principles of regulatT he social partnership document which allows ing trade and social-economic relationships as well as strengthening of social legal security of the en guarantees and privileges for the employees, mutual terprise employees is the C ollective A greement . responsibilities and liabilities of the parties. The aim of T he A greement regulates social benefits and the Agreement is joining together the efforts of the lump sum benefit payments , additional payments parties for attaining social-economic stability and comand financial awards , the size of which directly petitive ability of the industry organizations, increasdepends on the results of production financial ing the employees’ living standard, observance of their activity of the entire enterprise work team . T his legal rights and interests and creating a system of the document establishes supplementary , as compared employees’ comprehensive social protection. to the active legislation , provisions regarding labor conditions and payment , social and residen The plant recognizes that the objective of the trade tial provision of the workers , compensations and union is not limited to protecting the employees’ rights other privileges . T he C ollective A greement stip and influencing labor relationships. It is also a certain ulates various forms of financial payments , bo indicator of the public mood. The trade union expressnuses , awards following the results of the work es the working teams’ reaction to the social and ecoduring the year , for the service record , sums of nomic policy implemented by the enterprise and conthe bonuses for a high qualification , professional tributes to its timely adjustment. The dialogue of the skill and others , sets guarantees and privileges management and representatives of the working teams for the families with children . B esides , no person is especially important to be established in the situation is left alone in a challenging life situation ; this when the works, as a part of the world financial and aid is also stipulated by the main document of the economic system, experiences difficult times and seeks employees ’ team . for the opportunities to enhance their efficiency. I n order to comply with the C ollective Agreement , In their practical activity the parties are guided by the in 2016 the T rade U nion C ommittee financed the principles of social partnership, such as legal equality following : of the parties, compliance with the legislation norms, considering real opportunities for performance of • allowances to parents for the birth of a child the assumed obligations, obligatory fulfillment of the -B r 37620,00 arrangements and responsibility for the obligations • N ew Y ear’ s presents for children and employees assumed. Br93254,76 The trade union organization of OJSC “BSW – man• cultural events Br332893,34 agement company of “BMC” holding unites 11 054 people that is 96,5% of the total number of the employ• sport events Br73841,00 ees. In order to observe the rights and legal interests • presents for the employees’ jubilees B r26459,08 of the workers the employees represent the Company in the regional association and in the Republican Trade • presents for the retiring employees Br37243,89 104 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • supporting of veterans Br419,98 – Z hlobin primary organization of B elarusian as sociation of assistance to disabled children and material support Br197010,68 young people ; A continuously operating body of social partner ship is the C ollective Agreement C ommission that –B elarusian association of weak sighted people; controls fulfillment of the obligations assumed . – establishment “O lympic R eserve C enter of the It consists of representatives of the management town of Z hlobin ”; and the T rade Union Committee. The constant di alogue results in reaching the agreement regard – other organizations. ing salary issues , optimization of the management O ne of the priority directions of the T rade U nion structure , ensuring healthy and safe labor con activity is creating conditions for full fledged ditions , implementing privileges for the employees physical and moral development of the employees that have a determined social targeting . M ainly all and younger generation . T he T rade U nion C om sections of the Collective Agreement were ful mittee of OJSC “BSW – management company of filled in 2016. “BMC” holding is the founder of the O lympic re Charity and sponsorship is one of the activities of serve sport school for children and young peo the works . B eing an active member of the charita ple (ORSSCYP) and the children ' s club “F akel ” ble campaign “T rade unions – to children ” in 2016 attended by over 520 children . T he children are it granted B r 6898,48 to : professionally trained by 10 coaches. – Z hlobin department of education , sport , and P upils of the sport school for children and young tourism ; people became winners and awardees of champion – Z hlobin Regional Social Service Centre; ships and competitions of the R epublic of B elarus . 29 of May ice-hockey club “Metallurgist-Zhlobin” celebrated tenth anniversary.  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 105 Social activity  This year 3 pupils became candidates to masters of 2016, the library prepared and carried out 40 thesports of the R epublic of B elarus ; 1 pupil became matic information educational events : information a master of sports of the international level , 9 lessons “A ge of anxiety and errors ”, “U nusual children fulfilled the norms of the 1 st grade ; 1 museums ”, game programs “M erry V ocations ”, “I n pupil of the sport school joined the O lympic re the land of unlearned lessons ”, literature games serve school , the top link of sport training . and quizzes “W hen yellow coins fall from twigs ”, “What is more precious than gold” “I n the land of The trade union committee spent Br10000,00 in a merry childhood ”, “A round dance at the win 2016. ter gates ”, excursions for preschool and primary I n compliance with the program of working with school pupils to the library, arrangement of theyounger generation , for sustaining and improve matic bookshelves and exhibitions . ment of relationships between the family , school 158 children study at the trade union club “Fakel ” and local community , strengthening the family , in the following directions : protection of maternity and childhood under the auspices of the Trade Union Committee a commis sport and health improvement (calisthenics, gension for family and school assistance has been eral physical training ); working since 2005. visual and decorative and applied arts (“M asI n order to improve organization of leisure rich in terilka ”, “Rukodelnyi Teremok” (F ancywork L ittle content and satisfy needs of the employees , trade Tower”). union members of OJSC ‘BSWmanagement compa L essons are carried out free of charge . Teachers ny of “BMC” holding , and members of their families and participants of the L eisure C entre prepared in informational , intellectual , cultural , and moral and carried out more than 80 various events in development , the trade union library and trade 2016. union club “F akel ” were reorganized in a L eisure Centre in F ebruary 2016. The role and influence of the trade union orga nization at the enterprise is significant . But the The trade union library contains 36047 books assessment of its activity in 2016 given by the (36189 books in 2015). The library is a unique one employees during a complex investigation of the because the plant ’ s employees , their children , and social and psychological climate in the teams of citizens of Z hlobin and students can always find structural divisions was a little lower than be the required literature , or their request for a fore : index of satisfaction with the trade union certain book can be accepted , and they may get a work equaled to 0,66 ( in 2015 – 0,71). professional advice . Primary organization Br27097,54 from the trade union budget were of ROO «Belaya Rus» spent for purchasing new literature and for sub scription of over 2000 veterans to periodicals . In order to interest plant’s employees in active parThe library numbers over 3258 regular readers . ticipation in the life of the country, engage them During the previous year the number of visits to in solving of actual challenges of development of the library equaled to 2993 (35367 in 2015), and Belarus and society on the basis of free consolida87016 books were given out (106161 in 2015). tion, a primary organization of Belaya Rus association was established at the enterprise in 2009. ToSo as to increase the role of books and reading in day the organization numbers 274 BSW employees. a modern society , bring up the younger generation in love for an artistic word , attract attention to In order to fulfill aims and goals of this public orlibrary ’ s activity , promote belles lettres litera ganization, members of the plant’s primary organizature and replenishment of the book stock during tion apply the following methods: 106 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – cooperate with state organs, community, and oththe National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus: er employees’ associations in all directions of their 27 people were supervisors, worked in district and activity; local electoral committees, in the initiative group supporting BSW employee – main specialist for – participate in preparation and conducting of elections; steelmaking Vyacheslav Ivanovich Diachenko who – carry out educational, informational, cultural, won the elections. and sport activity at the enterprise according to the Nowadays, “Belaya Rus” has become a real conprocedure established by the law of the Republic of structive public force: big and small deeds useful Belarus. At present, Belays Rus has many useful for the society and needed by people helped it to and good deeds to its credit: charity and social acts gain authority with people and strengthen its image. aimed at support of young specialists and families, veterans and disabled people; it popularizes healthy Primary organization of BRYU way of living, and cultivates patriotism. Realization of the state youth policy by the works To teach civil liability, consciousness, cultivate love is built on the principle of mutual cooperation with for the Motherland is possible only by personal the primary organization of “Belarusian Republiexample and by certain deeds. People follow those can Youth Union” Young Specialists’ Union, Trade ones who show initiative and do real work. Thus, one Union Committee and other public organizations of the first members of the plant’s primary organizaacting at OJSC “BSW – management company of tion of RSA “Belaya Rus” Sergei Mikhailovich Bor“BMC” holding. The Company corporate program shchov, BSW veteran, printed a 24-volume edition “Youth” is carried out by conducting an open con“The Great Patriotic war of 1941—1945 “ at his own structive dialogue with the stakeholders and conexpense. The books were issued by the Ministry of tinuous improvement of the methods of informing, Defense of the Republic of Belarus and presented feedback and cooperation to the historical department of GSU named after F. Skorina. There is no doubt that such present helps In conformity with the state strategy in youth the young generation not to forget its history and policy the program implemented at OJSC “BSW always distinguish truth from fictitious facts. – management company of “BMC” holding sets the priorities and cooperation directions for the parIn August 2016, young activists of the organization ties concerned with regard to creating favorable participated in a special mission: they helped citizens conditions for the development and realization of of the town of Rogachyov to prepare for the day of the youth’s potential in various spheres of the acBelarusian written language. On BSW birthday (Octivity via: tober 15) the plant’s primary organization of RSA “Belaya Rus” carried out a traditional action “I am – civil formation, spiritual and ecological education proud of my plant!” and handed out symbolic presents of the youth; at the plant’s entrances. – support of research and technology creativity; In 2016, members of “Belaya Rus” arranged regular visits to patients of Kirovsky nursing hospital. Fes–youth cooperation and creative potential development; tive programs were organized and presents for the invalids and single elderly people living at the estab– healthy lifestyle and tourism development; lishment were given on the New Year’s Day, Christmas, Easter and other significant dates and holidays. improvement of the youth social security protection. It is worth mentioning that in 2016 members of “Belaya Rus” actively participated in the campaign Traditional meetings of young specialists to exfor election to the House of Representatives of change work experience with the youth and repre SOCIAL REPORT 2016 107 Social activity  sentatives of: The following actions became traditional: – state authorities; “Let’s prepare a school bag for a first former” aimed at preparation of children from poor families – regional, town veterans’ unions of Gomel refor the school year beginning; gion; – “BSW Youth – to Veterans”. Veterans and par– young employees of the enterprises included in ticipants of the Great Patriotic War received con“Byelorussian Metallurgical Company” holding; gratulations and presents, they were assisted in – primary organizations of Belarusian Republican improving of living conditions; Youth Union, establishments, organizations and – Beads museum “Flowers of the Great Victory” – enterprises of the region of activity of Byelorusa mobile museum exposition including museum pieces sian Steel Works; showing heroism of Belarusian people and reflect– youth of the industrial enterprises of the Reing history of liberation from fascist invaders. A public of Belarus and CIS countries as part of round table “Dialog of Generations” was organized scientific and technical conferences. for the young people to hear straight from veterans’ lips about the bloody war and mapped up furInforming and engaging of young employees of the ther plans for patriotic movement development. plant in realization of the state youth policy of the Republic of Belarus is carried out using all – “We – to children” – aid to Zhlobin district cenavailable means of mass media: corporate , repubter of corrective and developing teaching and rehalican, regional newspapers and other sources of bilitation in purchasing of stationary; information. The following patriotic actions and actions to supHaving the priority right regarding the realization port healthy lifestyle were arranged: of the “Youth” program, the works primary orga– “Stop! AIDS” nization of Belarusian Republican Youth Union prepares photo-reports, posters, information ma– motor race “By Fatherland Roads”; terials reflecting the issues of realization of the – cycle race “Memory forever”; state youth policy . – BRYU members participated in the election to the At present the organization has 1584 members or House of Representatives of the National Assembly 49,3 % of the youth aged under 31 working at the of the Republic of Belarus. plant. Effectiveness of the organization activity is eviThe most significant activities conducted by the denced by its achievements and awards won in 2016: youth organization of OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding in 2016 were charita– Nikita Samsonov, 2-category engineer of the techble campaigns for collecting of voluntary contrinical development department, became the winner of butions for: the district stage of the republican project “100 ideas for Belarus” with the report “Replacement of – the action “Do good” dedicated to the Internathe existing lighting by LED lighting in BSW engitional day of Disabled People; neering building No.1“; – “All children are ours” for disabled children – Ilya Gorelikov won the 1st place at the Ushu-sanand to support families with a low income with parda Open Cup of Gomel region; ticipation of the Regional center of social service of the population. – KVN team “Vse V Stali” became the champion of 108 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS the 30th jubilee season of KVN Mogilyov league; to veterans, visit them at home, conduct gala nights of honoring the heroes of anniversary, organization – BSW employee Ruslan Buryukov (gas welder) ocof exhibitions of gardening season gifts “Golden cupied the 2nd place and Andrei Kapustin (turner) Sunflower” and work of the amateur clubs: “Neewon the 3rd place in the regional contest of prodlewoman”, “Music Saloon”, “Chess and Draughts”, fessional skill participated by 12 enterprises of the “Veteran Choir”, “Sport Club”. The trade union region. committee assigned Br17905,35 from its fund to Veterans’ Union the Veterans union for different arrangements and over Br21990,00 to subscribe veterans to the The organization unites 2796 ex-employees and plant’s newspaper “Metallurg”. present-time pensioners, who made their contribution into establishment and development of the BeThe organization members don’t stand aside of mass larusian steel industry. events, such as works-wide Olympics in various kind of sport; amateur talent groups competition “Song The entire organization activity was directed toand Work Go Side by Side”; campaigns for providing wards enhancing the status of the elderly, social material support to lower-income families, handirecognition of their destinies and life experience, capped children, visiting evening parties, concerts, participation in social life, overcoming their isolahockey matches of the favorite team in the Ice Paltion, changing the idea of ageing, understanding ace. the story of their life owing to the dialogue of generations. The Veterans’ Union cooperates with Women’s Union the youth organizations of the plant during various I n 2004 on the basis of a free union the works events: admission to membership in BRYU, initiation women established a primary organization “Beinto metallurgist, giving-out diplomas and awards to larusian W omen ’ s U nion ” public association . T he the best young specialists participating in scientific organization unites 1378 people or 30% of the and technical conferences. women working at the enterprise . T he organization It has become a tradition to render material support is headed by a presidium consisting of 15 women –  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 109 Social activity  employees of different structural divisions . The specting the production culture and labor con association acts considering their will and inter ditions ; activities for maternity and childhood ests , cooperates with other public organizations protection , children health improvement and standing on the platform of democratic reforms strengthening of the family , take part in charity in the Republic and contributing to strengthening campaigns. social justice and protection of the population , defending women ’ s interests and rights , increas The Women’ U nion closely cooperates with the ing a woman ’ s role in social , economic , public and R egional S ocial S ervice C entre . W omen of the cultural life . works receive qualified legal and psychological assistance ; there are a trust telephone line and a The Union priority activities are: Young Family Club; teacher editions, booklets and brochures regarding the issues of child upbring • W oman and production, ing and women ’ s issues are developed and given out • W oman and family, to the plant ’ s women . I n collaboration with the Center campaigns “D o G ood”, “They should not • Healthy lifestyle, cry ” and “A S chool B ag ” – to collect clothes and school accessories for children from low income • O rganizational and informational work. families . T he W omen ’ U nion tells the stories about The organization has a significant work experience the women with active life stand, who unsparingly and varies out many good and useful activities . devote a lot of time to social life , on the pag They are: proposals to the Collective Agreement, es of newspaper “M etallurgist ” and TV channel solving problems together with the town authori “N uance ”. T he U nion continuously encourages the ties , meetings with interesting people . works women ’ s initiative in the social life sphere , make regular proposals regarding the issues of M embers of the Women’ s Union participate in in health , labor security and conditions , promoting health of women and their children , pro duction and welfare culture ; takes care of the family strengthen ing , protection of ma ternity and childhood , low income families or families with many children , raising hand icapped children . I n its activity the Women’ Union applies modern technologies . Regular sociological studies on diverse subjects are held . The site of the W omen ’ U nion was 16 of December plant primary organization OC “Belorussian Union of created in the work Women” was admitted as a winner of the Republic competition festival of wise computer net primary and region organizations of this association. work “I nfo -BMZ” 110 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Union of soldiers-internationalists 89 soldiers-internationalists work in structural divisions of OJSC “BSW – management company of “BMC” holding. Issues of their labor, welfare, health improvement are reviewed at Union meetings involving the participation of the management and Trade Union Committee representatives. The union works in close collaboration with international youth organizations giving assistance in patriotic education of the growing generation. The works soldiers-internationalists annually take active participation in: In 2016 the chairman of plant primary –regional festival of Afghan Songs and events dedorganization Alexandr Vasilevich Sintsov was icated to the Day of Memory of Soldiers-Internarewarded with medal “For oath of allegiance” tionalists; established by Union of Officers of Russia. – International festival of military songs in Kalincreative activity of the youth, organizing scientific ingrad; and technical conferences, young employees’ participation in such forums held at other enterprises, – annual regional competition of Afghan songs exchange of experience. “Time chose us”; July 7-8, an International scientific and technical – introduction of proper order in the burial places conference of young specialists “Metal-2016” was of soldiers-internationalists; held. Students of SEE Gomel Engineering Institute of the MES of the RB, STU named after P.O. Sukhoi, – render assistance to parents of soldiers-internaBSTU, BelGUT, BRU, young employees of industritionalists. al enterprises of Belarus, Russia, and the Ukraine Work of this primary organization has always been gathered together: OJSC RHP, OJSC “Uralstal”, considered exemplary. Its members are the most OJSC “Magnitogorsk hardware – calibration plant courageous people, true to one’s duty and honour “MMK-METIZ”, “MZ Dneprostal”, OJSC ‘Beltsvetunited by an active and not indifferent leader. In met”, OJSC “Novolipetsk Metallurgical Plant”,No2016, services of the Chairman of the Union of vokramatorsk engineering plant, OJSC “Beloretsk soldiers-internationalists were marked with medal metallurgical plant”, OJSC “Mogilyov metallurgi“For allegiance to oath” established by Officers’ cal plant”, OJSC “Minsk bearing plant”.. Union of Russia. Total 157 people participated in the conference. Union of young specialists 140 reports were made in its 12 structural groups. Employees of OJSC BSW-management company of Over 350 young specialists work at Byelorussian “BMC” holding took 11 first places, 3 second placSteel Works. The union considers all the issues es and 8 third places. A tournament in bowling, an related with young employees: their adaptation at excursion to the settlement of Krasnyi Bereg was the production, professional growth, research organized within the framework of the conference and technology activity, labor-saving work. An imto visit a memorial complex established at the place portant part of the work is enhancing business and of children concentration camp. Our guests also  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 111 Social activity had an opportunity to get acquainted with the plant was 1850 people. In February 2016, 10th youth operation during their visit to the production and contest “Fatherland Defender” was held. It united the plant’s museum. A round work table was orga165 people (11 teams), and in July a light athletnized for the leaders of the delegations to discuss ics relay race for the cup of the General Director the topic “A system of work with young employees dedicated to the Metallurgists’ Day took place. 15 at the enterprise”. combined teams of the plant’s structural divisions came to the start. The plant’s team took part in the One of the ways of realization of the long-term tourist gathering organized by Priorbank CC. strategy of the staff potential development is selection and direction of young specialists to esMonitoring of public opinion about effectablishments to get post-graduate education so as tiveness of social programs to train its own high-grade scientific staff able to successfully implement the promising program of Results of social public polls are an integral part technical revamping of the plant. of the system of information support of the activity of OJSC “BSW management company of “BMC” Union of foremen holding. High quality of investigations ensuring a The Union organizes its work in close contact with reliable representation of the plant’s employees’ opinion in various matters, allows us to speak about the personnel services and solves urgent issues of the results achieved as having scientific significance 617 foremen of the Company. The Union holds public and useful in practice. Regularly held public polls discussions and develops recommendations regardhelp to provide for efficient work of the feedback ing the enhancement of the foremen role; particimechanism between the plant’s management and its pates in the activities for organizing professional, ideological and economic training of foremen; conemployees; and wide use of their results help to siders the issues of labor and moral education of study different processes and events deeper and the workers, strengthening labor and performance develop most reasonable managerial decisions. discipline, promoting the young workers reserve. Total number of sociological questionings of difSupporting the principles of social responsibility ferent directions and duration arranged in 2016 and developing charity initiatives of the plant, forewas 9. Number of participants equaled to 2812 emmen took an active part in all charity campaigns held ployees and 532 citizens of the region. One of the at the plant. key directions of sociological studies held at the plant is annual monitoring of the social-psychologiUnion of physical training and sports cal climate in the employees teams of the enterprise The Union solves issues of planning, organization held since 2006. It helps to fulfill a comparative analysis of the period studied, to determine dynamics and conducting of sport work in the enterprise of changes at the plant in general and in separate work team. The Union confirms the schedule of structural divisions in particular. 1325 employees conducting sport contests, tournaments, compeof the main and auxiliary shops of the enterprise titions and sportive health-improvement programs; considers the issues of their material and financial took part in the study (11,1% of the total number of the staff). According to the results of the socioprovision. The union organizes all-year-round sport competition of OJSC “BSW – management company logical analysis, total satisfaction of the employees corresponds to a high level (Isat.=0,715 or 72%). of “BMC” holding in 15 kinds of sport and other sport events at the plant. This indicator has been within the high level of satisfaction during five years which allows us to speak In June, 13th all-year-round sport competition of about a stable social and psychological climate in 2015-2016 ended. 29 structural divisions of the the team of OJSC “BSW management company plant took part in it and total number of participants “BMC” holding. 112 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 1 of March it was 25 years from the commissioning day of steel cord production building №2 (SWS-2) – the third construction stage of BSW. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 113 Responsibility for the goods produced 6. Responsibility for the goods produced Striving to be one of the best suppliers of steel to improve customer’s satisfacti ensure Sproduction triving to be one of the best suppliers of B oth producers and suppliers of raw and auxiliary of quality foods, guarantee good service, reduce the risk of failures steel to improve customer ’ s satisfaction , to materials belong to persons responsible for operation, BSW continuously improves management of its production processes. ensure production of quality foods , guarantee defects ( hazard ) of the goods , that is why , BSW Itgooduses various methods in search for new ideas: failure mode and effect an service , reduce the risk of failures during helps its suppliers to develop . F or example , in 2011 (FMEA),operation brain ,attack, 8D, 5 Whys, BSW continuously benchmarking, SWOT – analysis, etc. The following is improves management BSW introduced changes in contract requirements into consideration in risk . assessment: product of its production processes characteristics to suppliers (in requirements . One of the obligatory particular,in its co packing, storage conditions, design of the goods, marking), resolving and user’s quality issues manual. is usage of 8D process of I In some cases the product requirements t uses various methods in search for new ideas : solvingare stricter of supply issuesthose than quality . set in the tec failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA), documentation of national and international associations of producers and standardi brain attack , 8D, 5 W hys , benchmarking , SWOT – analysis , T his process has acquired a reputation of one organizations. All these facts provide for responsibility for production of safe and q etc . T he following is taken into consideration in risk of the most efficient tools for resolving quality products meeting the requirements and expectations of customers. assessment : product characteristics ( in particular , problems of the supplier products in the world To confirm high quality of its products practice BSW . has certificates of conformity of its q its content , packing , storage conditions , design of management system according to such recognized international standards as ISO/TS the goods , marking ), and user ’ s manual . and API Q1. Introduction of the problem solving process developed on the basis of the 8D method ( system Both producers In some casesand suppliers the product of raw requirements areand auxiliary stricter materials belong to persons responsib exclusion of a problem ) will allow suppliers to meet (hazard) defects than of the those set goods, in the technical is why, BSW helps its suppliers to develop. For exam thatdocumentation BSW requirements to management of corrective 2011 BSW introduced changes in contract of national and international associations of requirements to suppliers. One of the obli and preventive measures entirely . producers and standardization organizations . requirements in resolving quality issues is usage of 8D process of solving of supply q issues. All these facts provide for responsibility for General production of safe and quality products meeting This process has acquired a reputation of one of the most efficient tools for res the requirements and expectations of customers . Products manufacturing and packaging are safe quality problems of the supplier products in thefor world practice. human health and environment . Introduction To confirm high the problem ofquality of its products BSW process solving has developed on the basis of the 8D meth (systemcertificates exclusion of a of of conformity problem) will allowThesuppliers its quality management to meet plant ’ s D irector GeneralBSWand itsrequirements deputies management of corrective system according and preventive to such recognized measures international entirely. of the following aspects, as ensure fulfillment standards as ISO/TS 16949 and API Q1. regards product responsibility : External audits External audits 114 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 General Products manufacturing and packaging are safe for human health and environment. BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – ensuring of security and health of customers tons each . The steelmaking process is intensified when in contact with the products ; by the application of gas and oxygen technologies . Deoxidization and alloying of steel is performed – relevant production marking; in a ladle . F inishing of steel chemical composition is performed in special ladle furnaces and vacuum – marketing communication with customers and degassers . S teel is cast by three continuous suppliers ; casting machines ; two of them being six strand units producing billet cross section 125 х 125 mm , privacy of the customer’s employees’ life; and one – a four strand machine for 250 х 300, – compliance with the established requirements. 300х400 mm billets. During production and sales , the plant ’ s The high tech rolling production is represented management implicitly follows principle 1 of the by a modernized small section rolling mill 320, UN Global Compact. In compliance with principle 8 wire rod mill 150, duo reverse rolling mill 850 of the UN G lobal C ompact the plant ’ s management with a set of equipment for production of rolled undertakes initiatives and holds activities aiming sections , structural shapes , wire rod for various at reduction of the production impact on the applications , and reinforcing steel . In mill 320 environment which is covered in the section methods of production of reinforcing steel against “Environmental Protection”. standards of Germany, Holland, Great Britain, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Austria, Poland, and The plant ’ s management ’ s standpoints as per Russia has been mastered and certification of responsibility aspects are outlined in : these types of products by the national authorities of these countries has been carried out ; slitting – Corporate Policy; process with dividing of a bar into several strands has been developed and mastered and this is a new documentation of the Corporate Management and perspective direction in the rolling technique . System listed in this section; Code of Ethics. On September 25, 2015 commissioning of a smallsection mill for production of wire rod and Product life cycle rolled section with special processing (SRS2) took place . I ts construction started in 2012 Structurally, OJSC “BSW – management compay after signing of a contract with Danieli (Italy) of “BMC” holding is composed of three basic in October 2011. The designed capacity of the production lines ( steelmaking , production of rolled new mill is 700 thousand tons per year with the material and steel cord and wire manufacturing ), possibility to increase the finished product output infrastructure shops and subdivisions of the till 1 million tpy. This project will allow the plant enterprise ’ s activity management . The steelmaking to balance its production of steel with in depth production includes a scrap yard and two electric processing and increase the output of hardware melt shops . Acceptance, storage , classification products . I n November 2016, rolling shop No. 2 and processing of scrap are performed in the reached the designed monthly production . O utput scrap yard . The scrap yard is equipped with of rolled section in 2016 equaled to 484 270 overhead cranes and racks used for loading tons . material into charging baskets which are delivered to the melt shops by scrap trucks . T he steelmaking June 2007 witnessed commissioning of a seamless production is represented by three powerful pipe mill . T he key equipment of the pipe mill is electric arc furnaces with the capacity of 100 a pipe assembly including a rotary piercer , a  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 115 Responsibility for the goods produced  4-stand PQF® (Premium Quality Finishing) and a Pipe quality meets the requirements of Russian reducing sizing mill . T he mill operates with three and foreign standards : GOST, DIN, ASTM, API types of billet external diameter 140 mm , 160 mm , 5L, API CT, and EN. P roducts meeting complex and 200 mm . T he key equipment was supplied by requirements of these standards are supplied at SMS M eer (G ermany ). T he designed capacity the customer’s request. of the pipe mill is up to 250 thousand tons per year depending on the product range . T he shop P ipe quality at different stages of the production includes furnaces , rolling mills , billet and batch process is controlled with : saws , the required finishing lines , transportation systems operating within the shop , and auxiliary laser wall thickness measuring unit ”LASUS”, two equipment . S ince commissioning of the pipe mill eddy current surface defect detection devices , an production of more than 250 types of pipe ultrasonic unit for longitudinal defect detection products of various ranges has been mastered . on the pipe surface and body , hydraulic test of pipe tightness with the pressure of up to 600 bar . P ipes produced by the plant are used in engineering , oil and gas production , construction H ardware production is composed of three steel industry , and municipal engineering . wire shops , and a die and tare shop . Scheme of the main production cycles 116 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Steel cord production is a most complicated and services , advantageous and safe for the science intensive process which presupposes consumers ’ health . The best quality assessment of production of brass coated steel wire diameter the plant production is its high competitive ability 0.15 mm out of cast billet size 250х300 mm, capable and continuously increasing sales turnover. of sustaining high mechanical loads . T he plant is the main supplier of such world recognized tire I n order to provide the inner market security , safety manufactures as C ontinental , M ichelin , G oodyear , of the citizens and environmental protection , the Bridgestone, etc. Republic of Belarus, Russia, EC countries Another important hardware product enjoying and some other states keen demand is the wire for high pressure do not allow import 60 Conformity certificates for hoses ( hose wire ). W ith respect to automation of products which are production of various types of and equipment level , wire production is one of not certified for the BSW products in 2016 the highly developed in the world . T he plant ’ s compliance with the specialists are successfully developing and requirements of their national standards . implementing new steel cord constructions taking into consideration global development tendencies Production certification in compliance with and tire requirements of the automotive market . To the requirements of national and international satisfy requirements of the consuming companies , standards was commenced at the enterpise in 1991, plant ’ s specialists developed a wide range of hose and has been successfully performed thereafter . wire types not foreseen by the project including Quality and security of Byelorussian Steel Works high tensile and super high tensile wire . products complying with the requirements of the national standards of its customers is certified by The range of wire production output is not limited conformity certificates issued in Russia, Belarus, by the above mentioned assortment . T he plant the USA, and most of EU countries . F ollowing the produces bead wire , welding copper coated and results of 2016 the enterprise holds 60 compliance non copper coated wire , die rolled cold deformed certificates for various types of products . reinforcing wire for concrete reinforcement , Q uality and security of the C ompany products spring , spoke , nail , general purpose wire and steel and their compliance with normative documents fiber ( anchor , wavy , micro fiber ). is systematically checked in the course of supervisory audits with the frequency established The plant ’ s infrastructure is represented by by the certification rules of every certain country repair shops for power , electrical and mechanical (1, 2, 3, 4 times a year). equipment , production provision with fluids and electric power , railway and automotive transport Confidence in the stable quality of wire production shops , and other auxiliary departments . is ensured by the quality management system existing at the enterprise and certified for the Customers’ health and safety compliance with standard ISO/TS 16949:2009. Main customers of OJSC “BSW – management Quality management system in the hardware compay of “BMC” holding are machine building and production is approved by the representatives motor car construction enterprises , hardware , of wire consuming companies : Michelin (France), tire , pipe and reinforced concrete structure Continental (Germany), Bridgestone (Italy), plants of the neighboring and far away countries Goodyear (Luxembourg), Eaton (the USA, and those of the RB. Germany), Manuli (Italy), Parker (Italy), Diesse Rubber (Italy), Alfagomma (Italy), Knapheide GmbH The plant is aiming at production of quality goods Hydraulic Hoses Werk Thueringen (Germany),  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 117 Responsibility for the goods produced  JSC Kordinant (Russia), etc ., which perform the In compliance with the customer requirements, the counterparty audits . production inspection with respect to radioactive safety is performed at the plant with the The Central Plant Laboratory is accredited for subsequent delivery of the relevant certificates the compliance with ISO/MEK 17025 requirements to customers . since 2009 ( by DA kk S, G erman certification body ). An accreditation certificate valid till 16.12.2019 Packing, storing, handling operations and was received in 2014. delivery of products are performed by the personnel in compliance with the requirements In 2011 Belmet Handelgesellschaft m.b.h. of the enterprise’s standard STP 840-KSM(Linz, Austria), representative of OJSC “BSW 7.5.5 “Production and maintenance. Ensuring the – management company of “BMC” holding in production compliance. Procedure of the finished EC countries and in accordance with REACH product dispatching”. Materials ecologically sound regulation N o . EC 1907 arranged registration of and harmless for human health and environment the chemicals ( manganese , iron , copper and silicon ) are used for packaging . contained in concast billet and bloom as products which further use is accompanied with the chemical Product marking with appropriate composition change . information All other products of our enterprise belong All products supplied to the customers are marked to goods which do not suffer their chemical and accompanied by a quality certificate . T he composition change and do not emit substances in product marking is performed in compliance with the course of further standard use and are not the plant regulations on the marking requirements , subject to registration . and includes information on the manufacturing country , trade mark of the plant , supply All BSW products do not contain substances of contract number , consignment number , country of increased hazard (SVHC). destination , weight and other information . Quality certificates contain quality information of the The main goal of the REACH is to provide high product . level of human health and environment protection , including promotion of alternative methods of Packing and shipment are in accordance with substance hazard assessment , and free turnover the requirements of the existing process of substances within the domestic market of the documentation with consideration of the requests European Union, and enhancing the competitive and requirements of the customers stipulated in ability of chemical industry of the Member the contract . States and facilitating innovative technologies introduction . In 2006, a permit to use the “CЄ” mark on structural steel rolled section was received . In order to inform product consumers on safe application during further processing , safety Marketing communications data sheets for serial production are executed Marketing activity of BSW refers to the in compliance with GOST 30333 and such other competence of the marketing board . technical regulatory legal acts as established by the organization ’ s standard STP 840-KSM-7.5.1.2 Aim of BSW advertising campaign is to form its name “Management facilities of production process . and prestige to occupy and strengthen its market Special processes. Special characteristics of the position ; stimulate sales , improve effectiveness production and special parameters of the process ”. and volume of sales . 118 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Means of product promotion : 3. Product sale promotion (special conditions for regular customers ); 1. Advertising in mass media (press, TV, radio, Internet, press-conferences, public speeches). 4. Sales by catalogues; BSW regularly publishes advertisements and reference materials in journals and newspapers 5. Electronic trade of the RB and RF: ”Mercury”, “Belarusian 6. Direct mail; Exporters”, “Delo”, “Steel”, “Krugozor segodnya” “Novy Dzen” “Respublika, “Gomelskaya Pravda” 7. Direct sales (promotion of goods including “Stroitelnaya Gazeta” “Stroika”, “Znak Kachestva” their oral presentation to sale while speaking with “MetaliInform”, “InformObzor, etc. A concept of potential buyers); a video film “O ur business BSW” was developed about commissioning of an iron kitchen utensils 8. A nnual reports of the C ompany ; production line at OJSC “Z avod “L egmash ” and shooting was organized together with STV and 9. Advertising constructions in the national airport in M insk ; its shooting was organized together with STV. New presentations and distribution advertising 10. Shooting of films-presentations; materials were issued : catalogues of pipe , rolled section , hardware and consumer products , 11. A llocation of an advertisement trailer on advertising leaflets for all types of products the LED screen of the P alace of C ulture of manufactured , leaflets for customers with contact M etallurgists and in O ktyabrskaya square in M insk ; information of the plant and CDN. A dictionary of metallurgical terms , a catalogue of product 12. BSW advertisements at international and packing , a personal organizer , and a booklet about national sport competitions in hockey , volleyball , BSW were designed. weight lifting , etc . 2. Exhibitions, fairs , forums ( one of the key links 13. Every year BSW participates in the national in the system of advertising measures that serve tournament “Best exporter of the year”. a crossing point of a large number of sellers and customers at a certain place and at a certain 14. Sponsorship and charity : BSW took part in time ). I n 2016 BSW participated in 10 international such important for Gomel trigon event as Gomel economic forum – 2015”. exhibitions and fairs in B elarus , R ussia , and far foreign countries : XV international exhibition of Mutually beneficial cooperation piping , pipes , wire , cables , and hardware products , with customers technologies and equipment for their production “TUBE 2016, WIRE 2016”; international exhibition Our customer base was formed on the basis of a of foundry “LitmetExpo-2016”; “Belarusian long-term work of BSW and customers taking into Industrial Forum -2016”; XX international account reliability of a company (checked by the specialized exhibition of power and energy economic security board ), its ability to pay , and saving ”; international universal fair “S pring in fulfill the obligations taken , possibility to work Gomel”; III Forum of Belarusian and Russian in the market in different conditions (both in the regions ; international wholesale exhibition fair falling market and dynamically developing market ). “Kultbythoztovary”; international industrial A list of permanent customers was approved taking exhibition “Metalexpo-2016»; international into consideration the experience acquired in steel engineering exhibition ; I nternational exhibition of sales . B ased on the task set and the results building industry “T he B ig 5 S how ”. achieved , they are identified as : a joint venture ,  SOCIAL REPORT 2016 119 Responsibility for the goods produced  a trade firm , a distributor , a trader , an end user . proves their loyalty to BSW trade mark . Proposals expressed by our customers are Work with customers is organized in compliance examined by the corresponding services of the with the Code of Business Ethics of OJSC “BSW plant and corrective actions are developed if – management compay of “BMC” holding. required to prevent customer claims for the current period and improve customer satisfaction Operation of any company is significantly influenced in future . The marketing board carries on feedback by availability of competition . I t makes the company with customers . T he aim of customer questioning determine actual needs of certain buyers and form is to study market requirements for new types a product range meeting their requirements most of products . The technical board analyzes the completely . possibility of manufacture the products specified Relations with competitors are described in the by customers. When questioning is completed, the Code of Business Survey which is a part of the customers are informed about the ability of BSW Code of Ethics of OJSC “BSW – management to produce the new types of products. compay of “BMC” holding . To sell products by members of the commodity distribution network , we organize meetings with Competitive (business) survey is a very important end users , participate in exhibitions , sign annual function of up to date management and the key contracts , and participate in bonus systems of condition of business dynamic development . T he large customers . W e distribute commercial aim of the competitive survey is contraposition proposals and take part in tenders . M ore flexible to strong sides of competitors and use of their and attractive terms of payment for product are weak sides , its task is to analyze the information developed . Each customer ’ s order if given an acquired and on its basis create data useful for individual approach and a professional , quality , and developing a management decision . operative response is provided for each inquiry . Organization of meetings, customer questionnaires, During questioning customers specified the most discussion of problems with partners allow the important projects where BSW products were used : company to find effective ways of resolving current oil companies OJSC Lukoil, OJSC NK “Rosneft”. and future challenges , realize possible directions OHSC “Tatneft”, NFK “Salym Petroleum”, RUE of development and product improvement . PA “Belorusneft”, “KazMunaiGaz”, building of a stadium for the world football championship Customer questioning is one of such tasks . in Kaliningrad, participation in fulfillment of a Questioning is carried out as regards the state order for delivery of rebars to produce assessment indicators which are most important airfield plates for the Ministry of Defense of the for customers : conditions of product payment , RF, construction of stadiums “Dynamo”, “CSKA”, product price , product supplies , production “Luzhniki”, building No,2 of the SMU named after planning , and product quality . Subjects of the M.V. Lomonosov, SCANIA-Centre (Baltic states), commodity distribution networks and BSW product LidL supermarkets (Baltic states), national end users on global outlets (E urope , A merica , theater , national library , bridges in N orway , Middle East, Africa, SEA, CIS, and Belarus) are motor highway S8 W alichnowy – L ubartów , S17 questioned . Dąbrowica Lubartów, strengthening of the Customers’ satisfaction with products sea pier S winouście – S zczecin ; administrative of steelmaking , rolling , pipe and buildings B usiness , P ark A4, K atowice ( этап 2), hardware productions Impressio II Wrocław, Dębowe Tarasy, Katowice (stage 3); reconstruction and repair of bridges Customers’ questionnaires analysis performed in B altic states and S candinavia : via D ane river 120 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 родукцию, стоимость продукции, поставки продукции, планирование производства и ачество продукции.BYELORUSSIAN В ходе анкетирования STELL WORKS опрашиваются субъекты товаропроводящей ети и конечные потребители продукции завода на мировых рынках сбыта (Европа, мерика, Ближний Восток, Африка, ЮВА, СНГ, РБ). Удовлетворенность потребителей продукцией металлургического, рокатного, трубного и метизного производств Удовлетворенность потребителей Customers' satisfaction 94,7% 94,9% 91,6% 88,2% 83,6% 2012г 2013г 2014г 2015г 2016г Проведенный in K laipeda , bridge анализ near the small ferryпотребителей анкет подтверждает at K ursk and liquidation лояльное of discrimination in the area отношение of к , ELBE «БМЗ». орговойspitмарке HARMONIA; building S tuttgartпоступившие Предложения, 21; labour and employment , etc.). от потребителей, рассматриваются N оответствующими ovovoronezh APS, службами objects of winter O завода, Mпри lympic необходимости utually beneficial cooperationразрабатываются games in S ochi , M oscow C орректирующие мероприятия, по исключению ity business centre , and претензий потребителей за текущий with suppliers B AES, M . ериод с целью повышения оценки удовлетворенности потребителей в будущем el insk underground Another equally important party concerned is our ugust 2014 the firstмаркетинга ериоде.In AУправлением social responsibilityведется audit обратная связь с потребителями. В ходе suppliers providing the plant with stock and raw нкетирования was held at ведется OJS “BSW опрос клиентов – management с целью company изучения требования рынка в освоении materials for our production . of “BMC” овых видов holding . T heТехническим продукции. audit for conformity управлением to рассматривается анализ возможности зготовления of E thics of P irelli the C ode продукции, Group supplier указанной BSW establishes По потребителями. honestокончании анкетирования, and unbiased relations (Italy) was отребители уведомляются performed by the second party – a with производства о возможности suppliers based on «БМЗ» pricing наreasonable , новых видов родукции. representative of B ureau V eritas ( the U kraine ) recognizing license and trade rights . C ooperation the framework of the requirements of the with suppliers is organized in compliance with В within целях реализации продукции субъектами товаропроводящей сети проводятся international standard of social responsibility the C ode of E thics and enterprise standard стречи с конечными потребителями, участие в выставках, заключение годовых SA 8000. STP 840-KSM-7.4 “Procurement. Procedure of онтрактов, участие в бонусной системе крупных потребителей. Ведется рассылка cooperation with suppliers ”, and S upplier M anual . During the audit оммерческих , the current activity предложений, проводятся of the plant непосредственное участие в тендерах. оздаются более гибкие и привлекательные in the area of labour protection , environment , условия – results оплаты of mass regular за supplies продукцию.without Ведется industrial safety , ндивидуальный подход к каждому заказу reclamations personnel management were потребителя, ; также профессиональное, or claimsа analyzed and production areas , household rooms , ачественное и оперативное реагирование на запрос каждого клиента. canteens , and aid posts were assessed , and – compliance certificates for the management При опросе потребители указали наиболее значимые проекты, в которых employees were questioned . system and products of the supplier ; спользуется продукция БМЗ: поставки в нефтяные компании ОАО «ЛУКОЙЛ», ОАО «НК At present Роснефть», ОАО customers of OJSC «Татнефть», global НФК “BSW «Салым – supplier obligations toРУП Петролиум», respect ПО the «Белоруснефть», rights and – managementстроительство КазМунайГаз»; compay of “BMC” holding стадионаmore под Чемпионат мира по freedoms of the citizens in compliance with футболу the в г. алининграде; участие в исполнении госзаказа and more often raise the topic of observance поofпоставке principles the UN G lobalарматурного Compact; проката для of the 10 principles of the UN G lobal C ompact зготовления аэродромных плит для нужд Министерства обороны РФ; строительство (liquidation тадионов «Динамо»,of all forms of forced and obligatory – supplier consent to follow BSW supplier «ЦСКА» «Лужники»; здание №2 МГУ им. М В Ломоносова; SKANIA– labour , complete extermination of child labour , Q uality M anual .  ентр (Прибалтика), супермаркеты LidL (Прибалтика); национальный театр, национальная иблиотека, мосты в Норвегии; автомагистрали S8 Walichnowy – Lubartów, S17 2016 SOCIAL REPORT Dąbrowica 121 Responsibility for the goods produced  The activity of suppliers is assessed according to corrective actions execution . the following criteria : Supplies quality assessment is reviewed at the – observance of the volume and terms of product plant quality meetings . delivery ( logistics ); So as to develop partnership relations and improve – compliance of the delivered product with the quality of the delivered product by development established requirements and calculation of the of the management system with the acceptable delivered goods quality index (IQL) considering suppliers according to the Bulletin of suppliers the existence of the suppler quality system , share assessment for the previous period , specialists of of supplies with deviations in the total number the Company perform supplier audits. of deliveries and consideration of deviation significance coefficient ( loyalty ); Following the cooperation results and assessments, a “L ist of A pproved S uppliers ” is drawn up and – degree of the consumer loyalty to the plant and agents performing deliveries are specified . 11 of November according to results of 22th International industrial exhibition «Metall-Expo 2016” BSW was rewarded with a Cup “For the best exposition” and Diploma “For high-professional management of products and services promotion”. 122 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In annual republic competition “The Year product” steel wire rod from construction steel was admitted as the best construction product of 2016. SOCIAL REPORT 2016 123 ANNEX Annex 1 Organization’s medium-term targets The following key targets of economic and social development of the organization are planned for 2017: 1. Production, finances, and economics: 1.1 Sales profitability in industry, min., % 1,9 1.2 Export of goods as compared to the level of 2016, min., % 114,0 1.3 Decrease of the level of expenses for product manufacturing, work, services (resource saving), min. by, % -1,6 1.4 Power saving indicator, % -5,0 1.5 Finished product stock norm, %, max. 30,0 2. Quality 2.1 Level of rejects due to production shops, max., % set in order No.2 2.2 Level of non-conforming products, max., % set in order No.2 2.3 Level of expenses due to defects per Br1000 of marketable products, max., % 5,94 2.4 Customer satisfaction assessment, min., % steelmaking 95,3 rolling 94,4 pipe production 94,3 steel cord and steel wire production 95,6 2.5 Level of claimed products total for the plant, max., ppm set in order No.2 3. Environment 3.1 Volume of production wastes allocation in the environment average to 2016, % to be increased by 2,0% 3.2 Volume of water removal from surface sources as compared to the level of 2016, % to be decreased by 4,0% 4. Labour protection and industrial safety 4.1 Occupational injury not to exceed the level of 2016 to be decreased by 8,0% 4.2 Provision of additional safety for the employees of the shops, people 94 4.3 Improvement of labour environment for the employees of the shops, people 181 4.4 Improvement of sanitary-household conditions for the employees of the shops, people 108 4.5 Improvement of drinking water consumption for the employees of the shop, people 35 5. Social responsibility 5.1 Training of executives and specialists, people 1457 5.2 Professional training of workers, people 2678 5.3 General satisfaction of the personnel, min., % 72,0 5.4 Employee turnover, max., % 4,45 124 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 2 List of abbreviations used API American Petroleum Institute – a nongovernmental organization in the US performing investigations in the oil and gas sector. Global Reporting Initiative– an independent commercial organization which mission is development and worldwide distribution of unified principles of reporting in the area of sustainable development prima facie with the help of Sustainable GRI Development Reporting Guidelines. The organization was established in 1988; its headquarters location is Amsterdam; it is managed by international experts of different organizations worldwide. EFQM European Foundation of Quality Management ISO International Organization for Standardization OHSAS Occupational health and safety management system SA 8000 Social Responsibility 8000 international standard BSW Byelorussian Steel Works BNTU Belarusian National Technical University BRYU Belarusian Republican Youth Union GDP Gross domestic product GOST State industrial standard SEE State Educational Establishment PCM Palace of Culture of Metallurgists EAF Electric Arc Furnace CJSS Children-junior sport school ЕС European Community UWRB Unified wage rate book ZMF Zhlobin meat factory HB Housing board Info-BMZ Information-reference system of the plant kg kilogram CMS Corporate management system PC Purpose courses MAZ Minsk Automotive Plant MISIS Moscow Institute of Steel and Alloys CCM Billet continuous casting machine mln million bln billion mm millimeter HS Health service MTZ Minsk tractor plan IFRS International financial reporting system SOCIAL REPORT 2016 125 ANNEX NAS National academy of science NP National parkк ОИИР Information & Ideological Work department UNO United Nations organization LPD Labour protection department ISD Industrial safety department ODS Ozone depleting substances QMD Quality management department GCP Dust and gas collecting plant MPC Maximum permissible concentration PA Production Association RB Republic of Belarus LE&S Leading employees and specialists RF Russian Federation CM Council of Ministers MM Mass media YSC Yung specialists council CIS Commonwealth of Independent States SRS Section rolling shop STP Plant standard STB Belarusian standard SWS Steel wire shop EMS Environment management system LPMS Labour protection management system USA United States of America TNLA Typical normative legal acts TU Technical standard e.f.t. Ton of equivalent fuel Thou. thousand FER Fuel and energy resources EP&ISB Environment protection and industrial sanitation board SHC Sports and health complex CEE Central and East Europe EMS Electric melt shop 126 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Chapter of the Report Comments Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement of the senior decisionmaker of the organization 2. General Director’s statement 4. Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities development management Organizational Profile G4-3 Organization’s name 3.1. General G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 3,1. General G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 3.1. General G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where the organization has significant 3.1. General. operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability 2. General Director’s statement topics covered in the Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3.1. General G4-8 Markets served by the organization 3.1. General G4-9 The scale of the organization 3.1 General G4-10 Total number of employees by the type of employment, 5.3. Social activity. Personnel description employment contract, region and gender G4-11 Percentage of the total employees covered by collective 5.3. Social activity. Social partnership. Trade bargaining agreements union organization 6. Responsibility for the product manufacG4-12 Organization’s supply chain. tured. Mutually advantageous cooperation with customers G4-13 All significant changes of the size, structure or ownership 2. General. General Director’s statement of the organization during the reporting period G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 5.1. Economic effectiveness. Risks of the addressed by the organization enterprise G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 4.3. Sustainable development management. charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization Participation in external initiatives. subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry associations) 4.5. Participation in external initiatives and/or national and international organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated 1. Preface to the Report financial statements or equivalent documents G4-18 The process of defining the Report content and the Aspect 1. Preface to the Report Boundaries G4-19 List of all material Aspects identified in the process for 4.7. Process of defining material aspects defining Report content G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 4.7. Process of defining material aspects G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 4.7. Process of defining material aspects G4-22 Effects of all restatements of information provided in 1. Preface to the Report previous reports and the reasons for such restatements SOCIAL REPORT 2016 127 ANNEX General Standard Disclosures G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 1. Preface to the Report Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of the stakeholder groups engaged 4.6. Stakeholder engagement by the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.6. Stakeholder engagement whom to engage G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 4.6. Stakeholder engagement group and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Report preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to 4.6. Stakeholder engagement those key topics and concerns including though its reporting. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 1. Preface to the Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 1. Preface to the Report G4-30 Reporting cycle 1. Preface to the Report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its Feedback questionnaire content G4-32 «In accordance» option chosen by the organization for the 1. Preface to the Report Report preparation and GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4-33 Organization’s policy and practice regarding External No external assurance Assurance of sustainable development reporting Corporate Management G4-34 Organization’s corporate management structure including 3.1. General. Organizational management key committees under the highest governance body structure Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Value, principles, standards and norms of behavior of the 3.2. Business approach organization such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 128 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 4 Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Disclosure Description Report Chapter Comments Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5.1. Economic effectiveness G4-EC2 Financial aspects and other risks and opportunities for 5.1. Economic effectiveness. Enterprise’s risks organization’s activities due to climate change 5.3. Social activity. Social support of G4-EC3 Organization’s defined benefit plans obligations pensioners, invalid people and other categories of indigent citizens 5.1. Economic effectiveness. Financial support G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government by the government Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry wage level by gender compared 5.3. Social activity. Financial incentives. to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 5.3. Social activity Personnel profile community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 5.1. Economic effectiveness. Indirect economic services supported impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent 5.1. Economic effectiveness. Indirect economic of impacts impacts Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant 6. Product responsibility. Mutually beneficial locations of operation cooperation with suppliers Materials 5.2. Environmental activity. Natural resources G4-EN1 Materials used by weight and volume conservation G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 5.2. Environmental activity. Natural resources materials conservation Energy 5.2. Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization conservation 5.2. Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization conservation 5.2. Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN5 Energy intensity conservation 5.2. Environmental activity. Energy resources G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption conservation G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and 5.2. Environmental activity. Energy resources services conservation SOCIAL REPORT 2016 129 ANNEX Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Water 5.2. Environmental activity. Water basin G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source protection G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 5.2. Environmental activity. Water basin water protection G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 5.2. Environmental activity. Water basin reused protection Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 5.2. Environmental activity. Minimization of or adjacent to, protected areas and areas plant activity impact on flora and fauna of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, 5.2. Environmental activity. Minimization of and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high plant activity impact on flora and fauna biodiversity value outside protected areas 5.2. Environmental activity. Minimization of G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored plant activity impact on flora and fauna G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national 5.2. Environmental activity. Minimization of conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by plant activity impact on flora and fauna operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions 5.2. Environmental activity. Air basin G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) protection G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 5.2. Environmental activity. Air basin (Scope 2) protection G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 5.2. Environmental activity. Air basin (Scope 3) protection 5.2. Environmental activity. Air basin G4-EN18 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity protection 5.2. Environmental activity. Air basin G4-EN1 reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions protection Effluents and Waste 5.2. Environmental activity. Water basin G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination protection 5.2. Environmental activity. Production waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method disposal Products and Services 5.2. Environmental activity. Development and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of introduction of resource-saving, low-waste products and services and environment-friendly technologies Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 5.2. Environmental activity. Expenses on non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws environment protection and monitoring. and regulations Environmental payments 130 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Overall 5.2. Environmental activity. Expenditures G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and on environment protection and monitoring. investments by type Environmental payments Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and 5.3. Social activity. Personnel profile employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations 5.3. Social activity. Employees’ rights of operation Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Social activity. Employees’ rights including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal 5.3. Social activity. Labour protection and joint management – worker health and safety committees that help provision of industrial safety monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 5.3. Social activity. Labour protection and lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related provision of industrial safety fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 5.3. Social activity. Labour protection and related to their occupation provision of industrial safety G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 5.3. Social activity. Public control of human with trade unions rights in the area of labour protection. Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by 5.3. Social activity. Training and education gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist 5.3. Social activity. Training and education them in managing career endings G4-LA11Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 5.3. Social activity. Professional and career and career development reviews, by gender and by employee development category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee category according to gender, age group, 5.3. Social activity. Personnel profile minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 5.3. Social activity. Financial incentives by employee category, by significant locations of operation SOCIAL REPORT 2016 131 ANNEX Specific Standard Reporting Disclosures Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 5.3. Social activity. Employees’ rights actions taken Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 5.3. Social activity. Employees’ rights to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures 5.3. Social activity. Employees’ rights taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Stakeholders engagement. Community community engagement, impact assessments, and development engagement programs Anti-corruption Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and development control. Organizational procedures structure of sustainable development control Strategy and approach to sustainable G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken development control. Organizational structure of sustainable development control Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories Product responsibility. Customer health and for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety Product responsibility. Customer health and impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of safety outcomes Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information Product responsibility. Product marking with and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service appropriate information categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Product responsibility. Product marking with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service appropriate information information and labeling, by type of outcomes Product responsibility. Mutually advantageous G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction cooperation with customers 132 SOCIAL REPORT 2016 BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Dear readers!  You have just got acquainted with the Social Report of Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding in the area of sustainable development for 2016. Your opinion on this document will be highly appreciated and your comments and proposals will be taken into consideration in future reports as much as possible. Please, fill the form and fax it to: + 375-2334-5-54-26 or mail to: 37 Promyshlennaya str., 247210 Zhlobin, Gomel region with the mark «Social Report -2016». You may also e-mail the filled form to: (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) 1. To which group of stakeholders do you belong to? representative of authorities  representative of community  Investo  Partner  Customer  Employee  Another group of stakeholders _____________________________ 2. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of completeness of the information presented?  High  Average  Low  3. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of and credibility of the information presented? High  Average  Low  4. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of search of the information required? High  Average  Low  5. What is your appreciation of the design of the Social Report? High  Average  Low  6. Has the Social Report helped you to understand the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in the area of sustainable development? Yes, fully  Yes, partially  No, not quite  No, not understandable at all  7. Please, evaluate the following sections of the Social Report of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding from the point of view of interest, relevance and completeness of disclosure (from 1 (low) to 5 (very high) Steelmaking. Reaching a new level  Product responsibility  Participation of the republican scientific potential Plant Profile  in the development of the metallurgical complex  Economic activity  Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  Environment activity  Management, obligations, Social activity  stakeholders engagement  Interaction of parties  8. Has the Social Report influenced your attitude to the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? Yes, my attitude improved  No  My attitude became worse  9. What information in the Social Report was the most interesting for you? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ 10. What directions of the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in your opinion require improvement so as to raise social responsibility? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ 11. What information would you like to see in future social reports of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ ______________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for cooperation! SOCIAL REPORT 2016 133 Notes 134 SOCIAL REPORT 2016
