CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN 2017 WORFORCE DISTRIBUTION GENDER by country as of December 31, 2017 BALANCE New Zealand 64 Europcar International, Europcar Groupe and Europcar Lab 341 Belgium 129 Shared Services 53.6% Ubeeqo 163 Center 376 Ireland 347 (51.7% in 2016) Portugal 377 Germany 1,662 Italy 499 8 011 GROUP TOTAL France 1,441 Australia 539 Spain 751 United-Kingdom 1,322 46.4% (48.3% in 2016) NET PROMOTER SCORE 49.6% 54.7% 80% Employees benﬁting 1.46% Employee 5.7millions clients worldwide from training during the year (76% in 2016) shareholding 2016 2017 Best European Auto-Mobility Services Operator 2017 2005 C Year the Group Assessment of the Group awarded by the ﬁnancial committed to the environmental, social and governance newspaper CFI.co sustainable development principles performance by the Oekom (Capital Finance International) of the United Nations Global Research non-ﬁnancial rating agency Compact (+3 ranks vs. 2016) 75% C 19th Assessment of the Group’s Assessment of the Europcar Group gender rating. Ethics & Boards environmental, social and governance Group’s environmental policy study carried out by the French performance by the Gaïa Rating and low-carbon strategy to ﬁght Secretary of State in charge of non-ﬁnancial rating agency against climate change by equality between women and men (+14 points vs. 2016) the CDP organization (+51 ranks vs. 2016) (Carbon Disclosure Project) 08 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.1 EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES 278 4.5 EUROPCAR CREATOR 4.1.1 “Commit Together!”, a pioneering strategy 278 OF SHARED VALUE 299 4.1.2 CSR organization and governance 281 4.5.1 Support franchise networks in adopting environmental and social best practice 300 4.5.2 Develop a responsible purchasing policy 300 4.2 EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL 282 4.5.3 Promote business ethics and combat corruption 301 4.2.1 Act to promote customer safety and prevent road accidents 282 4.6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 4.2.2 Ensure a high level of customer satisfaction 283 OF SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 303 4.3 EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 286 4.7 METHODOLOGY NOTE 306 4.3.1 Employees and jobs 286 4.3.2 Labor policy to promote good talent management 4.8 INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY (ITP) and well-being at work 290 REPORT 309 4.4 EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE 293 4.4.1 Group environmental policy and organization 294 4.4.2 Act to promote sustainable mobility through all stages of the customer journey 295 4.4.3 Improve the Group’s direct environmental impact 297 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 277 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES For information purposes, in this chapter, and unless otherwise indicated, the 2017 ﬁgures presented relate to Ubeeqo and the Corporate Countries held between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017 as well as Ubeeqo. In addition, InterRent branded stations are included with the Corporate Countries. The data excludes acquisitions completed during the year, namely: a the data related to Europcar Denmark, including two Danish companies Ostergaard Biler A/S and NordCar Finance A/S, a former franchisee of the Group acquired by Europcar on April 27, 2017; a the data related to Buchbinder, a group of companies acquired by Europcar on September 20, 2017; a the data related to Goldcar, a group of companies acquired by Europcar on December 19, 2017; a the data related to Europcar Luxembourg via InterRent Sarl, a Luxembourg company acquired by Europcar on December 20, 2017. 4.1 EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES 4.1.1 “Commit Together!”, a pioneering strategy STATEMENT BY CAROLINE PAROT, CHAIRWOMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD With “Commit Together!” Europcar has a strong and committed CSR identity which supports the deployment of our strategy, launched last year with an ambitious road map. In 2017, clear progression was shown in our non-ﬁnancial ratings, demonstrating the relevance of our CSR strategy and the robustness of the actions taken by our Group to respond to its numerous social and environmental challenges and meet the expectations of its stakeholders. More than ever, with “Commit Together!”, Europcar has adopted an approach of continuous progress driven by the management team and intends to signiﬁcantly increase the strong environmental and social initiatives with the active backing of all the Group’s employees. Europcar’s ambition is to be one of the leaders in the ﬂeet (average age of vehicles about 9 months), also helping mobility sector, offering innovative and tailored solutions to cut fuel consumption and emissions. That said, the Group meet customers’ personal and professional transportation is very conscious of the environmental issues it faces, given needs. In 2017, the Group’s customers traveled more than its international presence, its numerous businesses and the 7.5 billion km using its vehicle rental or car-sharing services. sector in which it operates, and of its social and corporate footprint. By encouraging vehicle use over ownership, Europcar is putting the functionality economy at the heart of its The Group is convinced that corporate social responsibility business model, helping to minimize the resources spent (CSR) is a key factor in its success and sustainability, if it is on vehicle construction and, thanks to the onboard fuel to carry on its business and meet its growth targets. economy and emissions savings technologies of its modern 278 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES This is why Europcar has created “Commit Together!” this year, a pioneering strategy built around four main commitments that deﬁne our four priorities for sustainable success. Europcar commits on• Promoting mobility for all •to be a major player of the sustainable development by building confidence with its customers and by offering them convenient and transparent products. Being a responsible employer •to be a responsible employer by promoting employees development and diversity which are essential to the success and growth of the company and by developing a strong employer brand Fighting against climate change •to improve its environmental footprint and participate to the fight against climate change through a dynamic environmental management. 04 Creating shared value •to promote ethics in business by giving value to a responsible procurement policy and by conducting business with integrity. This strategy, endorsed by the Group’s corporate These studies were carried out in late 2016 and formed governance bodies, is the result of a consultation and the basis for ”Commit Together!” and the associated analysis of key stakeholders’ CSR expectations (employees, commitments. The key issues identiﬁed (see yellow inset suppliers, customers, investors and franchisees) as well as below) led to the four pillars of the strategy. analysis of the associated impacts, risks and opportunities. MATERIALITY MATRIX: MAIN ISSUES FOR EUROPCAR 0.85 0.80 Importance for the external stakeholders 0.75 Business Ethics Offer transparency CO2 Reduction of 0.70 emissions environmental impact New mobilities offer 0.65 Customers security 0.60 Supply chain Societal engagement 0.55 Working conditions 0.50 0.50 0.55 0.60 0.65 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 Importance for the Group EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 279 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES Europcar’s strategy is based on continuous progress. Since 2015 and through the “Commit Together!” strategy, Europcar has set strong ambitions, embodied in the a dedicated team and two governance bodies have 20 targets for 2020 presented throughout this chapter. been responsible for the design and implementation Together they address the main challenges and main of the strategy and its roll-out through all the Group’s stakeholder expectations identified. The Group will subsidiaries and businesses. A set of “CSR fundamentals” report back annually on results and achievements in its has been drawn up to standardize practices and actions Registration Document. at Europcar’s existing entities and move newly acquired ﬁrms forward. ISO 14001 environmental certiﬁcation is one However, this is only the latest step in Europcar’s of these CSR fundamentals and is required for each of longstanding commitment to CSR and sustainable the Group’s operating subsidiaries (73% had launched the development. In 2005, the Group was the first in the certiﬁcation process at December 31, 2017). vehicle rental sector to sign up to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. Every year since, Europcar has Europcar also meets high compliance standards for its reiterated its commitment to respect all 10 principles of published non-ﬁnancial data. A CSR Committee and local the UN Global Compact, inspired by the Declaration of CSR contacts collect and check the data that goes into its Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Rights at Work, annual CSR report, designed both to ensure compliance the Rio Declaration on the Environment and the UN and to provide forward-looking operational guidance. Convention against Corruption, and to support progress Except where stated otherwise, the scope of consolidation toward those of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals for this chapter covers all Holding Company and Corporate (SDG) listed by the United Nations which are relevant to Countries owned between January 1 and December 31, the Group. Specifically, the Group has committed to help 2017. It therefore excludes acquisitions made during the achieve the following goals where it believes it can take year (Goldcar, Buchbinder, Europcar Denmark, Europcar relevant action: Luxembourg) as well as franchise networks and Group service providers. a SDG 4: Quality education; In 2017, the Group’s CSR work was recognized by its a SDG 5: Gender equality; ﬁ rst award in the ﬁ eld. It was rated “Best Auto-Mobility a SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation; Services Operator Europe 2017” by ﬁnancial magazine CFI. co (Capital Finance International), which singled out the a SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth; effectiveness of the Group’s CSR strategy and its signing a SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities; of the Global Compact. Throughout the year, the Group also successfully progressed all its non-ﬁ nancial ratings a SDG 13: Measures relating to the ﬁght against climate (see table below). changes. 2016 2017 Var-N-1 D C +3 ranks 61% 75% +14 pts F C Not ranked in 2016 Féminisation des instances dirigeantes 70th 19th Le Palmarès des entreprises 2017 +51 ranks 280 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: CONTEXT AND ISSUES HISTORY OF THE CSR APPROACH 2005: Adhesion to the principles of the United Nations 2013: The Group reaches the Active level of the United Global Compact. Nations Global Compact. 2008: Publication of its ﬁrst environmental charter, certiﬁed 2015: Appointment of a Group CSR Director in charge of by Bureau Veritas. deﬁning and steering the CSR strategy for the Group and its Corporate Countries. 2009: Launch of drive for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for all of the Group’s European operating subsidiaries, renewed 2016: Launch of the Group CSR Ambitions 2020 strategy every three years since. and establishment of a dedicated governance structure (Strategic CSR Board, CSR Operations Committee, 2012: Publication of Europcar’s ﬁrst CSR report to meet country CSR managers, etc.). the non-ﬁnancial information publication obligations of its reference shareholder Eurazeo. 2017: New identity for the Group’s CSR strategy with the launch of “Commit Together!”. 04 4.1.2 CSR organization and governance Europcar developed its structured CSR approach in 2015, For the purpose of meeting its obligations under the following its initial public offering, with the appointment of a Grenelle 2 Law, requiring the collection and publication of Group CSR Director, responsible for deﬁning and steering non-ﬁnancial data, the Group also relies on: CSR strategy across the Group. Subsequently, a team and a a CSR correspondent in each Corporate Country (12 governance process were set up to respond to the Group’s in all) responsible for collecting non-ﬁnancial information obligation to collect and publish social and environmental and rolling out the Group’s CSR strategy at the local level; information in accordance with Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law (French Law 2010-788 of July 12, 2010) (“CSR a around 80 contributors to the CSR Reporting process in Reporting”). all of the Group’s subsidiaries and departments; At December 31, 2017, the Group’s CSR governance was a drafting of a CSR R eporting protocol detailing all the structured around: relevant procedures and methodologies for forwarding information, distributed to all CSR Reporting contributors; a a CSR Sponsor, namely the Chairwoman of the Management Board Caroline Parot, in charge of deﬁning a an online platform for data collection and an external the Group’s CSR vision and roadmap; control process to ensure the consistency of CSR Reporting carried out by consultancy Reporting 21; a a Group CSR Director responsible for CSR (Reporting) and the deﬁnition and implementation of the Group’s CSR a an internal control process to ensure the consistency of strategy, and a member of C3D (College of Sustainable CSR Reporting; Development Directors); a the appointment of an Independent Third Party a a CSR Coordinator, under the responsibility of the CSR Organization to verify the existence and accuracy of Director, in charge of monitoring the CSR process and the CSR R eporting data in accordance with Decree the deployment of action plans within the Group; No. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012. a a CSR Board, bringing together the main Group The Commit Together! strategy is included on the agenda departments in order to contribute to the deﬁ nition of of the Group’s management and supervisory bodies at the CSR strategy and to analyze the expectations of least once a year (Group Executive Committee, Supervisory stakeholders; Board, Shareholders’ Meeting). It is systematically rolled out into all new acquisitions by the Group. a a CSR Committee, comprising the CSR correspondents of the Holding Companies and Corporate Countries, in charge of implementing the strategy at the country level. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 281 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL 4.2 EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL Europcar wants to be a major player in sustainable customer satisfaction, transparency of its offering and development by instilling a relationship of trust with compliance with regulations. customers and by offering them a new customized and The Group has set a series of objectives for 2020 which transparent range of products. The Group wants to together constitute a roadmap to achieve the “Promoter maintain a high level of service in the variety and nature of mobility for all” pillar of its strategy and communicate on of the mobility solutions it offers its customers to meet the progress on an annually basis. needs and expectations of all. To do this, Europcar has concentrated its efforts on four main issues: road safety, Commit Together! objectives 2015 2016 2017 Objective 2020 No. 1 Implement by 2020 a global program of road safety Europcar awareness for all Group stakeholders. International Signature of the National Appeal for Road Safety Objective 2020 No. 2 Increase its Net Promoter Score each year 44.8% 49.6% 54.7% Objective 2020 No. 3 Continuously improve the transparency of its offering Pro-active Follow-up of GDPR and compliance with related regulations and legal authorities. process undertakings compliance including a set made to approach of undertakings the European made to Commission (EC). the European Commission (EC). Objective 2020 No. 4 100% of operating subsidiaries will have launched ISO 56% (5/9) 67% (6/9) 55% (6/11) 9001 quality management certiﬁcation Objective 2020 No. 5 100% of operating subsidiaries will have launched ISO 0% (0/9) 11% (1/9) 9% (1/11) 39001 road safety management certiﬁcation The Operational subsidiaries combine the Corporate Countries as well as any other Group subsidiary whose “operational” business is vehicle rental or mobility solutions. 4.2.1 Act to promote customer safety and prevent road accidents With more than 7.5 billion kilometers driven by its customers Europcar undertakes with carmakers to comply with each year, the Group considers driver safety and the all maintenance specifications required under the buyprevention of road accidents to be one of the key issues back clauses. The vehicles are therefore subject to of its “Commit Together!” strategy. numerous speciﬁc written procedures that are posted in the preparation sites to ensure regular maintenance in accordance with the carmakers’ standards. 4.2.1.1 Guarantee customer safety Before any new rental, vehicles are inspected and veriﬁed by teams trained in-house on the Group’s own standards A RECENT AND WELL-MAINTAINED RENTAL FLEET: and checkpoints (tire pressure, liquid levels, windshields, THE GROUP’S FIRST PRIORITY lights, etc.). If vehicles fail and need repairs, small ﬁxes are 90% of the vehicles that the Group took possession of done on-site and more serious repairs are completed by in 2017 were on buy-back agreements, which include a independent referenced ﬁrms. Through its “Clean & Safe buy-back clause that obliges the carmakers to buy them c ar” program, for instance, Europcar Belgium certifies back at the end of a pre-determined period, usually less that each vehicle returned for rental has been checked on than 12 months. This means Europcar can offer a near-new 22 mandatory points. rental ﬂeet (generally aged less than 10 months in 2017) Finally, each vehicle has essential safety equipment which meets all the latest safety standards and have all the (high-visibility vest, reﬂector triangle, etc.) and additional latest technological equipment. equipment is available for rent in the agency (child seats, 282 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL chains, snow tires, etc.) to give customers an optimal level in a Welcome Pack given out in the stations when they of safety and comfort behind the wheel, in compliance with pick up the vehicle. Europcar Germany, for its part, has an local regulations. online page dedicated to safety advice in the case of snow. If a vehicle suffers an accident or breakdown while rented out, the Group makes available to its customers a 24/7 EUROPCAR BELGIUM, PARTNER OF EUROPEAN NIGHT assistance service and seeks continuously to optimize the WITHOUT ACCIDENTS efﬁciency of responses. Always with the objective of promoting road safety, particularly among young people, Europcar Belgium this year committed, together with the Responsible 4.2.1.2 Promoting road safety Young Drivers Association, to organize the European As major player in global mobility, Europcar is well aware Night Without Accident, a night of building road safety of the role it can play in promoting road safety awareness awareness at the exits from party locations in Belgium. among its stakeholders and encouraging good driving behavior on the road. By 2020, the Group’s ambition is to Finally, Europcar was the first company in the vehicle 04 have in place a common road safety awareness program rental sector to obtain ISO 39001 Road safety for its customers, employees and suppliers in all Corporate management system certiﬁcation, for its Europcar Spain Countries. subsidiary, following an awareness raising program among stakeholders. Such certiﬁcation is now one of the EUROPCAR INTERNATIONAL S.A.S.U., SIGNATORY TO fundamentals that the Group wants to roll out, aiming to THE NATIONAL APPEAL FOR ROAD SAFETY have all operating subsidiaries certiﬁed by 2020. As a public endorsement of this commitment, Europcar International S.A.S.U. signed the French National Appeal EUROPCAR IRELAND INNOVATES TO PROMOTE for Road Safety, promoted by the French Interior Ministry, ROAD SAFETY and undertook to encourage its employees to comply with Europcar Ireland created its “Smooth Driving Contest” the “7 commitments for safer roads”. These address all the to reward the safest drivers among its customers. risk factors linked to its employees mobility. It uses a fully connected rental fleet to analyze the All Corporate Countries have already launched other driving behavior and habits of its customers and come accident prevention awareness programs. Awarenessup with an individual driving score each day. Rankings raising materials are made available at every stage of the are established each weekend to reward the best customer journey, onboard vehicles, in-station and on the drivers. For this initiative gathering more than 36,000 Group’s websites. Europcar, UK, for instance, alerts its participants, Europcar Ireland won the 2017 innovation customers through its “Guide to a smooth journey” leaﬂet, prize from the specialist magazine Business Insurance. available in each vehicle. In Spain, Australia and New Zealand, customers are informed about local driving rules 4.2.2 Ensure a high level of customer satisfaction Europcar wants to ensure a high level of satisfaction by 4.2.2.1 Innovative mobility solutions offering customers high-quality mobility products and accessible to all solutions that meet the ever-changing demands of the market. Thanks to its extensive and innovative offering, the Group aims to make mobility accessible to all. A VARIED OFFERING OF VEHICLES AND MOBILITY SOLUTIONS Europcar strives constantly to strengthen its leadership Thanks to its model of vehicle buy-back agreements position and has created tools and initiatives to foster and dynamic fleet management, Europcar can offer its “customer-company” dialogue, allowing it to tailor precise customers a recent fleet and a wide range of vehicles responses to customer demands and to measure and (economic, compact, trucks, premium, vans, etc.) that follow up customer satisfaction. meet the expectations of the most customers. In 2017, the Group ran an average ﬂeet of 248,500 utility and touring EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 283 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL vehicles purchased from the largest manufacturers in order the heart of its strategy. Its effort includes in particular to offer its customers the widest possible range. For more “ Europcar Lab”, its research and innovation center, and information, see Section 1.6.7.1 “Fleet Management”. the associated strategic investments. In 2017, the Group invested heavily in car-sharing solutions to further enrich Alongside its core business of vehicle rental, Europcar its international offering, in particular by taking stakes in now also offers a range of innovative and varied mobility Guidam i (a station-based car-sharing start-up in Milan) solutions (car-sharing, mobility platform, hourly rental, etc.) and Snappcar (a peer-to-peer car-sharing start-up in the to respond to the new forms of use and mobility habits Netherlands and Northern Europe). of its customers. The Group has put “new mobilities” at MAKE MOBILITY ACCESSIBLE TO ALL Looking beyond the diversiﬁcation of its products and a broader range of vehicles, Europcar is keen to provide innovative offerings that are accessible to all customer categories, whatever their needs and budgets. Affected customers Details of offering In France and Germany, Europcar has offerings dedicated to students with cheap rates for touring Students vehicle and van rental, designed to help students with their frequent home moves. Europcar Spain and Europcar Italy have developed a family rental offering which comes with a specially tailored package of insurance, baby seat, spare driver, GPS, etc.. In Australia and New Zealand, Families campervans are available for rental. The Group now rents motorbikes and bicycles at many of its stations. In 2017, Europcar Belgium struck a partnership deal with Scooty (self-service electric scooter rentals) to offer customers an exclusive Bicycle/motorbike riders discount on scooter rentals. In Portugal, Ireland, Germany and the UK, special vehicles or vehicles with manual gears on the steering People with reduced mobility wheel are available for people with reduced mobility. The Group has since 2013 been offering low cost rentals under the InterRent brand in most European countries allowing cost-conscious customers to access mobility solutions that ﬁt their budget. This year, Cost-sensitive customers the Group expanded its offering by acquiring Goldcar, a European leader in low cost vehicle rental. Europcar gives frequent customers special offers such as the “Privelege” loyalty reward scheme in the UK or the “Auto-liberté” and “Funway” plans in France, which offer cheap deals in exchange Frequent customers for an annual subscription. In 2017, Europcar France and Europcar Germany launched “Drive & Share”, a medium-term rental Customers interested in new offering to replace vehicle purchasing and ownership. Renters can sub-rent their vehicle on a mobilities peer-to-peer rental platform. EUROPCAR LAB, AN ENTITY DEDICATED TO 4.2.2.2 Know, monitor and measure INNOVATION customer satisfaction As part of its drive for consistent innovation to better meet the expectations of its customers and to anticipate FOSTER CUSTOMER-EUROPCAR DIALOGUE new mobility needs, in 2014 Europcar created a Its commitment to customer satisfaction is one of the dedicated entity called the Europcar Lab. Conceived central pillars of the Group’s strategic vision, which puts as an ideas incubator, Europcar Lab’s objective is to its customers at the heart of its actions. Europcar attaches develop a portfolio of Group offerings through identifying special importance to measuring and monitoring customer and developing new urban mobility solutions as well as satisfaction to continuously ensure high standards of investing in innovative structures. With this entity, the service. The Group offers customers many lines of Group demonstrates once more its intention to satisfy communication (telephone, email, FAQs, website, social its customers through an ever more extensive offering media, etc.) allowing interactions and direct exchanges at and to incessantly promote the use and ownership of every stage of the customer experience, whether before, vehicles for travel (for more information, see Section during or after rental. 1.7. “Europcar Innovation Lab”). 284 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR PROMOTER OF MOBILITY FOR ALL Customer requests and complaints are managed through Since 2011, the Group has had a customer satisfaction a centralized software tool and processing procedures are monitoring program in all Corporate Countries: the “Net formalized at the Group level, allowing it to manage the time Promoter Score”. This performance indicator uses an it takes to manage and resolve customer requests. In 2017, established methodology to measure the gap between the Group cut the target time for handling complaints to a numbers of “promoters” and “detractors” of a brand. maximum of 5 days compared to 7 days in 2016. Customers are invited to answer the question “Would you recommend Europcar to your friends or family?” on a scale Finally, most Corporate Countries belong to their local of 1 to 10. Scores less than 6 are considered “detractors”. tourism, insurance or vehicle rental trade associations as Scores of 9 or 10 count as “promoters”. The Net Promoter a way to progress and continuously improve their practice Score is the sum of the percentage of promoters minus and services. the percentage of detractors. In 2017, this was 54.7%, a 5 point increase on 2016. GROUP CUSTOMER SATISFACTION TOOL: THE “NET PROMOTER SCORE” 04 2015 2016 2017 Net Promoter Score 44.8% 49.6% 54.7% This year, the Group-wide NPS 110 program was set up To this end, the Group has redesigned its protection offer to further improve the customer experience at every stage to provide greater clarity and transparency for consumers. of the journey. A dedicated team was created to collect Since 2015, it has offered three levels of protection: Basic, and analyze customer feedback with ever greater precision Medium and Premium. These cover all risks that customers to quickly identify and put in place appropriate solutions. may incur during their Europcar rental (damage, theft, The program also relies on regular meetings with a specially windscreen breakage, etc.). The insurance products can recruited community of customers who give their views and cover anything from a ﬂat tire to a 100% zero deductible. share their expectations of Europcar. All vehicles rented by Europcar have third-party liability policies with prominent insurers in their market. CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, Europcar has made a number of commitments to THE NPS110 PROGRAM the European Commission and to national authorities During 2017, Europcar launched the NPS110 program, responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation whose objective is to satisfy its customers “above and created by Regulation EC 2006/2004, on improving beyond” through the creation of a team dedicated to consumer experience (transparency and appropriateness gathering and analyzing customer feedback as well as of contractual terms and conditions). This process of implementing quick solutions to resolve issues. For this continuous improvement of practices, begun in 2015 and purpose, a customer community has been created to reafﬁrmed each year since, was welcomed by the European hear their questions and expectations during regular Commission. meetings. In 2017, Europcar committed to a GDRP (General Data Protection Regulation) compliance approach which will be consist in particular into the implementation of new consumer consent survey modules. Furthermore, the 4.2.2.3 Continuously improve Group’s “NPS110” approach, which identiﬁ es the main the “transparent offering” criticisms of our customers in order to respond to them, The Group continuously seeks to simplify its transparent also enables customer transparency and satisfaction to be offering (general terms and conditions, insurance products, further improved. etc.) to make it easier for customers to understand in the event of questions and so improve their overall satisfaction. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 285 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 4.3 EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE (1) EMPLOYER In a fast-changing mobility sector, Europcar’s success is This organization supports the roll-out of “You make the intimately bound to the quality of service and innovations difference”, Europcar culture based on a set of values proposed by in-station and head ofﬁce teams. The Group communicated to all employees: is convinced that the commitment and development of its a Customer Centric: offer the best possible experience; employees are key factors in its current and future success and therefore wants to act as a responsible employer to its a Working Together: develop a feeling of belonging and 8,011 employees throughout the world, paying particular teamwork; attention to their training and professional development. a Open Communication: listen to the point of view of For several years, Europcar has had in place a Human others; Resources (HR) organization that dynamically manages the a Feeling valued: thank others and feel appreciated. workforce through a Group HR department and local HR ofﬁces in each Corporate Country and the Group Holding The objectives that follow also form part of Europcar’s Company. Commit Together! social responsibility strategy and are priority issues for the Group in its quest to act as an “Ever more responsible employer”. Commit Together! objectives 2015 2016 2017 Objective 2020 No. 6 Train a greater number of employees each year 69% 76% 80% Objective 2020 No. 7 100% of employees tracked by a satisfaction survey Non-harmonized Non-harmonized Non-harmonized program program program Objective 2020 No. 8 Implementation of a Group Diversity program. / / / Objective 2020 No. 9 Implementation of a CSR incentives program. / / / Objective 2020 No. 10 100% of operating subsidiaries will have launched 0% (0/9) 11% (1/9) 9% (1/11) OHSAS 18001 (or ISO 45001) management certiﬁcation. The Operational subsidiaries combine the Corporate Countries as well as any other Group subsidiary whose “operational” business is vehicle rental or mobility solutions. 4.3.1 Employees and jobs 4.3.1.1 Group operations and breakdown of the workforce) making the Group a major provider of of workforce local employment. Europcar operated in 10 countries under its Corporate For clariﬁcation, the scope of consolidation for this Section Country scope of consolidation with 1,145 wholly owned covers all the Holding Companies and Corporate Countries stations, 1,655 franchises and 622 agents at December held between January 1 and December 31, 2017. It 31, 2017. This means it can cover all the commercial and excludes the acquisitions completed during the year tourist areas broadly where it operates. Mainly located (Goldcar, Buchbinder, Europcar Denmark and Europcar in train stations, airports and city centers, Europcar’s Luxembourg) as well as the Group’s franchise networks, employees mostly work in rental stations (around two thirds agents and service providers. (1) Throughout this Section, an asterisk (*) signiﬁes that the data relate to permanent headcount only; two asterisks (**) signify that the data relate to permanent and ﬁxed-term headcount. 286 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION HEAD OFFICES/RENTAL The staff of the Holdings and the Shared Services Center STATIONS** have been included in the Head ofﬁces headcount. WORKFORCE AT 12/31/17 DYNAMIC WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT The Group must continuously juggle two major challenges in managing its workforce. First, the Group has to deal 61% with the annual and weekly (working week versus Headcount Head offices weekend) seasonality of its business which require optimal 39% management of its teams to provide a high standard of Headcount Stations service. Second, the Group must provide good coverage of the regions where it operates, which is why it has to have substantial workforce in its Corporate Countries reﬂective their level of activity. 04 DISTRIBUTION OF WORKFORCE BY COUNTRY** Workforce at 12/31 2017 TOTAL 8,011 100% Europcar International, Europcar Groupe and Europcar Lab 341 4% Shared Services Center 376 5% Germany 1,662 21% France 1,441 18% United Kingdom 1,322 16% Spain 751 9% Australia 539 7% Italy 499 6% Portugal 377 5% Ireland 347 4% Ubeeqo 163 2% Belgium 129 2% New Zealand 64 1% Europcar has also put in place a local managerial structure, employees were ranked as managers, 28% of the favoring human-scale teams and a management that permanent workforce at the Corporate Country head ofﬁces is close to the teams. At December 31, 2017, 1,852 and stations. WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION MANAGERS/NON-MANAGERS * Workforce at 12/31 2017 Managers 1,852 28% Non-managers 4,822 72% A CUSTOMIZED RECRUITMENT POLICY 3,181 employees joined the Group this year, among them, 6% were hired after an internship or apprenticeship at Europcar. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 287 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER HIRINGS AND DEPARTURES OVER THE YEAR ** 2017 Hirings 3,181 Number of voluntary departures 1,217 44% Number of departures initiated by employer 486 18% Number of departures for other reasons (contract ended, retirement) 1,036 38% 4.3.1.2 Working time organization week (partor full-time). Work in the Group is therefore organized depending on the local context and business To ensure high quality standards irrespective of the needs of the Corporate Countries, but always complies intensity of the period and to cover the full schedule to with local regulations and obligations and the International meet our customers’ needs at the stations, Europcar uses Labor Organizations Conventions. a variety of employment contracts (permanent, ﬁxed-term, seasonal, etc.) and different numbers of working hours per ORGANIZATION OF WORK: KEY FIGURES 2017 Proportion of permanent part-time employees * 14.4% Overtime (all types of contracts) (in hours)** 395,922 Number of hours of atypical work (all types of contracts)** 263,416 Absenteeism** 4.2% To manage the seasonality of its business, Europcar The two graphs below illustrate the correlation between uses fixed-term or seasonal contracts. Hence, there the number of rental ﬂ eet vehicles held and the number is a signiﬁ cant correlation between the ﬂ uctuation in its of seasonal full time equivalents working during the year. workforce and the ﬂuctuation in its ﬂeet over the year. In Within the context of a seasonal business such as vehicle 2017, the seasonal workforce made up close to 2,200 FTE rental, the difference in the averages presented below employees, mainly working in the UK, Spain and Germany. enables their respective changes during the year to be shown in comparison. DIFFERENCE FROM THE ANNUAL AVERAGE OF THE FLEET DIFFERENCE FROM THE ANNUAL AVERAGE OF THE FIXED-TERM AND SEASONAL HEADCOUNTS 60,000 49,566 400 331 300 40,000 200 20,000 101 100 2,407 0 0 -20,000 -100 -8,754 -200 -143 -40,000 -300 -43,219 -289 -60,000 -400 T1 T2 T3 T4 T1 T2 T3 T4 288 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER The Group also wants to encourage new forms of working About two-thirds of the permanent workforce are between time organization wherever possible to make the work 25 and 45 years old. About 55% of the permanent more ﬂexible and improve the quality of working life for its workforce have over six years’ seniority. employees. To do this, Europcar is progressively putting in place teleworking arrangements for employees based ANTI-DISCRIMINATION in head ofﬁ ces. These arrangements have already been Wherever it operates, Europcar commits to respecting introduced within the Group Holding Company and in local anti-discrimination laws and regulations and to Germany, Spain, Belgium, and within Ubeeqo. They are prevent all associated forms of provocation, harassment also in pilot programs within Europcar Italy through the or intimidation. This commitment was reafﬁrmed in 2016 dedicated “Smart working” program. with the publication of the Group’s Ethics Code, which summarizes Europcar’s expectations on anti-discrimination. The Code was communicated to all employees and 4.3.1.3 Promoting diversity interested stakeholders. Europcar has made the promotion of diversity one of its main commitments as a responsible employer. Whether in The Group, as required by law, undertakes to regularly communicate within the Group and to train its employees 04 its Holding companies or Corporate Countries, the Group in the principles of non-discrimination whether in the hiring believes that it is essential for teams to reﬂect the diversity process or in the day-to-day life of the Company. Most of expectations and consumption habits of its customers, Corporate Countries also have formalized internal antiin order to offer them better tailored mobility solutions. discrimination policies. Accordingly, Europcar seeks to promote complementarity among its employees, without distinction of age, gender, GENDER EQUALITY ability, sexual orientation or origin and is putting in place an Europcar pays close attention to equality within its teams ambitious diversity promotion program to further strengthen and monitors the accessibility of jobs to women and this initiative in each of its Corporate Countries. men alike, both at the recruitment stage and during their Europcar France and the Group holding company Europcar subsequent careers within the Group. This commitment International are partners in the charity “Nos Quartiers ont is afﬁrmed and communicated in the Group Ethics Code, des Talents” (“Neighborhoods have got talent”). This charity which states that gender can never be a criterion for helps young graduates from disadvantaged backgrounds selection, promotion or compensation at Europcar. enter into employment, if they have 4-5 years college-level The Group’s efforts to promote gender equality are reﬂected studies, by arranging mentoring between employees and in the Group’s consolidated ﬁgures, in its overall workforce young graduates. and in its management teams or governance bodies, all of At end-2017, Europcar International S.A.S.U. also joined which have high rates of women’s representation. the Les entreprises pour la Cité network, supporting the struggle against inequalities, employment for all and EUROPCAR IS RANKED IN THE TOP 20 FOR WOMEN’S diversity at work by swapping best practices among REPRESENTATION IN MANAGEMENT 2017 companies. The ﬁ fth study conducted by Ethics & Board for the French secretariat responsible for gender equality DISTRIBUTION OF WORKFORCE BY AGE* highlighted Europcar’s progression in ranking in female WORKFORCE AT 12/31/17 representation in management, from 70 th in 2016 to 19th in 2017. This recognizes the number of women in its management teams and executive bodies (Board, Executive Committee, Top 100 managers, etc.). 2,160 2,170 1,484 538 322 5% 32% 33% 22% 8% Under 25 From 25 to From 36 to From 46 to More than 35 years old 45 years old 55 years old 55 years old EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 289 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Gender breakdown Headcount at 12/31/2017 Men** 4,294 53.6% Women** 3,717 46.4% Male managers * 1,106 59.7% Female managers* 746 40.3% Men on the Management Board 2 67% Women on the Management Board 1 33% Men on the Supervisory Board 6 60% Women on the Supervisory Board 4 40% 4.3.2 Labor policy to promote good talent management and well-being at work 4.3.2.1 Labor policy Where labor relations are unregulated, dialogue is conducted via regular team meetings, annual conferences, employee Europcar has based its labor policy on four issues that surveys or monthly newsletters. This is the case in Australia the Group considers a priority and on which it seeks to and New Zealand. take a pro-active stance everywhere it operates: employee relations, health and safety at work, well-being at work and To assess the working climate, the Group has since 2015 skills development. carried out an employee survey in most Corporate Countries. This internal indicator is based on a questionnaire sent out The Group operates in eight European countries as well to employees asking them to report their level of satisfaction as Australia and New Zealand. It therefore has to deal with on a scale from 1 to 10. Results are consolidated and many and varied local labor laws which in many cases are analyzed by Human Resources before being passed on to stricter than the directives of the ILO, which it applies and the General Manager in each Corporate Country. whose tenets were written into the Group’s Ethics Code published in late 2016. This year, aside from a few individual In 2017, 12 collective bargaining agreements were signed cases, the Group has not been penalized for breaches of and 58 were active at December 31, 2017, covering a labor laws in any of the countries where it operates. diverse and varied range of issues including working time organization and compensation. LABOR RELATIONS AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY Labor relations at Europcar are maintained by constant The Group seeks to promote the health and safety of its dialogue between the management teams, employees and employees wherever it operates. Its ambition is to maintain employee representatives. The Group seeks to promote its current low frequency and severity rates for accidents at close relations between managers and their teams to work. During 2017, 5 collective bargaining agreements on ensure a calm and constructive climate at work. health and safety at work were signed and 9 were active at December 31, 2017. In every country that has a legal framework for employee relations, Europcar complies with local law and regulations, Workplace accidents 2017 such as in Germany, France, Spain, Italy and Belgium where Number of workplace accidents** 212 relations revolve around the employee representative bodies or works committees. At December 31, 2017, 60% of Number of days lost time due to workplace accidents** 3,563 Group employees were represented by such bodies. Number of fatal workplace accidents in the year** 0 Labor relations on transnational projects are conducted by Workplace accident frequency rate** 14.5 a European Works Committee, which meets at least once a year and has 14 members (two from each country where Workplace accident severity rate** 0.2 Europcar operates). Together, they represent all employees of Europcar’s Corporate Countries. 290 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Europcar’s business does not in principle cause any speciﬁc For many of its employees, the Group has imposed a threeprofessional illness. The Group is, however, conscious part pay scheme comprising ﬁxed compensation, individual of the potential for health and safety risks and possible variable compensation based on monthly, quarterly or dangers to its employees as a result of harsh working annual targets depending on the country and role, and conditions for its employees in different roles (psycho-social a collective compensation component based on Group risks, muscular-skeletal disorders, cold, noise, etc.). In all performance. its Corporate Countries, the Group complies with local laws In 2017, the Group’s total wages and salaries was €308 and regulations on health and safety at work and sets up million (compared to €254 million in 2016). The ways of dedicated committees where required. reporting variable compensation depend on the country. To prevent and reduce risk factors, the Group introduced Accordingly, the amount of wages and salaries may, mandatory wearing of individual protective equipment inaccording to the country, include compensation for overtime station and put in place the regulatory, standardized and/ and/or atypical hours. or pro-active measures listed below: Benefits** 2017 a regulatory measures: in every country where these Number of employees covered by non-obligatory 04 issues are regulated by law, the Group complies with health insurance 3,145 the prescribed requirements for committees or other dedicated structures (frequency of meetings, reporting Number of employees covered by non-obligatory and sharing of data, etc.). These measures affect French death and disability insurance 5,594 and Belgian entities and cover 24% of the Group’s Number of employees covered by non-obligatory employees. In France, the Group subsidiaries affected retirement insurance 2,187 also have an obligation to keep an updated Single Risk Assessment Document, listing and quantifying potential Europcar complies with all local regulations and obligations risks linked to their business and preventative actions in each country where it operates and with any internal taken; and collective bargaining agreements on social security cover whatever the local criteria (age, seniority, type a normative standards and independent third parties: of contract, etc.). Wherever required by law, the Group when these points are not governed by local regulations, provides solutions that at least match, and where possible Europcar has initiated, depending on the country, either exceed, legal requirements to promote loyalty among its a certiﬁcation process or partnerships with third parties employees. Beyond its legal obligations, Europcar provides to deﬁne health and safety policies. Europcar Spain, for non-obligatory health insurance for 39% of its employees instance, has OSHAS 18001 (1) certiﬁcation and Europcar and non-obligatory death and/or disability insurance for Portugal uses a specialist organization to assess risks, 70%. upgrade working spaces and raise awareness among employees; LINKING EMPLOYEES TO COMPANY PERFORMANCE a proactive measures: in all other Corporate Countries, At end-2016, Europcar established an employee dedicated procedures have been put in place to evaluate, shareholding plan enabling employees to become even analyze and prevent risks to health and safety at work. more involved in the Company’s performance. At December In the UK, for instance, procedures are documented and 31, 2017, 2,356,134 shares were held by employees, disseminated in a House Book, and in Australia and New representing 1.46% of the Europcar Group share capital. Zealand regular inspections are carried out and training is provided to all employees upon joining the company. 4.3.2.2 Develop talent and support COMPENSATION POLICY AND SOCIAL SECURITY the career of employees Europcar plans to offer each of its employees compensation Europcar sees talent management as a key factor in based on individual and collective performance and to performance and a way to deliver ever more innovative structure its compensation policy in accordance with local mobility solutions at a continuous high standard of service regulations and collective bargaining agreements in each to its customers. To achieve this, the Group seeks to Corporate Country, basing compensation on internal salary support employees throughout their career and offer all of scales or the local jobs market. them the opportunity to develop their skills through dynamic training policies. (1) OHSAS is an international standard for managing workplace health and safety. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 291 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER To provide a stimulating work environment where employees There are many training themes which are tailored to each can flourish professionally, Europcar develops training speciﬁc role in station or in head ofﬁces. These may relate policies designed to reconcile three points: to health and safety at work (accidental spillage in stations, ﬁrst aid, etc.), management, foreign languages, professional a the needs and aspirations of employees as deﬁned at the skills (selling, e-commerce, marketing, etc.) or IT and digital start of each year in individual interviews; tools. a strategic developments in the Group and its markets Most Corporate Countries also have formal training plans which may require the mastering new business skills; and sometimes a dedicated team, as is the case in the UK, a legal and regulatory obligations that may make it or internal trainers, as in Europcar Belgium. necessary and/or obligatory to train employees in speciﬁc These training sessions are delivered in a variety of forms issues, particularly in the area of health and safety at (face-to-face, e-learning, etc.) to ensure they reach as many work. people as possible. Training 2017 Number of employees trained** 6,384 Number of training hours** 83,942 Number of employees trained among the seasonal workforce 1,365 Number of training hours for seasonal workforce 10,574 Number of apprentices and interns recruited 473 In 2017, 80% of permanent and non-permanent employees received at least one training course during the year. The EUROPCAR UNIVERSITY, AN E-LEARNING PROGRAM FOR EMPLOYEES OF EUROPCAR AUSTRALIA AND total number of training hours delivered by the Group increased by 13% compared to 2016 (73,961 hours). The NEW ZEALAND. recruitment of apprentices and interns also forms part of the Each new recruit to Europcar Australia and Europcar Group’s commitment to promoting access to employment New Zealand go through the “Europcar University” for young graduates. This year, 473 apprentices and interns online training program, which includes seven were recruited in the Group and 40% were subsequently mandatory training modules on fundamental issues hired on permanent or ﬁxed-term contracts. in the Group’s business (induction program, vehicle rental fundamentals, health and safety, road safety, The Group also formalized procedures for individual faceanti-discrimination, consumer law, etc.). to-face interviews in each of its Corporate Countries to collect information and discuss the training needs of its employees and gauge their level of commitment and professional development. 292 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE 4.4 EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE Europcar is aware of global environmental issues, 2016. This strategy seeks to better measure and limit its particularly those affecting the transportation and mobility total carbon footprint, seen as the main environmental issue sectors, responsible for around 30% of global greenhouse for a mobility promoter like Europcar. gas emissions. Although not involved in industrial activities, Part of its thinking on environmental policy revolves around the Group believes it has a role in combating climate change efforts to cut its greenhouse gas emission. But the Group and seeks to play an active part in the transition to a low also plans to manage all its environmental risks and aims to carbon world. step up actions and initiatives on a broad front, in particular The Group’s aim is to encourage, everywhere that it through: operates, vehicle use over ownership. The functionality a regulatory compliance; 04 economy is at the heart of its business model, allowing it to reduce the use of natural resources in vehicle manufacture a reducing water and energy consumption; and hence the associated greenhouse gas emissions. a reduction and treatment of waste products. As a mobility promoter, Europcar is attentive to all direct Through “Commit Together!”, Europcar has defined and indirect environmental consequences, both external concrete commitments and ambitious targets for reducing and internal, that could affect its total environmental impact Europcar’s environmental impacts. These are as follows: and its business in the broadest sense. For this reason, the Group started implementing its Low Carbon strategy in late Commit Together! objectives 2015 2016 2017 Objective 2020 No. 11 Put in place a global eco-driving Eco-driving Eco-driving Eco-driving advice awareness program advice online advice online online and in stations and in stations and in stations Objective 2020 No. 12 Continually increase the distance 11.4 million km 34.4 million km 35.6 million km our customers travel in hybrid and electric vehicles. Objective 2020 No. 13 Achieve target of 20% of vehicles 13% washed without water or movement or nearly 94,000 cu.m. and 308 teqCO2 avoided Objective 2020 No. 14 Invest in new and higher performance mobilities €26.0M €21.9M €27.5M Objective 2020 No. 15 100% of operating subsidiaries 78% (7/9) 78% (7/9) 73% (8/11) will have launched ISO 14001 certiﬁcation The Operating subsidiaries combine the Corporate Countries as well as any other Group subsidiary whose “operational” business is vehicle rental or mobility solutions. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 293 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE 4.4.1 Group environmental policy and organization 4.4.1.1 Roll out a global environmental This strategy has been approved by Group General policy Management and covers all signiﬁcant environmental issues (identiﬁed in the environmental impact audit carried out in In a pro-active process, Europcar plans to roll out a global late 2016 by the Carbone 4 agency) and all departments environmental policy in all its operational subsidiaries using and sites that may be affected. its Low Carbon strategy, which seeks to balance operational performance, economic success and combating climate change. THE LOW CARBON STRATEGY Reduce the GHG emissions linked Develop new & less polluting Promote innovation & share 1 to the use of vehicles 2 mobility offerings 3 best environmental practices Offer an range of vehicle equipped Develop our offer of hybrid and Reduce the environmental with the newest technologies electric vehicles when possible footprint of our stations (consumption & emissions) (water, energy, etc.) Promote eco-driving all along Increase use of more efficient Share best environmental the customer journey way for !Delivery and Collection practices and promote innovation and new mobilities The Group’s ambitions include: 4.4.1.2 Organization of the Group and a raising employees’ awareness of the importance of training related to the environment considering environmental issues in every aspect of each The Group’s organization for dealing with environmental of its businesses; issues is based on local CSR correspondents (one for each a putting in place the environmental policy and objectives Group entity) who are responsible for local implementation set by each Corporate Country, then rolling them out to of Group environmental policy and the corresponding action the franchise network; plans. Depending on the Corporate Country concerned, environmental or certiﬁcation managers monitor compliance a monitoring implementation of the environmental policy with local regulations, certiﬁ cation work, procedures to by annual reporting at the Group level and oversight of address potential environmental risks and awarenessperiodic local indicators; raising and training in local environmental issues. a ensuring motivation, skills and training of teams. Group General Management makes sure that Group The Group has also included ISO 14001 certiﬁ cation in expectations are appropriate to the context of each environmental management among the CSR Fundamentals Corporate Country and that all employees are aware of being developed at the Corporate Countries. This the environmental policy. It also ensures that all affected management system currently covers head ofﬁces and pilot departments seek to constantly improve the environmental stations in the Group. It further deepens and extends the impact of their business. Local awareness-raising actions actions taken to reduce the Group’s environmental impact and training are carried out in-house, either face-to-face in stations through regular audits by external certifying or through e-learning. In Europcar Belgium, for instance, bodies. Best practices and actions taken in the certiﬁed new recruits are made aware of environmental concerns stations are subsequently collected and analyzed with a during their Welcome Day. In some Corporate Countries, view to wider deployment throughout the networks. employees have dedicated e-learning modules such as Australia and New Zealand via Europcar University, or website tools such as those in Italy, Germany and France, as well as special events such as the UK’s Green Month. 294 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE In 2017, the provisions and guarantees for environmental adverse judgments or ﬁnes on environmental matters during risks amounted to €11,000, which was a non-material the year. amount for the Group. The Group was not subject to any 4.4.2 Act to promote sustainable mobility through all stages of the customer journey Europcar’s environmental impact derives from its direct 4.4.2.1 Carbon footprint and sustainable activities (administration, transporting the ﬂeet, preparing mobility and cleaning vehicles in-house, etc.), its sub-contractors (repair, preparation and cleaning of vehicles by service The Carbon balance sheet below breaks down Europcar’s 04 providers, etc.) and its customers (vehicle use, fuel GHG emissions by source: direct emissions (Scope 1), consumption, etc.). indirect emissions (Scope 2) related to energy consumption, other indirect emissions (Scope 3). GHG EMISSIONS BALANCE SHEET In CO2 t eq. 2017 Coverage Rate Scope 1 25,585 75-99% Scope 2 7,098 91% Total scopes 1 & 2 32,683 75-99% Estimate Scope 3 (on the basis of the Group’s carbon footprint broken down below) 1,634,115 75-99% To appreciate Europcar’s whole carbon footprint and 2016 in collaboration with the Carbone 4 consulting ﬁrm. identify then prioritize potential responses, the Group This gave the Group a more detailed picture of its sources prepared a balance sheet of its GHG emissions at endof emissions and the scope it has to reduce them. GHG EMISSIONS BALANCE SHEET SCOPE: GHG EMISSIONS BALANCE SHEET SCOPE: BREAKDOWN BY SCOPE BREAKDOWN BY SOURCE 1.3% 2% SCOPE 1 Company's activities 0.4% 12% SCOPE 2 Cars manufacturing 98% 76% SCOPE 3 Use of cars 4% Shipping & freight 6% Others STUDY CONDUCTED BY THE CARBONE 4 CONSULTING though these emissions are booked under “other indirect FIRM AT END-2016 emissions” (Scope 3). Fuel burnt by vehicles being driven The main source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, by customers makes up 75% of the Group’s total GHG the use of vehicles by customers is seen as the Group’s emissions, which is why the Group is keen to promote top priority to reduce its global carbon footprint even “sustainable mobility” at all stages of the customer journey. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 295 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE 4.4.2.2 Combating climate change at every driven. In Australia and New Zealand, Europcar also stage of the customer journey offers an emissions offset scheme, which plants trees in partnership with the Australian NGO Greenfleet. Since 2007, this partnership has led to the planting of more than OFFER RECENT VEHICLES 158,000 trees. The initiative is currently being adapted by Thanks to its business model based on buy-back other Corporate Countries. contracts (carmakers buy back their vehicles after a set period), Europcar’s vehicle ﬂeet comprises recent models A MOBILE APPLICATION TO PROMOTE ECO-DRIVING (less than 10 months on average), which meet the latest THROUGHOUT THE RENTAL. standards for fuel consumption and GHG emissions. At In summer 2017, Europcar tested smartphone December 31, 2017, average CO 2/km emissions were applications to promote eco-driving with a panel of 116g, stable with respect to 2016. volunteer employees as a trial for their eventual use by customers. Employees of the Group Holding Company CO2 EMISSIONS OF THE AVERAGE FLEET (GCO2/KM) and at the head ofﬁces of Europcar Spain and Europcar France were invited to use a mobile application to 160 collect information on their driving habits (style, speed, 151 braking, etc.) during normal driving. The testers were 146 able to get personalized tips after each journey to 140 improve their driving and cut their fuel consumption 140 134 and the associated CO 2 emissions. After a month127 long trial the results were positive. More than half the 124 120 119 118 116 testers said they had improved their driving thanks to 116 the self-assessments and advice the app gave. Over 65% of volunteers thought it adds value for Europcar 100 customers. Nov-08 Sept-09 Aug-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Nov-13 Dec-14 Janv-16 Dec-16 Dec-17 4.4.2.3 Promoting innovation and developing new higher MAKE CUSTOMERS AWARE FROM THE TIME performance mobilities OF RESERVATION Europcar is also committed to offering an ever-wider range As soon as customers reserve a car, Europcar invites of very low emission mobility solutions as another way to them to choose their vehicle on environmental criteria by cut the carbon footprint from using its vehicles. In 2017, highlighting the CO2 emissions of each model offered for more than 35 million km were driven by Europcar customers rent when selecting the vehicle on the Group websites. This in electric and hybrid vehicles, a 3% increase from 2016. information is complemented by an indicator scored from A The Group believes that it could raise the proportion further to G (similar to an energy rating where “A” has the lowest and has set a target of constantly improving the rate of use impact). This is accompanied by a color coding for clear of green vehicles by running speciﬁc sales and marketing and quick identiﬁcation of the greenest vehicle. actions. Before picking up the vehicle, Europcar wishes to give Among these initiatives is the 2015 acquisition of E-Car its customers all the information necessary to promote Club, an electric car-sharing start-up. It has also acquired responsible behavior on the road and eco-driving so as the ﬁrst hydrogen powered vehicles for its Brunel brand to reduce the environmental impact of their journeys. at end 2016. Both initiatives are in the UK. More recently, Depending on the Corporate Country, the Group Europcar Portugal and Europcar Belgium launched new very communicates online, via newsletters and advice, and inlow-emission mobility offerings. In Portugal, 16 stations, station, via posters. mostly in towns, now offer bike and scooter rentals. In At the end of the rental, the customer can check the Brussels, a partnership was struck in 2017 with start-up theoretical carbon footprint of their journey on the bill. Scooty (self-service electric scooter sharing) offering crossIt is calculated by multiplying the number of kilometers discounts to customers when they reserve scooters via traveled by the average emissions in the vehicle being Scooty or vehicles via Europcar. 296 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE In New Zealand, Europcar launched the Electric Day REDUCE THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF DELIVERIES Pass (EDP) in partnership with Volkswagen, an innovative For many years the Group has been experimenting with new program that lets business customers traveling regularly to ways of delivering its vehicles in its Delivery and Collection and from Christchurch, Wellington and Auckland airports to (delivery and collection of rental vehicle services). Europcar rent electric vehicles free of charge on the day they travel has tested bicycle delivery in eight German towns, which to one of these cities. means a single employee can deliver or collect a vehicle in town and make the other half of their journey on a bike that can be folded and stored in the trunk. In Lisbon and London, electric vehicles in Europcar’s colors can be used to provide the same service. 4.4.3 Improve the Group’s direct environmental impact Aside issues relating to GHG emissions by its vehicles, the In terms of its ground footprint, the Group has areas used 04 Group is also taking action at all stages of its life cycle to cut permanently for head ofﬁces and the network and parking its direct environmental impacts, notably in-station where lots are actively managed according to the activity. The these impacts are the most signiﬁcant. Three environmental orders of magnitude and the types of area occupied by issues are being particularly targeted: water consumption, the Group (basement or on an upper level) are not such as energy consumption and production and treatment of to make ground usage a signiﬁcant issue for the Group in waste. terms of environmental impact. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: KEY FIGURES* 2017 Consumption Coverage Rate Water (cu.m.) 549,531 81% Electricity (MWh) 19,969 91% Renewable energy (MWh) 5,898 91% Natural gas (MWh) 7,084 75% Total energy excluding fuel (MWh) 32,952 75% Fuel consumed internally (L) 7,939,228 97% All ﬁgures presented above are for the Group’s direct inVEHICLE WASHING, AN ENVIRONMENTAL house consumption. They cover the Corporate Countries PRIORITY FOR THE GROUP scope and do not include the franchise networks nor the Vehicle washing consumes large quantities of water but suppliers (who are outside the scope of the annual CSR also of energy and chemical products. It is done either report). in-house by the Group’s vehicle preparers when stations The costs related to water and energy consumption have dedicated facilities or outsourced when there is no are, for a number of stations, included in the premises’ in-station car wash. Although the Group operates in a rental charges, and it is difﬁ cult to obtain more detailed number of countries normally considered “hot” or vulnerable information. The data presented above concerns 100% to water shortages, the Group has no restrictions on the of the head ofﬁces and at least 75% of the directly-owned water that it can use, other than restrictions that could be statiosns. This de facto entails a coverage rate (1) of below imposed in Belgium by the Government during exceptional 100%. periods. In addition, no penalty was levied on Europcar for water use in 2017. (1) For more information on the coverage rate, see the methodology note at the end of the Chapter. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 297 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR ACTOR IN THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE In 2017, Europcar consumed 549,531 cu.m of water, PROMOTE ENVIRONMENTAL BEST PRACTICES AND LIMIT of which 94% was in station, generally linked to vehicle RISKS washing before each rental. To cut its water consumption, Fuel storage is considered the Group’s main environmental the Group launched the No wet wash initiative to reduce risk factor. It pays particular attention to maintaining its tanks the number of vehicles “going through” automatic vehicle and warning systems (leak detectors, alarms) and in training washes. Stations check at the end of each rental whether its teams to prevent leaks and how to respond in the event the vehicle needs a full wash or if a dry manual wash of an accidental spill. All Group facilities comply with local would be enough, thus optimizing their water and energy regulations on storing and operating fuel storage tanks. ISO consumption and reducing the need to move vehicles. At 14001 certiﬁcation is also a Group priority to strengthen December 31, 2017, the program was rolled out in 230 its actions in leak prevention and to train personnel in the stations in Europe, saving nearly 94,000 cu.m of water and event of an incident. At December 31, 2017, the Group 307 metric tons of CO2 between April and December 2017. had 479 fuel storage installations (214 tanks and 265 fuel The Group also equipped some of its stations with water pumps) and 64% of the tanks had double bottoms. recycling systems to limit the water taken from the supply No leaks were recorded in the course of the year. network. These measures are in place in around 5% of Wherever it operates, Europcar aims to promote stations with vehicle washing facilities and save 70-80% of environmental best practice, particularly when it comes the water used to wash vehicles in these stations. to action to cut energy consumption and improve waste treatment. WASTE TREATMENT* 2017 Consolidated Coverage Metric tons Group Data rate Quantity of dangerous waste produced 500 63% Quantity of dangerous waste recycled 419 63% Waste produced by the Group can be classiﬁed into two Several pilot initiatives have been launched to constantly categories (hazardous and non-hazardous). Classiﬁcation increase the recycling rate of waste produced by the Group and treatment depends on local regulations that the Group and promote a circular economy for their treatment. To this conscientiously complies with at each of its Corporate end, Europcar France for instance started sorting waste in Countries through special local procedures and the ISO its biggest stations, which has allowed it to recycle most of 14001 environmental management system. Food waste the waste produced through dedicated channels. is not a big issue for Europcar and this is why no speciﬁc Furthermore, a procedure is deployed within the Group to action has been taken to reduce food waste. increase the life of computer equipment and promote their Regarding waste classified as “hazardous”, the Group recycling through the Group IT Department. basically generates IT waste, toners, neon tubes, batteries and waste sludge from the stations’ hydrocarbon separators. “Non-hazardous” waste is mainly ofﬁce waste and paper. 298 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR CREATOR OF SHARED VALUE it generates, Europcar seeks to constantly increase the DEMATERIALIZING THE CONTRACT SIGNING PROCESS: percentage of renewable energy in its consumption. All its THE SIGN ON GLASS PROJECT. sites in Germany, Italy and France are wholly powered by In New Zealand and Australia, the Group launched its renewables which means 18% of the Group’s total energy “Sign on glass” initiative to speed up and dematerialize consumption was from renewable sources at December the process of signing rental contracts in station, 31, 2017. previously done on paper. In 2017, four pilot stations Europcar also wants to optimize energy consumption were chosen to test the project. They offered customers wherever it operates by encouraging best practices, tactile tablets on which they could sign their rental particularly in its station networks but also in its ofﬁces. contract directly on the screen and would then receive Stations undergo regular energy audits, notably when an emailed copy. There were many benefits to this qualifying for or renewing their environmental certiﬁcations. system: customers spending less time in the station, Among other points, these can identify new areas for substantial energy savings (printers, IT equipment, etc.), improvement and design action plans to be tested in reduced waste (toner, paper, etc.). The Group estimates pilot stations and rolled out to the network if successful. this initiative will save around 13 metric tons of paper a Europcar UK, for instance, has launched a 5-year plan 04 year in Australia and New Zealand alone. This is part of to replace all standard lighting with LEDs throughout its the Group’s drive to make its stations paperless. stations, due to be completed in 2021. Since 2017, the Company cars within Europcar International In 2017, the Group consumed 5,898 MWh of renewable S.A.S.U. are finally being gradually replaced by hybrid energy in its stations (60%) and head ofﬁces (40%) in all models, thus reducing fuel consumption. the Group’s Corporate Countries. Aware of the issues linked to its energy consumption and the GHG emissions 4.5 EUROPCAR CREATOR OF SHARED VALUE Europcar is committed to being a creator of shared value also has the ambition of deploying its “Commit Together!” by promoting business ethics in the exercise of its business corporate social responsibility policy throughout its value and applying a responsible purchasing policy. The Group chain, particularly in its worldwide franchise network. Commit Together! objectives 2015 2016 2017 Objective 2020 No. 16 Include franchises in the Group’s Commit Together! / / Sensitivity training policy via a dedicated program and consultation of 100% of the franchisees Objective 2020 No. 17 100% of “at-risk” suppliers engaged in an improvement plan / Supplier risk map Roll-out of the Group’s responsible purchasing policy Objective 2020 No. 18 100% of managers trained in business ethics and / / Launch of ﬁrst the fight against corruption training modules Objective 2020 No.19 Include CSR and Group Ethics Code clauses in all new / OK OK franchise and supplier contracts Objective 2020 No. 20 Continuously improve non-financial ratings. / / OK EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 299 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR CREATOR OF SHARED VALUE 4.5.1 Support franchise networks in adopting environmental and social best practice To make its impact as extensive and positive as possible, the 2017, special CSR awareness modules were systematically Group believes it is essential to share its Commit Together! delivered at Regional Franchise Conferences, attended policy with its franchisees and that environmental and social by franchisees throughout the year depending on their best practices are applied to their businesses. The ambition geographical region. is to make corporate social responsibility a new pillar in Over the year, the Group also held a major international the franchiser/franchisee relationship through specially consultation asking its franchisees about their expectations developed awareness, training and support programs. Since in terms of CSR and seeking to identify the best levers for the end of 2016, any new contract between the Group and improvement and what might be done to better support a franchisee includes a speciﬁc clause on compliance with them in implementing the Commit Together process in their the commitments in the Group Ethics Code, including in businesses. More than a third of franchisees took part. A particular respect for human rights, the ILO Conventions, majority of respondents said they had already initiated a the UN Global Compact and environmental protection. CSR policy or actions. Expectations of the Group mainly concerned: the creation of materials or communication RAISE AWARENESS AND UNDERSTAND FRANCHISEE campaigns to raise awareness in the networks and with EXPECTATIONS REGARDING CORPORATE SOCIAL customers, provision of tools to collect and share best RESPONSIBILITY practices across the network or the availability of speciﬁc Europcar wanted to focus the ﬁrst stage of its action plan training modules. 2018 will be devoted to launching actions on raising awareness of CSR issues among its franchisees to support franchisees to become real ambassadors for the and consulting them on their expectations of the Group. In Commit Together! process throughout the world. 4.5.2 Develop a responsible purchasing policy 4. 5.2.1 Favor local suppliers equipment purchases and meets the operational needs and sub-contractors associated with maintenance and care for the vehicles in the station networks. They concentrate a large portion of Purchases constitute one of the key issues for Europcar the potential risk factors related to Europcar’s supply chain; to achieve its strategic objectives and regarding the quality a dedicated policy has been formalized within the Group. of mobility solutions offered by the Group. The Group’s intention is to maintain stable relationships with suppliers In cooperation with all the buyers in the Corporate wherever it operates by promoting dialogue and by regularly Countries, the Group has therefore deﬁned its purchasing assessing the supplier’s revenue from Europcar to avoid policy, excluding ﬂeet, along three dimensions; “operational any dependency risk. excellence”, “corporate social responsibility” through the launch of a responsible purchasing policy (see 4.5.2.2 The Group has organized its purchases into two broad “Responsible purchasing policy”). categories. On one hand, the Fleet management department manages vehicle purchases from recognized By the nature of its business, Europcar makes the vast manufacturers as well as the expenses of putting them in bulk (99%) of its non-ﬂeet purchases in the geographical service (registration, insurance, etc.). They are not discussed regions where it operates, making it a major provider of in this chapter (see Section 1.6.8 “Group Suppliers” in this local employment. Few purchases are made outside the Registration Document). Group’s direct operations: 0.7% of the purchases are made in North and South America, 0.3% in Asia, which limits the On the other hand, the Group Purchasing department, potential for social risks. through its network of local buyers in each of the Corporate Countries, is responsible for day-to-day purchases, 300 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR CREATOR OF SHARED VALUE NUMBER OF DIRECT SUPPLIERS In 2016, Europcar launched a responsible purchasing 19,691 policy developed jointly between the Group Purchasing, 20,000 excluding fleet, and CSR departments. Beyond meeting 18,000 its legal and regulatory obligations, the objective of this 16,000 approach is to anticipate and minimize the risks that can 14,000 arise in the Europcar value chain and support suppliers to 12,000 10,000 better acknowledge the CSR criteria in their practices and 8,000 offers. The approach is communicated to all the buyers in 6,000 the Corporate Countries through regular contacts and the 4,000 Group Purchasing blog. 1,431 2,000 2 30 42 12 0 Over the past year, Europcar has systematically included in Europe Africa Asia Pacific North South all its tender offers and contracts a clause which requires America America compliance with the Group’s Ethics Code, in which are listed all its expectations with regard to the respect for Human R ights, International Labour Organization c onventions 04 The purchases, excluding ﬂeet, represent approximately 25% of the Group’s annual consolidated revenue. The Group has (concerning in particular the ﬁght against forced labor, child a great many contracted suppliers (over 21,200 at December labor and discrimination), the ﬁght against corruption as well 31, 2017). Most are local, as this allows the Group to monitor as the preservation of the environment in the performance the smooth running of the station networks in Europe, of their activities. Lastly, the Group makes compliance with Australia and New Zealand. Approximately 60% of the nonlocal laws and regulations a prerequisite for any commercial ﬂeet purchases are made within the network of stations and relationship. relate to activities to repair, prepare or transport the vehicles After an awareness-raising seminar at the end of 2016 for all for geographical redistribution. At head ofﬁces, purchases the buyers in the Corporate Countries, the Group produced mainly relate to the rental ﬂeet, insurance and IT equipment. a risk map by category of purchases. These ﬁrst steps have enabled the action plan to be reﬁned (prioritization of the supplier categories to assess, criteria to be used in the 4.5.2.2 Responsible purchasing policy assessment, etc.) and the deployment of the approach within The Group wants to be a creator of shared value with its the Corporate Countries to be built together. commercial partners by focusing particular attention on their 2017 was devoted to take-up and a deeper understanding appreciation of the social and environmental aspects and of the potential supplier risks by country as well as building issues in their businesses. Europcar is aware of the numerous and formalizing supplier assessment tools. The large scale regulatory and legal changes to which it must respond and deployment of these tools as well as the formalization of takes immediate action to comply with them. Even though a vigilance plan are in the “responsible purchasing” road the Law on the Duty of Vigilance is not applicable this year, map for 2018. The objective for 2020 is to commit 100% the Group is already working on its compliance through its of suppliers identiﬁed as “at risk” by the Group in mitigation responsible purchasing policy and will publish its vigilance plan. plan in 2018. 4.5.3 Promote business ethics and combat corruption 4.5.3.1 Promote business ethics In 2016, the Group published its commitments through the communication of its Group Ethics Code, a single Europcar intends to promote business ethics in all the steps reference document to ensure uniformity and consistency of its value chain and in all its commercial (customers, between the practices of the employees and the Europcar’s suppliers, franchisees, B2B customers) and social expectations regarding business ethics. (employees) relationships. The Group has thus developed a compliance program based on a dedicated organization 48 commitments and 12 objectives feature in this Group (comprised of Compliance Officers and a Compliance Ethics Code, which formalizes Europcar’s requirements Committee) as well as a multi-annual action plan including regarding in particular respect for national and international the main actions to take over three years and reviewed regulations and laws, respect for human dignity and rights, every year. These procedures are described in detail in preservation of the health and safety of its employees, Section 2.8.1 “General organization of internal control” in preservation of the environment, protection of personal this Registration Document. data, ﬁght against conﬂicts of interest, and support for all internal and external initiatives that promote the Group’s social and environmental progress. These key principles EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 301 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EUROPCAR CREATOR OF SHARED VALUE are based on a certain number of laws and international The Group Ethics Code and the Group Anti-Corruption references such as the Universal Declaration on Human Charter are complemented by a whistleblowing system, Rights, the i nternational l abor c onventions (Nos. 29, Whispli, which allows any practice which might break the 87, 105, 138 among others), the United Nations Global law or the Ethics Code to be reported. It will be deployed Compact, and the OECD directives for multinational within the Group during 2018 and supported by dedicated companies. online training modules to ensure good comprehension and adoption by Europcar employees. This program enables The Ethics Code was supplemented in 2017 by the antithe Group to comply with the French anti-corruption corruption guide. This document was completed to make requirements of the Sapin 2 Law. all Group employees aware of the anti-corruption issues. The formalities required by the representative bodies are currently being completed Group-wide to enable the 4.5.3.2 Combating corruption document’s inclusion in the Internal Regulation in 2018. Anti-corruption is also a Group priority, and the Group The Ethics Code and commitments, as well as the antimapped its potential related risks and identified the corruption guide, are going to be gradually issued to all most exposed employee populations. This work enabled Group employees and be part of the “Welcome Pack” Europcar to build a set of rules and formalize a speciﬁ c issued to new hires from 2018. The Ethics Code and the organization to anticipate and effectively combat any form commitment are also available online on the Europcar of corruption. website and included in any new contract entered into between Europcar and its franchisees and suppliers. In addition to the Compliance program and Anti-corruption Specific awareness modules are being prepared. A guide described above, Europcar oversees, through the dedicated e-learning program should be rolled out in 2018 Group Internal Audit Department, identiﬁcation and fraud to train all Group employees in these issues. prevention procedures across its entire scope of business. Europcar has set itself the goal of training 100% of its These measures and the actions implemented are managers in business ethics and anti-corruption by 2020. described in greater detail in Sections 1.6.10.5 “Business ethics program” and 2.7 “Ethics and Compliance Program”. 302 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE OF SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 4.6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE OF SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION The reporting indicators used in this chapter correspond the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). They also allow the to the criteria identified in the non-financial reporting Group to highlight its commitment to the Ten Principles (Pr.) framework of Article 225 of Law No. 2010-788 of July 12, and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) of the United 2010, known as Grenelle II, and the guidelines issued by Nations Global Compact relevant to Europcar. Global Compact Principles (Pr.) / Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) GRI Section 102-1 04 102-2 102-3 GENERAL INFORMATION ON EUROPCAR 102-4 Name, legal form, location 102-5 6.1 102-2 102-6 102-7 1.3 OVERVIEW OF BUSINESSES 102-9 1.4 Products, services, brands, markets 102-10 1.6 DECLARATION OF THE HIGHEST EXECUTIVE BODY 102-14 4.1 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 102-15 4.1 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 102-21 4.1 SOCIAL INFORMATION 102-8 4.3 Employment 4.3.1 102-7 102-8 4.3.1.2 Total headcount and breakdown of employees 401-1 4.3.1.1 202-2 Hirings and dismissals 401-1 4.3.1.1 102-35 102-36 102-38 Compensation and its change 102-39 4.3.2.1 Working time organization Pr.4 4.3.1.2 Working time organization 4.3.1.2 Absenteeism 403-2 4.3.1.2 Employee Relations 402-1 4.3.2.1 Organization of labor relations Pr.3 402-1 4.3.2.1 Overview of the collective bargaining agreements 403-4 4.3.2.1 Health and safety Health and safety conditions at work 403-2 4.3.2.1 Summary of the agreements signed relating to health and safety at work 4.3.2.1 403-2 Workplace accidents and occupational illnesses 403-3 4.3.2.1 Training SDG 4 4.3.2.2 102-27 404-2 Training policies 404-3 4.3.2.2 Total number of training hours 404-1 4.3.2.2 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 303 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE OF SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Global Compact Principles (Pr.) / Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) GRI Section Equal treatment Pr.6 4.3.1.3 401-3 Measures taken to promote gender equality SDG 5 405-1 4.3.1.3 Measures taken to promote employment and inclusion of disabled persons 405-1 4.3.1.3 405-1 Anti-discrimination policy 406-1 4.3.1.3 Promotion and respect for the provisions of the ILO’s Pr.1 and 4 fundamental conventions SDG 8 4.3.2.1 Respect for the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 407-1 4.3.2.1 Elimination of discrimination in matters of employment and occupation 406-1 4.3.1.3 N/A. See Note Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 409-1 on methodology N/A. See Note Effective abolition of child labor 408-1 on methodology ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION General Environmental Policy Pr.7 to 9 102-14 4.4.1 Company organization to take environmental questions into account 4.4.1.2 Training and information regarding environmental protection 4.4.1.2 Resources dedicated to environmental risk and pollution prevention 4.4.1.2 Amount of environmental risk provisions and guarantees 201-2 4.4.1.2 Pollution and Waste Management Prevention, reduction or remediation measures for air, water, and 4.4.2 soil discharges severely affecting the environment 306-3 4.4.3 306-2 306-3 Prevention measures, recycling and waste elimination 306-4 4.4.3 Taking noise pollution and any other form of pollution speciﬁc N/A. See Note to an activity into account on methodology Sustainable Use of Resources 303-1 303-3 306-1 Water consumption and water supply depending 306-3 on local constraints SDG 6 306-5 4.4.3 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve 301-1 N/A. See Note the efﬁciency of their use 301-2 on methodology 302-1 302-2 Energy consumption, the measures taken to improve energy 302-4 efﬁciency and use of renewable energy 302-5 4.4.3 Ground use 304-1 4.4.3 304 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE OF SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION Global Compact Principles (Pr.) / Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) GRI Section SDG 11 Climate change SDG 13 4.4 305-1 305-2 305-3 Greenhouse gas emissions 305-5 4.4.2.1 N/A. See Note Adapting to the consequences of climate change on methodology Protection of Biodiversity 304-1 304-2 04 304-3 304-4 N/A. See Note Measures taken to protect and increase biodiversity 306-5 on methodology SOCIETAL INFORMATION 204-1 4.5.1 Territorial, economic and social impacts of the Company’s activity 413-1 4.5.2 4.3.1.1 Regarding employment and regional development 413-1 4.5.2.1 4.3.1.1 On neighboring or local populations 4.5.2.1 Relationships maintained with persons or organizations interested in the Company’s activity 102-21 Conditions for dialog with these persons or organizations 102-43 4.2.2.2 Partnership or sponsorship initiatives 203-1 4.5 Sub-contractors and suppliers 308-2 408-1 412-1 Taking account of social and environmental issues in the Pr.1, 2 and 5 414-1 purchasing policy SDG 8 414-2 4.5.2.1 102-9 308-1 308-2 408-1 412-1 Involvement of sub-contractors and consideration of the suppliers’ 414-1 and sub-contractors’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) 414-4 4.5.2.1 Fair trade practices 102-16 102-17 205-1 205-2 Action taken to prevent corruption Pr.10 205-3 4.5.3.2 102-2 Customer safety and protection measures 416-1 4.2.1 Other actions taken to promote Human Rights EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 305 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE 4.7 METHODOLOGY NOTE Period and Scope of CSR Reporting The CSR Reporting period is the calendar year from January It also includes Europcar Lab employees. In 2017, stations 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017. and employees of Locaroise, Europcar Ireland, Ubeeqo and E-Car services are also included. The operations of The CSR Reporting scope covers the Holding Companies Europcar Denmark, Europcar Luxembourg, Goldcar and (ECI, ECG and Shared Services Center) and the Buchbinder which were acquired during the year are “operational” subsidiaries: Corporate Countries (France, however excluded. Germany-, UK, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Australia and New Zealand) and Ubeeqo. InterRent branded stations are The published data are consolidated at Group level, apart integrated into the Corporate Countries. from the data on workforce distribution by country. They do not include the franchisee networks. CSR Reporting Organization The organization used for CSR Reporting campaign Audit and consolidation of the data is set out in a protocol showing all the procedures and methodologies of the CSR Reporting campaign. This protocol has been circulated to each CSR Reporting INTERNALLY contributor prior to the start of the campaign. Data are audited at the level of each entity by the teams responsible for reporting the information and by internal audit teams. Automatic consistency checks are carried out Data collection by the collection software and then manually by the team charged with analyzing and consolidating data at Group CSR Reporting is organized and coordinated by the level: comparing data between countries, comparing against Europcar CSR Director, Pierre Beguerie, in collaboration historical data, localized control ratios (such as the price of with the CSR coordinators in the Holding Companies resources). Finally, a part of the data from the Corporate and Corporate Countries. At the level of each subsidiary, Countries comes from the Shared Services Center, which data collection is managed by the responsible teams, and ensures consistency of data between countries. mainly concerns Human Resources, Operations, Fleet and Management Audit teams. VERIFICATION OF THE DATA BY AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY ORGANIZATION Collection tool Mazars, one of the c ompany’s s tatutory a uditors, has To collect and consolidate the data, and ensure the been appointed by Europcar as the Independent Third traceability of the data and processes, Europcar used Party Organization to verify the presence and accuracy of the online non-ﬁ nancial information collection software, the non-ﬁnancial information presented in the Registration Reporting 21. This software has been deployed in all the Document, pursuant to the Grenelle 2 legislation (see entities covered by CSR Reporting and has helped around the report and the opinion on fairness in Section 4.8 100 contributors to input the information from the CSR “Independant Third Parts (ITP) Report”). Reporting. 306 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE Choice of indicators To produce its CSR Reporting, Europcar defined a list a nor has the Group set up any measurement and collection of indicators consistent with the themes identified in procedures for food waste; Article 225 of Law No. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010, the soa the Group’s activities do not generate noise pollution called Grenelle 2 Law. or other specific forms of pollution other than the This list contains quantitative and qualitative indicators, issues discussed in this Chapter (mainly the use and broken down into five major categories: Environment, maintenance of cars); Fleet, Social, Societal and Supply Chain. This enables not a the Group does not, strictly speaking, consume raw only the Group’s material issues in terms of compliance materials, and the issues related to reducing oil and fuel and dialog with stakeholders to be covered, but also the consumption are discussed in this Chapter; baseline information to be collected in order to deﬁne and steer an actionable and long-term CSR strategy. a the Group has not been impacted to date by the Given the Group’s business (non-industrial), its geographic consequences of climate change in its host countries; 04 location (European countries, Australia and New Zealand), a the Group’s activities do not directly impact biodiversity; certain themes from the decree applying Article 225 of the a the Group does not operate in countries at risk of human Grenelle Law have been deemed irrelevant in relation to the rights violations and complies with all local human rights Group’s activity and are not covered by the CSR Reporting legislation in the countries where it is located (elimination indicators: of forced or compulsory labor and the effective abolition a The Group does not have set up any measurement and of child labor). collection procedures for ordinary waste (paper and ofﬁce supplies); Coverage Rate Given the decentralized structure of the Group (more a total number of rentals during the year for the environment than 1,100 stations in ten countries), data collection and indicator. standardization is a complex exercise. For each indicator in these categories, the contributors To consolidate the data and communicate unbiased provided the scope actually covered by the indicator’s information, the Group has introduced the concept of value, and the value consolidated at Group level is therefore coverage rate in its CSR Reporting. This concept enables shown with the exact consolidated coverage rate for each data to be consolidated solely across the scope where indicator. they are available, indicator by indicator, and allows entities For the Chapter as a whole, coverage in respect of (mainly stations) to be excluded from an indicator where social information is 100%. Environmental information the data is not available or not homogenous with the rest corresponds to 100% of the head ofﬁces and at least 75% of the Group. of the directly-owned stations. The coverage rate is calculated for all the indicators in the social, environment and supply chain categories, starting from the reference indicators: a permanent and ﬁxed-term workforce as of December 31, 2017 for the social indicator; EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 307 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION METHODOLOGY NOTE Notes on methodology and main limiting factors The entities included in the CSR Reporting scope are Notes on the greenhouse gas emissions spread across ten countries with substantially different footprint laws and practices. For CO2 emissions, the Group’s internal consumption of The choice of indicators and their deﬁnitions are discussed energy was considered (mainly electricity and gas) and upstream with the different contributors from the various fuel (diesel and gasoline). Carbon emission factors speciﬁc entities to achieve indicators that are as closely tailored as to each country for electricity consumption were then possible to circumstances on the ground. considered, and the same for the other items. The emission factors used come from the ADEME data. Notes on the deﬁnitions of certain Without details on the type of renewable energies indicators consumed by the Group, the most penalizing emissions factor among the renewable energy emissions factors has a Unlike the productivity data monitored by the Group, the been used, namely the emissions factor related to solar workforce under the CSR reporting scope includes longpower production. term leave. a The absenteeism rate excludes maternity and paternity leave. a The energy and water indicators do not include consumption for vehicle washing by external service providers. 308 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY (ITP) REPORT 4.8 INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY (ITP) REPORT Report by the independent third party on the consolidated environmental, labor and social information presented in the management report Report by the independent third party on the consolidated environmental, labor and social information presented in the management report This is a free English translation of the independent third party’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. 04 For the year ended December 31, 2017 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as the independent third party, member of the Mazars network, statutory auditors of Europcar, and certiﬁed by COFRAC Inspection under number 3-1058 (available the website www.cofrac.fr), we hereby report to you our report on the consolidated environmental, labor and social information for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter the “CSR Information”), pursuant to Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a management report containing the CSR Information required by Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, prepared in accordance with the CSR reporting guidelines used by the Company (herein after the “Guidelines”), which are summarized in the management report available on request from the Company’s headquarter. Independence and quality control Our independence is deﬁned by regulatory texts, the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Responsibility of the Independent Third Party On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: a attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Statement regarding the completeness of CSR Information); a express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the compliance with the other applicable legal provisions, where required, in particular those under Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016, called the Sapin II law (anti-corruption). Our work involved a team of 6 persons and was conducted between mid-January and mid-February during an approximately three-week period. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated May 13, 2013 deﬁ ning the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement, as well as with the professional guidance issued by the French institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissionaires aux comptes – CNCC) for this type of engagement, and with ISAE 3000 (1) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. (1) ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information. EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 309 04 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY (ITP) REPORT I STATEMENT REGARDING THE COMPLETENESS OF CSR INFORMATION On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding Human Resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programs arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we veriﬁed that explanations were provided in accordance with Article R. 225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We veriﬁed that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as deﬁned by Article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities as deﬁned by Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in Section “4.7 Methodology Note” of the management report. Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. II CONCLUSION ON THE FAIRNESS OF CSR INFORMATION NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK We conducted about ten interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: a assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; a verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing, process and control designed for completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the Human Resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (1): a at the consolidating entity and the country subsidiary levels, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and veriﬁed, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also veriﬁed that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; a at the level of a representative sample of the country subsidiaries selected (2) by us on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and we performed detailed tests, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The sample thus selected represents on average 32% of the workforce considered representative of the social component, and between 34% and 64% of the environmental data considered representative (3) of the environmental component. (1) Social information: Total headcount; Hirings and dismissals; Compensation policy and social security; Compensation and its change; Working time organization; Absenteeism; Workplace accidents; Training policy; Number of training hours. Environmental information: Prevention, reduction or remediation measures for air, water, and soil discharges severely affecting the environment; Energy consumption; Waste prevention, recycling and elimination management policies; Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2); Water supply depending on local constraints; Water consumption. Societal information: Actions taken to prevent corruption. (2) Italy, Belgium, United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia. (3) See Environmental information considered to be the most important. 310 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 SOCIETAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY (ITP) REPORT For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the Company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgment, allows us to express a moderate assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR Information cannot be totally eliminated. CONCLUSION Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. OBSERVATION Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above, we draw your attention to the following item: For the calculation of the Compensation indicator, the Management report states in Section “4.3.2.1 Labor Policy” that the 04 ways in which it reports compensation varies by country. Accordingly, the amount of wages and salaries may, according to the country, include compensation for overtime and/or atypical hours. Paris La Défense, on February 28, 2018 The Independent Third Party Mazars SAS Edwige REY Partner in CSR & Sustainable Development EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 311 312 EUROPCAR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 Code of Ethics & Commitments FOREWORD This Code aims to raise our stakeholders’ awareness of the key ethical principles that apply at EUROPCAR, without amounting to a comprehensive or exclusive list. These principles apply fully to all our activities. This code has also been designed from several international references to which EUROPCAR is adhering: t5IF6OJUFE/BUJPOT6OJWFSTBM%FDMBSBUJPO t5IF0&$%(VJEFMJOFTGPS.VMUJOBUJPOBM PG)VNBO3JHIUT &OUFSQSJTFT t5IF&VSPQFBO$POWFOUJPOPO)VNBO3JHIUT t5IF6/$POWFOUJPOPOUIF3JHIUT t7BSJPVTDPOWFOUJPOTPGUIF*OUFSOBUJPOBM PGUIF$IJME -BCPS0SHBOJ[BUJPO QBSUJDVMBSMZ$POWFOUJPOT t5IF6/(MPCBMQBDU   BOE DIJMEMBCPSBOEGPSDFE MBCPS  PDDVQBUJPOBMTBGFUZBOEIFBMUI   EJTDSJNJOBUJPO  FRVBMSFNVOFSBUJPO  BOE GSFFEPNPGBTTPDJBUJPO SJHIU UPPSHBOJ[FBOEDPMMFDUJWFCBSHBJOJOH  2 CONTENT EUROPCAR BUSINESS ETHICS ................................. P4 2 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS .................................................  1  P ROMOTION AND APPLICATION OF THE CODE .............................................................................  1 4 CONTACT ........................................................................................  1 3 1 EUROPCAR BUSINESS ETHICS EUROPCAR has developed a set of principles governing our behaviour. They are summarized in this Code of Ethics and Commitments. All employees of the Group are responsible for the effective application of these principles. THESE PRINCIPALS ARE: t$PNQMZXJUIOBUJPOBMBOEJOUFSOBUJPOBMMBXTBOE t1SPUFDUEBUBPGPVS(SPVQ JUTDVTUPNFST QSPKFDUT  SFHVMBUJPOT PʹFSTBOENBOBHFUIJTDPOmEFOUJBMJUZBDDPSEJOHUP t3FTQFDUUIFEJHOJUZBOEUIFIVNBOQSPQFSUZ UIFDPNQBOZTJOUFSOBMQSPDFEVSFT SJHIUTPGPVSFNQMPZFFT DVTUPNFST JOEVTUSJBMBOE t1SPUFDUUIFDPNQBOZTBTTFUTBOESFTPVSDFT DPNNFSDJBMQBSUOFST BOETIBSFIPMEFST XIFUIFS t&ODPVSBHFBMMJOUFSOBMBOEFYUFSOBMJOJUJBUJWFTUIBU UIFZBSFEFmOFECZMPDBMPSJOUFSOBUJPOBMUFYUT JNQSPWFPVSTPDJBMBOEFOWJSPONFOUBMQFSGPSNBODF t1SFTFSWFUIFFOWJSPONFOUJOBMMPVSBDUJWJUJFT BOEIFMQPVSDPNQBOZHSPXTVTUBJOBCMZ t WPJETJUVBUJPOTPGQFSTPOBMDPOnJDUPGJOUFSFTUUIBU DPVMECFDPOUSBSZUPUIFJOUFSFTUTPGPVS(SPVQ 4 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS > TOWARDS OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS ● Europcar aims to develop services that meet or exceed our customers’ and consumers’ expectations to fully deserve their trust. Europcar’s commitments: tDPNNVOJDBUFDMFBSMZBOEUSBOTQBSFOUMZPOUIFDPOEJUJPOTPG BDDFTTUPPVSTFSWJDFT MFHBMOPNJOBMJOGPSNBUJPOQSPUFDUFE PVUTJEFUIFTUSJDUGVMGJMNFOUPGUIFJSQSPGFTTJPOBMUBTLT ● Europcar’s objective is to guarantee data security and privacy. Europcar’s commitments: tUBLFFWFSZBDUJPOOFFEFEGPSDPNQMJBODFXJUISFHVMBUPSZ tDSFBUFUIFDPOEJUJPOTFOTVSJOH&6301$ 3TUSBOTQBSFOUVTF  SFRVJSFNFOUTBOEFTQFDJBMMZUIF%JSFDUJWF&$POUIF GPSUIFQBSUJFTBGGFDUFE PGUIFJSEBUB GVMMZSFTQFDUJOHUIFJS QSPUFDUJPOPGJOEJWJEVBMTXJUISFHBSEUPUIFQSPDFTTJOHPG SJHIUTUPJOGPSNBUJPO DPSSFDUJPOBOENPEJGJDBUJPO QFSTPOBMEBUBBOEPOUIFGSFFNPWFNFOUPGTVDIEBUBBOEUIF tSBJTFBMMFNQMPZFFTBXBSFOFTToBOEUSBJOUIFDPNQBOZTUPQ SFRVJSFNFOUTBOESFDPNNFOEBUJPOTPGUIF'SFODIEBUBQSJWBDZ NBOBHFSToSFHBSEJOHUIFQSPIJCJUJPOPGBDDFTTJOHOPNJOBM BVUIPSJUZ $PNNJTTJPO/BUJPOBMF*OGPSNBUJRVFFU-JCFSUÏT  JOGPSNBUJPOQSPUFDUFEPVUTJEFUIFTUSJDUGVMGJMNFOUPGUIFJS tJNQMFNFOUUIFUFDIOJDBMNFBOTSFRVJSFEUPQSPUFDUBHBJOTU QSPGFTTJPOBMUBTLT VOBVUIPSJ[FEBDDFTT QBSUJDVMBSMZUPHVBSBOUFFUIF DPOGJEFOUJBMJUZPGPVSDVTUPNFSTEBUB 5 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS > TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES ● Europcar’s intention is to preserve employees’ health and safety. Europcar’s commitments: tCBOBOEBDUJWFMZmHIUBMMGPSNTPGJOUJNJEBUJPOBOEIBSBTTNFOU tQSPNPUFFNQMPZFFBOENBOBHFSUSBJOJOHPOXPSLJOHNFUIPET  tFOTVSFDPNQMJBODFXJUIBMMBQQMJDBCMFSFHVMBUJPOT SFHBSEJOHDPNQMJBODFXJUISVMFT JOTUSVDUJPOTBOETBGFUZ QSPDFEVSFT VTJOHTFDVSJUZFRVJQNFOU ● Europcar’s objective is to promote equal opportunity within the company. Europcar’s commitments: tCBOBOEBDUJWFMZmHIUBMMGPSNTPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPO HFOFUJDDIBSBDUFSJTUJDT TVQQPTFEPSBDUVBMNFNCFSTIJQ tFOTVSFFNQMPZFFTDBSFFSBEWBODFNFOUJTCBTFEPODSJUFSJBPG PGBOFUIOJDHSPVQ OBUJPOPSSBDF QPMJUJDBMPQJOJPO USBEFVOJPO QSPGFTTJPOBMTLJMMBOEBCJMJUZPOMZoXJUIPVUEJTUJODUJPOPGPSJHJO  PSDPNQMFNFOUBSZJOTVSBODFBDUJWJUJFT SFMJHJPVTDPOWJDUJPOT  TFY DVTUPNT TFYVBMPSJFOUBUJPO BHF GBNJMZTJUVBUJPOQSFHOBODZ QIZTJDBMBQQFBSBODF OBNF TUBUFPGIFBMUIPSEJTBCJMJUZ PGBOZLJOE 6 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ● Europcar’s objective is to enable its employees’ self realization at work. Europcar’s commitments: tFODPVSBHFUIFEFWFMPQNFOUPGQSPGFTTJPOBMTLJMMTUISPVHI tJOGPSNFNQMPZFFTPGUIFQPTTJCJMJUJFTBOEPQQPSUVOJUJFTGPSBEWBODFNFOU BEBQUFEUSBJOJOHQSPHSBNTUIBUTRVBSFUIFDPNQBOZTOFFETXJUI XJUIJO&6301$ 3UISPVHIEFEJDBUFEDPNNVOJDBUJPOUPPMT FNQMPZFFTDBSFFSFYQFDUBUJPOT tPQUGPS XIFOFWFSQPTTJCMF JOUFSOBMQSPNPUJPOT tFOTVSFGBJSSFDPHOJUJPOPGTLJMMTBOEQFSGPSNBODFUISPVHI tFODPVSBHFNBOBHFSTUPCVJMEBQPTJUJWFXPSLJOHFOWJSPONFOU  QSPGFTTJPOBMBTTFTTNFOUT BUMFBTUPODFBZFBS BJNJOHUPEFmOF QBSUJDVMBSMZUISPVHINVUVBMSFTQFDU SFDPHOJUJPOPGUIFSJHIUUP UIFJOEJWJEVBMQSPTQFDUTPQFOUPFBDIFNQMPZFF NBLFNJTUBLFT UIFQSPNPUJPOPGUFBNTQJSJUBOESFHVMBS JOGPSNBUJPOPGUIFJSUFBNNFNCFST ● Europcar encourages positive labor relations and employees’ freedom of expression. Europcar’s commitments: tQSPNPUFUIFGSFFFYQSFTTJPOPGFWFSZFNQMPZFFTJEFBT SFHBSEJOH tSFTQFDUVOJPOSJHIUTBOEGPTUFSUIFNBOBHFNFOUFNQMPZFF CPUIIJTIFSNBOBHFNFOUBOEDPMMFBHVFT JOUIFTQJSJUPGNVUVBM EJBMPHVFUISPVHIUIFWBSJPVTSFQSFTFOUBUJWFCPEJFT SFTQFDUSFRVJSFEGPSFWFSZPOFTFYQSFTTJPO tCBOBMMGPSNTPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPOMJOLFEFNQMPZFFSFQSFTFOUBUJPOXPSL tQSPWJEFFBDIFNQMPZFFXJUINFBOTPGBQQFBM QBSUJDVMBSMZUISPVHI tFOTVSFSFHVMBSJOGPSNBUJPOPGBMMFNQMPZFFTUIPVHIEFEJDBUFE &6301$ 3TXSJUUFOTUBOEBSETPGEJTDJQMJOBSZBDUJPO  NFUIPETPGDPNNVOJDBUJPOPODPNQBOZOFXTBOEFWFOUTUIBU HVBSBOUFFJOHDPNQMJBODFXJUIUIFSVMFTPGGBJSOFTTSFHBSEJOHB DPVMEBʹFDU&6301$ 3EJSFDUMZPSJOEJSFDUMZ JOEJWJEVBMMZPS NBOBHFNFOUEFDJTJPOBʹFDUJOHIJNIFS DPMMFDUJWFMZ 7 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ● Europcar aims to prevent insider trading and the unwarranted use of conﬁdential or privileged information. Europcar’s commitments: tNBLFBMMFNQMPZFFTBXBSFBOEUSBJOUPQNBOBHFSTSFHBSEJOHUIF QSPIJCJUFECZMBXPOBSFHVMBUFENBSLFUPSUPBDUJOUIJTXBZGPS TUSJDUCBOPOUIFVTFPGQSJWJMFHFEBOEDPOmEFOUJBMJOGPSNBUJPOUP QFSTPOBMQSPmU GPSUIFCFOFmUPGPUIFSTPS NPSFHFOFSBMMZ GPSBOZ DPOEVDUPSFOBCMF EJSFDUMZPSUISPVHIJOUFSNFEJBSJFT BOPQFSBUJPO TQFDVMBUJWFNPUJWF > TOWARDS OUR INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PARTNERS ● Europcar objective is to choose industrial and commercial partners able to provide guarantees that they operate in their respective countries, in compliance with fundamental labor rights, as deﬁned in particular, by the international labor organization. Europcar’s commitments: tXPSLXJUIJOEVTUSJBMBOEDPNNFSDJBMQBSUOFSTDPNNJUUPDPNQMZXJUI implementation of legal mechanisms that guarantee employee  the ban on child labor and forced labor; representation and the defense of labor rights within the company; the ban on practices detrimental to human dignity, including compliance with regulations applicable, in particular, to working discrimination and harassment based on sex, age, customs, actual conditions and working hours; or supposed membership of a race, ethnic group or nation, implementation of mechanisms designed to promote open labor disability, sexual orientation, opinions or religious, political or trade relations, where they exist; union activities; compliance with applicable regulations regarding health and the environment 8 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ● Europcar objective is to ensure mutual respect for the principles of loyalty in all our industrial and commercial relations. Europcar’s commitments: tDPNQMZBOENBLFPVSFNQMPZFFTDPNQMZXJUIUIFSVMFTPG tFOGPSDFDPNQMJBODFXJUIUIFSVMFTPGJOEVTUSJBM JOUFMMFDUVBMBOE DPNQFUJUJPO BSUJTUJDQSPQFSUZ CZQSPIJCJUJOHUIFVOBVUIPSJ[FEEJTUSJCVUJPOPG tFOTVSFUIBUOPBDUJPOUBLFOBNPVOUTUPBOBOUJDPNQFUJUJWF XPSLT EPDVNFOUT TPGUXBSFBOE NPSFHFOFSBMMZ BMMNBUFSJBMT QSBDUJDF QSPUFDUFECZTVDISJHIUT ● Europcar objective is to prevent all forms of active or passive corruption. Europcar’s commitments: tDPNQMZBOEFOGPSDFPVSFNQMPZFFTDPNQMJBODFXJUI tCBOBOZSFUSJCVUJPO CFOFmUPGBOZLJOE PSHJGUPUIFSUIBOPG SFHVMBUJPOTQSPIJCJUJOHBDUJWFBOEQBTTJWFDPSSVQUJPO TZNCPMJDWBMVF GSPNPSUPBUIJSEQBSUZJOBCVTJOFTTSFMBUJPOTIJQ SFHVMBUJPOTHPWFSOJOHUIFmOBODJOHPGQPMJUJDBMBDUJWJUJFT XJUI&6301$ 3 tFOTVSFUIBUPVSQBSUOFSTDPNNJUUPDPNQMZJOHXJUIUIFTF SFHVMBUJPOTBOESJHIUTJOUIFJSSFMBUJPOTIJQTXJUI&6301$ 3 9 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS > TOWARDS STOCK MARKET ● EUROPCAR aims to promote its success and to act with respect for its shareholders to earn their trust. Therefore, EUROPCAR attaches major importance to information quality, and ensures transparent reliable communication with regard to all its stakeholders. Europcar’s commitments: tFOTVSFFRVBMUSFBUNFOUGPSBMMTIBSFIPMEFSTXIPBSFJOUIFTBNF  POHPJOHMFHBMQSPDFFEJOHTPSMJUJHBUJPOBOEIVNBOSFTPVSDFT QPTJUJPO  NVTUCFDPOTJEFSFETUSJDUMZDPOmEFOUJBM tCBOUIFEJTTFNJOBUJPOPGJOBDDVSBUFJOGPSNBUJPO DPNNVOJDBUJPO tSFGSBJOGSPNDBSSZJOHPVUUSBOTBDUJPOTPO&6301$ 3TTIBSFTPS BOEVUJMJTBUJPOPGJOTJEFSJOGPSNBUJPOBOEQSJDFmYJOH BOZPUIFSMJTUFE(SPVQTIBSFTVOUJMJOGPSNBUJPOUIBUDPVMEBʹFDU tFOTVSFUIBUFNQMPZFFTLFFQDPOmEFOUJBMBOZOPOQVCMJD UIFJSQSJDFIBTCFFONBEFQVCMJD JOGPSNBUJPOXIJDIDPVMEBʹFDUUIFQSJDFPG&6301$ 3TTIBSFTPS tFOTVSFUIBUUSBOTBDUJPOTNBEFCZJUTFNQMPZFFTPOTUPDLNBSLFU  BOZPUIFSMJTUFE(SPVQTIBSFTSFNBJOTDPOmEFOUJBMVOUJMJUJT XIFUIFSUIFZBSFDBSSJFEPVUJOUIFFYFSDJTFPGUIFJSGVODUJPOTPS QVCMJTIFECZUIFQSPQFSQBSUJFT*OQBSUJDVMBS JOGPSNBUJPO BTQFSTPOBMUSBOTBDUJPOTPOUIF(SPVQTMJTUFETIBSFT BEIFSFUP DPODFSOJOHSFTVMUT GPSFDBTUTBOEPUIFSmOBODJBMEBUB JOGPSNBUJPO UIFMBXTBOESFHVMBUJPOTHPWFSOJOHmOBODJBMBDUJWJUJFT DPODFSOJOHQVSDIBTFBOETFMMJOHQMBOT DPNNFSDJBMPʹFST OFX tCBOVUJMJTBUJPOPGDPOmEFOUJBMJOGPSNBUJPOGPSQFSTPOBMQSPmU TFSWJDFTPSLOPXIPX BMMEFDJTJPOTCZPWFSTJHIUBVUIPSJUJFT MPTT EJSFDUMZPSJOEJSFDUMZ PSJOPSEFSUPFOBCMFBUIJSEQBSUZUPDBSSZPVU PSTFDVSJOHPGBNBKPSDPOUSBDU PSJOGPSNBUJPODPODFSOJOH BTUPDLNBSLFUUSBOTBDUJPO 10 OUR OBJECTIVES AND COMMITMENTS 2 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS > TOWARDS ENVIRONMENT ● Europcar objective is to minimize its business’ environmental footprint, while ensuring compliance with environmental regulations, reducing the nuisances caused by its services and infrastructures, and by cutting its consumption of power and raw materials. EUROPCAR’S key objectives: tMJNJUBOESFEVDFUIFFOWJSPONFOUBMJNQBDUPGJUTBDUJWJUJFT tSFEVDFJUTXBUFSVTF tEFBMTXJUIXBTUFNBOBHFNFOUFʹFDUJWFMZ tSFEVDFJUTFOFSHZVTFCZEFWFMPQJOHUIFBDRVJTJUJPOPGIZCSJEBOE tSBJTFBXBSFOFTTBOEQSPNPUFHSFBUFSFOWJSPONFOUBM FMFDUSJDBMWFIJDMFTBOEUISPVHIUIFQSPNPUJPOPGTVTUBJOBCMF SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ NPCJMJUZ tFOTVSFDPNQMJBODFXJUI&VSPQDBS4VTUBJOBCMF%FWFMPQNFOU tSFEVDFJUT$0¤FNJTTJPOCZQSPWJEJOHDVTUPNFSTXJUIB $IBSUFS *40DFSUJmDBUJPOBOE QBSUJDJQBUJPOJOUIF6/ HSFFOFTUnFFU (MPCBM$PNQBDU 11 PROMOTION 3 AND APPLICATION OF THE CODE 5IJT$PEFJTBQQSPQSJBUFMZDPNNVOJDBUFEUPBMM&6301$ 3 5IJT$PNNJUUFFXJMMEFMJWFSJOEVFDPVSTFBSFQPSUUP FNQMPZFFTBOE XIFOSFRVJSFE UP&6301$ 3TWBSJPVT &6301$ 3T.BOBHFNFOU#PBSE XJUITVHHFTUJPOTPG JOUFSMPDVUPST*UJTBWBJMBCMFUPBMMFNQMPZFFTPOUIFDPNQBOZ JOJUJBUJWFTBOEBDUJPOTUIBUJUEFFNTVTFGVMPSOFDFTTBSZUP JOUSBOFU BTXFMMBTGSPNUIF$PNNVOJDBUJPO%FQBSUNFOU HVBSBOUFFUIFFOEVSJOHOBUVSFPGUIFQMFEHFTDPOUBJOFEJO &6301$ 3TUPQNBOBHFSTBSFTQFDJGJDBMMZUSBJOFE &6301$ 3T$PEFPG&UIJDTBOE$PNNJUNFOUT SFHBSEJOHUIF$PEFTBQQMJDBUJPOBOEBSFSFTQPOTJCMFGPS 5IJT$PNNJUUFFEPFTOPU JOBOZXBZ SFQMBDFFYJTUJOH SBJTJOHUIFJSUFBNTBXBSFOFTTJOUIJTSFTQFDU*OBEEJUJPO  TUSVDUVSFTBOEQSPDFTTFTJOWPMWFEJOUIFJNQMFNFOUBUJPOPG UISPVHIUIFJSFYFNQMBSZDPOEVDUJOBMMDJSDVNTUBODFT UIFZ UIJT$PEF FHUIFNBOBHFNFOUTZTUFN UIF)VNBO QSPNPUFUIF$PEFTQSJODJQMFTBOEDPNNJUNFOUT XIJMF 3FTPVSDFT%FQBSUNFOU FNQMPZFFSFQSFTFOUBUJWFT UIFMBCPS FOTVSJOHUIBUJUJTBQQMJFECZUIFJSUFBNT NFEJBUPSBOEBOZPUIFSEFQBSUNFOUJOWPMWFE -FHBM *OUFSOBM &6301$ 3T.BOBHFNFOUCPBSEXJMMDPOEVDUBOBOOVBM VEJU &OWJSPONFOU FUD /PSJTUIF$PNNJUUFFBOBQQFBMT SFWJFXPGUIF$PEFTQSPQFSBQQMJDBUJPOBOEJUTCSPBE CPBSEUIBUSFWJFXTNBOBHFNFOUEFDJTJPOTPSBDUJPOT EJTUSJCVUJPO DPOUSBSZUPUIFQSJODJQMFTPGUIF$PEF  TTJTUBODFBOEBEWJDFDBOCFPCUBJOFEGSPNUIF(SPVQT $PNQMJBODF$PNNJUUFF*UTQVSQPTFJTUPIFMQBOZFNQMPZFF XIPXJTIFTUPDPSSFDUMZBQQMZUIF$PEFTQSJODJQMFTBOE DPNNJUNFOUT FOUJSFMZDPOmEFOUJBMMZBOEXJUIUIFBTTVSBODF UIBUBOTXFSTXJMMCFQSPWJEFEXJUIJOBSFBTPOBCMFUJNFGSBNF 12 Europcar CSR Strategy 25/04/2018 Europcar CSR Strategy Commit together! 25/04/2018 2 Commit together! – 20 Group targets to 2020 Europcar commits towards Environment 25/04/2018 4 Fighting against climate change – Low Carbon strategy 1 2 Focus on the transportation Emissions sources of Europcar’s sector GHG footprint External carbon footprint study ? 2nd most energy-consuming sector, after industry Know and prioritize of global CO2 the issues for 30% emissions, mainly due to road transport Europcar of the final energy 93% consumption of the sector is oil products 25/04/2018 5 The Europcar low carbon strategy Fighting against climate change Improve our carbon footprint and participate to the fight against climate change though a dynamic environment management (Low carbon strategy, Renewable energy in station, eco-driving…) Provide the lowest intensity fleet Develop HV & EV product/offer Eco-station project (low average age of the fleet, last when it makes sense (turnaround project, paperless, renewable norms…) energy, waste sorting, dry wash…) Promote eco-driving all along Increase use of more efficient Share best environmental the customer journey way for delivery and collection practice and promote (from choice of the car to end of the innovation (use of EV or folding bike) journey) 25/04/2018 6
