COMMUNICATION 2017 PROGRESS Content Statement of continual support 01 03 Santa Fe overview 02 04 Governance structure 03 05 Ethics and behaviour 04 06 Ten UNGC principles 05 07 Human rights 06 08 Labour rights 07 10 Environment 08 13 Anti-corruption 09 17 We enable people and organisations to work, live and thrive in new places around the world. 02 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Statement of continual support Santa Fe Group is pleased to present its eighth Communication on Progress report affirming our continued commitment to supporting the ten Global Compact principles. In the Santa Fe Group, we see sustainability as everyone’s responsibility therefore we continue to engage with our customers, staff, suppliers and other stakeholders to fully embrace and support our policies in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We are fully aware of the responsibility we bear towards our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. We take the principles of the UNGC on with great enthusiasm, our teams globally are fully united under the Santa Fe brand and we thank our teams and partners for their continued support. Together we look forward to sustaining our support to this initiative and fulfilling our duty as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Martin Thaysen CEO Santa Fe Group 01 03 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Santa Fe overview The Santa Fe Group is a global leader in international mobility, handling around 40,000 international relocations and around 15,000 domestic relocations (predominantly in Australia) per year, based on own operations in 47 countries and a network of agents. Santa Fe’s ambition is to make it easy for companies and people to live and work freely and flexibly around the world. Santa Fe provide a full range of mobility services for multinational companies and other organisations having executives and professionals on overseas assignments. In addition to this, Santa Fe serve individual customers relocating without the support of an employer. The service offering covers the entire relocation journey—from immigration services to obtain work and resident permits through the physical packing and moving of household goods to a comprehensive range of value-added relocation and destination services to ensure the relocating family settles in to their new home in the best possible way. Santa Fe design and manage entire relocation programmes for large organisations with international operations. Our value proposition is to provide our corporate customers with optimum efficiency in their mobility management, full compliance with all relevant legal regimes, and a safe and easy transition and new start for the relocating individual and family. 02 04 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Governance structure Santa Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial results, social responsibility and the operational aspects of our business. Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every meaning of the word. This means that we are able to provide our customers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles, our company contributes and benefits economies and societies globally. The governance structure is anchored with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group’s Chief Financial Officer. 03 05 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Ethics and behaviour To act in a globally responsible way, we continually review our initiatives, codes and schemes so that we can learn from them. We pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Business Conduct, Staff Guidebook provides guidance to all employees on the conduct of our business according to the highest ethical standards. We have grown and prospered with a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability. The Code contributes to our future success by helping to maintain this culture. The Code and our other ethics policies help to focus everyone on areas of ethical risk, offer guidance in recognising and dealing with ethical issues and provide mechanisms to report unethical conduct without fear of retaliation. To strengthen our Company beliefs and values Santa Fe hosted 150 workshops globally with over 2,300 employees attending to launch our Company DNA and Values which serve as a behavioural compass, to define how each employee behaves, engages and makes decisions. As part of this, the company Purpose and Mission were redefined, giving all employees clear direction on what we do and stand for as a Company but also how we understand and demonstrate the behaviours expected. 04 06 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Ten UNGC principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We commit to: ++ Continuous monitoring of our governance system to ensure compliance with basic human rights within our organisation and those with whom we interact. ++ Compliance with national legislation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We commit to: ++ Reduce the negative impact of our business on the environment, meet or exceed regulatory requirements and continuously seek to improve our processes to achieve high standards. ++ Monitor and Reduce carbon emissions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We commit to: ++ Apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. ++ Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. 05 07 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Human rights Policy Numerous events took place in our local communities In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the from relief work, removing rubbish from local beaches Global Compact Santa Fe supports and respects and volunteering at food banks. In addition, our Hong the protection of internationally proclaimed human Kong team ran its fourth annual summer internship rights and ensures that the group is not complicit programme providing education and work experience in human rights abuses. We endeavour to ensure: for 15-20-year olds from disadvantaged areas. ++ Health and safety in the workplace. In 2017, Santa Fe contributed over EUR 90,000 to ++ Wellbeing of employees. support Charities such as John Hopkins and John ++ Good relations with local communities. Moriarty Football, Niangala Project. Occupational Health and Safety are important Risks priorities for Santa Fe and this area is actively The main risk related to our activities include work managed by means of risk assessments and accidents especially for our operational staff, regular information to employees about avoiding non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles accidents, illnesses and maintaining a healthy and the requirements of OHSAS 18001. life-style. Occupational Health and Safety is more Our business activities are subject to various local than a set of procedures and processes at Santa Fe Health and Safety laws. as employees play an important role in contributing to a safe work environment e.g. by reporting KPI’s accidents, communicating areas for improvement We measure and monitor the number of workrelated and adhering to company best practices. The Santa accidents resulting in days off work. The KPI reflects Fe Group’s Health and Safety policy underpins our developments in safety performance whilst our systematic approach to managing health and safety services are being performed. in the workplace. Standardised processes and internal and external audits ensure that minimum Results standards are in place throughout the company. In the field of occupational health and safety, the The Guiding Principles on Business and Human number of accidents with time loss decreased by Rights, endorsed by the United Nations Human 16.27% and the number of lost workdays per accident Rights Council in 2011, set out the responsibilities decreased by 9.5%, as depicted in Fig. 1, ‘Work corporations have with respect to human rights. accidents with days lost 2013-2017’. There were no Those responsibilities include avoiding the significant trends in the types of work accidents that infringement of the human rights of others and occurred and the positive reduction can be attributed addressing any adverse impacts on human rights in to the integration of health and safety considerations which a corporation may be involved. The principles in decision-making processes, increased training, call on companies to institute policies and processes along with more cooperation and improved appropriate to their size and circumstances, as well coordination across the organisation. as remediation processes to address concerns when All OHSAS 18001 certificates were they arise. Santa Fe has used the Guiding successfully renewed. Principles, along with our membership in Targets organisations such as the United Nations Global Compact to inform and shape our approach to In 2018, Santa Fe aims to reduce the number addressing and communicating human rights issues of work accidents with days lost to zero. We aim to achieve this by continuing to educate employees Action and integrating health and safety into our decision-making processes. In 2017, we continued to train and educate employees on health and safety matters through formal learning In 2018, Santa Fe will deploy a corporate citizenship sessions and company updates via a dedicated and philanthropic giving strategy. As part of this health and safety group on Yammer. strategy Santa Fe intends to partner with the United Nation’s Migration Agency, International We recognise the importance of work-life balance, Organisation for Migration (IOM) supporting projects and appreciate the value that out-of-work activities to help migrants work live and thrive in new places bring back into the workplace. Our Health and Safety around the world. Policy acknowledges that employee wellbeing is an important factor to maintaining good health. Many new initiatives took place such as exercise mornings and social and sporting events. These activities continue to be shared throughout the organisation through Santa Fe’s Wellbeing group on Yammer. 06 08 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 1: Work accidents with days lost 70 2,500 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of days lost Number of work related accidents with lost days 09 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Labour rights Policy Action Santa Fe Group recognises that we work in a richly In 2017, Santa Fe accepted its second graduate diverse community and understand the strategic programme intake. As global leader in full-service importance of achieving a diverse workforce, which relocation, our two-year graduate ‘Accelerate’ reflects that community. We undertake to recruit, programme is designed to further extend Santa Fe’s develop and retain the most talented people by industry leadership through the recruitment and valuing the varied skills and experiences they bring development of the strongest talent. With graduate to Santa Fe Group and have identified key focus roles offered at Group headquarters in London and areas to ensure that we are equipping our people in the Asia-Pacific region, the programme offers with the capabilities they need to achieve their career practical, hands-on experience through a rotation aspirations and help us meet our goals by: programme that develops skills and knowledge across the breadth of the company’s operations. ++ Investing in their training and development; Following a comprehensive induction, graduates will ++ Treating employees fairly and equitably; be provided with an on-going development that will ++ Combating harassment and discrimination develop their industry expertise and give them the at work, and opportunity to work towards further qualifications ++ Encouraging an honest and open culture (for example, Immigrations Level 1 Practitioner course; which values the differences between us. Project Management and leadership qualifications). Retaining employees remains an important aspect Graduates will also gain the opportunity to learn of our business, our goal is to remain an attractive directly from senior leadership with a dedicated employer respecting, supporting and adhering to mentor from Santa Fe’s Strategic Leadership Team internationally proclaimed human rights including helping to steer their learning and development. On the basic principles of the International Labour successful completion of ‘Accelerate’, participants organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental will be placed into permanent roles across the globe Principles and Rights at Work. or be deployed onto projects. Pursuant to Danish legislation on gender equality, Santa Fe continued to take a globally consistent Santa Fe also has an objective for the proportion approach to Performance Management by of the underrepresented gender on the Board of introducing consistent metrics for our senior leaders, Directors. It is Santa Fe’s ambition that 25% of the supported by the roll-out of a process through an members of the Board of Directors are women. online performance management system which ties Consequently, Santa Fe will ensure that qualitied seamlessly into our existing HR Information System candidates are considered before the Board of and Learning Management System, creating a Directors proposes candidates to the Annual General compelling overall ‘online bundle’ for our employees. Meeting. However, the Board of Directors’ final To ensure performance management has a positive submission of candidates will always be based on impact, it was only mandatory for the top two levels their actual competencies and experiences relative of the organisation to complete this year’s process to Santa Fe’s needs to ensure that the candidate although the process was made available to all office deemed best qualified is proposed. This may mean based employees. The process has been designed that the ambition of a 25% female with constant feedback in mind, e.g. monthly one-on-one meetings between managers and employees to update one another on performance against objectives. This will reduce the potential ambiguity and stresses often caused by formal mid-year and year-end review cycles as employees will have received on-going feedback throughout the year. An interim employee engagement survey was conducted among our office-based employees using 12 survey items from the Great Place to Work engagement survey. This interim survey allowed us to ‘keep our finger on the pulse’ and gather important feedback to help inform the 2018 global people initiatives and saw a 69.20% participation rate. The full Great Place to Work engagement survey is scheduled to take place in March 2018. The survey allows us a better understanding of the working environment we need to create to foster a culture of trust at all levels. 07 10 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Risks The main risk related to our activities include non-adherence to Santa Fe’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices and securing equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and HR-related consequences hereof. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and regulations. KPI’s Santa Fe measures and monitors: ++ Gender ratio by seniority ++ Employee absolute turnover Results Through our commitment to training and developing our employees, Santa Fe achieved the FIDI academy commitment to excellence platinum award for the second year running. The achievement of this Platinum Award is in recognition for driving and promoting industry knowledge amongst our employees via the FIDI FAIM programme hosted on our Learning Management System. In 2017, there were no changes to Santa Fe Group’s Board of Directors meaning that Santa Fe does not meet its target of having 25% female representation on the Board. Santa Fe aims to ensure that there is female representation on the Board of Directors by 2020. Fig. 2 ‘Gender ratio by seniority 2013-2017’ shows that the overall female gender ratio increased by 1.94%, with an increase observed in female office staff whereas all other roles saw a decrease in female representation. In 2017, the voluntary turnover was 24%, Fig. 3 Employee turnover ratio 2013-2017. The absolute turnover ratio increased by 4% to 24%, as shown in Fig. 3, Employee turnover ratio 2013-2017. The increase can be attributed to restructuring decisions made. Targets In 2018, Santa Fe aims to have an annualised attrition rate of no more than 15%. 11 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 2: Gender ratio by seniority 2013-2017 Risk of total workforce—male ratio Ratio of total workforce—female ratio Ratio of senior management—male ratio Ratio of senior management—female ratio Ratio of middle management—male ratio Ratio of middle management—female ratio Ratio of office staff—male ratio Ratio of office staff—female ratio Ratio of operations staff—female ratio Ratio of operations staff—male ratio 2013 2014 0% 100% 2015 2016 2017 Fig. 3: Employee turnover ratio 2013-2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% 25% 12 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Environment Policy Action Santa Fe supports a precautionary approach to Santa Fe’s Household goods services continues environmental and climate challenges, undertake to be heavily reliant on natural resources in particular initiatives to promote greater responsibility and climate materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic etc. friendly technologies in accordance with principles 7, We continued our efforts in reducing waste by the 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. application of our reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. We systematically and proactively protect, respect This involves reducing the amount of packing material and safeguard the environment and climate in daily being used. Santa Fe has a variety of packing training business activities by development of production for employees which also educates them on the methods and products, training of employees and amount of material needed to be used to ensure that influencing suppliers and stakeholders. goods are properly protected. Santa Fe has looked at a number of opportunities for reusing packing Santa Fe’s Environmental policy is intended to be material, these have ranged from being donated sustainable and is being integrated into our dayto help local charities, aiding with local relief work, to-day business practices. As such, this policy is being re-used on household goods moves; where communicated to all staff members and is also the quality and integrity of the packing material has available to the public. Santa Fe applies recognised not been compromised. We have continued our Environmental Management Systems such as efforts to recycle as much waste as possible and ISO 14001 (or its local equivalent) based on the have built relationships with waste management principle of continuous performance improvement. companies looking at innovative ways to recycle These systems are the basis for the deployment different types of waste. of key elements which include risk analysis, monitoring of environmental performance and Santa Fe’s virtual survey tool was rolled out compliance to regulations and permits, follow-up throughout the Company. The virtual survey tool is of the corresponding corrective actions, review an innovative mobile technology that modernises of performance and improvement plans by the the business of moving and allow surveys to be management. conducted virtually. This has numerous positive impacts for the moving process but also reduces the Our objectives are to reduce our impact fuel being consumed from having a surveyor travel to on the environment year-on-year by: conduct the survey. ++ Minimising our waste by applying As we grow and increase sales and delivery of our a reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. services, we continue to look for ways to increase the ++ Becoming more energy efficient, thereby efficiency and reduce emissions levels of our fleet. reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Many of these initiatives have required no additional investment; by promoting the choice of loweremission models for our fleets, continuously improve the way in which they are maintained and how their routes and volumes are scheduled. 08 13 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Risks Fig. 7, GHG impacts by scope 2013-2017, shows The main environmental risk related to our activities that there was an overall increase in Santa Fe’s GHG include excessive emission of CO2 and waste. emissions. There was a 48% decrease in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions as a result of reductions in Our activities are subject to environmental laws fuel and electricity consumption. Increases in Scope and regulations governing, among other things, 3 GHG emissions were seen across all modes of waste disposal and emissions. Risks are monitored transport (air, sea and road) for goods that were locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy transported by third parties including airlines, shipping or minimise any adverse effect on the external lines and hauliers (Fig. 8 Greenhouse gas impacts, environment. scope 3 by mode of transport). The increase appears KPI’s to be due to an overall increase in the weight of shipments being moved as well as increases in Santa Fe measures and monitors: the distances being travelled, across all modes of ++ Waste distribution transport. ++ Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/M3] All ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 certifications were ++ kWh electricity consumed per employee successfully renewed. ++ GHG Impacts by scope. Targets Results In 2018, we aim to recycle 80% of all waste produced Fig. 4 ‘Waste distribution 2013-2017’, shows that from cardboard and paper, and reduce the amount 2017 saw a 5% increase in the amount of waste of plastic and household goods waste being sent recycled to 80%, a 4% reduction of waste incinerated to landfill by 2%. We have chosen not to increase to 2% and a 1% decrease in the waste sent to landfill the 2017 target for recycling and focus our efforts to 18%. An analysis of the data shows that there on collecting accurate and reliable data from our was an increase in the amount of carton and paper operations. This will involve establishing better packaging being recycled. The positive reduction in process flows with waste management companies waste incinerated was mainly attributed to a decrease we work with and a streamlined workflow with in wood, household goods/ personal effects being subcontractors that sometimes dispose of waste on disposed of. our behalf. Opportunities for improvement have been identified We shall reduce the MJ per cubic meter moved by our by means of the quality of data being provided in a fleet to 90 MJ/M3. This can be achieved by continuing number of our locations with the biggest impact in our to be efficient in the scheduling and route planning of Australia operations where due to process changes our fleet and also continuously improving the way in there have been difficulties in quantifying the exact which our vehicles are maintained. amount of waste being disposed of. The energy used per cubic meter of goods moved by road on our fleet decreased by 12.4% from 105 MJ/M3 to 92.6 MJ/M3 as shown in Fig. 5 ‘Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/M3] 2013-2017’. The result has been achieved by improved planning of how routes and volumes are scheduled especially in Europe through the centralised transport department. Electricity consumption decreased in 2017 by 27.33%. The consumption per employee reduced by 16.79% to 1,675 kWh of electricity consumed per 2,549 employees (Fig. 6, kWh electricity consumed per employee). This result was influenced by a number of locations running electricity saving schemes involving initiatives such as turning off the lights when not in use, and auto shut down of computers after working hours. In addition, energy consumption plays a key factor in our procurement decisions and a key deciding factor of purchasing new or replacement hardware or equipment is how energy efficient it is. 14 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 4: Waste Distribution 2013-2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% 80% Recycling Incineration Landfill Fig. 5: Fleet fuel consumption per tonnage [MJ/m³] 2013-2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% 105 Fig. 6: kWh electricity consumed per employee 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% 2,500 kWh/employee 15 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Fig. 7: Greenhouse gas impacts by scope 2013-2017 0 Scope 1+2 Tons CO2e 8,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% Scope 3 Tons CO2e 1,4000,000,000 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Fig. 8: Greenhouse gas impacts, Scope 3 by mode of transport 0 Third party road Tons CO2e 8,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 0% Third party air and sea Tons CO2e 45,000,000 Third party by road Third party by sea Third party by air 16 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group Anti-corruption Policy Santa Fe’s enhanced supplier due diligence on Our main activities covering the principles in UN boarding process proceeded throughout 2017, Global Compact regarding Anti-Corruption are which included Partner Agreements, due diligence detailed within our Code of Business Conduct. questionnaires including submission of key According to these, all Santa Fe employees are documents including but not limited to: Company expected to: registration certificates, VAT/ Tax registration certificates, anti-bribery and corruption policy, ethics ++ Apply a zero-tolerance approach policy, data protection policy, environmental policy, towards corruption, extortion and bribery. necessary insurances and licences, credit checks ++ Behave honestly, be trustworthy and set to ensure the financial stability of our suppliers and a good example. a robust verification process via ‘World Check’ to ++ Do not pay or accept bribes in any form. identify any connections to pending or convicted ++ Do not accept or provide gifts, invitations criminal activities as well as any associations with or other advantages which could create politically exposed persons. a possible conflict of interest. ++ Do not engage directly or indirectly Risks in fraud against any of our partners The main risks related to our activities include or government entities. employees and suppliers’ violation of Santa Fe’s ++ Do not engage directly or indirectly in bribery. Compliance Policies and potential legal and financial ++ Refuse to pay any bribes, including small consequences hereof. amount bribes or facilitation payments. Our business activities are subject to various national All employees are expected to complete training laws and regulations as well as legislation with an on the Code of Conduct when they join the company international reach. and annually thereafter. The Code is available in KPI’s 14 languages, and the eLearning Integrity training sessions incorporate real case scenarios. Employees We monitor results of internal anti-corruption training are encouraged to raise ethical questions and and supplier audits on an ongoing basis and adapt concerns, and have multiple channels to do our policies and processes if necessary. so—anonymously, if they prefer. Results The Santa Fe’s Integrity Policy cements and In 2017, 100% of employees completed the elaborates our position against corruption and bribery. eLearning Integrity curriculum consisting of modules on Anti Bribery and Corruption, Action Competition Law and Data Protection. Santa Fe’s CEO, sets the tone for our ethical culture by role-modelling ethical behaviour and holding 154 suppliers successfully completed our managers accountable; communicating policy and supplier due diligence on boarding programme. conduct expectations; and overseeing business group Targets ethics and compliance systems. At the beginning In 2018, we aim to have 100% of employees of each year, our CEO, General counsel and Group to complete the code of conduct and suite Leadership Team communicates with employees and of eLearning Integrity training. managers about the importance of ethics and legal compliance. This “tone from the top”—combined with our annual ethics and compliance training, regular communications throughout the year, and educational resources on Yammer and our learning management system—helps to create an ethical and legally compliant culture. 09 17 : Communication On Progress 2018 Copyright © Santa Fe Group About Santa Fe Relocation Santa Fe Relocation is a global mobility company specialising in managing and delivering high-quality relocation services worldwide. Our core competence is providing services that help corporations and their employees relocate and settle in a new country. These services are delivered to a consistently high standard, locally and globally, and managed through our own operations around the world. Santa Fe Relocation is wholly owned by the Santa Fe Group, which is listed on NASDAQ in Copenhagen, Denmark. For more information, visit us at santaferelo.com We make it easy
