COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS November 2018 AUSTRIA – BELGIUM – DENMARK – FINLAND – FRANCE – GERMANY – ITALY – NETHERLANDS – NORWAY – SWEDEN – UAE – UNITED KINGDOM 17 GOALS TO TRANSFORM OUR WORLD Governments, businesses and civil society together with the UN have started to mobilize efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Agenda by 2030. The Agenda calls for action by all countries to improve the lives of people everywhere. In 2015, countries adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals. All 193 member states have approved the resolution. Communication on Progress 2 12/11/2018 THE STAKEHOLDERS OF A COMPANY HAVE EXPECTATIONS ON ITS BEHAVIOURS GOVERNMENT & CUSTOMERS LEGISLATORS Wants services Set regulations for along its values the market EMPLOYEES MEDIA & NGO Need to be engaged Defines the debate and motivated FINANCIAL OWNER INSTITUTES Steers & finance Need to lower risks of along its values its investments COMPANY INSTITUTIONAL SUPPLIERS & PARTNERS BUSINESS PARTNERS Need to have a Gives access to right common cause supplies and expertise LOCAL COMMUNITIES Enables license to operate Communication on Progress 3 12/11/2018 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY Corporate sustainability is a business approach that creates long-term shareholder value by embracing opportunities and managing risks deriving from economic, environmental and social developments. Corporate sustainability stems from the Triple Bottom Line concept which proposed that business goals are inseparable from the societies and environments within which they operate. While short-term economic gain could be chased, a failure to account for social and environmental impacts would make those business practices unsustainable. Communication on Progress 4 12/11/2018 CREATE VALUE THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY IN FOUR DIFFERENT LEVERS Revenue increase: Intangible assets appreciation: New products and services Brand and Reputation Increase positive New pricing opportunities Investor relations New markets, clients Employee engagement and consumers Community involvement Flexible business models that Public affairs weather the storm, brand and marketing etc License to operate BUSINESS Certain / Short-term VALUE Less certain / Long-term CREATION Cost reduction: Risk reduction: Reduce negative Energy efficiency New legislation and regulations Supply chain and logistics Environmental licensing Raw material consumption Company reporting Business travel Resource and commodity security Insurance premiums Non-compliance with sourcing codes Business disruption Communication on Progress 5 12/11/2018 KGH MISSION: FACILITATING TRADE FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Facilitating trade for sustainable growth is KGH’s mission. We help our customers prosper in a responsible, sustainable way by aiding them in accessing new markets and improving performance in existing ones. As we grow, so does our ability to improve our services, to enable us to work together for sustainable growth. Markets are a place where goods and services are traded, but also a place where different values and beliefs meet. Not only does this drives labour productivity and investments across nationalities, contributing to stable growth in markets and economies, new jobs and innovation, it also improves our understanding of our different beliefs and world views, contributing to open discussions and even peace. Communication on Progress 6 12/11/2018 PRIORITIZING OPPORTUNITIES AND ACTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Integrated part of KGH and our business Financially sound in combination with a positive environmental and social impact Communication on Progress 7 12/11/2018 KGH SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM We@KGH believe everyone bears a responsibility to contribute towards a sustainable future. KGH has a history of having a facilitator role in the world of international trade, and we know from experience how ideas, engagement and action have a domino effect. That is why all action starts with the individual. However engagement also creates a circle where societal change triggers individual engagement, which is why we see sustainability as a self strengthening circle moving towards the future. Communication on Progress 8 12/11/2018 ENGAGEMENT Contributing to increased well-being by stimulating employees to engage in sustainability work and the development of new initiatives. Facilitate sustainability initiatives through the KGH Sustainability Foundation By forming a KGH Sustainability Foundation, all initiatives are centralized within the KGH Group. The foundation consists of many voluntary members from different countries who manage and coordinate initiatives like donations and free access to customs consultancy and declarations for our charity partners such as Save the Children and Red Cross. Engage employees Our people are the greatest asset within the KGH Group. By training and encouraging them to support sustainability efforts, we create engagement at a much broader level. Training can cover anything from anti-bribery & corruption to business ethics. Employees will be able to participate through low-level entries like special mailboxes or the Zone. Communication via common intranet KGH Zone is our common intranet for all employees, all countries and companies in our group which gives us a platform for the communication concerning the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In addition our Risk & Compliance department is continuously auditing program where one part in the program ensures that the actual site complies to our policies and principles. Engaged Management Team The members of our Management Team regularly post information on our Intranet for increased transparency and continued employee inclusion. Communication on Progress 9 12/11/2018 EMPLOYEE WORKPLACE Creating and maintaining an inclusive and attractive workplace culture that delivers sustainability for the organization into the future. Promote equality It is our fundamental belief that all employees shall be treated equally, fairly and with respect. Irrespective of gender, age, religion, ethnicity, cultural and social background, birthplace, disability, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, political view or union representation. Promote diversity A true international company has an inclusive mindset where diversity is appreciated – and we strive to take full advantage of all the knowledge and experience we have in the organization. Our diversity and equality work supports the human rights and are communicated to all new employees. Create a positive work environment Working at KGH means working in an international environment together with passionate and highly competent colleagues. Our focus is to create a positive work environment to attract, recruit, develop, engage and retain our talents. Offering good working conditions and work environment (#greatjobsforgreatpeople) is as important as supporting a good balance of private and professional life. Communication on Progress 10 12/11/2018 EMPLOYEE WORKPLACE Continued from previous page Creating and maintaining an inclusive and attractive workplace culture that delivers sustainability for the organization into the future. Labour We supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced or child labor. All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and other issues related to the employment. The relevant national legislation on Freedom of Association in the workplace is enforced and monitored by HR for continued compliance. Including work environment We facilitates the combination of employees´ employment and parental responsibilities. Employees´ on parental leave have the option to remain updated on KGH´s operations and to join work related activities. Communication on Progress 11 12/11/2018 GREEN OPERATIONS Considering the environmental impact is a key aspect in the actions and decisions we take to drive our business. Invest in digitalization In the world of customs, it is all about documents. A lot of these documents need to be archived for legal purposes, which is still done using paper archives in a lot of cases. By changing to digital archiving, a lot of savings can be achieved in paper resources and printing. Also, with current Internet speeds and streaming services, investing in digital meeting rooms allows seamless interaction but without the environmental burden of travel. Create sustainable operation Sustainable operation can be achieved by many small and large changes in day-to-day operations. These can vary from ecological printing (only when necessary and double sided) and separating waste for recycling to using green suppliers (green energy, recycled toner cartridges) and low energy devices (LED lights, thin client computers). In green IT, we strive to choose equipment as well as design data centres in ways that maximize energy efficiency during their lifetime and with as little environmental footprint as possible (e.g. use of hazardous materials, biodegradability of unused and outdated products). Communication on Progress 12 12/11/2018 SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMS PROCESSES Creating efficient, sustainable and scalable customs processes to ensure international trade is a facilitator for business growth. Automate our customs processes The increased development of digital automation in the world affects us all. Within customs services, digital automation helps us achieve fully scalable customs processes that minimize paper waste and lead times. It also allows our customs experts to free up more time to continuously improve customs processes ensuring international trade continues to be a facilitator for business growth. Digitalize our customers’ customs processes Our software endeavour has one single purpose in mind; facilitating trade through efficient, scalable and digitized customs processes. With our coming CTDS suite, we are confident that we are reaching our goal. As trade is based on supply and demand, volumes fluctuate and routes change, and we want to contribute with digital customs processes that handle the flexibility and complexity of the real world, while eliminating waste paper and cutting lead times. Bring businesses' concerns to governments Governments are core stakeholders – as partners, controllers and customers. They are also forums to which we always want to bring the voice of the traders and businesses involved in international supply chains. As international trade and customs compliance gets ever more complex, we want to contribute with a real-world perspective, working towards processes that are efficient, scalable and sustainable for businesses. Communication on Progress 13 12/11/2018 REDUCING TRADE BARRIERS Supporting governments in implementing trade-facilitating systems and programmes, while helping the private sector use them for better trade. Bring AEO/Trusted trader programmes to the world The WTOand WCO-based Customs-to-Business partnership known as the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) or Trusted Trader programme is central to the international standardization of processes, simplifications and security related to customs. KGH is world leading in implementing AEO programmes and AEO Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) models on a government level, with successful project implementations in Australia, Brazil, CEFTA, EU, Iceland, Saudi Arabia, UAE and many others. We are also supporting the private sector in achieving, maintaining and utilizing AEO status. Standardization is one of the main tools to reduce trade barriers and facilitate trade. Optimize borders across the world Using WCO and UN standards, our expert teams in border management are helping governments across the world to optimize their processes and technology for border crossings. We are also involved in BPR and technology projects with governments to fully digitalize border crossings and further optimize processing time thanks to the implementation of Single Window, One-Stop-Shop and advanced Risk Management solutions. In addition to improving the flow of goods and countries’ export capabilities, optimized borders also reduce queues and waiting time, which in turn reduces CO2 emissions and waste. Our Customs Academy, providing digital and classroom training through blended learning, educates supply chain professionals all over the world in how to cross borders in the most sustainable way. Communication on Progress 14 12/11/2018 COLLABORATING Contributing to a more sustainable future through close partnerships with both public authorities and businesses. Promote and support businesses in tariff-free imports from GSP countries Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP) is a system allowing developing countries to pay fewer or no duties on exports to the EU, providing access to EU markets and facilitating growth through trade. As this is in line with our beliefs, we are constantly promoting and supporting our customers to utilize GSP solutions and start importing from developing countries to extend partnerships in trade – and facilitate growth where it is needed the most. Maintain sustainability network with customs service providers We have acquired a wide network of customs service providers to provide our services throughout Europe. This network is a continuous forum for identifying how customs service providers can contribute to a sustainable future. Strengthen and share our competences in networks with mutual values With a special role in the market as specialists in international customs legislation and management, we are actively participating in many interest and competence networks to help improve competences and develop international trade. These networks include European Liaison Committee of Common Market Forwarders, Trade Contact Group in the EU Commission, several Chambers of Commerce as well as many other national and international forums, committees and projects. We believe these networks are an important foundation in sustainable growth Communication on Progress 15 12/11/2018 GOVERNANCE MODEL BUILT INTO THE ONGOING BUSINESS Natural extension of existing areas of responsibility Ownership Agility Policy decisions Follow-up of progress ESG reporting UN Global Compact Execution Policy development Communication on Progress 16 12/11/2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION Contributing to fight corruption through close partnerships with both public authorities and businesses. Supports the UN Global Convention KGH actively supports the UN Global Convention against Corruption and will not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. There are several internal policies in place to further advance transparency and the zero tolerance on bribery, extortion and corruption. Fight crime and corrupt behavior We actively cooperates with Customs Agencies in countries of operation and implements a Customs Policy guiding the interaction between KGH Customs and the Clients in order to fight crime and corrupt behavior. KGH actively cooperates with Customs Agencies using MoUs in countries where this is possible. Harmonized customs realted operations Authorized Economic Operator, AEO, is an authorization designed to increase the security in the world as well as to harmonize the customs related operations. KGH has AEO status in all countries where we have business and during 2018 some of our certificates have been renewed. Anti Bribery and Corruption e-learning We are on a yearly basis conducting an Anti Bribery and Corruption e-learning which is mandatory for all employees to take. Communication on Progress 17 12/11/2018 ONGOING ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENTS Communication on Progress 18 12/11/2018 HUMAN RIGHTS KGH actively supports the Univeral Declaration of Human Rights and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. We monitor the outcome of the working groups in each location/office and addresses their suggestions for improvement regarding human rights related issues. Policies are implemented to support the Human Rights and also a grievance mechanism is in place to handle problems experienced in the work place. Explicity mentioned is that KGH facilitate for employees to combine their employment and parental responsibilities. Our diversity and equality work supports the Human Rights and are communicated to all new employees. The members of our Management Team regularly post information on our intranet for increased transparency and continued employee inclusion. Yearly review of Code of Conduct, which is launched both on intranet and website. Communication on Progress 19 12/11/2018 LABOUR All KGH employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and other issues related to the employment. The relevant national legislation on Freedom of Association in the workplace is enforced and monitored by HR for continued compliance. Staff is given access to information about KGHs work policies as well as to protocols and minutes of the cooperation and interaction between the union(s) and the company. A yearly employee survey covering areas as team, leadership and employer attractiveness, run by an external supplier to secure full anonymity. Every year our Diversity and Gender Plan is revised and the efforts made evaluated. The gender balance for 2018 is the same level as for previous year with 55% women. 2017 – 55% women / 45% men 2016 – 57% women / 43% men 2015 – 58% women / 42% men Communication on Progress 20 12/11/2018 ENVIRONMENT We continue to improve our Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG-initiative) with Key Performance Index (KPIs) that are presented in quarterly reports. The KPIs we monitor are within the areas: governance, health and wellbeing of staff, community program and use of office material. Local working groups are initiatives that bring sustainability and focus on the environment, based on the 17 principles in the UN Global Sustainability goals, to an everyday practical level. Example of activities: Offices participate in recycling schemes involving office material. Buy organic fruit when possible. Workplaces have a double computer screen system in order to reduce the number of printed documents. Reduce our carbon footprint by using teleconferencing instead of travelling. Our KGH Sustainability foundation coordinate initiatives like donations and free access to customs declarations for our charity partners such as Save the Children and Red Cross. Communication on Progress 21 12/11/2018 ANTI CORRUPTION KGH has zero tolerance on bribery, extortion and corruption and to be able to support this work we have a Compliance Network who meet regularly for follow up and actions KGH uses internal auditors and controllers to indentify any spurious payments that could be related to bribery or corrup behavior. Internal e-learning about Anti Bribery & Corruption i mandatory for all new employees and are renewed yearly for all staff to prevent undesired or even criminal behavior. Via a whistleblower function on out intranet, everyone can report suspicion of crime. KGH actively cooperates with Customs Agencies usin MoUs in countries where this is possible. The MoU guides the interactions between KGH, Customs and the Clients in order ot fight crime and corrupt behaviour. We are AEO-certified in all countries where we have business, an authorisation design to increase the security in the world as well as to harmonize customs related operations. Communication on Progress 22 12/11/2018 WWW.KGHCUSTOMS.COM UCCMADESIMPLE.COM COMPANY/KGH-CUSTOMS-SERVICES @KGH_CUSTOMS
