Sustainability Report 2017 Introduction This is SMEC’s eight annual Sustainability Report. The Contents report covers SMEC’s economic, social and environmental performance from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. 4 The CEO’s Message The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and various international 6 The Board operations. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. 8 The Executive Committee SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to a self‑declared Level B. The GRI guidelines are the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting 10 Scope of Content guidelines, and encourage greater organisational transparency. 12 Company Overview The data in this report has been gathered using standard measurement techniques which conform to national or international guidelines or regulatory requirements. Specific calculations are referenced 13 Global Network where appropriate. All monetary figures are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. 14 Corporate Governance For further information, please contact: sustainabilityreport@smec.com 18 Stakeholders & Objectives 20 Performance 24 People 36 Community 40 Sustainability & Environment 50 Global Reporting Initiative Index 54 Appendix A 56 Appendix B 2 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 3 Message from the CEO This is SMEC’s eighth annual Sustainability Report for submission to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and my first as CEO of SMEC. The purpose of this report is to measure our progress towards our sustainability objectives. Our sustainability objectives formalise our commitment to our three Corporate Social Responsibility categories: People; Community; and Sustainability and Environment. This has been a very exciting year for SMEC, as we continue Diversity remains a key business priority and we continue to Throughout the year, SMEC continued its SMEC has embarked on a path of strategic to transform into a leader within the consultancy world. Our implement a broad range of diversity and inclusion initiatives commitment to supporting people in need traditional design expertise has been complemented by an across the organisation. Our Diversity and Inclusion Committee through the SMEC Foundation and Divisional growth in recent years and we have cemented increased focus on planning and development opportunities oversees and drives progress across all SMEC’s business CSR Committees. Divisional CSR Programs our reputation in market. We are consistently made possible by the capabilities of our parent company groups and functions. Throughout the year, we continued to are funded by SMEC with additional financial recognised for project delivery, technical Surbana Jurong Group. achieve progress towards gender diversity and an inclusive support from the SMEC Foundation and SMEC culture. Both our Leadership Development and People employees. In addition, SMEC employees excellence and design innovation by leading In March 2017, we strengthened our presence in northern Australia through the acquisition of PDR Engineers (PDR), a Development Programs (ANZ Division) have reached its gender participated in many inspiring activities around engineering bodies and are proud to be listed based targets and we have invested in a culture program, which the world, underpinning our commitment to professional consultancy firm based in Cairns, Queensland. features diversity at its core. community development. among the world's top design firms. Established in 1999, PDR has a reputation for delivering technically challenging projects and has broad experience SMEC is committed to creating opportunities for Australia’s I would like to take this opportunity to thank all across a range of industry sectors. indigenous population, and in January 2017 our Reconciliation employees for their ongoing support in creating Action Plan was endorsed by Reconciliation Australia, an a sustainably-sensitive work environment. In my In November 2017, Surbana Jurong Group acquired Brisbane independent, not-for-profit organisation that partners with role as CEO, I look forward to driving a culture based Robert Bird Group, recognised as one of the top workplaces to promote indigenous reconciliation. Globally, of sustainability and environmental awareness in structural, civil and construction engineering firms in Australia, we restructured our CSR program to focus on localised funding all functional, operational and regional areas of and internationally. SMEC is currently exploring the opportunities to ensure effectiveness and alignment with local communities the business. this new partnership provides for our clients and looks forward and partners. In South Africa, SMEC has signed a new to realising synergies across all three companies to deliver partnership with the Disability Empowerment Concerns Trust specialist urban development expertise to our clients. and Kapela Holdings Group which will benefit up to two million Our strategic growth has also provided new and exciting disabled people. opportunities for our people. Nurturing talent and encouraging SMEC offices around Australia are well on the way to achieving personal and professional development is critical to our future a significant reduction in unnecessary waste, and have Hari Poologasundram success. Every employee plays a key role in shaping our employed some simple changes across the business, including business and we are committed to providing platforms to CEO SMEC & removing under desk bins and making recycling easier. Our enable our people to drive innovation, deliver value to clients CEO International, Surbana Jurong Newcastle office was a star performer in 2017, taking part in the and develop their careers through hands on experience. TerraCycle program, which aims to recycle the non-recyclable . I am pleased to advise that in September 2017, we We are committed to improving the energy efficiency of our implemented the People Management Development offices, and reducing the greenhouse gas emissions generated Programme (PMDP) as part of Surbana Jurong Group’s global by the Company’s operations. In 2017, SMEC’s Australian Management Development Programme (MDP). PMDP is offices averaged a NABERS energy rating of three stars, and designed to enhance the effectiveness of people managers three of SMEC’s offices have achieved the target energy rating by equipping them with the skills to lead and manage their of four stars. Notably, SMEC’s Canberra office maintained people towards a performance-driven culture. We also continue their above average five-and-a-half-star rating from last year, a to provide project management training in conjunction with dedicated effort to reduce GHG emissions and cost savings. Engineers Australia and The University of Melbourne and offer qualifications up to Diploma level. 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 5 The Board The SMEC Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining corporate governance. Following the acquisition of SMEC by Surbana Jurong, we welcomed four members of the Surbana Jurong Group to the SMEC Board: Mr Wong Heang Fine, Mr Teo Eng Cheong, Mr Loh Yan Hui and Mr Daniel Teo. The coming together of senior leadership from both organisations brings a diverse range of experience and expertise to the SMEC Board and will help to guide SMEC’s strategic direction as we move forward on our journey of growth. Hari Poologasundram Wong Heang Fine Alastair McKendrick – CEO SMEC & – Group CEO of Surbana Jurong Private Limited – Non-Executive Director CEO International Surbana Jurong BSc(Eng Mech), MSc(Eng) BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD MSc (Civil Eng), BSc(Civil) Mr WONG Heang Fine is Group CEO of Surbana Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 and was elected Hari was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Jurong Private Limited and was appointed to the to the Board as an Executive Director in 2001. SMEC in 2018, after serving as CEO of SMEC's SMEC Board in 2016 following the acquisition of Alastair stepped down from his executive Chairman Australian and New Zealand (ANZ) operations SMEC by Surbana Jurong. He is also Chairman position in 2016 after 17 years with the since 2017. Prior to this Hari held the role of of Sino-Sun Architects & Engineers, as well as company and serving 16 years in SMEC’s Chief Operating Officer, ANZ, and under his Director of AETOS Holdings Pte Ltd. Heang Fine chief financial role. Alastair is experienced astute guidance and leadership, has driven the has held many key leadership positions across in the management of large organisations Max Findlay performance and strategic growth of SMEC's a number of industries over the last 35 years. and consulting to small-to-medium sized BEc, FAICD ANZ operations. Hari has 30 years’ experience Most recently, he was the CEO of CapitaLand organisations. For over 30 years, he has in the planning, design and management of Singapore Limited (Residential) and CapitaLand worked across a variety of industry sectors infrastructure projects and 15 years’operational GCC Holdings. throughout Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand management experience. and the United Kingdom. Max was appointed Chairman of SMEC in 2016, after serving as Deputy Chairman since 2014, and NonExecutive Director since 2010. Max serves on the TEO Eng Cheong Daniel TEO Thiam Guan LOH Yan Hui Boards of several organisations including the Royal – CEO International – Group Chief Financial Officer – Deputy CEO, Infrastructure Children’s Hospital and listed company Skilled Group BSc(Economics), MSc(Economics) BSc(Accounting), MBA MSc(Civil) Ltd. Max holds a Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from Eng Cheong was appointed to the SMEC Yan Hui was appointed to the SMEC Holdings Daniel is Group Chief Financial Officer of Surbana Monash University and a Postgraduate Qualification in Board in 2016 following the acquisition of Jurong Private Limited. He was appointed to the Board in 2016 following the acquisition of Accounting from Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow SMEC by Surbana Jurong. Before joining SMEC Board following the acquisition of SMEC by SMEC by Surbana Jurong. Yan Hui has more of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. the private sector, Eng Cheong was a senior Surbana Jurong in 2016. Daniel is a commercially than 36 years’ experience in the infrastructure government official with the Singapore focused Finance executive with 25 years’ experience industry. He currently serves as a Department Administrative Service, and has previously in Operational Management, Reporting, Controls, Consultative Committee Member of National held several leadership positions in the Treasury, Pricing, Mergers, Restructuring of University of Singapore’s Department of Civil & Singapore Government. Operations, Tax & Transfer Pricing, and Negotiations Environmental Engineering. at country, regional and global levels. 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 7 The Executive Committee As a company we have a strong global management Hari Poologasundram Angus Macpherson team who play a pivotal role providing strategic – CEO SMEC & CEO International Surbana – Director of Operations Jurong Angus joined SMEC in 1993 and was thinking and guidance as we continue to transform Hari was appointed CEO SMEC and CEO appointed Director of Operations into a leader within the consultancy world. International Surbana Jurong in 2018 after in 2017 after serving as Director of serving as CEO of SMEC's Australian and Corporate Affairs since 2010. Angus New Zealand operations since 2017. Prior is also a member of the SMEC to this Hari held the role of Chief Operating Foundation Board and has over 20 Officer since 2012. Hari has 30 years’ years’ experience in the management experience in the planning, design and of large multidisciplinary projects. management of infrastructure projects and 15 years’ operational management experience. Dr Uma Maheswaran Tom Marshall – COO South Asia Middle East – COO Africa Dr Uma was appointed Chief Operating Tom joined SMEC in 2012 as Chief Officer South Asia Middle East in 2016, Operating Officer Africa and has over 30 having previously held the role of CEO years’ experience in civil engineering design, and Managing Director, India for the construction supervision and management Surbana Jurong Group. Dr Uma has of multidisciplinary engineering teams over 10 years’ management experience throughout Southern Africa. Tom joined across large scale organisations. SMEC’s Executive Committee in 2012 with the addition of Vela VKE to the SMEC Group. George Lasek Allan Teo – COO Americas – COO South East Asia George joined SMEC in 2011, and was Allan was appointed as Chief Operating appointed Chief Operating Officer Americas in Officer for the Southeast Asia Division 2017 after serving as COO South Asia Middle in 2018. Allan has close to 30 years East since 2015. George has over 30 years’ of experience in both domestic and experience in both the private and public international architectural / engineering sectors and has proven ability to operate consultancy business. His area of expertise at operational and strategic levels within is in the design and execution of large-scale complex business environments. multidisciplinary complex projects. Thomas Hynes Andy Atkin – COO Asset Management – Financial Controller Surbana Jurong Group Thomas joined SMEC in February 2010 and Andy joined SMEC in 2007 as General was appointed Chief Operating Officer Asset Manager Finance for the SMEC Group. In Management (Global) in 2017. Tom has over February 2017 Andy relocated to Singapore 25 years’ experience leading and managing to become the Global Group Financial consulting businesses for the delivery of Asset Controller of SMEC’s parent company, the Management services. Surbana Jurong Group. 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 9 Scope of Content The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s Australian operations and selected international operations only. It does not include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other controlled entities. For a complete list of SMEC’s controlled and associated entities, please refer to Appendix A. Material Aspects and Boundaries Stakeholder Inclusiveness Figure 1: Material Aspects contained within this report To determine the material aspects, boundaries and content of Information in this report pertains to SMEC’s stakeholders and has this report, SMEC completed a four step process of identification, been compiled with reference to the expectations, needs, interests Social Economic prioritisation, validation and review. This process ensured all aspects and information requirements of these stakeholders. identified were material to SMEC, and provided a structured Labour Practices and Decent Work Economic Performance approach for implementation of the Reporting Principles for Defining Sustainability Context Employment Indirect Economic Impacts Report Content. This report presents SMEC’s company performance within the wider context of sustainability, and explores the ways in which Labour/Management Relations Environmental Material aspects defined in this report are those aspects which SMEC contributes to the improvement of economic, environmental Occupational Health and Safety reflect SMEC’s significant economic, social and environmental Materials and social conditions on a local, regional and global level. impacts, or which have a substantial influence on the decisions Training and Education Energy of company stakeholders. To determine the boundaries of each Materiality Diversity and Equal Opportunity material aspect, consideration was made into the impacts of each, Water All material aspects identified in this report are relevant and both within and externally to SMEC. Equal Remuneration for Women sufficiently important in reflecting SMEC’s economic, social and Biodiversity and Men Material aspects contained within this report are displayed in Figure environmental impacts. Aspects identified as non‑material have not Emissions Human Rights 1. All material aspects identified have an impact both inside and been reported. Effluents and Waste outside of SMEC, and are relevant for all stakeholders outlined in Non-discrimination Stakeholder Engagement on page 18. Completeness Compliance Freedom of Association and Collective Material aspects, scope, time and boundaries contained within this Bargaining Defining Report Content report enable stakeholders to assess SMEC’s performance during Child Labour In compiling this report, SMEC has adhered to the Reporting the reporting period. Principles for Defining Report Content. These principles are: Forced or Compulsory Labour • stakeholder inclusiveness Indigenous Rights • sustainability context Society • materiality Anti-corruption • completeness Compliance Implementation of these principles ensures the content contained within this report is relevant, accurate, meaningful and complete. 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 11 Company Overview From origins on the Snowy Mountains Scheme, SMEC has grown into a company with a worldwide presence, combining global experience with local expertise to deliver engineering excellence and design innovation to our clients. Europe In August 2017, we celebrated one year of our successful partnership with Combining the skills and Singapore's Surbana Jurong Group, a global leader in urban, industrial North Asia and infrastructure consulting. As well as bolstering SMEC’s international experience from across the presence, the strengths of our new partnership lie in our combined Surbana Jurong Group of Singapore infrastructure and urban renewal offering and access to additional capital, companies, we have expanded South East Asia resources and expertise. our capabilities and reach, This partnership has not only benefitted our clients, but has provided South Asia & enhanced growth opportunities for our employees and our partners. providing specialist expertise to Americas Africa Middle East As part of the Surbana Jurong Group, SMEC has a global work force of complex projects worldwide, over 13,500 people across more than 40 countries. With natural synergies either independently or as Australia & across our organisations, we have developed a workplace culture that New Zealand focuses on the development of our people and the provision of enhanced combined entities. growth opportunities. Aligning global expertise with local knowledge, we deliver sustainable and holistic solutions and add value to projects around the world. We draw on the skills and experience from across the Surbana Jurong Group of companies to offer enhanced capabilities and reach. We have redefined our traditional service offering and embraced emerging technologies to provide a complete value chain of services cross the fields of urban development, #35 ENR’s Top 225 International Our Global Footprint 40+ Countries 120+ Offices 13,500+ Employees Design Firms 2017 infrastructure and management services. From masterplanning, architectural design and construction engineering through to security, asset management and smart city solutions, we continue to strengthen our capabilities to deliver sustainable solutions to our clients. Africa East Asia South & Americas Ethiopia China Southeast Asia Canada Working with our clients we provide cost‑effective, practical and Ghana Hong Kong Bangladesh Chile sustainable project outcomes. Our integrated services contribute to Kenya #45 Mongolia Brunei Mexico national development in some of the world’s fastest growing economies, Malawi Cambodia United States and since our formation, we have delivered thousands of projects in over Morocco India ENR’s Top 150 Global Design West & Central Asia 100 countries. Firms 2017 Mozambique Indonesia Afghanistan Oceania Namibia Malaysia SMEC's journey of growth is only beginning, and we look forward Kazakhstan Australia Nigeria Myanmar to developing further opportunities to better support our clients and Kuwait New Zealand Rwanda Nepal cementing our reputation as a leading global consultancy. Sierra Leone Pakistan Papua New Guinea The Philippines Engineering News-Record (ENR) provides South Africa Qatar news, analysis, data and opinion for the Singapore South Sudan United Arab Emirates construction industry worldwide. Vietnam Swaziland Tanzania Uganda Zambia 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 13 Corporate Governance Significant Changes in the State of Affairs On 25 July 2016 the Group was acquired by Surbana Jurong Remuneration and Nominations Committee Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd (SJHA) (a wholly owned Australian The Remuneration and Nominations Committee assists in subsidiary of Surbana Jurong Pte Limited (SJ). The Group has establishing a Board with an effective composition, diversity and changed its financial year-end to 31 December to align with that of size to adequately perform its responsibilities. The Committee aims its parent. SMEC's Sustainability Report covers SMEC’s economic, to ensure that SMEC secures, motivates and retains highly skilled social and environmental performance from 1 January 2017 to and diverse senior executives and employees in order to guarantee 31 December 2017. SMEC’s long-term success. The Remuneration and Nominations Committee must have at least three members, consist only of Board of Directors Non‑Executive Directors, have a majority of independent Directors, The SMEC Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic and have an independent Chair. direction and maintaining good corporate governance. The Board is accountable for SMEC’s financial and operational performance. SMEC’s success is driven by an Following the acquisition of SMEC by Surbana Jurong, we welcomed four members of the Surbana Jurong Group to the experienced Board of Directors. SMEC Board: Mr Wong Heang Fine, Mr Teo Eng Cheong, Mr The SMEC Board is responsible Loh Yan Hui and Mr Daniel Teo. The coming together of senior for formulating SMEC's strategic leadership from both organisations brings a diverse range of experience and expertise to the SMEC Board and will help to guide direction and maintaining SMEC’s strategic direction. corporate governance. SMEC’s Board of Directors are leaders in their field, and their expertise, skills and experience drive the Company’s sustained Executive Committee long‑term growth and ensure transparency of operations. The The Executive Committee (EC) has primary authority for the Board has a written charter which outlines its responsibilities and management and monitoring of the Company’s operations, and governance framework. All Directors are required to retire at the the implementation of the Company Strategy subject to policies fourth Annual General Meeting following their appointment, with and procedures approved by the Board of Directors. The EC the exception of the Managing Director. is comprised of senior managers with extensive experience in Board Committees strategic and operational planning in the engineering industry. The Board has two permanent committees which provide direction SMEC’s CEO is the Chair of the Committee, and is responsible on specific areas. Each committee has written terms of reference for all matters not reserved for the Board or individual Directors and is subject to annual review by the Board. These committees (generally described as the day-to-day operations and management are: the Audit and Risk Committee; and the Remuneration and of the SMEC Group). The EC’s terms of reference and authority are Nominations Committee. The Executive Committee (EC) is approved by the Board. not considered to be a Board committee. The EC consists of Remuneration of Directors senior executives appointed by the CEO. The EC assists in the Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which in total fall performance of the CEO’s duties to the Board and in their role as an within the fixed amount, currently set at A$1,000,000. During officer of the Company. the 2017 financial year, remuneration of Non‑Executive Directors totalled A$389,278. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for Audit and Risk Committee bonuses or incentive schemes, and only statutory retirement The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with financial benefits are payable. reporting, managing SMEC’s material risks and ensuring that financial information (provided to investors and the Board) is accurate and timely. The Audit and Risk Committee must have at least three members, consist only of Non‑Executive Directors, have a majority of independent Directors, and have an independent Chair (who is not the Chair of the Board). 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 15 Corporate Governance Code of Conduct SMEC’s Code of Conduct seeks to guide the actions and behaviour SMEC is committed to maintaining an appropriate system • implementation of design management and review processes of employees in a way that is consistent with SMEC’s company of governance and risk management applicable to all of the to manage critical design quality aspects values. The Code requires that all employees act with honesty, Company’s locations, business units and functional groups in • communication of risks and responsibilities through planning integrity and in compliance with the law, perform their duties to the order to: implement a Risk Management System conforming workshops ISO 9001 ISO 31000 best of their abilities, be accountable for their performance, and to International Standard ISO 31000; clarify the roles and • development of risk auditing regimes. Quality Management Risk Management work collaboratively with their colleagues. The Code encourages responsibilities of management and Boards; identify, assess and During the reporting period, SMEC maintained certification to employees to report any unethical, dishonest or unlawful practices manage significant risks and opportunities; maintain the integrity ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental and ensure the safety of themselves and those around them. of SMEC’s assets, people and reporting; and comply with legal Management) and AS/NZ 4801 (OHS Management) in all major obligations in all jurisdictions in which SMEC operates. SMEC employees are expected to comply with this Code, along Australian offices from third party certifier, Global-Mark. with all other SMEC policies and procedures, and any legislation SMEC seeks to improve risk management through: SMEC’s ‘Safety in Design’ procedure and system is compliant with applicable to their role. • appropriate charters for the Board and management groups changes to Australian Work, Health and Safety Guidelines. During ISO 14001 AS\NZ 4801 It is management’s responsibility to demonstrate, through their (including their responsibilities to their various stakeholders) the reporting period, ongoing training was held throughout all Environmental Management OHS Management actions, the importance of this Code, and promote the highest • a Code of Conduct recognising SMEC’s responsibilities to all Australian offices in the correct use of this procedure and system. ethical standards across all areas of the business. In addition, stakeholders ‘Safety in Design’ workshops continue to be held for clients, managers are expected to develop a positive working environment, • promotion of workplace culture, practices and behaviours contractors and other key stakeholders involved in major projects. provide ongoing support and feedback to employees, and take which value and reflect honesty, integrity and professionalism SMEC’s Project Management System underwent further review appropriate action if a breach of the Code (or breach of any other • the identification and management of risks, issues and to simplify and streamline project management procedures SMEC policies and procedures) may have occurred. opportunities at team, project, business unit, subsidiary and and supporting systems. Improvements were also made to SMEC is committed to meeting high Equal Employment Opportunity Procedure corporate levels the Opportunity Management Procedures and System in order • alignment of controls with the SMEC governance and risk to improve efficiency of proposal management and increase standards of governance, safety and In addition to the Code of Conduct, SMEC has an Equal Employment Opportunity Procedure to promote a positive work management policy and framework information sharing across the business. compliance and have a zero-tolerance environment for all employees and clients. SMEC is committed to • the application of policies, controls, and review processes to all Business Integrity policy against fraud and corruption. promoting an inclusive organisational culture, and strives to provide business units and subsidiaries. SMEC’s Business Integrity Policy and related procedures work in We are continually enhancing our a safe and flexible workplace where employees and clients are Quality Management conjunction with SMEC’s Code of Conduct, and address areas treated with dignity, respect and consideration at all times. SMEC is committed to implementing quality management principles of employee conduct, including: bribery and corruption; fraud; governance and compliance systems SMEC does not condone any behaviour which may be perceived on all projects, and has developed a Quality Management System conflicts of interest; misleading conduct; collusion; engagement and strengthening our compliance as bullying, intimidation, discrimination, or any form of sexual (QMS) to comply with the requirements of AS/NZs ISO 9001:2016. with suppliers, joint venture partners and third-party or workplace harassment. As such, SMEC encourages the representatives; political donations, charitable donations, gifts and culture through ongoing training SMEC’s QMS provides systematic control of business activities development of an inclusive and diverse workforce, and believes entertainment; and non-normal business. and development. to ensure expectations of our clients and other stakeholders are that diversity is a strength for our people, our clients, our partners being met and, if possible, exceeded. The QMS includes processes SMEC employees are required to adhere to the standards of and our communities. for planning, documenting, managing and controlling everyday behaviour outlined in these policies, procedures and agreements. SMEC is committed to attracting the best talent, and engages in business needs and activities, and review processes to monitor and Should an employee wish to register a breach or suspected recruitment and selection processes that are based on merit. measure performance and identify improvements. breach of these standards, a report may be made anonymously through a Business Integrity Reporting Portal. SMEC’s recruitment activities are undertaken free of bias or SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of the project lifecycle, from discrimination, and in compliance with all relevant local legislation. inception through to handover, and provides a formalised and structured approach to project quality management. Risk Management The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring there are The QMS ensures: adequate organisational arrangements for designing, implementing, • development of project quality objectives incorporating client monitoring, reviewing and improving risk management operability, maintainability and delivery requirements throughout SMEC. • quantification of project risks through assessment 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 17 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement SMEC’s stakeholders are identified as any person, group or following: one‑on‑one meetings; industry initiatives; corporate Clients Technical excellence and innovation organisation that has an interest or concern in the Company. SMEC publications; company announcements; media releases; the SMEC Clients remain our primary focus, and we are dedicated to proactively responding to their requirements. SMEC works with are key focus areas for SMEC. We are interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, from local community website; the intranet; company e-newsletter; or events. members and contractors to employees, clients, industry bodies key client stakeholders to identify business improvements, and to constantly evolving: in our thinking, our Our major stakeholder groups are employees and clients. SMEC’s develop and implement effective and sustainable project solutions. and opinion leaders. policies and procedures identify and manage issues that may approach, our technologies and our Understanding our clients business objectives, drivers, resources SMEC stays up-to-date with emerging trends and sensitive issues impact these stakeholders systems. through effective and regular dialogue with stakeholders. This and processes in order to deliver the best possible project outcomes Employees dialogue feeds directly into the ongoing development of SMEC’s is a key priority at SMEC. We are responsive and flexible to clients’ SMEC’s management has an ‘open door’ philosophy, whereby changing needs, and strive to build sustainable client relationships Through our innovation hubs we continue business practices. We recognise that it is important to engage with local stakeholders to develop a Corporate Social Responsibility all employees may feel comfortable approaching management to through integrity and trust. to enhance our digital engineering discuss any issue or idea. (CSR) framework that resonates with employees, clients, SMEC utilises an in-house Client Relationship Management capabilities and bring emerging communities and other affected parties. Employees receive regular company updates from the CEO and (CRM) system, Client Connect, as the platform for the Company’s other senior management via email announcements, SMEC’s intranet client‑focused initiatives. Client Connect promotes the internal sharing technologies into the engineering space, The diverse nature of stakeholder groups means a variety of methods are used to communicate effectively at every level. The and office roadshows. Our internal newsletter, provides information of client intelligence and aims to drive stronger and more sustainable while remaining a major player and trusted on our projects, people, events, achievements, community client relationships. types of communication methods used depends on the situation partner on large complex projects. engagement initiatives and company updates. and the stakeholder, and may involve any combination of the People Community Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Our Commitment Our Commitment Our Commitment Objectives Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace for our people Support community and charitable programs that provide Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts that SMEC’s by encouraging personal development, recognising good long-term solutions. office activities and projects have on the environment. Raise SMEC has set a number of objectives to help deliver performance, fostering equal opportunity and ensuring employee, client and community awareness of the importance on the commitments the Company has made in each employee health, safety and wellbeing. Our Objectives of environmental sustainability. of its three Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) • To deliver the best possible social and development categories: People; Community; and Sustainability Our Objectives outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant Our Objectives and Environment. SMEC reports on progress • To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding work support provided by the SMEC Foundation • To operate energy efficient offices and reduce Greenhouse against these objectives in the Company’s annual environment for all employees • To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed human Gas (GHG) emissions generated by SMEC’s operations Sustainability Report. • To achieve and maintain cultural and gender balance and rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse and forced • To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project increase awareness of the importance of diversity compulsory labour advice to clients • To provide employees with personal and career • To support and encourage employee participation in their • To implement an Environmental Awareness Program to development opportunities and clear career paths local community, particularly charity work. educate employees, clients, partners and contractors • To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could about the importance of environmental sustainability. cause accidents, injuries or illness. 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 19 Performance Our Core Values Awards & Rankings Company Memberships Our Core Values represent what we stand ENR Rankings Association of Consulting Engineers Federation of Kenya Employers Soil Science Society of Nigeria for, what we expect from employees, what SMEC is consistently ranked among the world’s top engineering firms, and in Association of Consulting Surveyors Ghana Institution of Engineers South African Institute of Mining we deliver to our clients, and how we should 2016 secured strong rankings in Engineering News Record (ENR) Magazine’s behave in our daily work. Our core values annual design lists. ENR’s annual market analysis is based on global surveys Association of Land Development Engineers Green Building Council of South Africa The Committee for Sydney should form our moral compass and serve of key construction segments. These design lists rank firms on size and Association of Tanzania Employers Infrastructure Partnerships, Australia Urban Development Institute of Australia as silent mentors to guide us in everything design-specific revenue generated locally and internationally in a range of Australasian Corrosion Association Institute of Municipal Engineering of Waste Management Association of Australia we do. market categories. Southern Africa Australia Myanmar Chamber of Commerce Water Industry Alliance At SMEC, we encourage every employee to SMEC, as part of the Surbana Jurong Group, has significantly increased its International Conference on Large High live by our core values. rankings in the Engineering News Record (ENR) Magazine’s 2017 annual Australia PNG Business Council Voltage Electric Power Systems design lists. The Group is ranked at number 35 in the ‘2017 Top 225 Australian Green Infrastructure Council Integrity International Design Firms’ list, up 13 places and at number 45 in the ‘2017 International Road Federation Top 150 Global Design Firms’, an increase of 24 places. Australian National Committee on Large We act responsibly and conduct our International Union of Soil Sciences, Nigeria Dams business with the highest ethical standards, Consult Australia Awards Myanmar Oil and Gas Service Society accountability and transparency. Australian New Zealand Chamber of SMEC was awarded the 2017 Consult Australia Award for Project Team Commerce, Philippines National Construction Industry Council, People Collaboration for work on the M80 Ring Road Upgrade in Melbourne. This Malawi Australian Water Association We value our global and diverse talent by award recognises exemplary collaboration initiatives between a member firm National Environmental Standard & creating a safe, inclusive and supportive and its client. Board of Engineers, Malaysia Regulations Enforcement Agency of Nigeria environment where our people can thrive. Built Environment Professions Export Australia Business Alliance Award Nigeria Institute of Soil Science Council Professionalism Surbana Jurong was recently honoured with an Australia Business Alliance NSW Business Chamber We act in the best interest of our clients Award. The Australian Chamber of Commerce, Singapore (AustCham) Consult Australia and deliver innovative solutions with high presented Surbana Jurong with an award to recognise the Company’s Pakistan Engineering Council Consulting Engineering Association of India standards of excellence. significant commitment to Australian trade and investment. Papua New Guinea Chamber Mines and Consulting Engineers South Africa Petroleum Partnership National Business Awards, South Africa Council of Engineering Consultants of the Philippine Water Works Association We build trusted and enduring relationships SMEC South Africa took home the prestigious Infrastructure Development Philippines with clients, partners and colleagues to Award at the 2017 annual National Business Awards. Renowned as the Property Council of Australia Delhi Chamber of Commerce achieve win-win outcomes. Oscars of South African business, these awards showcase the achievements Prospectors and Developers Association of of those at the forefront of South Africa’s economy. Engineering Institution of Zambia Canada Purpose Engineers Registration Board We are passionate and committed to making Business Excellence Awards, South Africa Roads Australia Engineers Registration Board, Tanzania meaningful impacts to people, environment For the second year in a row, SMEC South Africa received the Top Engineering and communities. Consultant Award in three categories at the Business Excellence Awards: Civil Consulting Engineers; Structural Consulting Engineers; and Combined Civil and Structural Consulting Engineers. 20 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 21 Performance Financial Highlights Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Fee revenue increased by 7.5% to A$452.2M Generated Southern Central Northern Australia Revenue 80,353 123,785 83,001 287,139 Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 21,299 Substantial work-in-hand for FY18 and beyond Figure 3: Economic value distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Economic Performance Distributed Southern Central Northern Australia Company Performance Government Financial Assistance Operating Costs (7,919) (12,199) (8,180 (28,298) SMEC continued to grow steadily during the 2017 financial year, The Australian Government offers a Research and Development Employee Compensation (62,328) (96,016) (64,381) (222,725) maintaining our sound financial position, with revenue and other (R&D) tax incentive (38.5% tax offset, previously 40%) for activities income increasing from A$626.7M to A$640.5M. which are innovative or have high levels of technical risk. Under the Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend – – – (5,430) R&D tax incentive, SMEC may claim a 38.5% non-refundable tax Government (Tax) – – – (9,387) Our financial performance is the result of our continued focus on offset. At the current 30% corporate tax rate, this equates to an growth as a strategic priority, a significant increase in infrastructure Total (265,840) 8.5% net benefit. The 38.5% tax offset is broadly equivalent to a development around the world and a strong focus on previously 128% tax concession. less profitable parts of the business. SMEC has solid work-in-hand for the year ahead (and subsequent During the reporting period, SMEC spent A$1.16M on R&D Figure 4: Economic value generated internationally (all figures are in A$’000) activities and received A$115,869 as a tax benefit, as displayed in years), and the Australian business is expected to perform South East South Asia Figure 6. (Note – SMEC has changed its financial year end to 31 Generated North Asia Asia Middle East Africa Americas International particularly well with the help of major transport infrastructure December). projects along Australia’s east coast. Revenue 11,047 82,731 99,871 143,752 11,441 348,842 With near record levels of work-in-hand, and a new partnership Significant Changes in the State of Affairs Net Operating Profit After Tax – – – 5,113 adding complementary skills, the outlook for the 2018 financial year On 25 July 2016 the Group was acquired by Surbana Jurong is very positive. Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd (SJHA) (a wholly owned Australian Figure 5: Economic value distributed internationally (all figures are in A$’000 subsidiary of Surbana Jurong Pte Limited (SJ). During the six Economic Value Generated and Distributed months period, the Group changed its financial year-end to 31 South East South Asia During the reporting period, revenue in Australia increased to Distributed North Asia Asia Middle East Africa Americas International December to align with that of its parent. A$287.1M. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Australia Operating Costs (2,320) (17,372) (20,972) (30,186) (3,608) (74,458) There have been no significant changes in the state of affairs of the decreased slightly to A$21.3M. SMEC’s operating costs increased Group in the current year. Employee Compensation (8,122) (60,826) (73,429) (105,691) (9,210) (257,279) by 32% to A$28.3M, with employee compensation increasing by Payments to Providers of 15% to A$222.7M. Remuneration of Directors Capital-Dividend The generation and distribution of SMEC’s economic value within Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which in total fall Government (Tax) (11,992) Australia is displayed in Figures 2 and 3. within the fixed amount, currently set at A$1,000,000. During the Total (343,729) In SMEC’s international operations, revenue decreased by 3% to 2016–2017 financial year, remuneration of Non‑Executive Directors A$348.8M, with net operating profit after tax increasing to A$5.1M. totalled A$389,278. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for Prior year results included one-off costs totaling A$11.7M. SMEC’s bonuses or incentive schemes, and only statutory retirement Figure 6: Financial assistance received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) operating costs totalled A$74.5M and employee compensation was benefits are payable. Claimed in 2017 A$257.3M. Tax Deduction at 133% (1/01/17 31/12/17) The generation and distribution of SMEC’s economic value within its R&D Expenditure $1,158,694 international operations is displayed in Figures 4 and 5. Before Tax Cash Benefit $382,369 After Tax Cash Benefit $114,710 Net Tax Benefit to SMEC $115,869 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 23 People At SMEC, we recognise the value and importance of a diverse and inclusive workplace and look for people with different backgrounds, skills and expertise to drive innovation and shared learning across our growing global network. SMEC provides a culture which encourages personal development, fosters equal opportunity and ensures the health, safety and wellbeing of its employees is paramount. Every employee plays a key role in shaping our business and is driven by teamwork, progressive thinking and creative ideas. We are committed to providing platforms to enable our people to engage in the business, deliver value to clients and develop their careers. At the core of our business is what we call ‘The SMEC Spirit’ which is evident in our people, values and culture. ‘The SMEC Spirit’ captures a strong sense of identity which drives performance, technical excellence, and an innovative and determined approach to exceptional service delivery. 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 25 People Employee Demographics As at 20 March 2018, SMEC, as part of the Surbana Jurong Group Following the survey, 60 degree feedback (LSI1 and 2) to 184 Figure 7: Employee numbers in Australia & New Zealand had over 13,500 employees across more than 120 global offices. leaders, and Self Awareness feedback (LSI1) to 160 leaders Region Full Time Part Casual Fixed TOTAL Of these employees, 1,755 were based in the Australia and New has been provided. This was supported by regional leadership Time Term Zealand (ANZ) division. workshops to identify how our leaders are impacting our culture, Southern 526 38 92 25 681 and our culture impacting our leaders. Development plans were Central 364 18 100 15 497 The majority of employees from SMEC’s ANZ Division (74%) are created for individual leaders and regions to drive the adoption of a contracted on a full time basis, followed by casual (18%), part time Northern 406 34 118 14 572 constructive culture. (5%), and fixed term (3%) as displayed in Figure 7. New Zealand 3 1 0 1 5 One of the key activities in the Action Plan was to increase the Total 1299 91 310 55 1755 SMEC’s ANZ employees are spread across the following regions: awareness and understanding of our culture, and define every Southern (South Australia, Victoria and Western Australia), Central employee’s role in contributing to a constructive culture, across (the Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales), Northern the business more broadly. To achieve this, 3-hour workshops Figure 8: Remuneration at each professional level (Queensland and the Northern Territory) and New Zealand. The were conducted for over 400 employees at all levels. These Engineering Professionals % Difference Female % Difference majority of employees work within the Central region (38.8%), workshops included an introduction to the Human Synergistics to Benchmark Male to Benchmark followed by the Southern region (32.6%), the Northern region tool, an overview of our culture results, and a self awareness and Principal 94% 95% (28.3%), and New Zealand (0.3%). development activity. Senior 92% 97% Employee Culture Survey Experienced 94% 95% SMEC recently conducted an Employee Culture Survey in Remuneration Entry Level (0–4 years) 97% 96% association with the Human Synergistics’ Organisational Culture SMEC has four levels of Consulting Professionals: Principal, Senior, Inventory (OCI). The objectives of the survey were: to define the Experienced and Entry Level. Figure 8 provides a comparison actual company culture; establish a preferred company culture; and of actual remuneration at each professional level (with gender develop programs to grow and enhance this preferred culture. breakdown) in comparison with the average industry benchmark. Figure 9: Employee turnover by gender and age in Australia & New Zealand Remuneration benchmarks are based on Aon Hewitt’s Consult 60 Approximately 180 employees completed the survey. This sample Australia Remuneration Report. group included representatives from SMEC’s Executive Committee, 50 MALE Number of Employees FEMALE Level Two Managers, members of the ANZ Future Leaders Program During the reporting period, SMEC improved the percentage and senior technical employees. Participants were selected based difference in remuneration for females at the Senior, Experienced 40 on their influence on SMEC’s culture and impact on SMEC’s people and Entry Level (0-4 years) professional levels. 30 and company performance. Key findings from the survey include: Turnover 20 The overall turnover for ANZ employees during the reporting 10 • SMEC employees desire a highly constructive organisational period was 15.27%. This is comprised of 10% voluntary turnover culture. This places a strong value on service, product quality, (resignation or retirement) and 5% involuntary turnover (dismissal, 0 goal attainment and professional development. redundancy or demise). 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + Age in Years • SMEC is driven by ‘achievement’. This characterises As displayed in Figure 9, the majority of employee turnover was employees’ drive to do things well, to attain high-quality results, comprised of males in the 25-34 year age bracket (19%), followed and to accomplish challenging yet realistic goals. by males in the 35-44 year bracket (16%) and males in the 45-54 Figure 10: Reason for employee turnover in Australia & New Zealand • Employee engagement in strengthening the company culture year bracket (15.6%). is high, and management has shown a keen interest in early 0.54% 2.7% action planning for culture improvements. A breakdown of the reason for employee turnover in ANZ is 5.41% displayed in Figure 10. Areas for improvement were also identified, including: innovation, role clarity and the delivery of superior client service. SMEC is working to develop Action Plans in each Division to address these areas. Retirement Resignation Dismissal Redundancy 91.35% 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 27 People Employee Benefits Employee Assistance Program Gender Diversity Flexible Working Arrangements Parental Leave Top Up; 100% of whom were female. Of these SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is provided by SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity, establishing an SMEC’s Flexible Working Arrangements (FWA) procedure was nine employees, 44% have returned to work and 56% currently Benestar (formally Davidson Trahaire Corpsych), a leading national inclusive working environment and promoting engineering to women introduced in 2012, and includes options to vary work hours, work remain on parental leave. 75% of those employees who returned to provider of employee assistance, corporate psychology, critical through active industry representation and participation. SMEC from home and job share. The procedure enables employees to work are now utilising a Flexible Working Arrangement. During the incident training, and health and wellbeing services. encourages a gender diverse workforce by: developing strategies to balance their work and personal commitments. reporting period, 43 employees took advantage of SMEC’s Paid attract and retain female employees; measuring progress in gender Through the EAP, SMEC employees (and their families) can access During the reporting period, 35 new applications (71% female) for Paternity Leave. 100% of these employees have returned to work. diverse recruitment; encouraging the development of high-potential short-term confidential counselling and advice on a broad range of a FWA were approved, taking the total number of employees on a personal, financial and work-related issues. In 2017, SMEC had a employees to establish a pipeline of female managers and leaders; Australian Defence Force Leave and providing training to raise internal awareness of gender diversity FWA to 39 (67% female). Of the new FWA applications received by utilisation rate of 2.8%, showing a decrease of 0.2% from 2016. A SMEC introduced an Australian Defence Force (ADF) leave and equal employment opportunity in the workplace. employees, 72% cited ‘caring for a child/children under school age/ comparison of SMEC’s utilisation rate against the industry average procedure in 2012. Under this procedure, SMEC provides up to ages’ as the reason for the arrangement. is displayed in Figure 11. In 2017, SMEC's ANZ Division continued to achieve progress 10 days ADF leave annually (comprised of the Defence Reserve towards gender diversity and an inclusive culture: Purchased Additional Annual Leave Service’s Payment Scheme and topped up to the normal salary Corporate Health Plan SMEC is committed to helping its employees balance work, family level by SMEC). The scheme provides a weekly payment based on • Reached gender based targets for both our Leadership SMEC offers employees a Corporate Health Plan through Bupa. and lifestyle commitments. To assist with this, SMEC introduced Average Weekly Ordinary Time Earnings (AWOTE). Development and People Development Programs Employees are also able to access an Australian health insurance a Purchased Additional Annual Leave procedure in 2012. This comparison service via Choosewell, to ensure they are receiving • Provide Flexible Working Arrangements for all employees which Tertiary Education Assistance procedure enables employees to salary package an additional four real choice and value. Benefits of the Bupa corporate health plan includes options to vary work hours, work from home and job SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance Program supports weeks of annual leave per year, on top of their normal annual leave include discounted health cover, waived waiting periods, benefit share professional development, allowing employees to continue their entitlement. In 2017,160 employees took advantage of purchased bonus and cover for the cost of children’s dental, physiotherapy, education and gain the skills and knowledge required to excel • Invested in a culture program, which has valuing diversity at its additional annual leave. chiropractic and podiatry consultations and selected optical in their roles. Continuing full-time and part-time employees, who core packages at Members First providers, up to yearly limits. Parental Leave have completed 12 months employment with SMEC, are eligible • Provided training to 20 middle managers covering the SMEC employees who are the primary care giver of a child can to apply for Tertiary Education Assistance. SMEC will reimburse During 2017, SMEC partnered with Bupa to offer Australia based Champions of Change and Creating Gender Inclusive Cultures apply for 52 weeks of unpaid parental leave, and are entitled to 18 participants 50% of course fees, up to a maximum of A$10,000 employees access to a range of Health and Wellbeing Initiatives workshops. weeks paid leave (comprised of the statutory paid leave and topped per calendar year. During the reporting period, five employees took including individual health consultations and interactive group As at 31 December 2017, 17% of SMEC’s employees globally up to the normal salary level by SMEC), capped at A$150,000 advantage of SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance Program. Since sessions, ranging from skin checks and ergonomic assessments to were female. In Australia and New Zealand, this figure was higher, per annum. SMEC also provides employees with one week’s paid the Program’s inception in 2009, SMEC has supported a total of 40 wellbeing seminars, yoga and boxing. with 24% female employees across the Division. These figures are paternity leave, in addition to their annual leave, long service leave employees to achieve qualifications ranging from Certificate IV to During the reporting period, 207 employees took advantage of significantly higher than the Australian industry standard. and government-funded Dad and Partner Pay entitlements. Masters in a broad range of study fields. SMEC’s corporate health plan through Bupa, while 47 employees As displayed in Figure 12, the majority of SMEC’s female employees During the reporting period, 52 employees commenced a period utilised Choosewell's services. in Australia and New Zealand were aged between 25-34 years of paid parental leave. Nine employees took advantage of the (35%) followed by 35-44 years (29%). Figure 11: Utilisation of the Employee Assistance Program Figure 12: Employees by gender and age (ANZ Division) SMEC 350 350 SMEC SMEC INDUSTRY MALE MALE FEMALE FEMALE Percentage Utilisation 300 300 Percentage Utilisation INDUSTRY 3.6% INDUSTRY 250 Number of Employees 3.5% 3.6% 250 Number of Employees 3.6% 3.5% 5% 200 3.1% 200 3.1% 3.0% 150 3.0% 3.1% 150 2.8% 2.8% 0% 100 2.7% 2.7% 100 2.8% 50 2.5% 2.5% 2.7% 50 5% 0 0 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 0 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + 0 Year 0 Age in Years Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Year Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + Age in Years Year 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 29 People Gender Diversity (cont.) Figure 13: New starters by age and gender (ANZ Division) Gender Diversity Initiatives Talent Management People Management Development SMEC continues to implement a number of programs to increase Talent management continues to be a priority for SMEC, as we seek Program awareness of gender diversity. At SMEC, we believe that in order to to achieve strategic priorities by strengthening the pipeline of jobIn September 2017, SMEC implemented 100 achieve gender diversity, we must create cultural change by aligning ready leaders. the People Management Development work practices, processes and systems with diversity initiatives. Program (PMDP) as part of Surbana Jurong SMEC’s Talent Management System combines talent identification Number of Employees Group’s global Management Development The first step in creating cultural change is raising awareness of the (individuals identified for fast-tracked development) and succession Program (MDP). PMDP is designed to importance of gender diversity. During the reporting period, SMEC planning (to establish a leadership pipeline). This system is 50 enhance the effectiveness of people continued to review the Company’s gender diversity practices reinforced by open conversations between employees and managers by equipping them with the skills in line with the criteria outlined by the Australian Workplace managers that foster trust, promote transparency, and support the to lead and manage their people towards a Gender Equality Agency. This companywide review includes Company’s development decisions. performance-driven culture. the establishment of new strategies in recruitment, retention SMEC has completed a review of the Succession Planning Program and succession planning. These strategies will support gender PMDP focuses on developing essential 0 and commenced the development of a global talent pool system. 17–24 25–34 35–44 45–54 55–64 65 + diversity at SMEC and increase the representation of females at managerial competencies such as Critical positions have been identified at Management Level 1 Age in Years management and senior management levels. communication, emotional intelligence, (Executive Committee), Level 2 (direct reports to the Executive performance management, delegation, Our Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which includes the CEO, Committee) and Level 3 (direct reports to Level 2). Succession MALE FEMALE coaching, conflict resolution, driving change a member of the Board, and the COOs of each Division and Plans are being developed for each of these critical positions, and team management. representatives from Corporate Services, continued to meet on a outlining: individuals capable of stepping into the role as a quarterly basis and oversee the implementation of Divisional Action temporary caretaker; those capable of fulfilling the role immediately; PMDP adopts a blended learning approach Plans. In ANZ, this was supported by a local Diversity and Inclusion individuals who may be ready for the position in 1-3 years; and and involves multi-touchpoints over 3-6 Working group, with representatives from each region, and a cross potential candidates for the role in more than three years. months to promote sustained learning section of employees. and application. Employees participate in In 2018, SMEC will continue to focus on supporting employees and face-to-face workshops, senior leaders’ As in previous years, SMEC prepared an annual public report for managers to engage in career coaching conversations in line with dialogues, mid/post program learning submission to the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency. SMEC’s Performance Appraisal Process. reflection, team learning activities and This report responded to a set of predetermined gender quality Leadership Development Program evaluation of impact of learning derived indicators, including: gender composition; equal remuneration As at 31 December 2017, the ANZ division has 54 Leadership from the program. PMDP is conducted by between women and men; availability and uptake of Flexible Development Program alumni. This Program was launched in in-house certified facilitators and invites Working Arrangements; and consultation with employees on gender 2015 with the objective of enhancing the leadership capability of senior leaders of the business to share equality issues. Following submission of the report, SMEC received employees, teams and the organisation as a whole. This tailored people management experiences with the verification of compliance with the Australian Workplace Gender Program combines face-to face training, executive coaching, participants. Equality Act 2012. action-based learning techniques and the latest developments In 2017, PMDP sessions were held in in leadership research and approaches. The Program seeks to: Career Development SMEC's Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney identify, develop, support and retain individuals with leadership and Adelaide offices, with 63 participants. Career Pathways potential; equip future leaders with the skills, tools and techniques Globally, 242 people managers graduated SMEC provides employees with clear career pathways within its to lead more effectively; improve team leadership, project outcomes from the Program. Moving forward in 2018, global business. SMEC is committed to employee development and and client relationships; and build new approaches, behaviours and MDP is planned to reached out to 300 workforce sustainability, and provides a workplace with targeted mindsets for doing business. people managers across all divisions. learning and development programs and an equitable reward and During the reporting period 30 participants were enrolled in the recognition framework. SMEC is looking to increase its investment Future Leaders Program; 30% of whom were female. in training for the year ahead, as part of its overall workforce planning and management strategy. 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 31 People Project Management Training development needs and aspirations with mentoring and guidance, and encourage SMEC recognises the importance of project SMEC’s business plan. The training and the submission of Engineering Competency management skills for the organisation and development needs of employees are also Claims. During the reporting period, 19 its clients. SMEC’s Strategic Plan outlines reviewed annually as part of CareerTrac. employees were enrolled in the PDP the Company’s commitment to increasing This review considers the needs of the through Engineers Australia, 26% of whom capability and leadership in the area of employee, their manager and overall were female. project management. organisational requirements. Graduate Development Program During the reporting period, SMEC SMEC's focus continues to be on building SMEC's Graduate Development Program completed a review of all project a constructive culture and high performing (GDP) assists graduates in achieving management training modules and teams. The PDR process encourages their industry accreditation or ‘license to materials, with a new suite of training employees to align their key activities and work’. The GDP aims to provide graduates programs developed and implemented. identify the behaviours needed to help them with a diverse range of experience and New training modules incorporate achieve their goals, work towards their a solid professional grounding through a e-learning, face-to-face communication aspirations and support the organisation combination of workshops, presentations, and hands-on practical experience. in achieving our priorities. In 2017, 78% of hands-on project work and mentoring. Training material focus on the fundamentals employees who participated in CareerTrac of project management for graduate were male and 24% were female. The The GDP includes: rotational opportunities engineers and the advanced principals majority of employees ( 62%) received a through a range of disciplines; experience of project management for experienced ‘Meets Expectations’ rating, followed by across broad technical and non-technical project managers. ‘Exceeds Expectations’ ( 32%). assignments; networking opportunities; and mentoring and support from local regional The training program has been developed Moving forward in 2018, the organisation leadership teams. During the reporting in conjunction with Engineers Australia and is shifting from CareerTrac to a new period, 155 graduates participated in the The University of Melbourne and include Performance Appraisal System (PAS). GDP, 29% of whom were female. qualifications up to Diploma level. In 2017, In the new system, employees will be there were 35 participants in the program, assessed both for their performance 23% of whom were female. against agreed upon goals and KPIs, as Career Recognition Program well as an assessment of their behaviour SMEC values its employees’ commitment in line with the organisation’s values. This to the Company and believes it is important Equal Employment Opportunity Training new approach will allow a review not only to acknowledge career milestones. SMEC’s SMEC's Equal Employment Opportunity of what our employees achieve, but how Career Recognition Program formalises (EEO) framework promotes a safe, they achieve it, and will drive a focus on this process. Each year, employees who inclusive and flexible work environment encouraging and exhibiting values based achieve a career milestone of between for all employees and clients. This behaviours throughout the organisation. five and 50 years (at five year intervals) comprehensive framework covers training, are acknowledged for their commitment policy development and review, and is to the Company. A review of the Program designed to encourage mutual respect Professional Development Program was undertaken in response to SMEC’s in the workplace and reinforce SMEC’s The Professional Development Program Employee Engagement Survey, whereby company values. EEO training continues to (PDP) is one of four pathways offered by employees identified that improved be a compulsory element of SMEC’s online Engineers Australia to assist members in recognition practices were needed. As induction compliance module in Australia achieving a Chartered Engineer status. a result, SMEC introduced a new Global and New Zealand. SMEC supports employees in their Career Recognition Program to improve professional development through consistency and timeliness of milestone Performance and Development Review sponsorship of this Program, including recognition. During the reporting period, 114 SMEC conducts annual Performance funding the cost of registration and people received Career Recognition Program and Development Reviews (PDR) for all ongoing assessment fees. Managers play milestones, 32% of which were female. employees through the in-house appraisal a key role in assisting employees with the system, CareerTrac. The objective completion of their PDP. Managers are of CareerTrac is to review employee required to monitor employees’ progress, performance and set future objectives provide development opportunities, offer by aligning individual performance, 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 33 Safety Talks Conducted: #102 #53 #22 People Australia and New Zealand Division Central Northen Southern Figure 14: Work Health and Safety Reported incidents by region: Australia and New Zealand Division Health and Safety Commitment Training and development: all SMEC employees complete a 2017 Achievements The safety of our people is always a key priority. SMEC is mandatory company induction, which includes a Health and Safety A new contractor health and safety committed to embedding a culture of safety within the company module. All employees receive ongoing training as required. This management process was developed to 35 and maintaining a working environment in which risk to health and ensures SMEC employees are fully equipped to achieve SMEC’s improve communication to contractors 30 Number of Incidents safety is unacceptable. This commitment is demonstrated through Zero Harm objectives. (including subcontractors and subconsultants) 25 a fully-integrated Health and Safety Management System, and a of SMEC’s health and safety management Management commitment: lead by example, eliminate unsafe 20 companywide Strategic Plan. expectations and to streamline internal work practices, and recognise that healthy workers are productive 15 compliance processes for project managers To meet this commitment, SMEC (in so far as reasonably workers. 10 and others who engage contractors. practicable) provides safe and healthy working conditions for Monitoring and evaluating performance: encourage a culture of 5 all people associated with the Company, including employees, SMEC’s support of the annual Australia openness and proactive reporting amongst all employees. 0 contractors, visitors and the general public. National Safe Work Month continued in 2017 Northern Central Southern New Zealand Rehabilitation and return to work services: ensure employees are with a variety of initiatives organised including Region In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC: able to return to work as soon as possible. bicycle rides, seminars and morning teas. • Maintains a safe work environment (including work conditions, Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection Effective consultation: involve stakeholders in workplace safety practices and procedures) Health and Safety in 2018 Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss decisions. • Ensures full compliance with all applicable statutory and In 2018, SMEC will continue its commitment to Hazard External Event First Aid licensing requirements safety as a key focus of the Company. SMEC Safety in Design • Undertakes proactive reporting of near misses, hazards, drills will work to implement its goal of Zero Harm SMEC invests in its people to enhance their knowledge and and inspections to ensure that all incidents are accurately for its employees, contractors, visitors and the encourage the implementation of safety principles in the design and reported, recorded and lessons learnt are shared general public. To achieve this goal, SMEC delivery of projects. SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that Figure 15: has set a number of objectives and targets for • Involves all employees and management in health and safety the safety needs of their projects are well documented within Scope 2018, as outlined in ‘Zero Harm Culture’. Reported incidents by activity: Australia and New Zealand Division management through consultation of Works and Project Management Plans. SMEC facilitates Safety • Develops safety awareness throughout the Company via formal in Design training and awareness programs to educate employees Leadership and culture: SMEC will conduct 60 and informal training and clients in regards to: local legislation requirements; potential a survey that enables the current state cost savings; and the ability to eliminate or reduce hazards. • Minimises or eliminates hazards within the workplace through of SMEC’s safety culture to be evaluated risk identification, assessment, control and monitoring. so as to guide cultural improvement and 2017 Year in Review – Australia and New Zealand Division In 2017, SMEC continued to improve proactive health and safety engagement initiatives. A ‘frontline safety Number of Incidents Zero Harm Culture 40 initiatives, including regular Safety Talks in all Australian and New conversation’ tool for leaders to consistently SMEC aims to develop a workplace that eliminates the risk of serious Zealand offices. SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive alerts’ reporting engage effectively with frontline workers about harm to any person affected by SMEC’s business activities. To targets for the fifth consecutive year. Proactive alerts involve regular safety will be developed and piloted. achieve this, SMEC has implemented policies, procedures, guidelines, work instructions and reporting tools to measure and planned testing, inspection and identification of potential Health and wellbeing: Following on from hazards before an incident occurs. 20 progress towards Zero Harm objectives. enthusiastic employee involvement in SMEC’s Zero Harm objectives are: In 2017, SMEC recorded 438 proactive incidents, an increase of community initiatives such as RU OK? Day, 28% from the previous year. Proactive reporting accounted for SMEC will launch a program that will provide • zero incidents that cause a fatality 83% of all Work Health and Safety reporting during the period. a range of resources to help employees • zero incidents that cause a permanent disability 0 SMEC had a total of 529 reported incidents in 2017. ‘Safety Talks improve their health and wellbeing awareness. Office Project Site Travel • zero incidents that cause permanent health issues Conducted’ accounted for the greatest number of reports (50%), By participating in the program, employees Activity • zero long-term psychological injury due to the work with 264 recorded. This was followed by ‘Drill or Inspection’ (77 will have access to online training modules, environment reported) and ‘Hazard’ (50 reported). Figures 14 and 15 display a seminars and activities covering topics such Northern Central Southern NZ • zero long-term detrimental impact on the environment breakdown of incidents by region and activity. In ANZ, the Lost Time as coping with change, stress and resilience, • year-on-year reductions in workplace injuries. Injury (LTI) frequency rate (LTIs per million hours worked) increased work-life balance and mental health. from 1.71 in 2016 to 2.66 in 2017. SMEC Zero Harm objectives are embedded in SMEC’s company culture through: 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 35 Community Human Rights SMEC supports and respects the protection of internationally Indigenous Rights • SMEC and it’s acquired partner PDR Engineers, were a major sponsor of the Torres proclaimed human rights, and ensures it is not complicit in human At SMEC, we promote a positive work environment for all Strait NAIDOC Community Tributes Award which was announced at the Torres Strait rights abuses through a broad range of policies and frameworks. employees, and understand that the diverse backgrounds, work NAIDOC Awards ceremony on Thursday Island. experiences, lifestyles and cultures of our employees are one of • SMEC is now a proud member of Supply Nation, who certify and register businesses Corruption and Bribery our key strengths. We are committed to diversity and strengthening which are 51% (or more) owned, managed and controlled by Indigenous owners. SMEC is serious about having a culture of compliance, and is relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples • SMEC’s ANZ Divisional CSR Committee selected three Aboriginal and Torres Strait committed to ensuring ethical and safe working conditions for and have developed a dedicated working group to oversee our Islander charities to receive SMEC Foundation funding: Engineering Aid Australia, all employees. SMEC has a zero tolerance policy against fraud Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) program. In January 2017, SMEC’s Indigenous Literacy Foundation and One Voice. and corruption, and our Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and RAP was endorsed by Reconciliation Australia. Our RAP outlines In 2018, we will continue our commitment to create opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres corruption by employees, consultants and third parties who act our commitment to implement and measure practical actions that Strait Islander peoples and will work closely with our clients to ensure the rights and on SMEC’s behalf. All of SMEC’s standard commercial agreement create opportunities for, and build respectful relationships with, heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are protected. templates include anti-corruption and anti-bribery protection Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, focusing on what we provisions. can do as an organisation to achieve this. To date, our RAP has Community Development helped us to: On 1 July 2016, SMEC implemented a number of important changes to its CSR Program. SMEC continues to strengthen its compliance policies and Central to the Program was the creation of Divisional CSR Committees located in each of procedures and has Anti-Bribery and Corruption Training in place. • Raise employee awareness of and engagement with Aboriginal SMEC’s operating Divisions. The new de-centralised structure improves delivery of SMEC’s This training is mandatory for all SMEC employees, managers and Torres Strait Islander cultures CSR Programs by empowering each CSR Committee to tailor their programs to suit their and directors, and covers the following topics: bribery; collusive • Strengthen our relationships and work alongside business Divisional CSR aspirations. Localisation of SMEC’s CSR Programs improves connection practices; internal corruption; conflicts of interest; gifts, hospitality partners who are also committed to reconciliation between the company, employees and their local communities, which in turn creates and entertainment; donations; partner evaluations; and reporting • Investigate opportunities to ensure our workplace is culturally a strong social licence to operate in those communities. SMEC’s CSR Committees are procedures. To date, 91% of SMEC’s employees globally completed appropriate for current and future Aboriginal and Torres Strait integral in ensuring that projects are appropriately selected and delivered in accordance the training. Training will continue to take place throughout 2018. Islander employees to ensure we continue to attract and retain with SMEC’s business integrity policies. a diverse workforce. Child Protection Policy Divisional CSR Programs are funded by SMEC with additional financial support from the As we move forward to the next stage of our RAP journey, we will SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation to child SMEC Foundation and SMEC employees. The SMEC Foundation brand is used to unify continue to work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples exploitation and abuse. Child Protection Policy training is a and endorse SMEC’s CSR Projects across the SMEC Group. and communities, to strengthen relationships and create respectful mandatory element in SMEC’s induction process. During the bonds with those within, and external to, our sphere of influence. A core focus of Divisional CSR and SMEC Foundation programs is to provide small-scale reporting period, 437 new starters completed the training. grant support for sustainable community development, emergency relief, health, education During the reporting period a number of initiatives were undertaken SMEC’s Child Protection Policy continued to undergo a review and environmental projects. During the reporting period, A$88,500 was donated to to ensure our relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander to ensure recruitment practices, training content and reporting support the following initiatives: peoples and their communities are considered as part of our procedures remain as effective as possible in preventing any business operations. • A$30,000 to AusRelief to provide emergency relief to Rohingya refugees at Cox’s form of unacceptable behaviour towards children. Following this Bazar refugee camp in Bangladesh review, a series of policy updates have been put forward which • SMEC celebrated National Reconciliation Week with events • A$16,000 to the Fred Hollows Foundation in support of the School Vision Program in include mandatory police checks for all employees working with taking place throughout SMEC's ANZ offices including: Surigao Del Norte province in southern Philippines children, and a strengthening of SMEC’s child protection reporting Vietnam veteran Glenn James OAM sharing his story as a procedures. In 2018, SMEC will continue to review our processes pioneering Indigenous Australian to Melbourne employees; • A$30,000 to So They Can (STC) to fund the construction of a family home for eight and practices to ensure continued accordance with Australian Director of DICE Australia Raymond Pratt visiting SMEC’s orphaned children and a house mother in Miti Mingi Village, Kenya Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Brisbane office to share how his Indigenous owned and • A$12,500 to Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation to support reforestation of operated company operates throughout the Northern Territory; six hectares of tropical rainforest that were lost at the Samboja Lestari orangutan Forced and Compulsory Labour representatives from Geelong One Fire providing employees rehabilitation centre during major forest fires in East Kalimantan, Indonesia. SMEC is committed to the elimination of all forced and compulsory from SMEC’s Geelong office with information about Djillong In addition, SMEC's Divisional CSR Committees funded a number of projects and SMEC labour, and believes that working relationships should be freely (name for the area pronounced Geelong by European employees participated in many inspiring activities around the world, underpinning our chosen and free from threat. SMEC’s Code of Conduct ensures that settlement) and the Wathaurong people. commitment to community development. ethical employment and labour practices are implemented across • Acknowledgment of Country is now a standard part of how we the Company. SMEC is compliant with all national employment commence employee and client meetings. legislation, and seeks to ensure the highest standards of protection for all of the Company’s employees. 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 37 Community Community Projects Beit Cure Hospital, Zambia Homes of Hope, Australia Feed the Children, Kenya Beit Cure Hospital is a pediatric teaching To celebrate International Womens Day 2018, ten SMEC employees The SMEC Foundation donated 25 wheelchairs to Feed the hospital specialising in the treatment and care participated in a Homes of Hope initiative led by Habitat for Children, a non-profit relief organisation, who operates the Dagoretti of children living with physical disabilities. Humanity International. The SMEC team helped to brighten the lives Children’s Centre and the Abandoned Baby Center in Kenya. Hospital management indicated that one of their of women and their families escaping long-term homelessness by Children at the facilities are provided with basic needs including immediate needs was means to store blood building and refurbishing accommodation. food, shelter, education and health care. on site for surgeries and emergency needs. In response, the SMEC Foundation donated a One Voice, Australia Kenneth Ulo Foundation, Nigeria blood bank refrigerator which can keep blood One Voice provide practical human services and opportunities to The SMEC Foundation recently donated five computers with special at optimum temperature for two weeks even the homeless and disadvantaged within Australia. SMEC has made software usable by the blind to the Kenneth Ulo Foundation. The without electricity. This is the first blood bank a donation to One Voice, which will help fund their 'Elevate Life Kenneth Ulo Foundation is a non-governmental organisation that refrigerator the hospital has owned since its 10 Restoration Community’ program, where they take residents that promotes the welfare of the blind by offering training and postyears in operation. have completed rehabilitation programs, and provide an opportunity training support to develop entrepreneurial skills. to complete studies and training courses. UTH Special Education School, Zambia La Mesa Watershed Reservation, Philippines The UTH Special Education School caters to Indigenous Literacy Foundation, Australia In the Philippines, SMEC employees volunteered their time to children with special educational needs from The gap in literacy rates for Indigenous Australians widens with age plant 400 seedlings of guyabano (soursop tree) at the La Mesa the ages 5 to 16. In recent times, the school and is even more pronounced in remote and isolated communities. Watershed Reservation, a protected area and the primary source of had difficulties with its water supply including SMEC has made a donation to the Indigenous Literacy Foundation, potable drinking water for more than 12 million people in Manila. an intermittent water supply and a water tank which will provide 1,700 books to 20 remote communities, Supporting Emergency Activities, Sierra Leone not fit for purpose. With funding from the SMEC supporting literacy for Indigenous children and their families. Following three days of heavy rainfall in August 2017, Sierra Leone Foundation, and the engineering and contract Indigenous Australian Engineering Summer School, Australia suffered a devastating mudslide causing 300 people to lose their management provided by SMEC’s Lusaka SMEC has provided a donation to support the Indigenous Australian lives with many more reported missing. To address the urgent engineers, a water supply and storage system Engineering Summer School. Established in 1996 by Engineering need for supplies to facilitate the emergency workers assisting the for the school was constructed. Aid Australia, the school offers Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander victims, the SMEC Foundation donated 600 pieces of safety gear high school students a combination of engineering and social and equipment to the Mayor’s office. activities, providing a pathway to an engineering career. Buguruni School for the Deaf, Tanzania Vinnies CEO Sleepout, Australia Buguruni School for the Deaf caters for 268 students, including As part of the 2017 Vinnies CEO Sleepout, members of SMEC's 150 boarders, who all use sign language as their main method Leadership Team slept outdoors and raised over $6,000 which of communication. With funding from the SMEC Foundation will help to provide crucial assistance to people experiencing and engineering and contract management provided by SMEC’s homelessness and living below the poverty line across Australia. Dar-es-Salaam engineers, the school's water supply system was upgraded, providing a clean and safe source of drinking water, and Cox’s Bazar Refugee Camp, Bangladesh water supply to the school's kitchen, toilets and dormitories. SMEC's South Asia Middle East Divisional CSR Committee and the SMEC Foundation came together to provide funding to Global One Bangladesh, a UK Charity organisation providing medical and relief operations for the Rohingya refugees. Over 200 families living in refugee camps located in Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh were provided with food items and blankets. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 39 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Principles Sustainable Offices SMEC invests in sustainable business SMEC is committed to improving the energy efficiency of its offices, Environmental Impact Assessments and reducing the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by SMEC has controls in place to manage and (wherever possible) Environmental Management Plans practices to achieve long-term prosperity, All of SMEC’s major Australian and New Zealand offices have the Company’s operations. reduce potential environmental impacts resulting from project and is committed to embedding a culture and office activities. Project Managers and Regional Managers Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) in place. These plans SMEC operates under a companywide Environmental Management provide an assessment of environmental impacts associated of sustainability and environmental are responsible for determining the potential consequences of Policy and an Environmental Management System (EMS), environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental Impact with each office in the areas of procurement, waste generation, awareness in all functional, operational formalising the Company’s commitment to environmental electricity, transport and water. Objectives, targets, actions, Assessment Scale (as displayed in Appendix B). and regional areas of the business. responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies with the requirements of ISO procedures and processes are then outlined for each aspect, with 14001 (Environmental Management), and is designed to ensure the Where the environmental impact rating is above eight, SMEC timelines and responsibilities identified to ensure accountability. implementation of sustainable business systems, procedures and employees are required to develop an Environmental Management SMEC strives to undertake all project Plan (EMP), outlining appropriate risk treatments, targets, The objective of these EMPs is: to minimise harm to the practices. objectives, controls and responsibilities. environment; ensure compliance with ISO 14001 (Environmental and office activities in an environmentally SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic and methodical approach Where a risk rating is identified as above 15, the hazard is assigned Management) requirements; improve environmental performance; responsible manner, and to identify, to planning, implementing and reviewing SMEC’s environmental increase reporting transparency; and assist in mapping SMEC’s performance. The objective of the EMS is to avoid (or minimise) to senior management for review. Where a risk rating is identified as progress towards its sustainability objectives. manage and mitigate any risks that may environmental impact, while contributing lasting environmental 20 or above, the hazard is assigned to executive management. It SMEC continued to implement a number of office initiatives during impact negatively on the environment. benefits to local communities in which SMEC operates. Effective is management’s responsibility to ensure the risk is managed in an appropriate manner across the Company’s operations. the reporting period including: implementation of the EMS has assisted SMEC in creating a company culture that is focused on incorporating sustainable Project Managers must develop and document environmental • Utilising Video Conferencing (VC) equipment to reduce nonpractices into everyday business decisions. objectives and targets for each project during the planning essential travel stage. Achievements against these set objectives and targets • Implementing online training to reduce travel and training Environmental Management Policy materials are measured annually for long-term projects, and upon project SMEC operates under a detailed Environmental Management completion for short-term projects. • Using cloud‑based technology to share information between Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed annually by SMEC’s external and internal project teams, in lieu of hard copies Chief Executive Officer. SMEC is committed to operating in an Sustainable Procurement Procedure • Enabling the ‘power saver’ function on printers and faxes environmentally responsible manner by: SMEC implements a Sustainable Procurement Procedure, whereby • Utilising the ‘Swipe and Print’ printer system • Implementing and improving environmental management employees who undertake procurement of items valued over A$150,000 (capital works, fleet and office supplies) must complete • Defaulting printers to double-sided printing systems, in accordance with ISO 14001 an Environmental Sustainability and Social Equity Questionnaire. • Purchasing paper from sustainable forestry operations (with • Complying with legal requirements This Questionnaire determines whether purchases minimise waste green manufacturing processes) • Implementing environmental management programs to achieve disposal, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, maximise resource • Recycling printer toner cartridges environmental objectives and targets efficiency, conserve and improve biodiversity, incorporate ethical • Recycling paper, glass and plastics • Conducting all activities in an environmentally responsible considerations, or have a low carbon footprint. • Providing reusable envelopes for inter-office mail manner to minimise the potential for adverse environmental impacts • De-lamping and upgrading lighting where possible • Enhancing the beneficial environmental effects of any activities • Encouraging public transport use (by making train, bus or to improve the quality of the environment for current and future tram tickets available for employee use). generations • Preventing pollution associated with SMEC’s activities • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable and practical solutions to clients • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s environmental performance. 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 41 Sustainability & Environment Sustainable Offices (cont.) City Switch Think Green. Take Action Video Conferencing SMEC has committed all Australian SMEC’s ‘Think Green. Take Action’ program is designed to raise SMEC uses Skype for Business as the primary communication offices to the CitySwitch Green Office employee awareness about the importance of environmental method. Skype for Business is an all-in-one communication tool Program. CitySwitch is a national tenancy sustainability, encourage proactive participation in SMEC’s providing phone, instant messaging, content sharing and video energy efficiency program that supports sustainability initiatives and communicate the Company’s progress conferencing capabilities. organisations in improving their National towards its environmental objectives. The purpose of utilising this system is: to improve and integrate Australian Built Environmental Rating The program includes a dedicated intranet site containing a range communication within SMEC; enhance collaboration, mobility, System (NABERS) office energy ratings. of sustainability resources for employees, including corporate efficiency and productivity across the business; and significantly NABERS is an Australian rating system sustainability policies, procedures and guidelines, and relevant reduce telephone and travel costs. This platform is a complete that measures the environmental supplementary publications and materials. replacement for SMEC’s communication system, and provides performance (energy efficiency, water inbound and outbound calling to both landlines and mobile Localised induction modules and orientation booklets contain usage, waste management and indoor phones, as well as an integrated voicemail system. It promotes tailored information on ‘Think Green. Take Action’ initiatives in each environmental quality) of buildings, collaboration across regional and functional groups, and enables Australian office. These materials provide new employees with: an tenancies, offices and homes. NABERS real-time desktop and application sharing with video, audio and overview of the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) utilises a zero to six-star rating scale (with text capabilities. Program; an outline of SMEC’s sustainability objectives; contact one star indicating very poor performance details for their local office’s CSR Coordinator; locations of recycling and six stars representing market Reducing Office Waste stations and collection points; and suggested ways in which leading performance) to measure the SMEC is committed to reducing waste across all offices. By employees can become more involved in SMEC’s CSR Program. environmental performance of a building employing changes across the business, including removing under desk bins and making recycling easier, SMEC offices around against other comparable buildings in a Swipe and Print similar location. Australia are achieving a significant reduction in unnecessary waste. SMEC utilises a ‘Swipe and Print’ printer system in selected offices throughout ANZ. The purpose of this system is to limit Throughout 2017, SMEC’s Newcastle office has been involved All SMEC’s Australian offices are working print wastage, reduce printing costs, improve document security, in the TerraCycle program. TerraCycle aims to recycle the nontowards achieving an accredited fourincrease printing location flexibility and enhance the efficiency of recyclable , including coffee capsules, pens and plastic gloves, star NABERS energy rating by reducing SMEC’s printing environment. to help divert significatn quantities of waste from landfills and energy consumption, lowering carbon incinerators each month. As part of the program, SMEC's impacts, and improving the sustainability The system utilises swipe card technology, which enables users to of operations. Figure 16 (overleaf) Newcastle office removed 3,000 coffee capsules from landfill, while retrieve their individual printing jobs using a personal swipe card. provides a breakdown of the energy also implementing a KeepCup initiative for their employees. SMEC's Print jobs remain in a print queue until a user personally retrieves performance of each Australian office Newcastle office are also sending broken monitors and office their printouts. Should a print job not be retrieved within 24-hours, it during the reporting period. equipment to the Summerhills E-Waste recycling program, and is automatically deleted from the print server. donating recyclables to the House With No Steps, one of Australia’s The environmental impact of this is a reduction in paper, toner, ink leading disability service providers. and electricity from a reduced number of print jobs. Since the introduction of the ‘Swipe and Print’ system over 274,000 printed pages have been saved. This equates to more than 809 kg of CO2 and over 50,940 bulb hours. Since the introduction of the ‘Swipe and Print’ system over 274,000 printed pages have been saved. This equates to more than 809 kg of CO2 and over 50,940 bulb hours. 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 43 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 43 Sustainability & Environment Sustainable Offices (continued) NABERS Energy Ratings In October 2017, all Australian offices underwent a CitySwitch Energy Audit. The objective of these audits was to identify revised indicative NABERS energy ratings, total electricity used per annum, and current Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for each office. A gap analysis was then completed to compare the 2017 Townsville energy performance of each office against data collected during the previous audit undertaken in 2016. In 2017, SMEC’s Australian offices averaged a NABERS energy rating of three stars, and three of SMEC’s offices have achieved the target energy rating of four stars. Notably, SMEC’s Canberra office maintained their above average five and a half star rating Sunshine Coast from last year, reflecting a dedicated effort to reduce GHG emissions and cost savings. Despite SMEC’s significant employee and office growth in the preceding year, SMEC’s overall energy consumption per employee per annum in Australia has reduced. SMEC’s office energy consumption during the reporting period totalled 1.1 million kWh. This equates to 941 kWh per employee, per annum; 50% less than the industry standard as reported in the Australian Gold Coast Government Annual Report 2013–2014. Figure 16: Energy Performance by Office (Top performers shown) Sydney Sydney 2017 Canberra 2016 Canberra 2017 Western 2016 Sydney Gold Coast 2017 2016 Sunshine Coast 2017 2016 Melbourne 2017 2016 Townsville 2017 2016 44 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 45 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Services SMEC invests in sustainable business practices to achieve Natural Resources and Environment SMEC’s services include: strategic planning and policy SMEC has extensive experience in the provision of environmentally development; waste to energy conversion; site rehabilitation long-term prosperity, and is committed to embedding a culture sustainable services for infrastructure projects, balancing the and remediation; geotechnical investigations; landfill monitoring; of sustainability and environmental awareness in all functional, competing demands of the community, the environment and hydrogeological and hydrological investigations; waste audits; economic viability. landfill and transfer station design; and contaminated site operational and regional areas of the business. SMEC’s services include: managing environmental resources, assessment and management. impacts, risks and liabilities; permit applications (in accordance Contamination with environmental planning frameworks); social studies and SMEC is experienced in a range of contamination projects and resettlement plans; compliance monitoring and due diligence recognises that the assessment and management of contaminated investigations; strategic planning; ecological and heritage natural resources requires a thorough understanding of land assessments; contamination and remediation studies; and surface properties, exposure scenarios, toxicology, carbon footprints, water, ground water and water quality management. biodiversity, regulatory compliance, economic costs and community Renewable Energy perceptions. SMEC works closely with clients to reduce carbon emissions and SMEC’s services include: due diligence audits; investigation and deliver efficient and cost-effective renewable energy systems for assessment of land, sediments, water, groundwater and air; a broad range of renewable technologies, including: solar photohuman health and environmental risk assessments; preparation voltaic, solar thermal and hybrid systems; wind energy; geothermal; of remediation options and designs; technology reviews and hydropower; biomass; landfill gas; and biofuel production. optimisation; remediation action plans; and preparation of SMEC’s services include: sustainable energy policy and sector environmental management plans. planning; carbon services; site evaluations and feasibility studies; Coastal Management load forecasting models; long-term generation planning using SMEC has a thorough understanding of climate change impacts, simulation and dynamic programming techniques; and stakeholder including high sea levels, frequency of cyclones and coastal communications. flooding. SMEC’s knowledge of coastal processes, and use Climate Change Adaptation of broad‑based modelling and engineering skills, is the key to SMEC has undertaken numerous sustainability and climate change designing infrastructure that can withstand and adapt to predicted adaptation projects worldwide, and has assisted both government climate changes. and industry clients with the development of frameworks, tools SMEC’s services include: marine infrastructure development; and indicators for sustainable and environmentally sensitive coastal and estuarine processes analysis; coastal zone change solutions. management; beach erosion and water quality studies; climate SMEC’s services include: climate risk, vulnerability and change analysis; design and contract documentation; community adaptation assessments; land use planning and management; consultation; and environmental planning and engineering. habitat connectivity and pest species management; wetland Land Use Management and waterway rehabilitation; coastal erosion risk assessment SMEC is committed to sustainable land management, the and management; compliance assessment; and sustainable development of engineering solutions that cause minimal damage contamination and waste management. to ecological processes, and the maintenance of biodiversity, Waste Management ecological integrity and natural capital. SMEC seeks to achieve sustainable development through waste SMEC’s services include: environmental and land capability avoidance, recovery and reuse. SMEC’s waste management assessments; environmental management of land, air and water; projects incorporate the technical, economic and risk aspects environmental impact assessments; flora and fauna surveys; of waste, and integrate the latest engineering processes and ecological assessments; water quality monitoring (ground, technologies with sustainable and cost-effective outcomes. surface and drinking water); acid sulphate soils assessment; and investigations into indigenous and non‑indigenous heritage. 46 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 47 Sustainability & Environment Our Projects Gateway Upgrade North, Australia SMEC is providing design, geotechnical and sustainability services The aim of the Gateway Upgrade North Project is to improve as part of a project Alliance. SMEC’s Sustainability team is assisting safety and efficiency on this critical transport corridor serving more the Alliance to achieve an Infrastructure Sustainability rating of than 83,000 vehicles daily. Project works comprised widening the ‘Excellent’ with a minimum score of 70, and 4 star Green Star Gateway Motorway between Nudgee and Deagon to six lanes. ratings for stations and stabling facilities. SMEC, as part of a joint venture, provide detailed design services. Erosion and Watershed Management Project, Nigeria In 2017, the project was awarded an Excellent Infrastructure Erosion is a recurring issue in Nigeria, with rapidly expanding valleys Sustainability rating by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of have resulted in extensive damage to infrastructure including roads, Australia; the first major road project in Queensland to achieve this ports, reservoirs, houses and structures. rating. Key sustainability achievements on the project include: The Government of Nigeria is implementing the Nigeria Erosion and • consideration of indirect climate risks over the 100-year Watershed Management Project to address the severity of erosion design life through futureproofing measures to address water and reduce its impact on the Nigerian landscape. restrictions, loss of power, increased intensity of storm events and bushfire smoke, and changes to ecological communities SMEC is providing consultancy services for the design and • stringent erosion and sedimentation controls during supervision of 19 erosion control intervention sites in Anambra construction and integration of constructed wetlands and water State, one the most densely populated and heavily affected land quality improvement measures into the final road design degradation areas. • replacement of 646 High-intensity Discharge (HID) street lights Waste-to-Energy, Philippines with Light-Emitting Diode (LED) technology resulting in reduced Waste in the Manila Bay region has dramatically worsened in recent operational energy consumption by up to 70% years. The objective of this project is to provide a basis for the • detailed modelling and monitoring leading to a substantial establishment, development, promotion and implementation of reduction in operational road noise, vibration and improved waste-to-energy technologies for the Manila Bay Region. local air quality through pavement design. SMEC is conducting a feasibility study to determine the most Logan Enhancement Project, Australia appropriate and cost-effective waste-to-energy technologies for The Logan Enhancement Project includes upgrading parts of the 178 local government units in the region. The study will be used to Logan Motorway and the Gateway Extension Motorway to deliver a produce a comprehensive waste analysis and serve as a test case safer and more efficient network by relieving local traffic congestion, to achieve an improved waste management system through reuse, reducing travel times and enhancing connectivity with other major recycling, composting and other resource recovery activities. road networks. As part of the Design Joint Venture, SMEC was responsible for the Climate Resilience, Tonga detailed design of the project. SMEC's scop of work included the The Climate Resilience Sector Project aims to mainstream climate delivery of various environmental design elements including three resilience into government planning and focuses on the most dedicated fauna underpasses and associated fauna furniture, a vulnerable sectors and communities in Tonga. This project will help fauna overpass, five fauna rope bridges, two glider pole crossings, to improve resilience in economic, social, and natural eco-systems fauna exclusion fencing, fauna escape poles, fauna refuge poles, to climate change and disaster risk in the island nation. fauna warning signage, two waterway realignments and eight fish SMEC is providing design, project management and procurement passage culverts. support and construction supervision services to the Ministry of Meteorology, Energy Information, Disaster Management, Ballarat Line Upgrade, Australia Environment, Climate Change and Communication and the Climate The Ballarat Line Upgrade will deliver more trains and provide Change division. extra services during peak times, helping to improve reliability for Melbourne’s outer western suburbs. Upgrade works include sections of duplicated track, passing loops along the rail corridor, new stabling facilities and several station upgrades. 48 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 49 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. GRI Page GRI Page Description Comments Description Comments Indicator Number Indicator Number 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4-5 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 14 Strategy 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 4-8, 14 1.2/G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4-7, 22 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 4-8, 14 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 14-16 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited highest governing body. 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, tender 12 4.5 Compensation and performance. 14-17 Governance, Commitments and Engagements and contract management, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 14-17 training and project management. 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 14-17 Organisational Profile 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 14 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 17, 20 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Level 10, 71 Queens Road, 4.9 Processes for management of company performance. 14-16 Melbourne, VIC 3004, Australia. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 14-16 2.5/G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 40+ 12-13 highest governing body. 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 14-15 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4-5, 14 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. Urban development, Infrastructure, 12-13 4.12/G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and 18-21 Management Advisory. social charters. 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 12, 22-23 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 21 2.9/G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership 14 4.14/G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 18-19 during the reporting period. organisation. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 20 4.15/G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 10-11, 18 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 January 2017 31 December 2017. 2 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 10-11, 18 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2017. 2 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 10-11, 18 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 G4-38 Composition of the highest governing body. 4-8, 14 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 G4-39 Explain whether the Chair of the highest governing 4-8, 14 body is also an executive officer. Report Parameters 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10-11 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10-11 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governing body. 14 G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 12-13, 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 10-11 26-35 Additional General Disclosures 3.8/G4-17 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. 10-11 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by bargaining Nil. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2, 10-11 agreements. 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 12 3.11/G4-23 Significant changes in scope and boundary during the Nil. G4-18 Explain the process for defining report content and 10-11 reporting period. Aspect Boundaries. 3.12/G4-32 Table identifying location of Standard Disclosures. GRI Index. 50-53 G4-19 List all Material Aspects identified for defining report 10-11 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. content. G4-20 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 10-11 within the organisation. G4-21 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 10-11 outside the organisation. 50 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 51 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page GRI Page Description Comments Description Comments Indicator Number Indicator Number G4-56 Values, principles, standards and behaviour. 16-17, 20 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Society G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. Ethics G4-57 Internal mechanisms for advice on unlawful behaviour. 16-17 G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility Internal mechanisms for reporting concerns on G4-58 16-17 unlawful behaviour. G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 22-23 G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 22-23 G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 36-41 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 42-49 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 42-49 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 42-49 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 42-49 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 42-49 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 42-49 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 42-49 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 42-49 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 42-49 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. G4-LA1 New hires and turnover by age, gender and region. 26-31 Labour Practices and Decent G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 28-31 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental 26-31 leave, by gender. G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 34-35 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 30-32 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 32 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 24-32 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 27 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 36 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. 52 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 53 Appendix A Appendix A (continued) Associated Entities Country of Country of Name of entity Name of entity Incorporation Incorporation PT SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC International (Africa) Ltd Mauritius SMEC Energy SDN Berhad Malaysia SMEC Servicios De Ingenieria De Mexico Mexico SMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia SMEC Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar Controlled Entities VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia Country of Name of entity SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Incorporation SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia South Asia Middle East Management Company LLC Oman SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Oil and Gas (Private) Limited Pakistan SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia Engineering General Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Foundation Ltd Australia SMEC Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan Brisbane City Enterprises Pty Ltd Australia SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia GMC Global Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa PDR Engineers Pty Ltd Australia SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa ACE Consultants Limited Bangladesh Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh SMEC International (Africa) (Pty) Ltd 9 South Africa Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda Robow Investments No. 52 (Pty) Ltd South Africa VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka SMEC Canada SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania Global Maintenance Consulting Chile Limitada Chile SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda Frontier Energy Ltd Dubai Global Maintenance Consulting – America, Inc. United States of America Frontier Hydro Ltd Dubai SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong Formerly known as Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc Leadrail Infra Solutions Private Ltd India SMEC India (Pvt) Ltd India SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan SMEC Kenya Limited Kenya SMEC Macau Engineering Consulting Limited Macau SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius 54 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 55 Appendix B Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, Insignificant Minor Moderate but reversible Catastrophic 5 Almost Certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above Average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very Rare 1 2 3 4 5 Rating Treatment 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8–12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15–16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20–25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. 56 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 SMEC Sustainability Report 2017 57 local people global experience www.smec.com
