Sustainability Report 2017-18 Contents About IndianOil 02 Chairman’s Message 05 Stakeholder Engagement 25 Corporate Governance 35 Sustainability in IndianOil 59 Economic Performance 77 Environmental Performance 85 Employees 101 Social Performance 113 Health and Safety 123 Product Responsibility 135 UNGC Principles Linkage 148 GRI Linkages 150 01 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages About IndianOil IndinaOil is the largest commercial enterprise of India market share. During 2017-18, IndianOil sold 88.76 Staying true to the vision of the founding fathers of the nation, and the top ranked Indian company in Fortune ‘Global million tonnes of products (including petroleum products, of providing accessible and affordable energy for the masses, 500’ list. The corporation is ranked 137th in the Fortune gas, petrochemicals, explosives and exports). As on 31st ‘Global 500’ listings for 2018. IndianOil, with its 33,157 March 2018, IndianOil has over 47,800 customer touch IndianOil has channelised all its energies towards strong team is taking the lead to meet India’s energy points, through which we reach out to all sections of nation-building by serving people. demands efficiently and effectively, since last five society. With 80.7 Million Metric Tonnes Per Annum decades, and an enterprise that fulfils India’s energy (MMTPA) refining capacity, IndianOil and its group demand for inclusive development. companies own 33% of national refining capacity and operate 11 of India’s 23 refineries. During the year, IndianOil's business interests extend across the entire IndianOil refineries have registered a record crude hydrocarbon value chain – from exploration & production, refining, pipeline transportation to marketing of petroleum throughput of 69 MMT. IndianOil is a new undertaking. It is also a symbol of new and and petrochemical products besides foraying into With a pipeline network of 13,391 km, IndianOil owns resurgent India. There is an almost unlimited field for the alternate energy. IndianOil is headquartered in New Delhi 71% downstream sector pipelines capacity. The pipelines expansion of oil industry in India and it will need vigour and and works relentlessly with its subsidiaries. IndianOil is have registered a highest ever throughput of 85.68 MMT pursuing diverse business interests with its 15 joint during the year 2017-18. IndianOil is engaged in imagination to tackle the problems of fast growth in a highly ventures with reputed business partners from India and exploration activities in 9 domestic blocks and 10 specialised sector. fulfilling global aspirations through its subsidiaries in Sri overseas blocks, with participating interest ranging from -Lal Bahadur Shastri, former Prime Minister of India, Lanka, Mauritius, the UAE, Sweden, the USA, Singapore 3% to 100%. IndianOil is the second largest polymer in his message for IndianOil News Anniversary Issue, and the Netherlands. The corporation has also opened player in the country. 1965 when IndianOil was just six years young. new overseas offices in Yangon, Myanmar and Dhaka, IndianOil's sprawling R&D Centre at Faridabad is one of Bangladesh towards expanding marketing of finished Asia's finest and plays a key role in supporting it's petroleum products, Petrochemicals, Lubricants etc. in business interests by developing economical and the neighbouring countries as well as development of environment friendly products/ technology solutions. As infrastructure. on 31st March 2018, IndianOil holds 611 active patents. With its ubiquitous presence across diverse Under IndianOil’s start-up programme, 11 projects were topographies – deserts, mountains, plains, islandsselected in 2017-18 for funding and incubation. IndianOil is committed to serve the nation and IndianOil is Having forayed into alternate energy business, IndianOil partake in holistic growth for all strata. th IndianOil owns 202 MW of renewable energy capacity as on 31st ranked 137 IndianOil witnessed an exceptional performance during March 2018. As a responsible corporate citizen, IndianOil share was included in among the world’s largest 2017-18 with the highest turnover of L5,06,428 Crore, undertakes a number of social welfare and community the prestigious Nifty50 record net profit of L21,346 Crore and became the most development programmes throughout the country. corporates (and first among Indian enterprises) in the stock index of the profitable PSU for the second year in a row. The year, IndianOil spent L331.05 Crore on CSR initiatives. 2017-18 has been a landmark year for IndianOil as it prestigious Fortune National Stock Exchange IndianOil lead the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri st started dispensing BS VI complaint fuels in Delhi region Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) by releasing 1.67 Crore new LPG from 31 March 2017. meeting the government deadline. ‘Global 500’ listing connections since the launch of the programme in May 2016. for the year 2018. As a leader in the Oil & Gas business in India, IndianOil accounts for nearly half of India’s petroleum products 02 03 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages About the Report Chairman's Message IndianOil is publishing its annual Sustainability Report of-the-art Paradip Refinery achieved 100% capacity Dear Stakeholders, since 2005-06. The Sustainability Report for 2017-18 is utilization in May 2017 and the same has been including its 13th edition covering the reporting period from 1st April in the current reporting period. Accordingly there has Warm greetings on behalf of IndianOil. st 2017 to 31 March 2018. The previous Sustainability been an increase in the absolute parameters in the environmental performance. The report does not include As IndianOil comes out with the Annual Sustainability Report for Report, for the year 2016-17, was published and released on 27th October 2017. The report has been prepared in the operation of our overseas businesses joint ventures the year 2017-18, focussing on Enduring Trust. Enabling accordance with the “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and subsidiaries. Operations at five of the corporation’s Growth. I take this opportunity to share with you our journey on Standards: Comprehensive Option” and conforms to the pipelines locations were closed during the year 2017-18. the path of sustainable value creation. Oil and Gas Sector Supplement. The Sustainability Report 2017-18 is not assured by third party. However, IndianOil management provides Sustainability Report 2017-18 delineates the Company’s Reference has also been made to align the disclosures performance on the triple bottomline indices of People-Planetassurance for the data published in this report. with the nine principles of United Nations Global Compact Profit during the year, focussing on material issues and (UNGC) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It shall be noted that, IndianOil has not been publishing a stakeholder concerns, while at the same time presenting our printed version of Sustainability Report since 2012-13 The report details sustainability initiatives and the strategy and goals for the future. and only a 20-page summarized version of the report sustainability performance of the company with respect to titled “Sustainability Highlights” is being printed for 3P People, Planet & Profit principles. This includes IndianOil’s business strategy supports India’s commitment circulation to internal and external stakeholders. outlining the challenges and opportunities company faces towards Paris Agreement with in the United Nations Framework in meeting the expectations of its stakeholders with This full report is available online on our corporate Convention on Climate Change, or UNFCCC. For this, we are respect to business, social, economic, environmental and website and can be viewed/downloaded from the link: focussing on climate-friendly green fuels, renewable energy climate needs. https://www.iocl.com/AboutUs/ sustainability.aspx. options, operational excellence, energy efficiency & The report covers the operations of nationwide locations There are no restatements from the previous year’s conservation measures, mitigation of green house gas across the divisions viz., Refineries, Marketing, Pipelines, report. emissions, waste disposal, etc. We are inspired and guided in Planning & Business Development and R&D. Our stateour business by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, and our commitment to long-term sustainable value Boundary creation is in line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. IndianOil has been fuelling the growth of the nation and its people for nearly six decades with quality fuels in a safe, Refineries Marketing Pipelines affordable, reliable and sustainable manner. We have surpassed our operational performance year after year through sustained efforts, while at the same time consolidating core Planning activities and capitalising on new and emerging opportunities. & Business R&D Today, we have created substantial value by offering reliable Development and sustainable energy solutions to over a billion people. 2017-18 was yet another successful year for IndianOil in implementing action plans for sustainable opertions through Limitations longterm strategies and viable low-carbon solutions. IndianOil’s portfolio of businesses continued to grow during the year, with a record sales turnover of L5,06,428 crore and net Joint International Ventures & profit of L21,346 crore. We registered the highest ever Operations Subsidiaries petroleum product sales of 77.13 million metric tonnes (MMT) through over 47,800 customer touch-points. About 1.3 crore new 04 05 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages LPG connections were released during the year; with this, As part of this, we have undertaken annual carbon and We have plans to operate all our 27,000-plus fuel stations We are also undertaking waste-to-fuel projects under the the clean and convenient Indane LPG cooking gas now water footprinting of our operations. Various sustainability by installing Solar PV systems within the next three years. aegis of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan of the Government of reaches the doorsteps of over 12 crore households. measures, i.e., renewable energy generation, energy By the end of 2017-18, the cumulative number of fuel India. Three such plants, each of 5 tonnes per day conversation projects, green buildings, conversion of fuel stations using solar energy for daily operations has gone capacity, have been set up in Varanasi. The electricity IndianOil refineries not only registered the highest ever stations and office buildings to run on solar energy, up to 9,140, with a combined installed capacity of about produced from biogas generated by these plants is being combined throughput of 69 MMT per annum (MMTPA) in energy audits and rainwater harvesting systems are 38 MW. used to power street lights in the vicinity. 2017-18, with a capacity utilisation of 99.7%,but together lending a strong impetus in reducing our carbon and achieved the lowest ever Fuel & Loss and Specific Energy IndianOil’s R&D Centre is involved in advanced research Further, IndianOil has also created a Start-up Fund to water footprints. Consumption (MBN) at 8.75% and 72.61 respectively. & development efforts in automotive/industrial fuels, support innovations in fuel efficiency, renewables, wasteEnergy conservation, led by innovative and progressive synthetic fuels, refinery process technologies & catalysts, to energy, water efficiency, business process reThe Corporation’s extensive pipelines network continued technology solutions, is one of our key sustainable safe disposal of oil, hydrogen fuel cells & H-CNG blends, engineering, etc. its exemplary contribution in ensuring uninterrupted development goals. Various energy conservation shale oil, nano-technology, petrochemicals & polymers, supply of crude oil to refineries and finished products from IndianOil has over 33,000 employees on its rolls, whose measures implemented across our refineries during the multi-feed (coal, petcoke & biomass, etc.) gasification/ refineries to bulk storage terminals in the most health and safety is an absolute priority for the Company. year have resulted in savings of 63,093 MT of Standard liquefaction and gas-to-liquid technologies. sustainable manner, leading to substantial savings in Over the past decade, we have steadily improved our Refinery Fuel Tonne (SRFT). IndianOil’s sustained greenhouse gas emissions as compared to alternative We have an ambitious plan of setting up an IndianOil safety performance with high standards in operations. investments in advanced technologies to improve the transportation options. The network expanded to 13,400 Centre for Alternative and Renewable Energy ‘i-CARE’ to energy efficiency of its refineries has helped to achieve IndianOil spearheads many community welfare km, with commissioning of 543 km of new pipeline carry out advanced research in bio-energy, solar, thermal, the lowest ever Energy Intensity Index (EII) of 98.5 during programmes across the country and has spent L331 systems in 2017-18, and registered the highest ever hydrogen and gasification technology. Work towards this the year. Use of technology has also helped to reduce crore during the year 2017-18 on Corporate Social throughput of 85.68 MMTPA. is already in progress. emissions significantly. Responsibility initiatives. As part of its commitment to usher in cleaner and greener IndianOil is setting up second generation (2G) bioFor IndianOil, managing water and waste across its Besides health & sanitation and other welfare initiatives, fuels, IndianOil started supplying Bharat Stage-IV (BS-IV) ethanol plants of 100 kilolitres per day capacity from operations is also of high priority. IndianOil reprocesses as part of the Government’s Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala compliant transportation fuels throughout the country lignocellulosic biomass like paddy straw, wheat straw, the maximum quantity of oil waste generated at its sites, Yojana (PMUY), we have released 1.67 crore LPG from 1st April, 2017. We are undertaking wide-scale bagasse etc. Ethanol produced thus will be blended with and the remaining waste is disposed off using ecoconnections to women from below poverty line (BPL) upgradation of refinery technologies and processes to petrol as a green and renewable alternative fuel. friendly methods During 2017-18, its refineries reused house holds who used to meet their cooking fuel deliver the much superior BS-VI emission standard fuels 89% of waste-water generated within their premises. With the evolving nature of road transport from requirements through firewood, cowdung cakes, etc. across the country by April 2020. In fact, we have already Conservation measures helped reduce specific water hydrocarbon-based fuels to hybrids and electricitymade available BS-VI compliant petrol and diesel at all Trust is pivotal to our business because it is the basis of consumption by 8.61 % in 2017-18 from 2012-13 level. In based, work is underway to create a market for bio-CNG our filling stations in Delhi, meeting the advanced timeline every human relationship, every transaction and every addition, over 560 rainwater harvesting systems set up produced from methanol/bio-gas and also for exploring of the Government. For upgradation of our refineries, market. As IndianOil celebrates 2018 as the ‘Year of across various units have a combined harvesting opportunities for fast-charging stations and battery technologies developed in-house are being used in a big Trust’, we are confident of enhancing our triple bottomline potential of 3 billion litres per annum. Further, 25 organic replacement facilities within our fuel station network. way. performance in the coming years with the support and waste processing units are operating at various units. IndianOil is working on a new model to produce Bio-CNG trust of our stakeholders. Hence, I earnestly look forward To propel the country’s shift to cleaner fuels, IndainOil is The Corporation’s Mathura and Gujarat refineries have from Methane and its application as a transportation fuel. to taking this dialogue forward through your views and importing natural gas and setting up countrywide begun preparations for using treated sewage water from For this, bio-gas produced from waste/bio-mass sources suggestions. infrastructure by way of LNG import terminals, pipelines Mathura and Vadodara cities for plant operations in place like farm residue, cattle dung, sugarcane press mud, and city gas distribution networks, on its own and through I request you to send your feedback to sustainability of fresh water. municipal solid waste and sewage treatment plant waste joint ventures. @indianoil.in would be utilised. This would also help utilise waste IndianOil is also making steady progress in renewable IndianOil firmly believes that long-term business growth is productively, minimise emissions and reduce pollution. energy. During 2017-18, we increased our installed inseparably linked to responsible use of natural resources MoUs have been signed with nine parties to retail Biocapacity of renewable energy to 202 MW (7.5% growth and mitigation of environmental footprints. Accordingly, CNG through the Corporation’s marketing network. over 2016-17). We are currently implementing many ( a n j Siv S i n gh ) we have voluntarily committed to reduce our specific small and large-scale renewable energy projects to carbon footprint by 18 per cent and specific water footprint reduce our environmental footprint. by 20 per cent by the year 2020. 06 07 Supply Chain IndianOil is an integrated energy major and India's largest commercial enterprise. With a sales turnover of L5,06,428 crore and net profit of L21,346 crore, IndianOil has become India's most profitable PSU for second year in a row. The Corporation is the top ranked Indian company in Fortune 'Global 500' list. Being an energy behemoth, IndianOil has presence across the hydrocarbon value chain and alternate energy sources. As a leader in the Oil & Gas business in India, it accounts for nearly half of India's petroleum products market share, 33% national refining capacity and 71% downstream sector pipelines throughput capacity. Exploration & Production To meet the growing energy demand in long term, we discover and develop oil & gas fields in India and overseas through joint ventures. Refining We refine and process crude oil to produce petroleum products such as petrol, diesel, LPG, lubricants and petrochemicals, etc. Global Presence 1 7 Mauritius Singapore 2 8 Canada Transportation Sri Lanka 3 9 We transport crude and finished oil & gas UAE Russia products through various modes such as ship, 4 10 14 Sweden Libya Bangladesh road, rail and pipelines. 5 11 15 USA Nigeria Myanmar 6 12 13 16 Netherlands Gabon Venezuela Venezuela Marketing 9 8 4 We deliver finished products to our customers 6 through our 47,800+ touch points. 5 14 10 3 15 16 13 11 2 7 12 1 08 09 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Energy of India Operating Aviation Refineries Fuelling Stations Pipelines Lube Terminals Blending 9 Plants 107 Depots & Petrochemical Terminals Producing 87 Plants 10 LPG Bottling Explosives SKO/LDO Plants 125 Plants 3 Dealers LPG Distributors (Including Cryogenics Distributorships Under Rajiv Gandhi 91 Plant 12 Gramin LPG 3,897 Vitarak Yojana) R&D Consumer Centre 1 Pumps 10,213 Retail Outlets (Including Wind Kisan Power Seva Kendra) 1 Projects 6,650 Kisan Seva Kendra Solar Power (Rural Petrol/ Diesel Stations) 27,089 Plants 6 7,529 3 10 11 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Shareholding Pattern Shaping the Future Enhancing Our Reputation & Brand Value Operational Excellence l Build brand value through actions l Let our actions imbibe and reflect the l Make safety an attitude core values of Care, Innovation, l Improve operational Efficiency, Safety Passion and Trust and Reliability l Focus on Safety and Reliability of infrastructure. 56.98 l Keep the workforce motivated. Central Govt / State Govt 26.43 Corporate Bodies Financial Prudence 6.16 l Minimise costs and maximise speed Foreign Investors Portfolio l Optimise crude and product 6.11 Sustaining Leadership throughput l Simplify our processes and procedures Insurance Companies in Core Business l Seek out technology that enhances 3.00 l Excel in customer service delivery Simplicity & Sustainability l Be ahead of the competition Financial Institutions / Banks l Aim to be the 'Company of Choice' 1.23 Design processes for the sole benefit l of customers Mutual Funds Others 0.09 Investing In Our People l Shape aspirations for common goals SHAREHOLDING l Invest in building Competencies and Capabilities % Develop the next generation of l Leveraging our Assets Leaders lFind better ways of execution that l Encourage people to take definitive, ensures quality, time and cost effective bolder decisions implementation lKeep reviewing strategies periodically lStay relevant for the future lBe open to opportunities 12 13 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Subsidiaries Group Companies and Foreign Subsidiaries National Expanding Horizons IndianOil is currently metamorphosing from a pure ventures for oil and gas in India and abroad. downstream oil & gas major in India to a vertically IndianOil is strengthening its existing overseas marketing integrated, transnational energy company. IndianOil has ventures and simultaneously scouting new opportunities Chennai become a major player in petrochemicals by integrating Petroleum Refining of for marketing and export of petroleum products to new Corporation petroleum its existing refining business with petrochemical facilities energy markets in Asia and Africa. Limited products besides making large investments in E&P and marketing Russia Gabon Libya Venezuela Overseas Nigeria Oman Canada UAE IOCL Investment Singapore Company for USA Pte. Ltd. E&P assets in Russia IndianOil Terminalling, Lanka IOC Retailing, retailing & (Mauritius) Ltd., Mauritius aviation PLC, Sri Lanka Teminalling & E&P Sites Bunkering refuelling IOC Middle Lube blending Investment & marketing of IOC Sweden company for E&P East FZE, Lubricants & AB, Sweden project in UAE Base Oil venezuela Investment Participation in IndOil Global company for IOCL (USA) shale gas asset B.V., The integrated LNG Inc., USA project Netherlands project in Canada The Vankor asset of Rosneft in Russia IndianOil has committed major investments Subsidiaries Work Area in the E and P assets of the Russian national oil company 14 15 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Joint Ventures NPCIL Ratnagiri Refinary And For setting up LNG Indian Oil Petronet Refinery & Petrochemical Nuclear Imports/ Project In Avi-oil India Nuclear Energy LNG Ltd. Petro chemicals India Oil LNG Pvt. Ltd. Powerplant Distribution Maharashtra Corp. Ltd. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Bharat Petroleum Bharat Neden BV , Nuclear Power Corporation Ltd. Petroleum Corp. Setting up of IDFC Speciality Netherlands Corp. of India Oil & Natural Gas Ltd. Hindustan 5 MMTPA Alternatives Ltd Lubricants Balmer Lawrie Ltd. Corporation Ltd. Petroleum GAIL (India) LNG Terminal ICICI BANK Ltd. & Co. Ltd. Ltd. Corp. Ltd. at Ennore Terminalling Delhi Indian Oil City Gas Indian Oil Services and Indian Aviation Adani Gas Distribution Petronas parallel Indian Oil Synthetic Green Gas Fuel Facility Pvt. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. marketing Skytanking Rubber Pvt. Ltd. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. of LPG Pvt. Ltd. Setting up Delhi Manufacturing Trimurti and operation International Adani Gas Petronas, Aviation Fuel Skytanking City Gas GAIL (India) Facility Projects of Styrene Holding of Aviation Airport Ltd. Distribution Ltd. Ltd. Malaysia GmbH, Butadiene Fuel Facility at Bharat Petroleum and into plane Corporation, Germany Rubber at Taiwan Delhi Airport Corp. Ltd. services Panipat Oiltanking Terminalling Mumbai GSPL India Hindustan India GmBH, Services Kochi Salem Aviation GSPL India Uruvarak and Lubrizol India Gasnet Ltd. Germany Pipelines Fuel Farm Transco Ltd. Rasayan Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Facility Pvt. Ltd. Gujarat Setting up Coal India IOT Laying Bharat State Petronet Gujarat State Ltd. NTPC Setting up Petroleum Corp. Petronet Ltd. and operating Infrastructure pipelines Bharat Setting up of Ltd. Hindustan Setting up of Ltd. Fertilizer Lubrizol Corp., common user Ltd. Hindustan Petroleum Hindustan Petroleum fettilizer Plants Corporation of & Energy for transport of Petroleum Lube Petroleum Corp. Ltd. Natural Gas Natural Gas in Sindri, U.S.A integrated Corporation Ltd. Corporation Ltd. India Ltd. Hindustan Services LPG from Kochi Corporation Ltd. Additives Mumbai pipelines pipelines Bharat Petroleum Gorakhpur and Fertilizer aviation fuel Bharat Petroleum Ltd. to Salem International Corporation Ltd. Corporation Ltd. Barauni Corporation Ltd. Infrastructure Airport Ltd. Suntera BPCL Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. | HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. | Nigeria 205 Gujarat Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. | CB Canara Bank. DIAL Delhi International Limited ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. | GAIL GAIL (India) Ltd. | RIL Reliance Industries Airport Pvt. Ltd. | TSRC TSRC Corporation, Taiwan | ADB Asian Development Bank | GSPL Ltd. | IL&FS Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd. | ICICI ICICI Bank | SBI State Gujarat State Petronet Ltd. | GDFI Gaz de France | MIAL Mumbai International Airport Oil India Bank of India | EOL Essar Oil Ltd. | PIL Petronet India Ltd. | KPT Kandla Port Trust | GIIC Oil Exploraton Ltd. Suntera Limited | FCI Fertilizer Corporation of India | HFCL Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Limited Activities Resources Ltd., Cyprus Company Name Work Area Partner 16 17 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Our Associations, Charters & Membership International International Transparency Federation of World LP Gas Standing Conference International Air Transport International Indian Chambers Association Paris of Public Enterprises Advertising Association (IATA) India (TII) of Commerce and (SCOPE) Association (IAA) Industry (FICCI) India International United Nations Collaborations Association of Global Compact (U21 Global Business Indian Society (UNGC) Universities, Singapore, Communicators of Advertisers (ISA) IFP France, etc.) of India All India Industrial Gas Indian LP Gas Advertising Manufacturers Industry Association Standards Council National Association (ILPGIA) of India (ASCI) (AGMA) Council of Indian All India TERI-Business Indian Institution Confederation Employers (CIE) Management Council for of Industrial of Indian Association Sustainable Engineering Industry (CII) (AIMA) Development Associated Petroleum Chambers of Indian Auto Indian Dairy National HRD Federation of Commerce and LPG Coalition Association Network (NHRD) India (PetroFed) Industry of India (IAC) (IDA) (ASSOCHAM) 18 19 Brands 20 21 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Awards & Accolades IndianOil bagged two prizes at the 11th IndianOil bagged the Jawaharlal Nehru IndianOil retained its position as the topExpress Logistics & Supply Chain Centenary Award at the 21st Refinery ranked Indian company among the world’s Leadership Awards in the categories of Technology Meet held by the Centre for High largest corporates in the prestigious Fortune Industry Excellence in Supply Chain-Oil & Technology in the category Best innovation ‘Global 500’ listing for 2018. The Company Gas (for the 10th time in a row) and Best-Inin Refining Team for performance has also retained its top position in the Class Supply Chain Innovation. The second improvement of the FCC Unit of Gujarat annual rankings of Business Today (BTaward was for innovative practices adopted Refinery through innovative hardware 500), Businessworld (The BW Real 500), in logistics of POL products, especially in the design. IndianOil refineries in Panipat, Business Standard (BS-1000), The Northeast where products were moved Guwahati, Bongaigaon and Haldia too Economic Times (ET-500) and Financial through tank-trucks loaded on open railbagged awards under various categories at Express (FE-1000) by net revenue. wagons, airlifted as well as by road through the Refinery Technology Meet: Bangladesh to Tripura. IndianOil’s ‘Smokeless Village’ Initiative and Marketing QC Labs, including four Regional IndianOil retained its position among the top Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana Labs at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and 10 Indian brands in a study of the world's top Implementation bagged the first position Chennai, participated in international 500 brands published by Brand Finance, UK. under the Social Responsibility category for correlation programmes organised by Commanding a brand value of US$ 4.2 Large Companies/NOC at the 22nd World ASTM-USA. Among IndianOil labs, Northern billion, the IndianOil corporate brand is listed Petroleum Council Excellence Awards event Region QC Lab achieved top performance, at the 427th position in the overall list in Istanbul, Turkey. IndianOil also bagged with Ambala and Lucknow labs jointly compiled by Brand Finance. the WPC Excellence Award for its innovative bagging ‘Best-Performing Laboratory’ and ground-breaking INDMAX technology. trophy. For the third consecutive year, IndianOil’s IndianOil topped the Fortune India rankings Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry Refineries Division bagged the prestigious of the country's top 500 corporations for the (FIPI) awards bestowed on IndianOil: Dun & Bradstreet Infra Award for Excellence eighth consecutive year. Fortune India 2018 Innovator of the Year Award for INDMAX in Project Implementation. This year, the list of India’s Most Profitable PSUs – a listing Technology. Most Improved Refinery of the award was bagged for the Coker-A project at of the 50 top Government-owned entities – Year-2016 on Bongaigaon Refinery Barauni Refinery based on indigenous ranked IndianOil at the second position. technology developed by IndianOil R&D and EIL. IndianOil’s PROPEL brand of petrochemicals National Safety Awards (2015) were bagged IndianOil is among the top 10 companies in was recognised as a “Symbol of Excellence by Panipat Marketing Complex, Bongaigaon The Great Place to Work Institute’s in the Plastics & Polymers Industry ” by The Refinery, Indane bottling plants at Bokaro prestigious listing of India's Best Economic Times – Best Plastics & Polymers and Jalandhar and Banthara Depot, Workplaces in Manufacturing-2018. Brands 2018. Shahjahanpur. IndianOil bagged the National Talent IndianOil bagged the 5th Global Training and IndianOil bagged the Dun & Bradstreet Management Leadership Award-2017 in the Development Leadership award in the Award in the category of Refining and category of Best Organisation in Talent category of “Most Innovative Use of Training Marketing of Oil at the fourth edition of D&B Engineering at a special event hosted by and Development as an HR Initiative for OD.” PSU Awards-2017. Times Ascent and World HRD Congress. In the WPP BrandZ rankings for 2017, IndianOil’s Foreshore Terminal at Kandla IndianOil bagged Asia’s Best Employer IndianOil retained its position as the top bagged the ‘Golden Peacock Occupational Brand Award-2017 in the category petroleum brand in the listing, and improved Health & Safety Award’ for the year 2017. Excellence in Training. its ranking from 16 to 13. Enabling Growth with State of the Art Technology 22 23 Stakeholder Engagement 25 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Stakeholder Dialogue Our Stakeholders IndianOil collaborates with its stakeholders in daily business. By listening to them we can better understand The key stakeholders are identified and are engaged regularly in order to maintain a symbiotic relationship. We remain transactions and is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the emerging trends, important issues and ways to engaged with a wide array of stakeholders on a daily basis through our pan-India presence and business activities. them to build trust and long term relationships. The prioritise and integrate them into our business strategy. engagement ensures that the stakeholder’s expectations IndianOil profoundly value its stakeholders and are taken into account in the company’s strategy and continuously engaged with them through various plans. We understand our business involves diverse interventions throughout the year. Various ways of stakeholder group owing to our business units, supply engagement are used with our stakeholders to monitor Nourish and Frequently chain and product mix catering to the needs of the nurture monitor the feedback across our business channels including customers spread over the entire length and breadth of transparency issues raised by customer surveys and meetings through structured and demonstrate stakeholders the country. Considering the vast expanse of the collaborations and communications across earmarked accountability organization, and a wide array of stakeholders, we at all levels channels. Our approach includes ongoing and specific resolve issues through a structured approach, while surveys, complemented by deeper engagement creating enduring value for all our stakeholders. dialogues. In addition, we participate in various industry We engage with stakeholders and peruse their feedback fora as well as international and national sustainability so as to ensure that we prioritise the most important forums to discuss emerging challenges and trends. issues and secure a responsible and sustainable Focus Evaluate Areas Review the their concerns actions taken and take to reinforce appropriate the trust of our Our Stakeholders measures for stakeholders timely redressal Financial Institution Financial Institutions Business Partner/Contractors Ensure Community stakeholders are Media an integral part of our triple bottom line growth NGO NGOs Employees SUPPORT Customer Shareholders We are present in every corner of the country to serve the redresses grievances of the shareholders and the Government/Regulatory nation. Nature of our business has enabled us to engage investors. The Company has also constituted a Corporate Bodies with diverse spectrum of stakeholders. The aim of the Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Academic & Scientific engagement with the stakeholders is to understand their Committee of the Board, which guides and monitors Industry/ Trade Community Association opinion and to build trust and develop long term initiatives as per Sustainability and CSR Policy. relationships through appropriate interventions and For engagement of the disadvantaged, vulnerable and communications across formal/ informal channels. marginalized external stakeholders, various initiatives At the apex level, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee viz. allotment of dealership/ distributorship, petty of the Board has been constituted which examines and contracts, CSR initiatives, etc. are regularly undertaken. 26 27 Engagement with the Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Issues Frequency Group Channel Policy implementation review, Apprising the Government Annually, Quarterly, Monthly, Government / Regulatory Bodies Meetings, Industry Forum, Regular Updates on organization plans and progress, Communicating industry’s challenges and issues, etc. weekly Website, Events, Press Meet, Investor Meet, Media Sharing Information to Stakeholders Need assesment basis Social Media Platform Policy advocacy, Interfacing for formulating Industry/ Trade Associations Meetings, Seminars, Workshops Need assesment basis and implementing Policies, etc. Annual General Meeting, Investors Meet, Website, Financial Performance, Future Strategies, Shareholders Social Media Platforms, Grievance Redressal Annually, Quarterly, Need based Shareholders Concerns, etc. Mechanism, Annual Reports, Sustainability Report Dealer/ Distributor/ KSK Conventions, Supply & Distribution, Quality and Quantity, Business Partners / Contractors Transporters Meet, Meeting With Annually, Quarterly, Need based Customer Satisfaction, etc. Contractors/ Vendors, Seminar/ Workshops. Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives, Community Awareness Programmes, Meetings, Public Hearing Need assesment basis Societal Priorities, etc. Annual General Meeting, Investors Meet, Financial Performance, Future Strategies, Financial Institutions Annually, quarterly, as required Road-shows, Website Shareholders’ Concern, etc. Surveys, Events, Employee-Centric Applications, Communicating Policies & Performance, Employees Seminars, Periodicals, Workshops/Trainings, Quarterly, Monthly, weekly Resolving issues / Concerns, etc. Website, Social Media Platforms Grievance Redressal Forums, Feedback on product and services, Customers Public Hearing, Customer Care Programmes, Need assesment basis Suggestions and Complaints Redressal, etc. Helpline Numbers, Website NGO's Regular meetings, Project collaborations CSR initiatives review/ Implementation Need assesment basis Student Relations Programmes, Skill enhancement of employees, Academic & Scientific Community Sponsorship Initiatives, Need assesment basis faculty and other stakeholders Academic Institutions, Guest Lectures Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Our Material Issues IndianOil identifies its material issues based on Approach to Materiality continuous engagement with its various internal and external stakeholders throughout the year. The material issues of the industry peers are also referred to while identifying the issues. The identified issues are Identification Consultation complemented by the Company’s risk management of key with key stakeholders stakeholders team’s research on emerging societal, economic, environmental and business scenarios. Accordingly, IndianOil identified climate change, carbon-water-waste management, energy conservation, product & operational efficiency, product quality and safety, Addressing the occupational health & safety, customer satisfaction, Identification and concerns and needs prioritization of in a consistent human rights, employee engagement, impacts on concerns and needs and transparent manner communities as issues that are material to the organization. The Process We assess and summarise the issues that are the most initiatives and guides our focus for all inclusive important – material – to ensure that we identify potential development. The issues raised by stakeholders are emerging issues and that the prioritizations made remain understood to enable us to address and respond them. relevant. Key issues and concerns raised by stakeholders Our materiality analysis is based upon the following three are paired with IndianOil’s long-term strategic goals. This tier structured approach:input forms our strategic approach towards sustainability Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Identification of Material Prioritization of the Validation of Issues Issues Issues •Issues Categorization • Financial performance •Internal Consideration •Materiality Assessment • Strategy and Policies •External Consideration • Industry's best practices • Society Identify and earmark Management Issues categorization issues perspective by relevance and Segment issues Assess issues importance according to relevance Materiality analysis The evaluation is based on internal and external stakeholder perspectives from economic, environmental Last Mile Connectivity and social viewpoints. 30 31 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Identification of Material Issues Materiality Table Linkages The vast range of internal and external data, including and external stakeholders are surveyed through personal analyst reports, media articles and stakeholder feedback interviews and an online questionnaire to determine the Material Issues Covered Under Heading Aspect Boundary are evaluated and the most relevant issues are identified. issues material to IndianOil. The material issues raised by Outside IndianOil These issues are in-line with our strategic direction on the stakeholders are dovetailed into IndianOil’s long-term Carbon Emission Environmental Performance: Emissions Our Suppliers, Distributors & Retailers basis of risk management and financial strength. With strategic goals which are considered crucial for our future Human Rights Corporate Governance-Human Rights Contractors stakeholder mapping exercise, cross sections of internal success. Climate Change Environmental Performance Communities where we operate Collective Bargaining Employees: Employee Engagement Not material Prioritization of Issues Corruption Corporate Governance: Ethics and Integrity Our Suppliers, Distributors & Retailers The process of identifying the material issues is based on identified, the degree of importance for each material an ongoing engagement with our stakeholders as well as aspect to its key stakeholders and the business is further Customer Satisfaction Product Responsibility: Marketing Our Customers Communications based on the strategic business review. The essential assessed. The basis for prioritization of material issues input collected from our stakeholders is complemented by are the key concerns, needs and expectations of Diversity & Equal Opportunity Corporate Governance-Human Rights Not material in-house research on emerging societal, economic, stakeholders identified through past as well as on-going Employee Engagement Employees: Employee Engagement Not material environmental and business trends impacting our engagement. Employee Satisfaction Employees: Employee Engagement Not material business. In order to prioritise the material aspects Energy Conservation Environmental Performance: Energy Not material Validation of Issues Impact on Communities Social Performance Communities where we operate Labor Rights & Compensation Corporate Governance: Human Rights Not material Based on the inputs provided by important key all issues, which are of concern to stakeholders and the stakeholders, the final material issues are listed. The Company, are considered. The material issues together Occupational Health & Safety Health & Safety Not material issues identified are evaluated from both the with our action plan are described under respective topics Product & Operational Efficiency Product Responsibility Not material stakeholders’ perspective and how it would influence as Disclosure on Management Approach. Product/ Service Quality & Product Responsibility: Product Health Our Suppliers, Distributors, IndianOil’s ability to create value. However, in this report, Safety & Safety Retailers & Transporters Recruitment & Succession Employees: Employee Growth Not material Planning Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement: Stakeholder All Stakeholders Dialogue Training & Development Employees: Employee Growth Not material Waste management Environmental Performance: Waste Not material Water Management Environmental Performance: Water Not material Product/ Service Cost Economic Performance Our Suppliers, Distributors, Competitiveness Retailers & Transporters Market Share Economic Performance Not material New Business Marketing Economic Performance Not material Opportunity & Overseas Venture Indirect Economic Impact Economic Performance Not material Security & safety of Information Corporate Governance: E-Initiatives Not material Systems Spreading Happiness Regulatory & Legal Challenges Corporate Governance: Risk Management Not material 32 33 Corporate Governance 35 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages An organization with a good corporate governance can importance importance to “Trust”, IndianOil believes that leverage it to create a greater brand value that would the bond between internal and external stakeholders is of attract customers, investors, suppliers and contributors. immense value towards translating the blueprint of B O AR D A good corporate governance image is an important growth into enduring accomplishments. C O M MT I T E E S factor for raising financial capital. Giving paramount Board of Directors Stakeholder's Deleasing of LNG Sourcing Immovable Contract formulation and sets strategic goals in order to achieve Committee (LSC) Relationship IndianOil is the country’s energy behemoth and is Properties Committee Committee dedicated to strengthen India’s energy security. The the vision and mission of the Corporation. Committee corporation is the largest Central Public Sector The strength of the Board of IndianOil was 18 Directors as Enterprises (CPSE) and works under the aegis of the Nomination and Project Dispute on 31.03.18, comprising seven Whole-time Functional & Audit Remuneration Evaluation Settlement Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG). The Committee Executive Directors and eleven Non-Executive Directors, Committee Committee Committee IndianOil Board, comprising of multi-faceted individuals out of which nine are Independent Directors & two are with varied backgrounds, form the apex body and are Government Nominee Directors. Women representation Corporate Social Marketing nominated by the Government. The Board is headed by on the Board was 5.55%. The company has been able to Responsibility (CSR) Strategies Planning & the Chairman, who is appointed by the Government, as Risk Management comply with all the statutory requirements as per SEBI. All & Sustainable & Information Projects per the provisions of the policy for CPSE’s. An optimum Committee mandatory disclosures regarding the positions held by Development Technology Oversight Committee mix of Whole-time Functional & Executive Directors, NonCommittee Committee each of the Directors in other companies or committees Executive Independent and Government Nominated have been made in the Annual Report. Directors comprises the Board. Non-Executive Directors are selected on merit basis and come from diverse At the beginning of each financial year, a Memorandum of C OR P O R A T E O F F IC E backgrounds viz., academics, administration, energy, Understanding is signed between the Government of government and public sector, law, marketing, etc. The India and IndianOil, to set the performance target and monitor the performance of the company against the Planning and Research and Board is empowered to take decisions and drive the Marketing Pipelines Refineries Business Development company to greater heights. The Board of Directors given set of targets and parameters under economic, Development Centre oversees the overall functioning of the company, policy social and environment categories. Governance Structure NonWhole-time Executive functional & Independent & Chairman Government executive directors Nominated Directors Director Director Director Director Director Director R&D HR P & BD Refineries Pipelines Finance Beyond the call of duty 36 37 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Board Committees Board Meetings Various Board Committees have been constituted to facilitate smooth and efficient flow of decision. During the year 2017During the year 2017-18, 13 board meetings were held. certain exigent proposals are tabled at the Board Meeting 18, there were 12 functional Board Committees. The maximum gap between 2 subsequent Board with the approval of the Chairman. Presentations are meetings was 38 days, which stood at a gap of maximum made to the Board on various functional and operational 58 days for the Audit Committee meetings. The Board areas of the Company like Refinery, Pipelines and M ar ke ti n g S tra te gi e s meetings are generally held once in a month. The dates of Marketing operations, major projects, financial highlights & In form ation Te c h n o l o gy the meetings are fixed & agenda papers circulated well in etc. Information related to the agenda for various board A u d it C o m m itt ee O ve rsig ht C om m itt e e advance and intimated to the Board members so as to meetings is given in the Annual Report. The terms of reference are in To evolve the strategies, policies, accordance with the Companies Act, guidelines and take decisions on all enable them plan their schedule accordingly. However, the listing regulations and Department matters relating to marketing activities of Public Enterprises (DPE) guidelines of the Corporation including revival of on Corporate Governance as well as to dealerships/distributorships and to examine, decide and deal with all issues oversee the implementation of IT relating to Ethics in the Corporation. Strategies of the Corporation. C o rp o ra te S o c ial D e l e a sing of Im m o v ea b e l R es p on s i b ility (C SR ) P rop erties C om m itt ee & S u s t a in a bl e D ev elop m en t To consider Deleasing of Company C o m m itte e leased flats/accommodation/ To r e c o m m e n d , m o n i t o r a n d immoveable properties. administer activities under Sustainability and CSR Policy and to oversee its performance / L N G S ou rc i n g C o m m i t tee ( LSC ) implementation. To review the terms and conditions of LNG Sales & Purchase Agreement and recommend the same to the N o m in a ti o n a n d Board for approval for purchase of R e m u n e rat i o n C om m i tt e e LNG on long term basis. To approve certain perquisites for whole-time Directors and below Board D isp ute Se ttlem en t Co m m i t t ee level Executives as well as to approve the Performance Related Pay (PRP) To examine and give recommendation with respect to the Executives of the on the settlement proposals having Corporation as per the DPE guidelines. financial implication of more than Rs. To create and sanction posts as well as 25 crore for approval of the Board as to consider and approve promotions to per Conciliation Policy of IndianOil. Grade 'I' (Executive Director) i.e. Senior Management Personnel. C o n trac ts C o m m i t te e To approve contracts beyond certain limits as provided in the DoA of the Corporation. Corporate Office S ta k e ho ld er s ' R e l ation s hi p C o m m itte e P la nn ing & P ro j e c ts C o mm i t t ee To examine and redress the grievances To consider and approve all Project Remuneration of Directors of stakeholders/investors and to Proposals above Rs.100 crore and approve issuance of share certificates. upto Rs.250 crore. IndianOil is a Government of India enterprise and hence, Directors, they are not considered a part of the remuneration for Directors is fixed as per the guidelines remuneration. During the year 2017-18, no stock options P ro je c tE v a u l a tion C o m m ittee R isk M a na ge m e n tC om m it te e for the Central Public Sector Enterprises. However, the were issued to Whole-time Functional Directors. To appraise projects costing Rs.250 To review the Risk Management performance related pay and other perquisites, for As per the terms and conditions laid down by the crore and above before the Projects are Process involving risk assessment and minimization procedure Directors, are approved by the Nomination and Government of India, the Whole-time Functional submitted to the Board for approval. To approve the derivative transactions Remuneration Committee of the Board. Since, the Directors have to provide a 3-month notice or salary in lieu above USD 50 million on 'mark to market' basis. actuarial valuation of the retirement benefits scheme or of release from service. During the year 2017-18, the ratio any provision made during the year towards postof the organization’s highest paid individual to the median retirement benefits are not ascertainable individually for annual total compensation stood at 6.86:1. 38 39 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Ethics and Integrity Public Procurement Policy for Micro, Compliance: All our installations comply with the these policies. The number of disciplinary matters related Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) provisions of the Corporate Laws, Guidelines and rules, to vigilance cases disposed off during the year 2017-18 As a Public Sector Enterprise and responsible corporate encourages MSEs in taking part in various tenders floated as mandated by the MoP&NG. As a good corporate was 57. The number of such cases pending at the end of citizen, IndianOil is bound to promote local procurement by the corporation by undertaking steps like waiving off governance practice, an annual secretarial audit of all the year 2017-18 was 35. The aforesaid cases pertain to and skill development / livelihood opportunities for local the Earnest Money Deposit (EMD)/ Tender Fees. During records and documents of the company is carried out and irregularities such as indiscipline, dishonesty, negligence population. While engaging suppliers, we seek to ensure the year 2017-18, 24.09% (excluding crude oil & gas) of liaison officers are appointed at various locations to in performance of duty or neglect of work. ensure a proper implementation of government prompt dealings with integrity, impartiality and courtesy our goods and services were procured from MSEs. This Three Cases are pending before the Courts pertaining to and help promote ancillary industries, in the vicinity of our initiative is bound to boost the local industry and also directives. The audit report is made public as an Annexure anti-competitive behavior. Brief of the said cases is as to the Annual Report and is duly verified by the Company work places. provide livelihood opportunities, with wider economic under: Secretary. As per the provisions of the MSIHC rules 1989, effects. Bulk LPG tender has been floated on State basis As per the provisions of the Public Procurement Policy for an external safety audit of all our operating pipelines 8 North-East Dealers Association had filed complaint to promote participation of local entrepreneurs. Along Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) order 2012, it is locations is carried out by third party agency. before CCI alleging that PSU OMCs are using unfair these lines, IndianOil also seeks to boost the Small and mandatory for all CPSEs to procure a minimum of 20% of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee received 3474 terms and conditions in the Dealership Agreement and Micro Enterprises in the country through preference the total annual value of goods and services from Micro complaints during the year 2017-18, all of which were duly misuse of the dominant position. CCI vide order dated purchases. and Small Enterprises. Accordingly, IndianOil resolved. 11.02.14 dismissed the said application for want of merit and substance. Against the said order, NorthWhistle Blower Policy: IndianOil has a well defined East Dealers Association filed appeal before whistle blower policy that is accessible to all employees External Commitments and Public COMPAT. The COMPAT vide order dated 26.11.15, set and any violation with reference to the laws, rules, aside the order of CCI against which CCI has filed SLP Policy Participation regulations or code of conduct can be reported to the before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. The Hon’ble concerned authority or to the Chairman of the Audit IndianOil proactively advocates for public welfare with an contributing to Economic Reforms, Sustainable Business Supreme Court admitted the appeal on 13/4/2016 and committee. Anonymity and confidentiality of the aim to bring positive change in governance and compliant Principles, Energy Security, Inclusive Development stayed the operation of order passed by COMPAT. applicants are maintained at all levels so as to protect behavior among key stakeholders such as employees, Policies and other industry-related issues. As an active from any form of discrimination at the workplace. The 8 OMCs received notices dated 22.04.2013 from DG customers and business partners. Being a government of founder member and now a permanent member, corporate whistle blower policy can be accessed from the requesting information on various modalities of MS India enterprise, IndianOil works with various ministries. IndianOil actively participates in the meetings and corporate website at the following link: https://www. pricing as CCI had suo moto started investigation into IndianOil is also actively involved with the various conferences of the Global Compact Society and supports iocl.com/InvestorCenter/Whistle_Blower_policy.pdf the prices of MS and asked why OMCs increased and decreased prices simultaneously and by similar committees formed by the Government of India and other its ten guiding principles on human rights, labour Corruption and Anti-Competitive Behavior: As per the professional bodies, both national and international, for standards, environment and anticorruption. amounts. OMCS defended action of CCI submitting Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules (CDA Rules) and advancement or improvement of public good by that PNGRB had jurisdiction and not CCI. CCI rejected Certified Standing Orders, all the employees of the the contention of OMCs vide order dated 23.10.2013. organization are governed by the CDA rules. The CDA IOCL has filed WP before Delhi High Court against rules provide guidelines to assess the risk and ascertain CCI’s order 23.10.13. High Court of Delhi vide its various frauds and reporting, investigating and reporting order dated 22/11/2013 granted an ad interim stay till of the incidents suspected of corruption. As per the further orders. various policies and guidelines issues by the Government of India, systems have been implemented to check cases 8 Reliance Industries Limited filed complaint against 3 of unethical acts, bribery and corruption. In line with the OMCs & National Aviation Company India Limited statutory guidelines, an in-house mechanism is in place to (NACIL) before the Competition Commission of India check the anti-competitive behavior. It is mandatory for all wherein allegations were made about cartelization etc. employees to comply with the anti-corruption policies. A of tender floated by NACIL for supply of ATF for 2010structured grievance redressal mechanism has been 11. OMCs had raised preliminary objection relating to developed to encourage disclosures related to any kind of the jurisdiction CCI. By Order dated 30.09.2010 CCI misconduct. A routine check of all installations is carried held that the preliminary objection was legally not out for corruption and related risks and all employees, tenable and accordingly dismissed. Against this Order suppliers and vendors are covered under the ambit of appeal is preferred in High Court. 40 41 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Human Rights market price, logistics involved including co-loading of transported through very large crude carriers. different parcels for optimisation of freight cost. Our approach to workforce is based on the fundamentals child labour has been engaged at his/her facilities. 8 Achieved 98% utilization of time charter vessel of fostering diversity by offering equal opportunity to all IndianOil does not support any form of forced or 8 Approximately 83% of imported crude oil was through proper planning in deployment of vessels. employees without any discrimination. IndianOil does not compulsory labour and discourages any industry from engage into or support direct or indirect discrimination in doing so. Inclusiveness recruitment, promotion, salary benefits, training and post There is a robust structured grievance redressal We ensure that the policies and guidelines issued by the and disadvantaged stakeholders section of our society, retirement benefits based on caste, religion, disability, mechanism which is accessible to all IndianOil Government of India are implemented to empower the we have undertaken various CSR projectsinitiatives like gender, age, race, colour, marital status, etc. All statutory employees to report any kind of human rights violations. socially backward, marginalised groups and under having 33% reservation for female entrepreneurs while provisions and policy guidelines are followed strictly, All our installations are monitored and assessed priviledged sections of society. Any grievance, handing award of Kisan Seva Kendra (KSK) without any discrimination while providing welfare periodically for any human rights violations. The minimum whatsoever, is looked into with utmost importance distributorships and petty contracts among others. facilities for employees’ health, efficiency, financial wellwages paid to the contractors and employees are revised through mechanisms established at Divisional, Regional IndianOil pioneered the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana being, employment, social status, growth, remuneration periodically as per the provisions of the Minimum Wages and Unit levels and prompt action is taken to resolve it. To (PMUY) by releasing 1.67 crore new LPG connections or development, satisfaction etc. Explicit terms and Act 1971 as prescribed by the Government of India, and aid the differently-abled employees various facilities like since the launch of scheme in May 2016. The programme conditions are laid down in the General Conditions of the salaries paid to all the categories of employees fulfills ramps and Braille machines etc have also been provided is aimed to safeguard the health of women & children by Contract (GCC), with instructions to comply with human the norms of the act. A strict policy towards prevention of at our installations. For uplifting marginalized, vulnerable providing them with a clean cooking fuel (LPG). rights aspects including separate toilets, washing places sexual harassment at workplace is in effect across all the for men and women, compulsory canteen facilities and units. If any incidents of sexual harassment are reported, medical services for all workers, which are binding on all they are taken up by a Complaint Committee and if Category No. of complaints No. of complaints pending as the vendors and suppliers listed with IndianOil. Provisions proved, an appropriate disciplinary action is taken against received (2017-18) at the end of the financial year are also made wherein all vendors and suppliers are the offending employees according to the Conduct, Child labour/forced labour/ involuntary labour Nil Nil required to submit a written declaration stating that no Discipline and Appeal Rules (CDA Rules). Sexual harassment 1 3 There were no incidents of human rights violations reported during the year. No incidents involving rights of indigenous people Discrimination Nil Nil and discriminated practices or significant disputes involving local communities and indigenous people were reported during the year 2017-18. No instances of forced, compulsory or bonded labour were reported during the year. No child labour is employed POSH: An e-module on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (POSH) was launched in at any of our establishments and a minimum age limit of 18 years for permanent and contract labour is maintained. No September 2017 comprising modules on different areas of the concerned ACT. In its first phase this awareness complaints, whatsoever, were reported during the year pertaining to child labour. No political contributions – financial or in-kind were made directly or indirectly to any recipient or beneficiary by IndianOil. programme covers 1021 officers in grades G, H and I. Sustainable Sourcing Accountability IndianOil's business interests extend across the entire as an upstream player by building a portfolio of oil & gas IndianOil is diligently focused on maintaining the highest Currently, there are three independent external monitors hydrocarbon value chain – from exploration & production, assets, with participating interest in 9 domestic and 10 ethical standards by ensuring transparency in all aspects (IEMs), who are nominated in consultation with The refining, pipeline transportation to marketing of petroleum international blocks which would ensure uninterrupted of its operations and across its customer-suppliers base. Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and TII, to monitor and petrochemical products. In its business pursuit, crude crude supply in the long term. The ethical and efficient demeanour of the business all IndianOil tenders exceeding the value of Rs. 10 Crore. oil is the major raw material which accounts for over 90% IndianOil’s vast network of pipelines or the “Underground affairs is the mainstay for value optimisation of our During the year 2017-18, IEMs held 11 meetings for of total material consumption in terms of value. Highways”, as they are referred to within the organisation, stakeholders. We continuously promote work monitoring the tenders. As per the conditions of the are the most energy-efficient and environment-friendly environment that nurtures and nourishes integrity, threshold value, 480 tenders came under the purview of IndianOil has well diversified basket for crude oil sourcing mode of transportation. The 13,391 km long pipeline transparency and accountability. In 2008, IndianOil the integrity pact while complaints were received against involving long term contracts for its overseas network, as on 31.03.2018, is productively used for signed a MoU with Transparency International India (TII) 13 tenders which were referred to the IEMs and procurement besides partnering with domestic upstream supply of crude to Refineries and delivery of petroleum for the implementation of the Integrity Pact (IP) across its deliberated. 7693 complaints related to services, tenders oil & gas companies for indigenous procurement. During products to marketing terminals. installations which ensures that all the major procurement were received through the public grievance redressal the year, Corporation improved its share of indigenous and work contract activities are governed by it. As per the system during 2017-18 and all the complaints were duly procurement (17.88%, in terms of value vs. 16.96% 8 During the year, IndianOil transported 73.068 MMT of terms and conditions of the pact, transparency, probity, resolved. Further, 3,73,588 customer complaints were during the previous year) leading to reduced dependence crude oil through a combination of time charter & equity and competitiveness must be maintained in all the received during the year and 99.45% were resolved as on on imports. The corporation also strengthened its position voyage charter based on the parcel size, prevailing procurement processes. 31.03.2018 42 43 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages E-PMS Right to Information IndianOil made structural changes to the old Employee the financial year. The appraisal is based on role based As per the guidelines laid down in the Right to Information Information Officers, Assistant Public Information Officers Performance Management System (E-PMS) in order to KRAs and competencies and level based values and Act (RTI), 2005, a robust feedback mechanism has been and Appellate Authority is made public on the corporate enhance transparency and aligning it with the financial potential. It is carried out at the end of the year measuring enforced through which shareholders and stakeholders website for the ready reference. An RTI manual has also year. The departmental promotions, incentives for the degree of achievement of the set targets. All can attempt to seek information on various issues, been uploaded on the website detailing the process to file individuals and the Performance Related Pay (PRP) are employees are covered under performance management provided it isn’t disclosed on the corporate website or is an RTI. It can be accessed from the following link: all linked to the E-PMS. The E-PMS involves goal setting system. Performance link incentives are payable to whole not available in the annual report. Any information relating https://www.iocl.com/Talktous/RTI.aspx across all grades through identification of Key Result time functional directors as employees of the companies to the name, designation and address of the Chief Public Areas (KRAs) and Key Performance Indices (KPIs) with as per the policy applicable to employees. specific weightages and parameters, at the beginning of Business Responsibility Report (BRR) IndianOil, the largest Public Sector Enterprise, works publish their Business Responsibility Report (BRR) as a under the aegis of the Government of India and complies part of their Annual Report in line with the prescribed by all the statutory requirements laid down by the guidelines. IndianOil has been disclosing information as regulator. In 2012, SEBI directed the top 100 companies per the indices laid down for reporting BRR since then, listed on BSE and NSE (by market capitalization) to annually. Vigilance Trust is built only where there is transparency and irregularities/inconsistencies, bringing transparency and accountability. The growing importance of vigilance economy in awarding and execution of contracts are functions cannot be undermined in any scenario where undertaken across the organization. Documents relating the companies globally are being analysed for their to various contracts and procurements are scrutinized, corporate governance practices. inspections of retail outlets, LPG distributorships and Kerosene Dealerships are carried out, specific By reiterating the policies and principles, standards and complaints are investigated by the Vigilance Cell. Various procedures of the organization through training and initiatives like e-tendering, e-collections, e-payments, file communications, IndianOil engages in raising awareness tracking system have been implemented across the of all employees in the organization, and help the officers organization to ensure transparent functioning and in discharging their duties efficiently and fearlessly, so accountability. During the year 2017-18, 94 training that the Corporation can conduct its business in a fair and programs on vigilance awareness were conducted and transparent manner. Activities such as information were attended by 2,300 employees. sharing on the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) rules/ guidelines, conducting surprise quality and quantity Vigilance Department of the company is headed by the checks of products in transit as well as sales points across Chief Vigilance officer (CVO) who acts as a link between the country, conducting system studies to bring out the corporation and Government CBI, CVC, etc. 44 45 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Risk Management The Oil and Gas sector is vulnerable to various threats committee categorizes risks as ‘A’ and ‘B’ category risks, including depleting resources, global oil & gas crisis, debates the issues and devises action plan to mitigate political uncertainities and crude oil price fluctuations them. These are then presented to the executive among others. IndianOil has a Risk Management committee, which consists of Chairman and functional Committee, comprising of senior executives of the Directors of the Board. Some of the risks & concerns organization that convenes a meeting every quarter and identified during the year 2017-18 are as follows: assesses, both, internal and external risks. The High Risk Mitigation Plan Market Share 8 Expansion of network of ROs, KSKs 8 Deeper Penetration in rural and far off areas 8 Customer connect through Loyalty Programmes 8 Tie ups with Institutional Customers 8 Tap/Enter new markets and products Refining Margins 8 Processing of Cheaper/HS Crude Grades 8 Improvement in Fuel & Losses, Distilled yield 8 Restricting unplanned shutdowns 8 Hedging of Cracks Margin Cost/Time Overruns 8 Strict Monitoring of Capital Projects 8 Control over Activities Supply and Distribution Infrastructure 8 Investment in New Infrastructure 8 Expansion of Existing Capacities Return on Producing Assets (E&P) 8 Comprehensive Due Diligence 8 Close Monitoring and Control 8 Periodic Review and Assessment Frequency of To whom are Geographical How far into the Working of the Committee monitoring results reported? areas future are risks considered considered? Six-monthly Board or All over India 3 to 6 years Risk Management Committee comprising of or more individual/sub-set and the countries senior executives monitors, accesses and frequently of the Board or from which input discusses both, internal & external risks committee crude oil is associated with business, diversification, appointed by the sourced. pricing, climate change etc. and categorizes Board them as ‘A’ and ‘B’ category risks. A category risk are material to the organisation and need immediate action plan. IOCians at Guwahati Refinery: Front Runners in adopting in-house technologies 46 47 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Corporate E-Security IndianOil is growing and the growth is backed by digital security appliances at the corporate data centres at growth as well. In its digital journey, IndianOil is adopting Gurugram and Bengaluru are upgraded, as and when newer technologies and thereby increasing its cyber needed, with much more efficient appliances to handle footprint. It not only has one of the largest data networks in the higher threat levels. India but is also amongst the top Indian organizations in Process: IndianOil has a documented IT Policy, which terms of digital transactions. With such a huge digital was released in 2017 based on latest technological footprint, cyber security is of paramount importance for advancements and to address the latest challenges in IT the corporation. In tune with the global practices, world. Also as part of the ISO 27001 certification of the IndianOil has implemented a defense-in-depth cyber data centres, an Information Security Management security architecture. The three important elements for System is in place which documents all the cyber security success and sustenance of any organization’s cyber processes. IOCL data centres at Gurugram and security projects and outlook are People, Process & Bengaluru now have the latest ISO 27001:2013 Technology. It has also been referred to as the “golden certification which was obtained in 2017. Regulatory triangle” and a back-to-basics approach to solving requirements and guidelines for securing public sector complex business problems. undertaking’s critical IT infrastructure for business critical To secure an organization properly, there has to be a applications as issued by the Government of India from comprehensive Information Security Management time to time are also followed and complied by IndianOil. System which addresses People, Process and People: At IndianOil, Cyber Security is a business issue Technology in a cohesive single package. As part of the and everyone has a role to play. Everyone in the business IndianOil’s e-security, equal emphasis is given to the needs to be aware of their role in preventing and reducing three aspects to maintain a secure and sustainable cyber threats – whether it’s handling sensitive data or security posture. Technology is obviously crucial when it working at highly critical units. As part of the security comes to cyber security. Technology can be deployed to awareness campaign, a corporation wide exercise for prevent or reduce the impact of cyber risks, depending on understanding how to spot phishing emails was carried the risk assessment. The cyber risks that IndianOil faces out in 2017. A pan-company Cyber quiz was organized to are identified, and controls are put in place and engage all the employees and bring awareness. Various technologies needed are placed accordingly. The data awareness and technical trainings were organized to centers of the corporation have the best of breed solution equip employees to handle the emerging cyber threats. offered by the cyber security technology vendors for The IT and security posture of the corporation has been meeting the security requirements. In line with the appreciated at various levels. continuous global advancement in technology, the cyber A new customer facing project e-PIC was launched on 8th January, 2018. The portal has been designed to enhance customer experience. The portal provides the customers with a single platform to voice their issues requiring a service/support across any line of business of IndianOil. The concern is then appropriately routed to the concerned person in a centralized Grievance System, with a proper escalation matrix in place. The Social Relationship Management (SRM) module of project e-PIC was also implemented. This is expected to facilitate monitoring of all the important social media pages for gathering positive or negative sentiments about the Corporation. Any grievances on the social media would be integrate with the Centralized Grievance System. Controlling System at Paradip Pipeline 48 49 E-initiatives With the ever increasing importance of the role of information and technology in the work sphere; it is paramount for businesses to stay abreast with the technological advancements. IndianOil has developed various in-house platforms for enhancing the efficiency of the system and ease of work. e-ledger Xtrainfo (e-Ledger) E-360 mPower e-Suggestion Scheme Employee Performance VTS–Vehicle Privahak Management Tracking eProcurement System System xSparsh Employee Self e-Payment Service Portal (ESS) Indane Transparency Dealer/ Corporate Portal Distributor Annual Returns e-security File Tracking (DAR) System e-Tendering SMS PROMIS Indenting e-Communication E-Suvidha E-Audit e-CFS E-Sahyog 50 51 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages E-Initatives for Employees ESS-Employee Self Service E-360 Enables employees to check their payPortal for employees in Manager’s grade related information, make various claims and above, where employees are assessed and track the application status. by their peers, subordinates and seniors on their overall performance. E-Suvidha E-Audit Covers claims and Application used by the Internal Audit information not covered under ESS. team to speed up the audit process. E-Sahyog E-PMS Centralized portal for the CSR function to System to increase transparency update & share information pertaining to in performance measurement various initiatives across the organization. and performance ratings. E-Drive E-Tender An intranet-based online data storage facility An internet based portal for tenders. The system that helps employees upload and share up to has increased transparency in the process of 1GB data across locations. tendering and saved time & cost for the company. 7 HR A&W Services File Tracking System All information related to various administration & welfare related formats and A system that helps to route and contact persons is mentioned on the link track a file put up for approval. for various users. Hello IOCian PF Management System A portal has been developed to help employees An online directory of all employees, both access details related to their Provident Fund executive and non-executive, of all divisions with (PF) balance and apply for refundable or information pertaining to their contact details. non-refundable loans against PF, if required. 52 53 Technology Enabled In addition to the numerous platforms on the intranet, various on-the-go applications have also been developed by IndianOil for its customers, vendors and suppliers as well as employees for ease of access to information. Applications for Employees The target audience of this mobile application is our mobile workforce. Following are the features of this The target audience of this mobile application application are our internal 8 Customer Payments employees. This application allows the mobile workforce of IndianOil to The B2E application for both 8 Customer balances access employee data on the go. existing and retired employees to 8 Pending Orders Following data is made available in get instant access to contact details 8 Sales Analytics the mobile application of IOCL employee. The app has 8 Revamped mPower on new 8 Payslip both offline and online capabilities. platform 8 Holiday Listing 8 Employee search based on 8 mPower extended for non-field name, mobile and employee no. 8 Employee Search officers in Retail Sales 8 Offline storage based on directory 8 Off cycle payment details 8 mPower for LPG Field officers IOCL 8 Contact sharing via SMS, email, mPower launched providing features like myESS 8 Know your pending claims Whatsapp. balance, payments, sales 8 Leave Balance Phonebook 8 Ex-employee login analytics, order status/mgmt., 8 Leave Apply/approve Centralised Indsoft data, NFR 8 GSTIN Information 8 Furniture PC/Mobile Card portal info, customer grievance data 8 Income Tax Card 8 mPower for LPG non-field officers 8 GSTIN Information which included all able reports based on sales hierarchy. Applications for Customers, Vendors and Suppliers The target audience of this mobile application are the end customers who purchase petrol and diesel The target audience of this mobile The target audience of this mobile from IndianOil's retail outlets. The application are the various channel application are all the Transporters applications features are as follows partners of IndianOil. Following are of IndianOil. Following are the The target audience of this 8 Retail Outlet locator based on the the features of this application features of this application: application are IndianOil's BD user's geographical position 8 Customer balance channel partners. It caters to all the 8 Real time payment information of 8 Retail Outlet search by services. 8 Indent / Order Management the transporter's bills. types of customers i.e. PTA/DC, CS 8 Easy availability of the and DCAs. Following are the 8 Payment Details 8 Real time position of the customers' fuel transactions features of this application 8 Sales transporter's truck. 8 Easy lodging of the feedback and 8 Balance Enquiry 8 Consumption statistics 8 Details of the transporter's fleet of rating of retail outlets trucks (No of trucks and the 8 Sales enquiries 8 RDB reports integration details of each truck) 8 Saftey tips, Lube and air pressure 8 Stock inventory listing reckoner 8 Customer Acquisitions 8 App has been re-branded as PROMIS 8 Payment details Fuel@IOC 8 Loyalty program integration xSparsh 8 Xsparsh for Institutional Parivahak Vendor App 8 Integration with Microsoft CRM Business customers launched 8 All ve ndors(including 8 Tracking of the grievances filed for user access by the user. 8 Features include sales analytics, transporters) can login and use 8 PROMIS extended for Polymer order management, balance 8 Integration with Bill Tracking 8 Swach Bharat Integration customers including DCA information etc, System 8 In-line with Daily price change 8 Integrated with Bulk Consumer 8 Payments information being done. Portal. 8 Integration with CRM Grievance module 54 55 State of the Art Control & Monitoring Systems During the year 2017-18, the cyber world was attacked by 2 ransomware attacks – “Wannacry” and “Petya”. Though IndianOil was able to shield its system from these attacks, nonetheless, awareness exercises were conducted across the locations to educate all e-mail users about cyber-attacks and safety from ‘phishing’ mails/SMS. Additionally, cyber security audit of selected locations were carried out to identify the potential vulnerabilities and appropriate mitigations steps were taken to strengthen the security wherever required. A centralized security operation centre was commissioned using which security devices across the organization are now being monitored centrally. 56 57 Sustainability in IndianOil 59 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Sustainability Accomplishments in 2017-18 Fuel savings through ENCON measures (SRFT): 63,093 60 61 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Sustainability in IndianOil IndianOil’s Sustainability & CSR Policy For IndianOil, sustainability has become the most taken continuous efforts to maintain environmental and important pillar of its progress. IndianOil has Corporate social well being. Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development IndianOil has formed Alternate Energy and Sustainable Committee at the Board Level, to recommend Sustainability & CSR Policy Thrust Areas Development (AE&SD) Group, a dedicated team at the sustainability initiatives and monitor the progress of corporate level to align our initiatives towards sustainable initiatives undertaken. IndianOil has always embraced development. IndianOil has developed and implemented IndianOil has integrated its sustainability policy 8 Efficiency in operations and processes. environmentally sustainable business practices and has various sustainability policies at the organizational level. with CSR policy in line with DPE’s “Guidelines 8 Safe and healthy environment in and around on Corporate Social Responsibility and the workplaces. Sustainability for CPSEs” dated 21.10.2014, Guidelines and Policies which proposed single policy for ‘CSR and 8 Ba si c l i ve l i h o o d n e e d s & so ci e ta l Sustainability’. Accordingly, IndianOil has empowerment. developed single policy for Sustainability and 4 Safe drinking water and protection of water CSR which outlines the vision, mission, thrust resources. Sustainability Rain Water areas ensuring its compliance as per the & LED Policy Harvesting Solar Policy requirements of Companies Act 2013, 4 Healthcare and sanitation. CSR Policy Policy Companies (CSR Policy) Rules 2014 and DPE’s 4 Education and employment-enhancing guidelines on CSR & Sustainability. vocational skills. Vision 4 Empowerment of women and socially/ IndianOil’s Sustainability & CSR vision is to economically backward groups, etc. Tree Carbon Health Safety Policy Plantation Neutral Event & Environment Guidelines for operate its activities in providing energy 8 Tourist friendly facilities at monuments of Policy Guidelines Policy Energy Audit solutions to its customers in a manner that is national importance. efficient, safe & ethical, which minimizes 8 Environmentally sustainable practices within negative impact on environment and enhances & beyond the organization’s premises: quality of life of the community, towards sustaining a holistic business. 4 Clean energy options. Missions 4 Rain water harvesting (at co. owned premises, retail outlets). 8 Meet stakeholders’ aspirations for value creation and grow along with the society. 4 Limit emission of Greenhouse Gases. 8 Ensure a safe & healthy working 4 Reduce/reuse/recycle resources/waste & environment. dispose waste streams in environmentally safe manner. 8 Incorporate environmental and social considerations in business decisions. 8 Promotion of responsible business practices: Conduct business with transparency, 8 Earn stakeholders’ goodwill and build a integrity and accountability. reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. 8 Conduct business with ethics and transparency & follow responsible business practices. IndianOil in Every Corner 62 63 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Renewable Energy Grid connected Renewable Power India has a greater potential for harnessing power from energy capacity to 260 MW by 2020. The major projects IndianOil has cumulatively commissioned 185 MW of against 171 GWh generated the previous year. The st renewable sources. Power generation from renewable undertaken by IndianOil to increase the share of renewable power as on 31 March 2018, which includes generation of 323 GWh corresponds to GHG emission source continues to grow, with the share of renewable renewable energy in its overall energy mix are grid 168 MW of wind power and 17.5 MW of solar power. reductions of 265 TMTCO2e (thousand metric tonnes energy in the country’s energy mix at 19% as on 31st connected wind power, grid connected and off grid solar During the year 2017-18, we have generated 323 GWh carbon dioxide equivalent). March 2018. Despite increase in renewable energy power. During the year 2017-18, we had invested L54.22 installed capacity, there is still large untapped potential in Crore in renewable energy projects. The total generation Grid Connected Renewable Energy-Cumulative Installed Capacity (in MW) India. As per INDC commitment, India is committed to from renewable power during the year is 337 million units, increase the renewable power capacity to 175 GW. which is approximately 5% of total electricity 185.5 168 177 168 consumption. IndianOil has strong focus towards country’s energy transition and committed to increase it's renewable 74 74 69 69 68 63 10 17.5 5 5 5 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Wind Solar Total Installed Capacity Total Generation from Grid Connected Renewable Energy (in GWh) 323 308 171 158 140 140 132 132 132 124 15 13 5 5 5 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Wind Solar Total Generation GHG Emissions Reduction due to Grid Connected Renewable Power (in '000 Tonnes of CO2e) 265 142 115 114 108 Solar PV Plant at Barauni Refinery 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 IndianOil's Wind Power Plant 64 65 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Off-grid Solar Power Retail Outlet Solarization IndianOil aims to install Solar Photo voltaic plants across of off-grid solar power projects. The power generated Retail outlet solarization is a flagship program by against power fluctuation and provides emission rooftops as well as spare lands in its installations. from off-grid solar power is 14 million units during the IndianOil aimed to create positive environment impact reduction (Scope-3, beyond our boundary). As on 31st Accordingly, IndianOil implemented a solar policy in year, which corresponds to GHG emission reductions of across its value chain. Besides promoting sustainable March 2018, IndianOil has solarized 9,140 retail outlets st 2015-16 for installing off-grid solar PV systems. As on 31 12 TMTCO2e (thousand metric tonnes carbon dioxide value chain, the initiative reduces the retail outlet’s with a cumulative off-grip solar power installed capacity of March 2018, we have total installed capacity of 16.5 MW equivalent). dependency on diesel generators, safeguarding the ROs ~38 MW. Off-Grid Solar-Comulative Installed Capacity (in MW) Off-Grid Solar-Generation (in MWh) Cumulative Number of Retail Outlets Solarized Cumulative Installed Capacity Under RO Solarization (in MW) 16.5 14,300 9,140 38.0 10.5 7,300 6,607 26.0 1.7 1,440 4,167 15.0 1 630 2,664 9.8 0.3 300 1,266 4.0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Reduced GHG Emissions Due to Off-Grid Solar Power (in Tonnes CO2e) 11,726 6,059 1,181 517 246 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Off-Grid Solar Power Plant Sustainability and CSR Workshops IndianOil believes enhancing the awareness of each Accordingly, IndianOil organizes sustainability workemployee of the Corporation about climate change shops across the divisions and operating locations to vulnerability, impacts, and adaptation can help build enhance awareness about sustainability among the individual and institutional capacity for undertaking employees at all levels. climate change mitigation and adaptation measures. Solarized Retail Outlet 66 67 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Rainwater Harvesting (RWH )Systems LED Implementation With fresh water becoming a vulnerable resource, water Accordingly, we have installed 561 rainwater harvesting Aligning our initiatives in synergy with the Government March 2018, more than 3.4 lakh LEDs were installed in its conservation and efficiency measures are gaining systems in IndianOil with the catchment area of more than policies, IndianOil aims to replace all the conventional locations. st momentum across sectors. Rainwater harvesting 1,000 hectares. The RWH systems have the rainwater lighting with LED lighting in its installations. As on 31 systems are an efficient and cost effective sustainable harvesting potential of 3 billion litres per annum, which water management technique which would not only amounts to approximately 3% of our refineries total water Carbon and Water Footprint reduce the fresh water intake but also reduce the overall consumption. The rainwater collected from roof and footprint. IndianOil has implemented rainwater harvesting surface run off were all treated and used in our IndianOil carries out carbon and water footprint activities reduce our specific water footprint by 8.61% till 2017-18 policy to install rainwater harvesting systems in all the operations. across its installations every year through which it compared to 2012-13. Similarly, emissions reduction available catchment areas across the installations. identifies the measures to reduce its footprints. IndianOil measures have resulted in specific emission reduction by has taken a voluntary target to reduce its specific carbon 7.45% till 2017-18 against the base year 2012-13. Energy footprint and specific water footprint by 18% and 20% efficiency and ENCON measures, renewable energy Year on Year Rain Water Harvested generation are some of the measures that lead to Cumulative Number of RWH Systems respectively by 2020 as against the base year 2012-13. (In Million Kilolitre) reduction of our specific carbon footprint. Water saving measures over the years have helped to 561 3.26 Specific Carbon Footprint Reduction Specific Water Footprint Reduction 558 2.96 505 2.95 18% 439 2.71 370 2.48 Target By 2020 20% 7.45% Target by 2020 Achieved Till 2017-18 8.61% 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Achievement till 2017-18 Base year 2012-13 Base year 2012-13 Biofuels IndianOil is setting-up three 2nd Generation Ethanol IndianOil has entered into MoUs with various parties for Production plants at Panipat (Haryana), Gorakhpur (UP) retailing of Bio-CNG and Compost through IndianOil retail and Dahej (Gujarat) of 100 KL per day capacity each. channels. The parties would produce Bio-CNG from Land acquisition has been initiated for the project to be various sources including Municipal Solid Waste, Paddy set-up in Panipat, whereas possibilities are being Straw, Press Mud, Vegetable Market Waste & Cattle explored for land allotment to set-up the plant in Dung. Gorakhpur. Waste Management IndianOil has installed 25 number of organic waste slurry is used as manure. We have installed indigenous convertor/biogas plants across the installations to treat biomethanation technology developed by IndianOil at our kitchen/organic waste and generate biogas. Biogas Digboi refinery. RWH System at our Refinery generated is used for cooking purpose, whereas the 68 69 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Waste to Energy Plants United Nations Global Compact IndianOil has commissioned three waste to energy plants during 2017-18. The total power generated during the (UNGC) of 5 tonnes per day capacity each, at Varanasi, under year 2017-18 from these three waste to energy plants is United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Swatch Bharat Abhiyan. Two plants, one each at 38,656 units (kWh). initiative to implement universal sustainability principles IndianOil, being a signatory member of UNGC since Pahadiya Mandi and IDH Hospital were commissioned and to undertake partnerships in support of UN goals. 2001, adheres to all the UNGC principles and reports its UNGC has ten principles to encourage companies to performance on the same. operate responsibly and meet the requirements of Solar Lanterns In an effort to reduce pollution from the usage of kerosene areas through its various channels. Accordingly, IndianOil Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) & firewood, IndianOil is focused to provide solar based has sold 4,17,027 solar lanterns cumulatively as on 31st solutions to problems of erratic/ no electricity supply by March 2018. During the year 2017-18, 13,992 solar Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent since 2007-08. We follow the latest GRI guidelines while selling solar lanterns in small towns, semi urban and rural lanterns were sold through LPG network. international organization which developed Sustainability reporting our sustainability performance. Further, Reporting Standards that help companies globally, to IndianOil’s sustainability report conforms to GRI Oil and report on critical sustainability issues such as climate Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS), which provide Electric Mobility change, human rights, governance and social well-being. guidance for companies involved in the exploration, IndianOil is exploring opportunities for manufacturing and collaboration with Ola. Another Charging Station has production, refining, transport and sale of oil, gas and IndianOil has been releasing its annual sustainability retailing of Lithium-ion batteries besides setting-up fast been put up at Centre half station, Sadiq Nagar, New petrochemicals. report since 2005-06 and has been publishing its reports charging stations. We have pilot charging station at an Delhi with one charging point. on sustainability performance in line with GRI guidelines IndianOil Retail Outlet in Nagpur (COCO RBI, Nagpur) in Carbon Neutral Events Cumulative Number of Carbon Neutral Events IndianOil has undertaken carbon neutral event initiative to offset the GHG emissions generated from major business 107 event by carrying out tree plantation at its installations. 91 IndianOil made 16 events carbon neutral during 2017-18 by carrying out plantation of more than 1000 trees. 70 55 Cumulatively, 107 events were made carbon neutral 38 across the Corporation. To improve the survival rate and growth rate of trees planted, native species were chosen for plantation activity. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a not-for-profit charity environmental performance to carbon Disclosure project that runs the global disclosure system for investors, since 2012. IndianOil is making disclosures under climate companies, cities, states and regions to manage their change module of CDP in which it discloses information environmental impacts. IndianOil has been disclosing its regarding energy and emissions footprints. Panipat Refinery Eco-park 70 71 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Compressed Bio Gas Program of IndianOil Biomass resources such as agricultural residue, cattle dung, sugarcane press mud, municipal solid waste and Solar PV at Leh LPG Bottling Plant wastewater sludge produce biogas through a process of anaerobic decomposition. This process known as biomethanation is a clean low carbon technology which offers an efficient management and conversion of Leh is the largest town in Ladakh in the state of Jammu & Kashmir. It is a major tourist attraction due to its biodegradable waste to biogas and bio-manure. Generally, biogas comprises 60-65% methane, 35-40% carbon scenic grandeur. IndianOil LPG Bottling Plant (BP) at Leh, located at an altitude of 11,800 ft. above sea dioxide, 0.5-1.0% hydrogen sulfide and water vapors etc. level, is world’s highest LPG bottling plant. Leh BP does not have grid electricity connection and the plant Biogas is purified to obtain Bio-CNG which contains ~95% pure methane gas. Further, bio-CNG is exactly similar to had been operating on Diesel Generator (DG) sets with an annual diesel consumption of approx. 45 KL. the commercially available natural gas (calorific value: ~52000 KJ/Kg) in its composition and energy potential. The 3 TMTPA plant keep home fires burning by supplying 2.6 lac cylinders per year. Production of Bio-CNG would reduce the import of natural gas, utilize waste productively, minimize emissions, reduce pollution, provide rural employment and have other socio-environmental impacts on the existing waste Leveraging the available land at the BP, IndianOil embarked on a project to set up a 100 kW Solar Power management system. Plant. Apart from the economics of reduction in consumption of diesel for running of DG sets, the other IndianOil has taken an initiative to facilitate production and supply of Bio-CNG. To start with, we have signed MoU key driving force for the project was adoption of a clean energy option so as to contribute to the pristine with various Bio-CNG producers including Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) for setting up agricultural environment of the Ladakh region. residue surplus to Bio-CNG plants in Punjab and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India IndianOil prepared the techno-commercial feasibility of installing a 100 kW Solar Power Plant with 192 Limited (NAFED) for jointly marketing of by-products of the Plants including bio-compost, bio-slurry, bio-pesticides. kWh of battery, incorporating technical specifications required for the harsh climatic and geographic Signing of similar MoUs are in process with Governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal etc. conditions of the region. While executing the project, there were huge logistic challenges in planning the sourcing and delivery of materials at the project site due to ~5 months of closure of access roads to Leh. The construction work was hampered by the inclement weather when an avalanche blocked a truck carrying vital parts at Zoji La, the gateway to Ladakh from Srinagar and remain stuck through the icy winter. In another instance, delivery of battery that was already shipped from Delhi, got stuck by the sudden closure of road in November 2017, which could eventually be delivered in March 2018. Besides, the hard rocky nature of soil posed additional difficulties in civil construction for mounting structure to Solar PV Including 8 MW at Sanand LPG Bottling Plant support the solar panels. A major solar capacity addition during 2017-18 was of 8 The 100 kW Solar Power Plant has been successfully commissioned with 192 kWh of battery in Jun’18. MW at Sanand LPG Bottling Plant, commissioned on The solar power caters to 70% of the power consumption at the plant leading to the following benefits: 19.12.2017. The annual generation of the plant is 8 Approx. saving of 30 Kl diesel annually (approx. Rs. 19.5 Lakhs @ Rs.65/ltr.) estimated at 12 million units resulting in Carbon Emission reduction of 10 TMTCO2e (thousand ton of 8 Approx. carbon footprint reduction per year : 105 Metric Tonne of CO2 (e) Carbon-Dioxide equivalent). The electricity generated is IndianOil is further working out the techno-commercial feasibility of augmenting the solar capacity by being wheeled to 17 locations in Gujarat including another 100 kW with 192 kWh of battery, which shall take care of remaining power consumption of the Gujarat State Office, Terminals, LPG Bottling Plants and unit as well as cater to the planned load augmentation at BP, thereby completely eliminating DG set Pipeline Stations. usage. 72 73 Our Sustainability Horizon Sustainability & CSR LED Policy Policy ty Wind Power Grid il i a b s Sol Con n p ar ne t ai sho Carb po ct s rk e N on we Su o Tre o n eutr ed W a ntati Even al t r Sustai Pl Co n Repo ability y Rain water Harvesting rtin erg tion Grid Policy Solar Policy En e r v a Offpower g Swa Bha chh ns ar So l Abh rat iya n Energy Efficiency Retail Sola Outle r Carbon Neutral Event i z ation t Energy Audit Guidelines Guidelines Tree Plantation Health, Safety & Guidelines Environment Policy Economic Performance 77 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Economic Performance Pipelines IndianOil spearheaded the operations of multi-product IndianOil accounts for nearly half of India's petroleum Revenue from Operations (L Crore) petroleum pipeline in India and continues to be the leader products market share. Over 35% national refining in the downstream sector. The year 2017-18 has been an capacity and 71% downstream sector pipelines 5,06,428 eventful year for Pipelines Division with remarkable throughput capacity are with IndianOil. 4,45,442 achievements in operations, projects and overall IndianOil reported a sales turnover of L5,06,428 Crore 4,06,828 business profitability. and, net profit of L21,346 Crore during 2017-18 making it IndianOil pipeline network stood at 13,391 km with a the India’s most profitable Public Sector Undertaking. A throughput capacity of 94.79 MMTPA of liquid pipeline contribution of L1,90,670 Crore was made towards the network and 9.5 MMSCMD of gas pipeline network a son government exchequer. IndianOil received a grant of 31st march 2018. During 2017-18, pipeline network has 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 L6,757.73 Crore from the Government of India during the achieved the highest ever throughput of 85.68 Million year 2017-18. Metric Tonne (MMT), which is around 4% more than the previous highest achieved in 2016-17. Paradip Pipeline Profit after Tax (L Crore) Contribution to Central & State Exchequer (L Crore) Pipelines Throughput (MMT) Growth of Pipeline Network (Length in km) 21,346 1,90,670 85.68 13,391 1,79,014 19,106 82.49 12,848 79.82 11,746 11,242 1,32,064 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 *Detailed Financial Performance available at www.iocl.com 78 79 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Refineries The year 2017-18 was a momentous one for IndianOil Refineries Division achieved a record crude throughput of refineries with completion of one more significant phase 69.0 MMT during the year 2017-18, against 65.19 MMT in the Corporation’s commitment to producing cleaner, during 2016-17, buoyed by cent percent capacity greener fuels. The Mathura & Panipat Refineries of utilization of Paradip Refinery. IndianOil commenced BS-VI grade auto fuel supplies to meet the April 1, 2018 timeline for Delhi. Marketing IndianOil reaches out to its customers across the length accurate prices. During 2017-18, IndianOil procured and breadth of India including the remote corners of the 4,12,280 kl of ethenol and achieved 2.8% ethanol country. It comprises over 47,800 customer touch-points blending. IndianOil sold 88.76 million tonnes of products which are seamlessly backed by a highly efficient network (including Petroleum products, Gas, Petrochemicals, of supply locations. Explosives and Exports) in 2017-18. The Company also commissioned a record number of CNG facilities (highest The Daily Price Revision (DPR) mechanism for petrol and ever) at 100 ROs. IndianOil Aviation maintained its diesel was rolled out across the nation in June 2017 to market leadership position with a market share 61% in the streamline the prices of automotive fuels. Further, industry. IndianOil undertook 100% automation in pricing of major petroleum products enabled speedy implementation of 80 81 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Petrochemicals E&P In addition to being the second largest player in the includes Polymers, Linear Alkyl Benzene, Paraxylene / IndianOil has built a sizeable portfolio of oil & gas assets, beginning of production of gas and condensate from its domestic petrochemicals market, IndianOil exports to Purified Terephthalic Acid, Glycols and Butadiene. The with participating interest in 9 domestic and 10 overseas Pre-NELP asset AAP-ON-94/1 (rechristened as Dirok nearly 75 countries, offering the complete slate of polymer brand increased its footprints to additional four blocks with participating interest ranging from 3% to Field) in August 2017. This marked the advent of its first petrochemical products and intermediates which countries viz. Algeria, Morocco, Egypt and Paraguay. 100%. The ten overseas blocks are located in USA, domestic exploration asset maturing from exploration Canada, Venezuela, UAE, Oman, Libya, Gabon, Nigeria stage to a producing asset. The Corporation has 29.03% and Russia. A milestone for the Corporation was the participation interest in this asset. Natural Gas IndianOil took up natural gas marketing in 2004 and being LNG import capacities on both the East and West coasts the second largest player in natural gas, it is investing in of India, building new terminals and extending the gas infrastructure as a strategy to meet future demand by national gas grid. Massive expansion of city gas and building gas import terminals and pipelines, expanding piped natural gas networks has been initiated in urban capacities and customer base and pursuing city gas areas across the country. distribution in diverse markets. The focus is on expanding 82 83 Environmental Performance 85 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Environment Materials IndianOil believes material efficiency in the production considering the ever increasing demand and IndianOil's approach to sustainability is factual and negative consequences on agriculture productivity, improves its economic and business competitiveness consumption and our dependence on natural resources. realistic as we continuously account for impact on health and livelihoods. The vast consequences of climate besides reducing the environment impacts. IndianOil We also track the raw material consumption and waste environment and society due to our operations across the change have become more apparent in recent years aims to ensure material and resource efficiency in its generation across the value chain to avoid any leakage value chain. As the environment risks for any organization implying the need for various mitigation and adaptation operations through state of art technologies, efficient and effectively utilize our input materials. Crude oil and have grown in importance during the past two decades, strategies to address climate change, as no single option utilization of raw materials, recycling of materials at raw material consumption at our refineries is 69 MMT for IndianOil is committed to conduct its business is sufficient by itself. different phases of operations and reducing the overall the year 2017-18. During the year, IndianOil improved it's responsibly and take continuous efforts to mitigate the As a responsible corporate, IndianOil undertakes various waste generation. IndianOil is conscious of the fact that its share of indigenous procurement (17.88% in terms of environment impacts due to its operations. climate change mitigation and adaptation measures at operations are highly dependent on imported raw value vs. 16.96% during the previous year) leading to As per Global Risk Report 2018 published by World the Corporate-level to reduce its overall environmental materials and hence, various initiatives have been reduced dependence on imports. Economic Forum, three key environment risks viz., footprint, which in turn percolates into specific undertaken for optimum utilization of resources, extreme weather events, Natural disasters and failure of interventions at individual locations including retail climate change mitigation & adaptation are in top five network. The initiatives includes energy efficiency, energy global risks in terms of their likelihood as wells as impact. conservation, water conservation, renewable energy, Raw Material Consumption Weather-related risks are one of the leading causes of retail outlet solarization, tree plantation, waste/biomass to population displacement. It is estimated that 76% of the fuel, LED lighting, rainwater harvesting, carbon neutral 31.1 million people were displaced from their homes as a events etc. IndianOil has taken voluntary target to reduce Lube Plant result of weather-related events during the year 2016. its specific carbon and water footprint by 18% and 20% Type of Material Unit Quantity Consumed The Government of India has estimated that India is respectively by 2020, with 2012-13 as the base year incurring a loss of $9-10 billion annually due to extreme which shows our commitment to reduce our environment Base Oil MT 4,21,423 weather events including water scarcity, heat waves and impacts. Additives MT 39,000 drought, severe storms and flooding, and associated HSD MT 230 LDO MT 2,119 LPG Bottling Plant Type of Material Unit Quantity Consumed Lubricants L 42,282 Bottling cylinders (bottling done) MT 1,02,96,268 Brownsoap solution kg 16,00,607 Teflon tape EA 2,44,400 Self closing value EA 1,22,20,025 LOT valve EA 15,541 Safety caps EA 5,90,41,688 Pressure regulator (issued to distributors) EA 1,66,91,564 Nylon thread EA 3,64,39,355 Grease kg 2,524 O-ring EA 3,74,99,141 Native Bird at IndianOil Ecopark 86 87 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Total Quantity of Packaging Material Energy Energy is a key driver for economic growth, and the tonnes of oil equivalent (MTOE) against the target of energy demand in India is continuously increasing due to 6.686 MTOE in the PAT cycle-I i.e., from 2012-13 to 2014Lube Plant various social and demographic factors like 15. With the inclusion of new sectors, it is aimed to Packaging Material Quantity Consumed (in Tonnes) Industrialization, population growth, urbanization etc. achieve an overall energy consumption reduction of Metal Containers 13,182 India, being a fast growing economy has made great 8.869 MTOE under the PAT Cycle –II. progress across sectors like industrial, agriculture, Plastic Containers 9,189 IndianOil refineries contribute over 90% of Corporation’s transportation, commercial and domestic sectors over the Corrogated boxes 2,720 total energy consumption and the energy consumption past decades. With per capita energy consumption still across the refineries has been duly reported. Our total lower than the global average, energy demand in India is energy consumption during the year has shown a projected to soar over the coming decades to achieve Petrochemical Plants sustained and inclusive economic growth. However, the significant increase. This is due to the inclusion of newly commissioned Paradip refinery which achieved its full Packaging Material Quantity Consumed (in Tonnes) country’s fossil fuel reserves are limited which entails capacity utilization in May 2017. IndianOil has policy PP Woven sacks of for packaging Polymer granules 6,505 efficient utilization of resources, deriving maximum value guidelines on Energy Audit to be carried out at the from the available resources. Hence, there is a greater Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers (PTA) 768 locations with an aim to reduce the energy consumption emphasis for secured, sustainable and affordable energy by 25%. Further, all our operating locations have as a means to underpin development, while addressing designated energy managers to identify and implement environmental concerns. energy conservation measures. During the year, the As a major mitigation initiative, energy efficiency and ENCON measures implemented at our refinery locations renewable energy policies have gained lot of importance resulted in an estimated savings of 63,093 SRFT. By over the years. Inclusion of three sectors viz., Railways, undertaking various energy efficiency initiatives across Refineries and Electricity Distribution Companies the refineries, our refineries have registered best ever (DISCOMs) in the PAT (Perform Achieve Trade) scheme Fuel & Loss (F&L), Specific Energy Consumption (MBN) cycle-II shows that energy efficiency initiatives and and Energy Intensity Index (EII) of 8.75%, 72.6 and 98.5 policies are gaining traction across the sectors. BEE has respectively during the year 2017-18. achieved a cumulative energy saving of 8.67 million Energy Consumption (TJ)* Direct vs Indirect Energy Consumption (TJ)* 2,91,235 23,841 (8%) 2,25,385 2,21,479 2,20,449 2,13,967 2,67,394 (92%) 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Bottling Plant at Jammu & Kashmir Direct Energy Consumption Indirect Energy Consumption *Data Pertains to Refinery Division 88 89 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Fuel Savings due to ENCON Projects Emissions Direct Energy Consumption (TJ) By Fuel Type* in Standard Refinery Fuel Tonnes (SRFT)* Global warming due to anthropogenic emissions has IndianOil is committed towards low carbon growth by 17,497 grown into one of the most complex issues faced globally. achieving operational excellence that would reduce its 1,07,000 31,656 1,02,800 The vast consequences of climate change threaten to carbon footprint. In view of the same, we have undertaken affect not only our environment but also economic, social various mitigation measures like energy conservation, 63,093 and political setup. Warming of our ecosystem is energy efficiency, renewable energy generation and tree unequivocal, and since the 1950s, many of the observed plantation etc. across our operating locations. IndianOil 47,480 69,385 climatic and environmental changes have been has also taken a voluntary target to reduce its specific 1,48,855 unprecedented. The average surface temperature has carbon emissions by 18% by 2020 compared to base year 19,371 risen by about 0.8°C globally since 1880, while sea level 2012-13. has risen by 6-8 inches in the last century. Due to For IndianOil, refineries contribute more than 90% of the Liquid Fuel (FO/Naphtha/Diesel) Fuel Gas changing weather patterns, our planet is already total corporation’s emissions. We carryout carbon Coke Natural Gas 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 experiencing extreme climate conditions viz. heat stress, footprinting exercises across our operating locations flooding, drought, reduction in agricultural yield, sea level through which we identify and implement emissions rise, extreme precipitation and storm surges etc. The reduction measures. During the year, the total emission problem is further accentuated by the fact that the rate of from the refineries is 16.7 MMTCO2e, which is higher by occurrence of these climatic extremes are increasing, 25% compared to 2016-17. This increase in total e.g. the rate of rise in sea level in the past two decades is emissions is due to the inclusion of newly commissioned nearly double the rate observed in 100 years preceding it. Paradip refinery. The specific emissions from the Human influence on climate system is more evident with refineries stand at 0.242 MTCO2e/MT of crude the CO2 levels surpassing 400 ppm in 2013 for the first throughput, which is a reduction of 7.45% compared to time in the history of mankind. In this context, it is critical 2012-13. The ENCON measures implemented during the that companies and governments actively pursue year has estimated to reduce carbon dioxide emissions sustainable growth by continuously undertaking various equivalent to 2,04,321 tCO2e. The emissions reported by climate mitigation and adaptation actions to prevent the corporation are estimated as per international adverse impact on our ecosystem. protocols and relevant industry guidelines. Year on Year Scope 1 & Scope 2 Emissions* Year on Year Specific Emissions* (In Million Metric Tonnes of CO2e) (tCO2 e/MT of crude throughput) 16.71 0.264 0.262 14.01 0.243 13.64 0.242 13.38 12.91 0.241 0.235 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 *Data Pertains to Refinery Division 90 91 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Specific Emissions Reduction Emission reductions due to ENCON project Water (tCO2 Emitted/Tonnes of Throughput) (in million tCO2e) Water has become one of the most precious and scarce voluntary target of reducing our specific water 18% 0.35 0.33 resources today. Water related risk is a growing consumption by 20% by 2020 compared to 2012-13 operational and strategic risk for continued operation of levels by undertaking various water conservation 0.20 any business. At present, there is an increasing measures. During the year, the total water consumption competition for water resource across the geographies, by our refineries stands at 99.45 million KL. The 7.45% 0.15 Target by 2020 which poses a huge sustainability risk for the increased water consumption is due to the inclusion of 0.06 communities and the ecosystem. As per a recent report newly commissioned Paradip Refinery. However, the by 2030 Water Resources Group, water demand in India specific water consumption by our refineries stands at 3 Achievement till 2017-18 would reach 1.5 trillion m by 2030 against the current 1.44 m3/MT of crude processed for the year 2017-18, water supply of 740 billion m3. Considering the projected which is a reduction of 8.61% compared to 2012-13. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 growth, it is estimated that India may face an aggregate Base year 2012-13 Water footprinting exercises have been carried out every gap of 50% of water demand against the supply. Though year across the locations to identify and implement water the water stress in the country is majorly driven by the savings measures. We had installed over 560 rainwater During the year, total throughput by the pipeline division is 17. Further, an estimated 7,85,080 tCO2e of GHG agriculture sector, adopting water efficiency measures harvesting systems till date with water harvesting 85.68 MMT and the total GHG emissions associated with emissions have been avoided through our pipeline across industrial, commercial and residential sectors has potential of around 3 billion litres per annum. During the our pipeline operations is 3,85,121 tCO2e. The specific transportation as compared to transportation through rail to be ensured, besides reusing/recycling for efficient year, IndianOil refineries have recycled around 38.74 emissions during the year 2017-18 is 4.55 kg CO2e/ MT of network. utilization of water and to address the water related risks. million Kl of water i.e., 89% of effluent water generated. throughput, against 4.59 kgCO2e/MT for the year 2016IndianOil understands that water is the vital resource for For Indian Oil, surface water is the major source followed its sustained operations, takes continuous actions to by ground water. Measures like rainwater harvesting, improve its water efficiency and to reduce overall water reusing/recycling of effluent water generated have helped Specific Emissions (kg CO2 e/MT of Crude Throughput) Comparison of Emissions During 2017-18 (in tCO2e) footprint. It aims to reduce the effluent water generation in refineries to reduce the fresh intake of water. We 1,170,201.60 its operations and recycle every drop of effluent water continuously monitor the quality of treated effluent water generated. We have installed water metering systems discharged outside our installation and ensure the PCB 7,85,079.84 across our installations through which we continuously guidelines are complied with. Further, IndianOil has 2016-17 4.89 385,121.76 monitor total water consumed from various sources, ensured that no water resources have been significantly Total Projected Emissions by Rail effluent water generated and effluent recycled in our affected due to its operations. Emissions Avoided Through operations. We are making steady progress towards our Total GHG Emissions Due Transportation for same Throughput 2017-18 4.55 to Pipeline Transportation Pipeline Transportation Prevention of Air Pollution IndianOil refineries are complied with the norms of Total Ozone Depleting Substances (tonnes) 1 Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Flare Hydrocarbon (tonnes) 1,13,239 Pollution Control Board (SPCB) to continuously monitor NOx (tonnes) 14,223 the air emissions from its operations. The corporation tracks its SOx, NOx, stack emissions and particulate SOx (tonnes) 32,282 matter emissions released into atmosphere from its Stack and fugitive emissions (tonnes) 12,908 operations and ensure the emission levels are within the Particulate matter (PM) (tonnes) 4,873 permissible limits. 92 93 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Total Water Consumption (in Million kilolitres) Specific water consumption(m3/MT of crude throughput) Waste IndianOil strives to reduce the amount of waste generated convertors across the locations. For waste paper 99.44 1.66 1.66 at different phases of its operations across the value recycling, our locations have partnered with third party 88.87 87.94 chain and reuse/recycle the waste generated wherever recyclers who would collect the waste paper and provide 86.18 1.58 new paper stationeries against the same. During the year 84.64 possible. Oil industry handles highly hazardous and toxic 1.51 81.83 products and hence, safe disposal of waste generation is 2017-18, we have recycled around 130 tonnes of waste 1.44 1.44 of utmost important for IndianOil. The wastes that are not paper. To treat the organic/kitchen waste generated at recycled in our operations are disposed off as per the our locations, we have installed organic waste convertors CPCB and SPCB norms. We continuously monitor the and biogas plants. The biogas generated from the biogas quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes plants/organic waste convertors is used for cooking generated in our value chain and disposed, and records purpose and the compost generated is used as manure. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 are maintained for the same. The major hazardous During the year, we have treated 338 tonnes of organic wastes generated during our operations are oil slop, oil wastes through biogas plants/OWCs installed at our sludge, spent catalyst and ETP sludge. locations. We are not transporting, importing, exporting or Effluent Water Generated vs Recycled (in million kilolitres) treating waste deemed hazardous under the terms of IndianOil aims to derive maximum value from the waste 43.76 BASEL convention. generated. Accordingly, we have taken waste paper 41.04 38.74 recycling initiative and implemented organic waste 40.22 40.06 39.61 37.20 34.68 33.34 Hazardous Waste 29.92 Type of Waste Quantity of Waste Treatment and Disposal Method (in tonnes) Spent Catalyst 14,176 Co-Processing in cement plant, Secured Land fill disposal, through CPCB approved Recycler 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Oil Sludge 44,116 Re-processing in Delayed Coker Unit and Processing at Volume of Waste Water Generated Volume of Waste Water Recycled centrifuge, Bio-remediation Oil Slop 3,51,314 Processed in Cokers/AVUs, Reprocessed along with crude oil, Blending with Visbreaker feed, Reprocessing in DCU Percentage of Effluent Water Recycled ETP Sludge 11,640 Bioremediation, Processed in DCU, land filling Biomedical Waste 12 Disposed through CPCB approved third party agency 91% 89% 88% 83% 74% Non-Hazardous Waste Type of Waste Quantity of Waste Disposal Method Disposed (in Tonnes) Ferrous Scrap 8,597 Disposed through CPCB approved third party agency Non-Ferrous Scrap 474 Disposed through CPCB approved third party agency 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Sewage Treatment Plant 94 95 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Environment Expenditure Bio-Diversity IndianOil complies with all the local and national laws and Gujarat Refinery has received three grievances through IndianOil believes Biodiversity is of greater importance for Year on Year Trees Planted at IndianOil's Installations (nos.) regulations without fail. There have been no violations GSPC in 2017-18, with respect to foul smell in Vadodara balanced and stable ecosystems. Thus, any harm and penalties reported for the year 2017-18 regarding our city, dumping of waste at Chamunada nagar-GIDC, Smell created to the ecosystems can have serious impacts on operations. We comply with all the environmental in areas of Jetalpur & Refinery boundary, and the same habitats of interdependent animals, plants, and 1,36,677 1,22,336 standards by central pollution control board and state have been addressed and resolved. In Ahmednagar, microorganisms and their environment. To conserve the pollution board. There have been no show cause/ legal public grievance case for contamination of Groundwater natural habitats, IndianOil has developed greenbelts in its 55,754 51,817 51,542 notice received from CPCB/SPCB for the year 2017-18. caused due to leakages of products from petroleum operating locations. Also, extensive tree plantations have Further, there were no fines, monetary or non-monetary storage tanks and pipelines installed by IndianOil & BPCL been undertaken across the refineries, townships and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws was filed and the same is pending with NGT (National other installation to develop green cover. Native tree and regulations have been reported during the year. Strict Green Tribunal). All the directions given by NGT court are species have been chosen to carryout the plantation environmental and regulatory compliance have been complied by IndianOil. activity. During the year 2017-18, around 1,22,300 trees achieved across the company. have been planted in our operating locations. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Expenditure Incurred Amount spent (in R Crore) Treatment and disposal cost of waste 8.94 Expenditure of Treatment of effluent/ air pollution control etc., 53.53 Expenditure on Environmental monitoring stack & ambient monitoring; effluent 10.11 Expenditure for consent / authorization/ EC etc 2.81 Other environmental cost (like external services ) 26.63 Other environmental cost (like green belt development, 10.30 RO plant operation & maintenance, oily sludge processing etc.) Eco-park at IndianOil Refinery 96 97 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Digboi Refinery ponds gardens around 280 plant species including 37 In order to maintain the natural environment in and species of medicinal plants under 81 families. around the refinery, Digboi has planted more than 15,000 Gujarat Refinery plants of different verities in the last decade. Digboi Refinery conducts awareness program on environment The greenbelt area developed in Gujarat refinery spread time to time amongst the public. A week long program is across 96 acres with more than 1,70,000 trees under 53 celebrated during World Environment day every year with species which serves as a natural habitat for large structured program where main focus is in the number for birds. participation by the School students. On and above in Guwahati Refinery every year more than 2500 students participates in the various programs and competitions. An exhibition on Guwahati Refinery with the theme of “PRAKRITI KE environment “Digboi Paribesh Mela” held every year SAATH, PRAGATI KI OR”, is extensively focused on during World Environment Day. natural harmony with the preservation of surrounding and its bio-diversity. The Refinery had created the eco-park Mathura Refinery covering an approximate area of approximately 40000 Ecological Park in the Mathura Refinery is an example of m2. Currently, Plantation is carried out in a new eco-park its commitment towards environmental protection. by adopting Akira Miyakawi method developed by Spread in an area of 4.45 acre, this lush green oasis Japanese botanist with the help of CPCB Shillong. Seed Balling Initiative thrives on the treated effluent. the fact that the park is Tamil Nadu State Office (TNSO) has embarked on seed balling program to reseed the land. TNSO, Panipat Refinery inside the premises of a round the clock working Oil IndianOil initiated the first event of Seed balling on 23rd July 2017. Employees & their Families, Students refinery and is also a preferred mating ground for Panipat refinery developed a Green belt in close cofrom different schools, Colleges and Rotary participated enthusiastically in the seed balling event. domestic as well as migratory birds is a testimony to the ordination with Haryana Forest department. The refinery Seed balls, also known as earth balls consists of a variety of seeds rolled within a ball of clay, preferably low level of pollution in the refinery. The excellent natural has 14 km long peripheral greenbelt area around in volcanic pyroclastic red clay. Seed balling is a technique of reseeding the land where the natural flora conditions that have been maintained on a continual addition to greenbelt area in the refinery township. There has been destroyed by embedding organic seed balls in the ground. basis are an authentication of the continual greening are four eco-ponds in the refinery where the treated It is considered as an easy method of reforestation as the seeds are simply tossed in areas where the efforts of Indian Oil. The Mathura Refinery has effluent is stored for natural aeration and UV rays land is already fertile; therefore no extra measures need to be taken. The seeds are usually tossed right undertaken tree plantation activities outside the refinery treatment. Subsequently, the treated water would be before the monsoon season starts so that they can germinate. premises in the Taj Reserve Forest Area and the Runakta used for watering the greenbelt area. Seeds balls are prepared by mixing the seeds with mud, compost and cow dung given shape like little Reserve forest area covering an area of about 96.25 balls kept in shade for 5-6 hours to dry and stored in gunny bags. The cow dung helps to keep animals Bongaigaon Refinery hectare. and pests away. The seeds that were chosen are endemic to the region. Bongaigaon Refinery has achieved a zero discharge Paradip Refinery Seed balls were distributed to TT drivers of IndianOil. An estimated 5000 seed balls were distributed to status through its efficient effluent management. In the To maintain eco-friendly environment in and around its POL and LPG bullet truck drivers, which were spread on the barren lands near to the State Highways and year 2017-18, the refinery has planted more than 29000 premises, Paradip Refinery developed an ecological park National Highways. nos. of tree sapling in and around the complex. Within the in an area of approximately 2,30,000 m2. The Eco Park is Native seeds like Veppam-Neem, Vilvam, Poovarasu, Nelli, Iyalvaagai. Manjakonnai, Seetha, Guava, township, the refinery maintains a ‘Herbal and Orchid developed with an objective to provide a natural habitat Aanaikundumani, Sarakonnai, Thoongumoonchi, Karungkonnai, Agathi were used for the seed balling Garden’ spread over an area of 1.84 acres with more than for several species of rare local and migrating birds. This program to spread the forest cover in Tamil Nadu with native trees. 150 herbs and more than 40 varieties of orchids. ecological park is integrated with rain water harvesting ponds which can harvest approximately 2,90, 000 m3 rain water per annum. Barauni Refinery The ecological park developed in Barauni refinery is breeding and roosting ground for at least 20 species of birds. The greenbelt area with has two artificial ecological 98 99 33,157 IOCians in NATION’S SERVICE Employees 101 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Our Employees Employee turnover 2017-18 (By Age) Employee turnover 2017-18 (By Gender) Employees are the backbone of our organisation, and we their advancement through appropriate training and strive to ensure that the quality of our employees career planning. 12.22% improves and our people remain motivated to achieve It has been our endeavour to recruit the best from the success for themselves as well as the organisation. In a 4.54% 5.47% 5.40% 3.47% available talent. About 1,844 executives joined IndianOil large organisation like ours, this essentially requires during 2017-18 from various reputed institutes and continuous engagement with our human capital, and through all India open recruitment exercise. As on having in place a structured and transparent work 0.48% 31.03.2018, the IndianOil family stood strong with 33,157 environment. As per our Corporate Vision, we seek to employees, engaged in undertaking pan-India operations develop the capabilities of our employees and facilitate of the Corporation. <30 Years 30-50 Years >50 Years Female Male Total Employees Category (nos.) Employees Recruited in 2017-18 (By Gender) 1,678 15,445 1,092 14,942 2,770 30,387 Officers 17,123 Non-Officers 16,034 Total Employee 33,157 Female Male 1,681 163 Male Female Number of Employees (By Age Group) Number of Employees Recruited in 2017-18 (By Age Group) 1,679 161 4 7,433 13,903 11,821 <30 Years 30-50 Years >50 Years IOCians at Imphal Depot <30 Years 30-50 Years >50 Years 102 103 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Total Contract Labour 59,813 Employee Engagement Total Casual Labour 11 Indian Oil Corporation Limited has always supported the Employees’ participation is also ensured through Total Consultants/ Liaison officers/ doctors on contract, etc 115 participative culture in the management of its enterprise. information sharing with collectives and employees on It is encouraged through consultative approach with the regular basis while seeking their support, suggestions collectives, establishing a harmonious relationship and co-operation. IndianOil lays strong emphasis on training and motivating to advance. A policy has been brought out towards a structured aiming for industrial peace leading to higher productivity. keep its workforce constantly engaged. We induct officers at succession planning framework and systematic the junior-most level of the management hierarchy. Though development planning to fill critical senior management Collective Bargaining latent creativity in every individual thereby fostering we focus on hiring the best for the company, the learning positions in line with the vision and business strategy of the amongst the employees a sense of achievement, a process does not stop there. IndianOil is an academy Corporation In pursuance of healthy industrial relations practices and feeling of participation and involvement in the growth of sound personnel policies, the Management pursues company with 21 training centers for mid-career skill-sets the organization. It provides a well designed procedure In an effort to ensure non-corrupt practices, IndianOil has dialogue with recognized representatives of employees. upgradation. for receiving, evaluating and rewarding creative ideas of adopted Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules that bar Freedom of Association is available to all 33,157 Having pan-India presence with 33000-odd employees, acceptance of bribes and consider it as misconduct. There the employees. In order to improve performance & employees. Overall there are 25 recognized unions IndianOil has uniform HR policies for all its account, while it are various checks and measures in-built in the monitoring of the suggestion scheme and to make it more representing workmen in various Divisions and one also takes into account the disparity of different geographies organizational setup which helps in preventing corruption. employee friendly, the suggestions are now being common Officers’ Association for all officers in IndianOil accepted online through local e-suggestion portal. of India. For example, considering the difficult terrain and Employees are given freedom to report, confidentially and and registered under the Trade Union Act, 1926. The right hardship that employees posted in north-eastern part of anonymously on any malpractices observed in our business to freedom of association or collective bargaining by the Total Productivity Maintenance (TPM) India face, they are provided with better incentives and practices through various channels. Further various training employees are regulated by the Trade Union Act and TPM activities encourage participation of employees by allowances as compared to say someone who is posted in a programmes are held for disseminating know-how of these there are no operations which might pose a risk to it. The inculcating sense of ownership at work place resulting in metropolis. Similarly, the local culture is adopted at locations systems and channels in place. organization has established policies and practices engagement of employees and enhanced productivity, so that the local needs can be addressed. through which the collectives exercise the freedom of IndianOil trusts its employees in taking care of the improved quality, reduced cost, improving delivery, collective bargaining on issues of common interest such Historically, IndianOil has enjoyed low levels of attrition, the company’s interests and respects their contribution to the enhanced safety and boosting morale. TPM circles of as to settle issues like pay/pay related benefits, figures never having crossed the 2% mark among Company’s success. To harbor employee’s trust, IndianOil employees are formed at sectional levels and regular allowances, career progression policies etc, which in turn executives. Over the last several years, the competition to actively strives resolve any matter of grievance, circle meetings are held at workplace. Employees helps develop mutual understanding and nurtures spot and draw the best talent has intensified in the corporate discrimination, harassment in strict compliance to the discuss and analyze processes in their work areas, responsible relationship. Around 48% of our total identify non-value adding activities (NVAs) and eliminate world. To minimize the impact of attrition, a lot more existing laws and policies of the Company and the Country. employees are covered by collective bargaining them to make the work processes more efficient. My emphasis has been given to succession planning, creating agreements and above 95% employees are a part of the IndianOil has emerged as one of the best employers in India Belief, My TPM, My Practice model has been developed bench-strength and training the workforce to be multivarious recognized and unrecognized associations and in a study jointly conducted by The Economic Times & Great and attempted successfully by Refineries Headquarters skilled. The exit interviews of the officers are seriously the IndianOil Officers Association. By serving a notice Place to Work Institute, covering 791 Indian companies and for the first time in the world. The same is being replicated analyzed so that we can take appropriate corrective actions. period of 21 days, IndianOil reserves the right to propose more than 1.5 lakh employees. During the year, IndianOil in all Refinery Units. th th a change in the condition of service applicable to the Succession Planning, clubbed with talent pipeline building, was ranked 27 (34 rank during 2016) in ‘India’s Best workmen, in any matter. Employee Engagement Initiatives ensures achieving this objective by identifying and Companies to Work For-2017’ list and was the top-ranked preparing the right person for the right positions, well in PSU. Various Committees Various employee engagement activities such as surveys, Health talks, Yoga sessions, Run for health, The culture of participation has taken roots in the form of IndianOil Solaris Quiz, Training programmes, various committees such as Works Committee, Safety Inspirational talks, Plays highlighting Corporation's Core Committee, Canteen Committee, Grievance Committee, values, Swachh Bharat Pakhwada etc were also House Allotment Committee, Township Welfare conducted during the year. Results of Customer Committee, Recreation Clubs, Consumer Co-operative Satisfaction Survey, 2017 have been compared with 2016 Industry-Academia Interaction Societies, Employees’ Provident Fund Trust and results, analyzed and Unit-wise action plans have been Superannuation Benefit Fund Trust wherein employees’ In order to explore engagement with academic institutions of repute like IITs and IIMs on a sustained formulated for improvement in services based on representatives are actively involved. basis, a 2-day conclave was held at IiPM in February 2018. Meaningful deliberations ensued and feedback. Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey for 2018 possible areas of engagement between IOCL and these institutes have been identified. Suggestion Scheme was also launched on 01.01.2018 for assessing employee needs and happiness level. Indian Oil Suggestion Scheme aims at harnessing the 104 105 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Employee Growth Training Mandays (by Division) Training Mandays (by Gender) Our people agenda, like everything else we do, embodies Specialised training programs on safety and security and 58,553 the spirit of inclusiveness – both for skill-building and for disaster management are mandatory for plant setups. 48,844 leadership development. We design training modules for These are undertaken for the employees, contract 8,118 1,23,575 1,31,693 our employees and contractual labours, internally, based labours as well as the security personnel. At the end of 21,849 on the needs and requirements of the job. Continuous each training program, a feedback is obtained from the training programs are conducted throughout the year for participants to assess the program as well as the trainer. 2,447 employees from various verticals depending on the need. During the year 2017-18, 1.3 lakh man-days of functional, Programs are designed to enable functional as well as developmental and safety training were imparted to developmental training of employees. While the employees. Further more then 7 lakh man hours of Marketing Refinery Pipeline R&D Female Male Total functional trainings focus on technical knowledge, training related to Health, Safety & Environment were developmental trainings are hosted on a wide range of imparted to workforce across the divisions. Training Provided to Superannuating Employees and Ex-Employees topics including human rights, health & safety, career No of Total ManTopics Covered development and sustainability among others. Participants Hours Retirement Planning, Benefits, Post Retirement Medical Scheme, Diet and food habits, Managing Transition Planning, Life Style Management-Yoga Change 735 4,355 Management, Tax Planning, Investment, Health and Wellness Average No. of Training Days Per Employee Per Year (By Employee Category) Category Average No. of Training Days Officer 6.80 Non Officer 2.19 Project Saksham – Indianoil's Flagship Leadership Competency Development Program SAKSHAM, the leadership development programme has created new opportunities and made learning an ongoing process in the organisation and not merely a one-off event. Functional As a next step, customised and specialized training modules on each of the leadership competencies Sustainability have been designed in consultation with some of the best Management Institutions like IIM Ahmedabad, Domain IIM Bangalore, IIM Calcutta and XLRI, as our knowledge partners. Project Saksham, meaning ‘Competent’ provides a structured approach towards Leadership Competency Development for the identified leaders. Each customized leadership development capsule Personal focuses on one of the leadership competencies (e.g. Strategic Leadership, Customer Leadership, Development Technical Content Leadership, Talent Leadership, etc.) Training These Leadership Development Programme predominantly involve extensive training and “experiential Areas learning”, wherein the participants work on cases, role plays, movies, simulation exercises, business games, etc. Anti Human Expanding the Reach, The scope of Project Saksham, which was hitherto focused on officers at Corruption Rights transition from Middle to Senior Management (Grades ‘F’, ‘G’ & ‘H’), has been expanded in 2017 to include officers undergoing transition from Junior management to Middle management (Grades ‘D’ & ‘E’) with experiential inputs on leadership competencies so that they are able to match the expectations of the organisation in terms of leadership expectations at all levels. In order to meet the increased Health & coverage, IOCL has expanded its learning horizon and additionally tied up with other IIMs – Lucknow, Career Safety Development Indore, Kozhikode and Shillong. In 2017-18, around 650 executives in Middle / Senior Management have been covered under this program. 106 107 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Workforce Diversity & Inclusivity Many of our female employees have been presented with launched in September 2017. Twenty high performing prestigious awards for their outstanding contribution at women executives in mid-level are undergoing the By imbibing and promoting diversity and inclusiveness in ramps and Braille machines etc are provided for our work place. It is in the benefit of the organization to programme. The programme is guided by two renowned work place, IndianOil strives to understand the needs of employees with disabilities, at our offices, to make their motivate women employees to bring to the table their mentors / experts in the area of leadership training. its employees, suppliers, and customers in a holistic way work experience as smooth as possible. Active efforts are talent and help the organization by complementing their Beyond IndianOil, 33% reservation is given to female and provide better solutions. We understand that a made to promptly resolve representations / grievances male counterparts. entrepreneurs while handing out Kisan Seva Kendra diverse workforce can provide a richer and more received from individuals under these categories. A long term coaching and mentoring programme, a new (KSK) distributorships and petty contracts among others. productive work environment, and hence strive to attain At IndianOil, steps are taken to make the workexperiment and initiative, the first of its kind, was more diversity amongst our employees. environment secure, friendly and enriching for its women Our efforts are not merely restricted to hiring stage only, employees to encourage them take up challenging Maternity Leave (Nos.) 2017-18 but to also develop and retain the best people. We provide assignments in various business verticals. The culture of equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, the organization is congenial and conducive to Employees entitled to maternal leave All Female Employees promotion, training and rewards for all employees, productivity, enabling women employees to contribute Employees that took maternal leave 54 without discrimination on the basis of caste, colour, freely. Employees who returned to work after maternal leave ended 41 gender, religion or region. We remain one of the largest employers of Women in the Employees who returned to work after maternal leave ended and who were still 41 IndianOil scrupulously follows the presidential directives Public Sector companies of India, with nearly 8.36% of employed 12 months after their return to work and guidelines issued by Government of India regarding our workforce being women. Women employees in Public Return to work rate and retention rates of employees who took maternal leave 100% 75.93% reservation in services for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled sector are a part of a separate association called “Forum All male employees are entitled to 15 days paternity leave. During the year 2017-18, 822 male employees availed the leave. Tribe, Other Backward Classes, & Physically Challenged of Women in Public Sector” (WIPS). Various Women’s Persons / Ex-servicemen to promote inclusive growth. Cells have been created across our Divisions to ensure Rosters are maintained as per the Directives and are that women can discuss and demand action on Promotion of Hindi Language regularly inspected by the Liaison Officer(s) of the grievances / complaints in these forums. These cells Hindi, being the official language, is promoted to be freely competitions are organised to spread awareness on the Corporation as well as the Liaison Officer of MOP&NG to function under the active guidance of Head of Human used by employees in their day-to-day work and subject. In an Advisory Meeting held at Srinagar by our ensure proper compliance of the Directives. Resource Department of the Unit / Region concerned. communications. This includes communication with governing Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, IndianOil Grievance/Complaint Registers are also maintained at Not only are women recruited and represented without some of our key stakeholders such as Customers, was awarded for having undertaken the best efforts to Division/Region/ Unit levels for registering grievances bias, they are also given equal opportunity to grow within Central / State Governments, Contractor labours, Supply promote Hindi language in its work place. from OBC/SC/ST employees. Suitable facilities like the organisation. chain, etc. Many events, daily broadcasts and Benefits to Female Employees Maternity Leave 180 days of Maternity Leaves for the first two children Employee Value Proposition (EVP) Getting Child Care Leave 2 Years Child Care Leave without pay, once in entire service the Pulse of the People–Inside and Outside Child Adoption Leave Child Adoption Leave with pay for a period of 180 days in order to facilitate them to An Employee Value Proposition (EVP) is the unique set of benefits which employees receive in return for skills, capabilities and experience they bring to a company. While addressing the basic question “why take care of the adopted child, not exceeding three years should I work for you”, it enables a firm to position itself as employer of choice and thus, attract best talent Husband Joining Leave Special Leave without pay can be availed by female employees to join their besides providing a reason to the existing employees for working with an organisation. It forms the husbands who are posted at another location, for a period not exceeding 3 years cornerstone of employer branding, which as a concept, has not seen much progress in India. Very few Indian companies have developed an EVP – Tata, Godrej to name a few. during the entire service 108 109 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Benefits to Employees 4 Reservation in Recruitment and Promotions Benefits to 4 Various allowances such as conveyance allowance, Differently medical equipment special training, special equipment Abled aid Employees 4 Provision of Barrier free access 4 Preference in terms of posting to the extent possible 4 Contributory Provident Fund Gratuity 4 Group Linked Insurance scheme EPS 1995 Social Security 4 Compensation on Death Benefits 4 Super Annuation Benefit Fund Scheme 4 Post-retirement Medical Benefits IndianOil Yuva Urja A platform for connecting with Gen Y/Millennial, sharing of information on IOC’s employee friendly policies has been developed. Taking into account the feedback received from the Great Place to WorkBasic Trust Index Feedback Report 2017, a hands-on training program was organized at IIM Kozhikode for young HR officers of IOC below the age of 32 years, which was concluded with sharing of ideas by these young officers on practical steps to improve on the five parameters of Great Place To Work Survey – Camaraderie, Pride, Fairness, Respect, Credibility. IOCians at Jaipur Smart Terminal 110 111 Social Performance 113 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Initiatives As a responsible corporate citizen, IndianOil undertakes economically backward groups’, etc. a number of social welfare and community development Skill Development Institute, In an effort to promote and improve the health of programmes throughout the country. IndianOil units Bhubaneshwar, Odisha communities in the vicinity of its areas of operation, identify deserving causes in their vicinity for allocation of IndianOil runs child and maternity health centres. These Skill Development Institute, Bhubaneswar (SDI-B) was funds from their Community Development budget. The activities are conducted with the active involvement of the established on 9th May 2016 with an aim to provide local gram panchayats, district administration, NGOs and local communities. Safety training programs are also opportunities for skilling and livelihood to the unemployed and social workers are involved wherever necessary. The conducted for the rural communities to sensitize them underprivileged youth of Odisha and to provide skilled corporation also directly executes projects, if required. towards the safety, security and environmental aspects manpower to the industry. Since inception, 528 students have Fund utilization is closely monitored to ensure that the successfully completed various courses and 80% of them have relating to our operations. There have been no incidents benefits of the programmes flow directly to the identified been successfully placed. of involuntary resettlements due to our operations or target groups. It is fully ensured that all our focus areas of projects. IndianOil ensures that none of its operations in line with the Schedule VII under the New Companies have potential negative impact on local communities. Act 2013 and Corporate Social Responsibility Rules, There have been no monetary fines/sanctions for non2014. IndianOil’s key Corporate Social Responsibility compliance of laws and regulations. (CSR) thrust areas include ‘Safe drinking water and protection of water resources’, ‘Healthcare and For the year 2017-18, entire budget allocation of L331.05 sanitation’, ‘Education and employment-enhancing crore was spent on CSR activities, thereby achieving vocational skills’, ‘Empowerment of women and socially / 100% budget utilization. Kaushal Vikas Kendra, Barauni, Bihar IndianOil’s Kaushal Vikas Kendra, Barauni started functioning CSR Expenditure (L Crores) from March 2017 with an aim to provide skill training to the youth 331 of Begusarai district. At present, skill training is provided in 5 trades viz. Plumbing, Masonry, Welding, Fitter & Electrician. During 2017-18, 448 candidates were enrolled under various 214 trades, out of which 341 candidates have been certified. 157 64 128 114 47 83 82 79 19 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2013-14 2012-13 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Skill Training in Plastic Engineering Trades in Assam, Odisha & West Bengal Activity wise CSR Expenditure (%) Plastic industry centric skill training was provided to unemployed youth in Assam, Odisha & West Bengal through 4% Central Institute of Plastics & Engineering Technology (CIPET) Health Care centres at Guwahati, Bhubaneswar and Haldia. During 201725% Environmental Sustainablity + Sanitation 18, 135 youth were trained, out of which 82 candidates were 33% Education provided placement opportunity and 10 candidates preferred to Skill Development start their entrepreneurial initiatives. Art & Culture/ Sports/ Others 26% New projects near establishments 6% 6% across India 114 115 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages IndianOil Multi Skill Development Sarve Santu Niramaya, Institute, Digboi, Assam Digboi, Assam IndianOil Multi-Skill Development Institute (iMSDI), Digboi IndianOil’s unique CSR initiative titled “Sarve Santu started operations in 2014 to provide vocational skill training to Niramaya” (Good health to all) was launched in December local youth in various industry-linked skills and competencies. 2012 to provide free health consultation and free medicines The target beneficiaries include unemployed/ underto human beings as well as livestock of the villages near employed/BPL youth of North-East region with specific Digboi Refinery. During 2017-18, 28 Sarve Santu Niramaya emphasis on surrounding areas of Digboi. During 2017-18, 237 camps were organized, in which 3,766 human beings and youth were enrolled in various courses, out of which 176 23,496 cattle/poultry were treated/ vaccinated. students have been certified. Enclosure for Asiatic Lions, Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital, Mangaluru, Karnataka Mathura, Uttar Pradesh IndianOil constructed an enclosure for Asiatic Lions in Dr. Swarna Jayanti Samudayik Hospital at Mathura (with 50 beds), Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisarga Dhama (Biological Park), established in 1999, provides medical treatment to residents Mangaluru, which is spread over an area of 356 acres. The near Mathura Refinery, Uttar Pradesh. During 2017-18, 57,752 enclosure will provide exclusive habitation for the Asiatic Lions, patients were treated at this Hospital, out of which operative which is an endangered species. About 1000 animals inhabit procedures were conducted on 767 patients. the zoo. Veterinary facilities are also provided within the zoo campus. About 6 Lakh people visit the Biological Park/ zoo every year. Assam Oil School of Nursing, Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi, Assam Digboi, Assam Assam Oil School of Nursing (AOSN), established in 1986, Assam Oil Division Hospital, Digboi, established in 1906, is a offers 3-year Diploma in General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) 200-bed hospital with modern facilities. It caters to the course to young girls with intake capacity of 30 students per population residing near Digboi and other nearby areas of the year. Since inception, 410 students have successfully North East. During 2017-18, 14,669 non-employee patients completed GNM course with 100% placement record. In FY were treated at the hospital. 2017-18, 59 girls were enrolled for GNM & B.Sc. Cources. 116 117 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Supporting and sustaining 5 schools Empowering women through at Refinery Locations Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana IndianOil is supporting and sustaining four Kendriya Vidyalayas As per a World Health Organization study, about 1 million in four IndianOil Refineries located at Barauni, Guwahati, people die every year in India attributed to diseases related to Haldia and Mathura & one Higher Secondary School at indoor air pollution. During 2017-18, under CSR, LPG Bongaigaon. During 2017-18, 3345 students were supported by connections were released to 4.77 lakh families. IndianOil through these schools. Assistive devices to Divyangjans in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha & Bihar Assistive devices like tricycles, wheel chairs, crutches, walking sticks, hearing aids, artificial limbs, etc. were provided to Divyangjans in Andhra Pardesh, Punjab, Odisha & Bihar in association with Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation (ALIMCO). The beneficiaries were selected through camps organized in the villages near the target locations. During 201718, 902 Divyangjans in these four States were provided with various assistive devices. Vegetable cellar constructed by IndianOil at Nang Village Leh Quenching thirst of villagers & IndianOil Gyanodaya Scheme illuminating village in Hopetown village, in Govt. ITIs & Polytechnics Andaman & Nicobar Islands IndianOil Gyanodaya Scheme was launched in 2017 with the IndianOil, through its flagship CSR projects Jal-Jeevan & Surya aim to provide scholarships to students pursuing 2-year regular Prakash, has fulfilled the need for clean drinking water & courses in Government ITIs and 3-year regular courses in illumination of Hope town village of South Andaman District in Government Polytechnics, on merit-cum-means basis, to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 6000 people have benefitted incentivize them to perform well. During 2017-18, 1308 from this project. So far, IndianOil Jal-Jeevan has been rolled students from 30 ITIs and Polytechnics were selected for out in 30 villages and IndianOil Surya Prakash in 25 villages scholarship. across India. 118 119 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages The Indomitable ‘Warriors’ of Leh and Kargil In 1999, during the Kargil wars, an army officer had famously said “The only people who come to Kargil are either your trusted friends or your sworn enemies”. The officer’s words stand true even today. The remote mountainous region with rugged, unfriendly terrain and sub-zero temperatures falling to -30°C is situated at an altitude of 9,300 feet. The valour of Indian soldiers who overcame daunting hurdles in the Kargil war is well known. But what remains largely unknown is the Kargil Depot of IndianOil, which is the lifeline for people living in the area. At Leh Depot, the officers face icy-cold winds as they step out to load the tank trucks. The chilling weather conditions not only make this seemingly routine task a challenge in its own right, but the problem gets worse, as the fuel becomes so viscous that product handling becomes a shear nightmare. The men of Leh Depot seem to be ordinary individuals, but it is their belief in their role that makes them extraordinary. They are the flag-bearers of IndianOil in the harshest of conditions who ensure that even when Leh is cut off by snow, they keep the supply lines flowing for the civilian population. They are truly the embodiment of the indomitable IOCian spirit. 120 121 Health and Safety 123 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Health and Safety Awareness Generation & Commitment for Safe Work Places Safety consciousness is of particular importance in our direction for various safety, occupational health and industry, where we deal with complex technology and environment protection related activities. The safety & fire handle hazardous products on a daily basis. As industry protection measures at IndianOil encompass a wellleaders, we have done a lot to make our work-places, our sensitized Management, focus on imparting regular supply chain and our operations safe and secure. In terms training and a culture of safety throughout the Company. of technology, automation & modernisation, we are ahead All our Refineries, Pipelines Units and some of Marketing of all others in the industry. However, much more needs to locations are having accreditation of ISO 14001. be done. All our employees and contractors, across the functions As we expand in core as well as new businesses in the have the responsibility to identify, assess and mitigate coming years to achieve the next level of growth, the risks. We conduct periodical safety reviews which help in scale of our operations is bound to expand multifold, and understanding whether the Standard Operating the complexity and inter-dependence of our business Procedures (SOPs) are followed, systems are in place, Employees Taking Safety Pledge Safety Film Being Shown to Contract Workers processes is bound to increase. More importantly, the and identify any deviations and take corrective actions. It need for fool-proof, safe, healthy and environmentneeds dedication and co-operation from all stakeholders friendly operations will become more important. to attain zero harm in our operations and progress towards the goal of “Nobody gets Hurt”. IndianOil has a well-defined Health Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy approved by the Board, which gives Top Management Commitment to Safety As a large Public Sector entity dealing with highly volatile safety performance of the Corporation in Performance but extremely vital energy sources and infrastructure, Review Meetings. Major incidents and corrective actions safety is given paramount importance at IndianOil. The taken are apprised to the Board. Board is also apprised Head of Health, Safety & Environment at the Corporation quarterly about the compliance status of pending points of Demonstration & Operation of Fire Fighting Equipments Mock Drill at our Pipelines installation reports directly to the Chairman. External Safety Audit (ESA), carried out by Oil Industry Safety is reviewed in the Local Management Committee Safety Directorate (OISD). Directions issued by the Board Meetings chaired by Unit Head / Installation Head. during such reviews are implemented in time bound Functional Directors on the Board of IndianOil review manner. Safety Emphasis for Employees/ Contract Labours & Supply Chain Safety of our employees and contractors is vital for us. We focus on safe work places and safe practices. We ensure, aim for a safety culture that goes beyond compliance to 100% of our employees are represented by Safety one where people feel valued and show a deep care for committees. their actions. To boost safety consciousness, all IndianOil maintains highest level of process safety to employees, contractor labour, other staff and security are avoid any spill or leak of hazardous substances across involved in building the safety culture across our the operations. Further, we report safety incidents along locations. We have a vast network of Safety Committee with their significance with Tier 1 being the most members playing a vital role in this regard. Events like significant followed by Tier 2. During the year 2017-18, six safety day, safety week, pledge, mock drills, safety Tier 1 incident and three Tier 2 incidents were reported. related messages / notifications, safety awards etc are designed to engage the employees and reinforce the 124 125 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages IndianOil has a keen focus on training. Regular training on Separate training is also imparted to Safety Trainers to safety is imparted not only to company employees but keep them abreast with the latest developments and also to contract workmen and security personnel in training tools. During the year, Safety Training was various locations through experts & in-house safety imparted to 470 FPRS (First Person Responsible for Adherence to Safety Requirements by Contractors: personnel. Considering the socio-economic conditions Safety). The trainings covered issues such as OISD, Measures Adopted by IndianOil and high turnover of contractor personnel, major thrust is sharing of lessons learnt from recent accidents, Work given to train contractor personnel. Permit System, Earthing etc. 8 Inclusion of guidelines on safety in the tendering stage itself like General Conditions of Contract (G.C.C)/ Special Conditions of Contract (S.C.C) ensures safety standard during execution of the contract. 8 OISD guideline OISD-GDN-192 on “Safety Practices during Construction” forms a part of the tender Training Related to Health Safety & Environment document. The objective of this guideline is to provide guidance on technical and educational framework for safety & health in construction. 8 Before award of any job, a commitment is taken from the contractor to comply all HSE parameters % of Employees Given Safety & Safety Related Total Training Man Days during execution of any work. Skill up-gradation Training during 2017-18 8 It is ensured that the contractor provides adequate means and establishes a suitable programme on 79,615 98.2% safety & health for workers consistent with National/State laws and regulations. 89.2% 6,918 8 All jobs in the plants are carried out through a systematic Work Permit System to ensure that safety 67.5% precautions are taken in line with the norms of Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD). 1,464 8 Use of proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is enforced. Strict supervision is maintained by 32% Fire & Safety Personnel/site supervisors regarding compliance of permit conditions and use of PPE. 316 8 To ensure effectiveness of all the component of our safety system and activities, the following audit systems are in place: 4 Internal Safety Audit by multi disciplinary teams 4 External Safety Audit by OISD 4 Surprise Safety Check by OISD. 4 Surprise Inspection by IndianOil officials MARKETING REFINERY PIPELINE R&D Permanent Permanent Permanent Casual/Temporary/ Male Women Employees with Contractual Employees Employees Disability Employees/ Contract Labour Assisstance Program for Family Members of Workers Program Recipients Workers Operations with environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring Operations with public disclosure of results of YES environmental and social impact assessments Operations with works councils, occupational health and safety 100% committees and other employee representation bodies to deal Worker's Community with impacts Families Members Education Training Prevention Risk Control Counseling Treatment Nation First 126 127 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Safety Beyond IndianOil Preparedness Related Action Many initiatives are undertaken to sensitize nearby 8 Safety Awareness programs are conducted for 8 Regular mock drills are conducted. In addition, On-site and Off-site Disaster drills are conducted as per defined communities, industries, state bodies, regarding the safe nearby residents surrounding our units / installations / periodicity to check the emergency preparedness. practices being followed in our plants, safety practices in along our cross-country pipeline. 8 Liasoning with State & Central Government Agencies, e.g. Local Crisis group, National Disaster Response Force day-to-day activities, precautions and emergency 8 Safety clinics and LPG Panchayats are organised for (NDRF) etc for better co-ordination. responses for countering any accident, etc. Some of the LPG end users. Awareness programs for Customer initiatives undertaken by IndianOil to spread the Safety 8 To handle emergencies, adequate fire protection and fire-fighting facilities are provided. Attendants, Dealers, Distributors, Consumers, and message beyond its boundaries are given as under:Delivery Boys etc are also conducted. 8 On-site Emergency Response Drills are conducted 8 Employees, Contract workmen, Security personnel, involving the District Authorities, neighbouring TT crew are trained for Safe Operation by adopting industries etc. Indian Oil also participates in off-site Standard Operating Procedures and handling mock drills conducted by District Administration. emergencies. Assessing Emergency Emergencies/ Response Safety Class at School Safety-at-Home Program Risk Scenarios and Disaster Management Plan (ERDMP) Measures to Plans for Reduce / Disaster / Eliminate the Emergency Risk Mobilisation Post of Emergency Disaster Response Recovery Measures Plans Fire Service Government / NonGovernment Agencies Police Medical Service Service Safety Clinic at School 128 129 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Security Safety Performance 2017-18 Oil & Gas is of vital importance to national energy monitoring systems and the physical security at Incidents / Accidents in 2017-18 security. The safety of our infrastructure is important not installations have been vital in repelling threats to our 2017-18 No. only from economic but also from a security point-of plants / units. Regular trainings are undertaken for our Fatal Accidents 12 view. Our efforts to continuously upgrade our security security personnel to improve and equip them further. Fatalities 18 systems, improvements in digital security, centralized Near miss 84,474 Occupational Diseases Nil Man-days lost 474 No of loss time accidents 6 Major Fire incidents 4 Minor Fire incidents 23 Security Measures to Arrest Pilferage from Pipelines Cross-country pipelines are an environmentally and economically prudent way of transporting fuel Working Towards Safe Work Places: across the land. Unfortunately, this also means that these are at greater risk to pilferage, affecting us Learning From Safety Lapses economically and also compromising the safety and security of nearby areas. In 2017-18, out of total 44 cases, 33 pilferage attempts were foiled, yet the Corporation lost 107.76 kl to We strive to improve our processes and premises from Analysis (QRA) is carried out for any new unit or facilities. pilferage / spillage. Robust attempts are made to minimize such cases. All oil and gas installations have both technological and physical safety point of view. All Actions are taken on the basis of QRA to mitigate or been declared as “Prohibited Area”, and our installations / pipelines are manned by Security Guards and our plants and work undertaken at sites comply with minimize the hazards. CCTV-based surveillance system. Following additional measures are also adopted to arrest theft and various safety guidelines such as the Oil Industry Safety Representatives of the workmen and officers form the pilferage from pipelines: Directorate (OISD), Petroleum and Explosives Safety Safety Committee Meetings to identify risk / hazards and 8 Monitoring of Operational Parameters Organisation (PESO), Factory Act, NPA etc. Following measures to curb the same. All accidents / incidents are major fire accident in our Jaipur Terminal, all our locations 8 Physical Monitoring including Foot patrolling, Night patrolling investigated by a Committee with the objective of learning have now been upgraded as per recommendations of the and to avoid repetitive shortcomings. Recommendations 8 Involvement of villagers M B Lal Committee. are implemented in time bound manner. 8 Electronic Surveillance All incidents are categorized in terms of the actions they For new projects, pre-commissioning checks and audits 8 Liaison with Government Authorities warrant, into three major types: ones requiring systemic are carried out by multi-disciplinary teams and deviations, 8 Technological interventions changes, procedural changes or behavioural changes. if any, are corrected before start up. Also preAccordingly, assessment of risks and losses are made commissioning audit is carried by the Oil Industry Safety before action plans are formalized. Directorate (OISD) for new plants. Mechanical integrity of IndianOil locations are guarded by security personnel deployed by the CISF and the DGR. For identification, assessment and control of process equipment/ system is ensured through condition They receive various types of trainings as per the schedules of their employer. related hazards, Hazard and Operability (HAZOP) Study monitoring, periodic inspection and preventive/predictive and Risk Analysis are carried out. Quantitative Risk maintenance for reliable and safe operation. Number of Security Personnel Underwent Training in 2017-18 4631 2931 2069 Safety During Road Transport 819 444 Transport Disciplinary Guideline (TDG) has been implemented for providing standardized instructions to Tank Truck operators on all safety norms. Technology such as Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) and Anti49 Braking System (ABS) is being used to enhance vehicle safety and security. Regular eye check-ups, use of 28 alcohol breath analyzers, etc are used for Tank Truck crew to ensure better road safety. Driver Awareness programmes, Behaviour Manual, Night Driving Guidelines are also used to sensitize the Drivers. REFINERY MARKETING PIPELINE R&D Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Directorate General Resettlement (DGR) 130 131 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Occupational Health At IndianOil, focus on employee health is a priority. All medical tests to ensure that there are no adverse health programmes are designed with an eye to ensure healthy impacts on our employees / contractor labour. work places and employee well-being, to improve the In addition, employees are also trained on various productivity of employees. An Occupational Health aspects of occupational health hazards through basic Manual has been developed for uniform working of healthcare programs, fatigue at workplace, control of Occupational Health services across the Corporation. lifestyle disorders, first aid, art of living, Cancer detection / All refineries are certified to Occupational Health & Safety prevention program etc, and provided with suggestions Management System (OHSMS / OHSAS 018001), for improving their health. besides having fully equipped occupational health Periodical auditing of systems, procedures and facilities centres. relating to Occupational Health and Hygiene is IndianOil is the first PSU to launch Project Happiness and undertaken by qualified persons in Refineries. Other Wellbeing. Under this project, email based active programmes such as Blood Donation camps and questionnaires / health related suggestions are circulated drinking water portability tests are carried out at various to all employees and workshop on Happiness and locations. Wellbeing are conducted. Various media of Guidelines for maintenance and upkeep of food courts / communication such as house journals, posters, films, canteens across the Corporation, are in place. Nutritional etc. are extensively used for creating awareness. Evaluation Audit (Health & Hygiene) of canteens and In addition, personnel working in hazardous areas are guest house kitchens of IndianOil are taken up subjected to periodical medical examination to assess periodically. As part of Swatch Bharat Abhiyaan, Hygiene any adverse effect of the hazards on the personnel’s Index of all Canteens / Kitchens of IndianOil health. Doctors and paramedics are specially trained to establishments is being maintained and the Index is monitor the health of employees / contractor labour prominently displayed. working in hazardous areas. We also conduct periodical Naptha Cracker Plant at Panipat LPG Storage at Dhanaj Bottling Plant 132 133 Product Responsibility 135 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Product Responsibility During the year 2017-18, our R&D Centre filed 82 patents and 50 patents (12 Indian & 38 Overseas) were granted Besides enhanced oil recovery processes in upstream, IndianOil’s output-maximising technologies like INDMAX during the year. R&D lends the much-needed backend and clean-fuel technologies like OCTAMAX and IndianOil has taken continuous efforts in its progress towards product stewardship and thus constantly minimizing the support to the Company in the form of proprietary INDAdeptG are being deployed at various refineries. The health, safety and environmental impact of its products. IndianOil his supplying BS-IV grade fuel on pan India basis and research and commercialisation capabilities in lubricants, BS-VI Emission Test Facility was inaugurated during commenced the supply of BS-VI grade fuel in Delhi region from 1st April 2018. catalysts, Refinery processes and Pipelines operations. 2017-18 and is designed to test all types of fuels, such as The Centre's forte includes alternative energy petrol, diesel, ethanol-blended petrol, biodiesel, CNG, Research, Development & Innovation programmes in bio-energy, solar energy, Hydrogen LNG, Hydrogen-CNG and 2G-ethanol blends as per the energy, H-CNG blends, synthetic fuels and shale oil. superior BS-VI norms. The strength of IndianOil is its high-quality Research & supporting the Corporation's, business interests by Development (R&D) activities in upstream, refining and developing advanced technologies in lubricants The Centre is nurturing an eco-system conducive for alternative fuels. IndianOil is gearing up to emerge as a formulation, refinery processes, pipeline transportation innovations in the domestic hydrocarbons sector through diversified technology-provider and is setting up a new and alternative fuels, and holds a rich portfolio of 611 Startup initiatives such as ‘Start-Up Sangam’ which was R&D campus at Faridabad to house its new research active patents. launched during October 2017. Under IndianOil Start-Up facilities. It lays emphasis on commercialisation of Fund, 11 projects were selected for funding & incubation The R&D Centre also works in the areas of Petrochemical products & processes. in Technology & Business process areas. & Polymers, Catalyst, Extraction & Distillation, Battery, IndianOil's sprawling R&D Centre at Faridabad near Delhi Industrial Biotechnology, Refining Technology and is one of Asia's finest Centre and plays a key role in Automotive Research. R&D Expenditure (L Crore) 362.04 Research Landscape 235.27 224.93 217.53 109.57 174.4 Hydrogen 93.66 169.31 85.67 167.66 Fuel 81.4 Solar PV 78.32 SolarHydrogenHydrogen CNG Fuel Bio2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 Concentrated PV Solar Bitumen remediation Lantern Capital Expenditure Revenue Expenditure BioElectric Reformer Diesel Vehicle Refining Fuel Processes Cell Ethanol Procured (in Kilolitres) Number of Patens Filed (year on year) Thermal Gasification Storage Pyrolysis Ethanol 4,90,099 105 4,23,413 92 4,12,286 BioLi-ion methanation Battery 82 1,86,000 74 1,49,000 54 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 136 137 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Marketing Communication IndianOil is reaching out to the remotest corners through The Corporation has a strong and dedicated network of over 47,800 customer touch-points spread across the Corporate Communication group which drafts, designs IndianOil Start Up Scheme country. This wide network comprises of 27,089 Retail and places all marketing communication at the IndianOil Start up Scheme supports projects that aim to establish innovative technology and business Outlets of which 7,529 are Kisan Seva Kendras (KSKs), appropriate public platforms and media channels to process re-engineering ideas with significant business potential, social relevance and focussed on 10,213 LPG Distributors, and 91 LPG Bottling Plants, 107 inform a diverse cross section of customer segments. environment-protection. The scheme invites ideas in the domains of Technology Process Re-engineering Aviation Fuel Stations, 125 POL Terminals / Depots and The government is focusing on tracking customer (TPRE) as well as Business Process Re-engineering (BPRE) with broad subheads such as automation, 10.6 crores active domestic LPG customers as on 31st pipelines monitoring, renewables, 3D modelling, safety, retailing, addressing customer needs, etc. The feedbacks and grievances on real time basis until the March 2018. scheme is being administered through dedicated online portal. customer is satisfied with the complaint resolution. Marketing communication is a tool for transforming MoP&NG has created an e-Seva portal for online The scheme has revolving fund of Rs 30 crore to promote collaborative research, develop a vibrant & innovative ecosystem, nurture innovation & entrepreneurship, boost start-ups with rural orientation, and open customer service into customer relations thus playing an resolution of business queries related to the oil & gas up avenues for young and innovative minds of the country. important role in strengthening the close connect that sector. IndianOil has with all its stakeholders. Customer Health & Safety IndianOil’s customers perceive the Company as a reliable the LPG installation, biennially for its entire customer symbol for high quality products and services. Round-thebase. clock availability of the mechanics of the LPG agency The safety & fire protection measures at IndianOil helps in customers reporting leakage and other related encompass a well-sensitised Management, focus on safety issues to the Distributor. Further, the Distributors imparting regular training and a culture of safety are mandated to undertake a ‘Mandatory Safety Check’ of throughout the Company. Product information & Labelling All commercial products of IndianOil follow Bureau of Legal Metrology requirements also display the product Indian Standards (BIS) guidelines for product information information for the benefit of customers regarding the and labelling, details of which are given below: technical specification and recommended use of the product being marketed. LPG: LPG Cylinders, Pressure Regulators & Valves conform to BIS Standards, which are displayed on the Aviation Fuel: The product is sold in bulk and the product equipments. The Distributors are also under instruction specification test report of all the batches is provided. to sell LPG Rubber Hose and Hot Plates conforming to Petrochemicals: For all our petrochemical products, the BIS Standards. Certification of Analysis depicting all quality parameters is Bitumen: Bitumen is mostly sold in bulk and only approx attached with each consignment. All Polymer products of 10% of product is sold in packed form in barrels. It is IndianOil are 100% recyclable and a “recyclable” symbol ensured that product specifications are made available to is printed on package of products as per ASTM (American the consumer and highest quality control & safety Society for Testing & Material) International Resin procedures are followed whilst marketing these products. Identifications Coding Systems. Lubricants: All product labels, besides complying with Customer Safety First 138 139 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages LPG – Customer Connect, Feedback & Grievance Redressal The Ministry has provided a Single Point Emergency Cell with number 1906 to resolve LPG leakage emergencies round-the-clock. It is a centralized cell which routes the leakage complaint to the concerned LPG distributor and in case of un-attended complaints; it is further escalated to the concerned Sales Officer of IndianOil and further to the Area Office and State Office. IndianOil has provided a toll-free customer complaint helpline for resolving customer grievances related to LPG product and/or service. The Company also provides online portals like Transparency portal (www.indane.co.in), MyLPG (www.mylpg.in) besides providing facility of SMS, Interactive Voice Response system (IVRS), Indane mobile app and Facebook for booking LPG refill or lodging complaints anywhere in India. State-wise Customer Service Cells (CSCs) exist where grievances can be lodged. The Proprietor’s number, Sales Officer’s number, CSC number and mechanic numbers are all displayed at the respective LPG agencies and Retail Outlets. MoP&NG has also provided a toll-free number for all its PMUY customers based in urban and rural areas. IndianOil has also been spearheading the ‘LPG Panchayat’ initiative which aims at spreading awareness among LPG users about the proper & safe usage of clean cooking fuel and its useful benefits. E-Customer Feedback System (E-CFS) / E-platform for IndianOil Customers (EPIC) IndianOil has provided its own network system to handle consumer grievance spread across the country. The Company launched one of the biggest IT projects globally in terms of its scale and size called ‘ePIC’ (ePlatform for IndianOil Customers) in May 2017 to facilitate a superior customer experience through better backend integration between IndianOil and its countrywide reseller network. It provides a 360-degree view of its customers thus deepening the company’s engagement with millions of its customers. This online system provides tracking mechanism to the customers through their registered docket numbers and the replies are hosted on the website. All complaints received from the following sources, namely, 8 Website: official website iocl.com – “we are listening” 8 Toll free No. 1800 2333 555 8 indane.co.in – transparency portal 8 Through Ministry and other important sources, thru’ snail mail or otherwise. All feedbacks received get registered in the electronic system and thereafter the progress is tracked till its finals resolution / response. Majority of the replies get responded within 14 days. The system provides the tracking mechanism to the customers also through their registered docket number for any feedback in the registered system by the customer. The replies are hosted in the website. 140 141 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Information Dissemination IndianOil connects to its customers through its official customer ease like Fuel@IOC which enables customers pages on social media forums viz., Facebook, Twitter, to find all IndianOil Retail Outlets within a radius of 5 km Instagram and Youtube. from customer’s live location. The Company has also designed mobile applications for LPG Panchayats serve as an important platform for LPG consumers to come together & interact, promote mutual learning and share experiences. Sanjiv Singh Chairman, IndianOil Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer satisfaction, trust and brand loyalty is vital for PTA plant locations who keeps track of all customer business sustainability. IndianOil strives to ensure that complaints from the origin to root cause analysis to customers receive our utmost attention and the best mitigation. Customer visits are also undertaken by the quality products. In this regard, we continuously engage sales team to address their concerns. Certification of with our customers, take their feedback and improve our Analysis depicting all quality parameters is attached with product / service offerings. each consignment dispatched to the industrial customers while the daily dispatch and funds report are also shared For our bulk customers, Customer Relationship Officers with them. have been assigned for resolution of customer issues, through a single window option. IndianOil also has a The Institutional Business has a system of Nodal dedicated department which keeps track of customer Officers/CRO (Customer Relationship Officers) for sentiments with respect to IndianOil’s products and resolution of customer issues, through a single window services. option for major customers. The Aviation Group takes customer feedback on regular basis. In regards to A market research was also carried out through external ‘Branding’, the Group is administering the Online Consultants to assess customer satisfaction. In line with Reputation Management (ORM) on the web, which tracks the suggestions from the report, we have undertaken the customer sentiments (negative/positive/neutral) with necessary upgradation at 1,060 retail outlets thus far. respect to IndianOil’s products and services. The ongoing IndianOil launched a new customer grievance platform periodical reporting system and the online ORM called ‘e-PIC grievance module’ in January 2018 which dashboard content, capture all the conversations on the replaced the substantiated complaints regarding web including the tweets (and excluding the Facebook breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer accounts) on IndianOil by all its stakeholders including data. customers. A market research was carried out during In regards to Petrochemicals products, IndianOil has 2017-18 to assess customer satisfaction at our retail deployed a complaint redressal officer at Polymer and outlets. 142 143 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Customer Complaints Status Group No. of Complaints No. of Complaints No. of Pending % Pending Received Resolved Complaints Complaints Petrochemicals 151 151 Nil Nil LPG 3,52,422 3,50,544 1,878 0.5% Retail Sales 16,055 15,894 161 1.0% Lubricants 18 18 Nil Nil Customer Privacy Institutional Business 76 76 Nil Nil IndianOil is strongly committed to Pipelines 82 77 5 6% protecting and safeguarding the privacy of its customers and has taken Refineries 192 188 4 2% all necessary and reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of the customer information. There Statutory Compliance were no incidents of noncompliance or Compliance with marketing communication norms, safety systems, procedures and environment laws is monitored at the substantiated complaints reported in regards to breach of customer privacy unit, division and corporate levels. and loss of customer data. Quality Management System IndianOil has developed a robust system to monitor spectrum of supply and distribution of petroleum quality standard procedures which are followed at all products. The procedures outlined in the manual are a times at its refinery, pipelines and marketing installations. basic requirement in order to ensure product quality. As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Petroleum and Therefore, standard operating procedures with regard to Natural Gas, Government of India, the Oil Industry has safety in handling of petroleum products in general are Fuel @ Doorstep evolved a uniform Quality Control procedure for handling followed as laid down in the respective Safety and of petroleum products. IndianOil provides the option to Operations Manuals and also as enumerated in the IndianOil is the first in the industry to introduce Mobile Dispenser for fuelling of stationery equipments at approved test Retail Outlet nozzle samples on customers’ request. Industry Manual on Acceptance of Product by Marketing customer premises, thereby providing doorstep delivery of product (HSD) to such customers. The initiative has been started with a view to help customers in avoiding excessive time loss in long queues at fuel stations This helps IndianOil enhance its level of commitment of Companies and Related Issues. quality assurance to its valued customers. The customer is encouraged to visit the plant premises The Industry quality control manual covers the entire and build faith in the quality of production and dispatches. Online / e-Payments IndianOil has also been spearheading cashless payments through digital platforms viz. online payment, Unified Payment Interface (UPI), e-wallets, m-wallets, Point-of-Sales (PoS), etc. Online / e-Booking To boost customer convenience in an increasing digital world, Indane Refill Booking Facility was enabled through IndianOil’s official Facebook and Twitter pages making IndianOil is the first company among OMCs to launch refill booking through social media. 144 145 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages To generate more ventures, veterinarians were hired and health camps for cattle were conducted on the IndianOil Facilitate ‘Early Birds’ Story by N. Shiva Kumar periphery of wildlife sanctuaries. The villagers were the most happy as their cattle received free treatment and Thirty years ago, a visit to Pobitora National Park, an obscure jungle territory harbouring the endangered medicines. Baruah recalled how by the second decade the organisation had garnered a good reputation and rhinoceros in Assam, motivated Moloy Baruah and friends to kick-start an environment group. Located about 50 was in demand for its effective services. Bird watching, Tree identification, butterfly hunting and insects’ km north-east of Guwahati, Pobitora is a lesser known known wildlife sanctuary, which fascinated the six men discovery were some of the regular outdoor activities conducted for school and college students. These on their first visit in 1989 when they were around 30 years of age. They had gone on their motorcycles to the park activities garnered a strong goodwill among various educational organisations in the city of Guwahati and farto make merry, but came back wiser with much respect for Mother Nature. flung villages. In its 27 years, Early Birds set up more than 200 treatment-cum-vaccination camps in wildlife sanctuaries like Nameri, Kaziranga, Manas and also at their favourite Pobitora National Park. He also explained The forest administrator at the Pobitora sanctuary had reprimanded them for wasting their youthful days. He how while he was working in IndianOil’s Guwahati Refinery Early Birds had take-up tree planting on a large sternly advised them to admire birds, bees, wild flora and work to save the unique Indian rhinoceros found only scale in the refinery and township and made it into a green garden like resemblance. A few years ago they in the state of Assam. This obviously had a deep impact. The friends returned to Guwahati, wise but pensive. captured 50 stray dogs from Noonmati campus where the oil refinery operates and successfully inoculated, Later, they harnessed their limited resources and in 1991 started a not-for-profit outfit and called it “Early Birds.” sterilized and translocated them to safe localities. The small organisation was spearheaded by Moloy Baruah, the young employee of IndianOil in his spare time after office hours. Recently Early Birds, the Guwahati based animal welfare oriented NGO had gained prominence for its active involvement in the state of Assam so they had requested for a project proposal for procurement of a MarutiThe cause of saving the flora and fauna soon caught the fancy of many young people from Guwahati became Eeco-Van under the CSR initiatives. IndianOil’s Guwahati Refinery promptly donated the vehicle to the NGO volunteers and members. Most of them started off as amateur birdwatchers lured by the bountiful and beautiful for fulfilling the transportation requirement of their mobile veterinary team with the purpose for continuing their birds in the woods of Assam. They realised that wildlife faced plenty of problems from various quarters, year-round rendering of vaccination-cum-treatment services through camps organized for this purpose, for particularly people bordering protected forests. They then began to acquire knowledge and skills in specifics domesticated livestock on the fringe areas of wild-life protected areas. Even the forest department was eager to that make wildlife vulnerable, including identifying migratory birds, tracking tigers, rhinos and elephants. help Early Birds conduct camps , so as to sustain the buffer zone / immune belt and thereby, prevent the spread Looking for spoor and tell-tale marks indicating wildlife soon became an obsession. Protecting roosting and of zoonotic diseases to wildlife from domesticated animals while availing usage of the same grazing land. nesting sites of endangered birds and wild animals also became mandatory for many of the 200-odd members mostly from Assam and a few from northeast India. The dedication of the 127 life members and 54 general members over the years by Early Birds brought the the NGO regular grants from the Centre for Environment Education (CEE), Animal Welfare Board of India, Wildlife Moloy Baruah, founder and present president of Early Birds was a regular employee of IndianOil from 1st march Trust of India (WTI), Assam Science Society etc. Even Public and private establishments like IndianOil, OIL, 1974 and retired after serving for four decades in 31st August 2014. He admits that the first five years of running NRL, ONGC also came forward to help them in their various activities. However, there was always need for the small organisation were difficult as all members of Early Birds had to keep their regular jobs as well to make a more funds to conduct coaching camps and workshops to encourage rural communities, says Baruah. After living. The members very soon realised that mere appreciation and vocalisation on the wonders of wildlife was working for 40 years with IndianOil’s Guwahati Refinery, Moloy Baruah admits that he was always encouraged not effective. In the next five years they thought of a different approach to support wildlife. They came up with by the management of IndianOil to indulge in Rural Development and CSR initiatives within and outside the brilliant ideas, but most schemes needed big bucks to accomplish. So they crystallised facts into simple company particular in environmental aspects and sustainable development activities. This has given him practical solutions and offered to curtail diseases spread by domestic cattle to wild denizens in the jungles. immense confidence and courage to continue in nature conservation in Assam actively even after retirement Anthrax, foot & mouth disease (FMD) and rinderpest were tackled that not only affected domestic cattle but also from IndianOil. impacted deer, antelopes, rhinoceros and even elephants. 146 147 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages UNGC Principles Linkages UNGC GRI Disclosures to Actions Taken UNGC GRI Disclosures to Actions Taken to Implement UNGC Principles and to Implement UNGC Principles and Outcomes from Implementing Outcomes from Implementing UNGC Principles UNGC Principles Report Heading Page No. Report Heading Page No. Principle 1: Human Rights Employees – Training 106 Principle 8: Environment Environmental Performance Material 87 Businesses should support and respect the protection Health & Safety 122 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Environmental Performance Water 93 of internationally proclaimed human rights Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 greater environmental responsibility. Environmental Performance Energy 89 Environmental Performance Biodiversity 97 Principle 2: Human Rights Environmental Performance Emissions 91 Business should make sure they are not complicit Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 Environmental Performance Waste 95 in human rights abuses. Health & Safety 122 Principle 3: Labour Product Responsibility 134 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Employees Employee Engagement 105 Sustainable Development Initiatives 74 and the effective recognition of the right to collective Corporate Governance Sustainable 42 bargaining. Sourcing Principle 4: Labour Principle 9: Environment Environmental Performance Energy 89 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 Businesses should encourage the development and Environmental Performance Emissions 91 forms of forced and compulsory labour. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Product Responsibility 134 Principle 5: Labour Principle 10: Anti-corruption Corporate Governance 34 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 Businesses should work against corruption in all Corporate Governance Ethic & Integrity, 40 of child labour. corruption in all its forms, including extortion Accountability Principle 6: Labour Employees 100 and bribery. Corporate Governance 40 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 Corporate Governance Ethic & Integrity 40 discrimination in respect of employment Our Employees 102 Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 and occupation. Employees 108 Employees Growth 106 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 36 Principle 7: Environment: Environmental Performance 84 Businesses should support a precautionary approach Environmental Performance Material 87 to environmental challenges. Environmental Performance Energy 89 Environmental Performance Water 93 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 Product Responsibility 134 148 149 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages GRI Linkages GRI Standards Disclosure Index GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. Number Number GRI Standards Disclosure Index 102-30 Corporate GovernanceRisk Management 46 GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. Number Number 102-31 Corporate GovernanceBoard Meetings 39 102-1 Back Cover 102-32 Stakeholder EngagementOur Material Issues 31 102-2 Brands, Supply Chain 20, 8 102-33 Corporate GovernanceBoard Meetings 39 102-3 About IndianOil 6 102-34 Corporate GovernanceRisk Management 46 102-4 Energy of India 10 102-35 Corporate GovernanceRemuneration of Directors, 39,110 102-5 Shareholding Pattern 12 EmployeesBenefits to employees 102-6 IndianOil 6 102-36 Corporate GovernanceRemuneration of Directors 39 102-7 About IndianOil, Economic Performance, Supply Chain 6,77,8 102-37 Corporate GovernanceRemuneration of Directors 39 102-8 Our employees 101 102-38 EmployeesEmployee Engagement 105 102-9 Supply Chain 8 102-39 Corporate GovernanceRemuneration of Directors 39 102-10 About the report 2 102-40 Stakeholder EngagementOur Stakeholders 27 102-11 Risk Management 46 102-41 EmployeesEmployee Engagement 105 102-12 Our Associations, Charters and Memberships 18 102-42 Stakeholder EngagementOur Stakeholders 27 102-13 Our Associations, Charters and Membership, Corporate 18,41 102-43 Stakeholder EngagementOur Stakeholders 27 Governance – External Commitments and Public 102-44 Stakeholder EngagementOur Stakeholders 27 Policy Participations 102-45 About the report 2 GRI 102 102-14 Chairman's message 3 102-46 About the report 2 102-15 Risk Management, Environment 46,85 102-47 Stakeholder EngagementOur Material Issues 31 102-16 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40 102-48 About the report 2 102-17 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40 102-49 About the report 2 102-18 Corporate Governance-Governance Structure 36 102-50 About the report 2 102-19 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 102-51 About the report 2 102-20 Corporate GovernanceBoard Committees 38 102-52 About the report 2 102-21 Corporate GovernanceBoard Meetings 39 102-53 Chairman's message 3 102-22 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 102-54 About the report 2 102-23 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 102-55 About the reportGRI Content Index 150 102-24 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 102-56 About the report 2 102-25 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 103-1 Stakeholder EngagementOur Material Issues 31 102-26 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors 36 103-2 Stakeholder Engagement-Our Material Issues Stakeholder 31,33 102-27 Corporate Governance-Board of Directors, 36,38 GRI 103 EngagementOur Material table linkages Board Committees 103-3 Chairman's Message 3 102-28 Corporate GovernanceRemuneration of Directors 39 201-1 Economic PerformanceSocial Performance 77,113 102-29 Corporate GovernanceRisk Management 46 150 151 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages GRI Standards Disclosure Index GRI Standards Disclosure Index GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. Number Number Number Number 201-2 Corporate GovernanceRisk ManagementSustainability In IndianOil 46,59 305-5 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 GRI 201 201-3 EmployeesEmployee Engagement 105 305-6 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 201-4 Economic Performance 77 305-7 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 202-1 Corporate Governance Human Rights 42 306-1 Environmental Performance –Waste 95 GRI 202 202-2 EmployeesOur employees 101 306-2 Environmental Performance –Waste 95 203-1 Social Performance 113 GRI 306 306-3 Health & Safety Security 130 GRI 203 203-2 Social Performance 113 306-4 Environmental Performance –Waste 95 204-1 Corporate Governance-Public Procurement Policy For Micro, 41 306-5 Environmental Performance –Waste 95 GRI 204 Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) GRI 307 307-1 Environmental Performance – Environment Expenditure 96 205-1 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40 308-1 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 42 205-2 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40,106 GRI 308 GRI 205 EmployeesEmployee Growth 308-2 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 42 401-1 EmployeesOur employees 101 205-3 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40 GRI 401 401-2 EmployeesBenefits to employees 110 GRI 206 206-1 Corporate Governance-Ethics and integrity 40 401-3 Employees Workforce Diversity & Inclusivity 108 301-1 Environmental PerformanceMaterials 81 GRI 402 402-1 Employees -Employee Engagement 105 GRI 301 301-2 Environmental PerformanceMaterials, Waste 87,95 403-1 Employees -Employee Engagement 105 301-3 Product Responsibility – Product Information & Labelling 138 403-2 Health & Safety Safety Performance 2017-18 131 302-1 Environmental Performance – Energy 89 GRI 403 403-3 Health & Safety Occupational Health at IndianOil 132 302-2 Environmental Performance – Energy 89 403-4 Health & Safety 122 GRI 302 302-3 Environmental Performance – Energy 89 404-1 Employees Employee Growth 106 302-4 Environmental Performance – Energy 89 302-5 Environmental Performance – Energy Product Responsibility 134 GRI 404 404-2 Employees Employee Growth 106 404-3 Employees Employee Growth 106 303-1 Environmental Performance – Water 93 405-1 Employees: Our employees 101 GRI 303 303-2 Environmental Performance – Water 93 GRI 405 405-2 Employees Workforce Diversity & Inclusivity 108 303-3 Environmental Performance – Water 93 304-1 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 97 GRI 406 406-1 Employees Workforce Diversity & Inclusivity 108 304-2 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 97 GRI 407 407-1 Employees Employee engagement 105 GRI 304 GRI 408 408-1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 304-3 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 97 304-4 Environmental Performance – Biodiversity 97 GRI 409 409-1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 410-1 Health & Safety Safety Emphasis for Employees /Contract 124 305-1 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 GRI 410 Labours & Supply Chain 305-2 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 GRI 305 GRI 411 411-1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 305-3 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 412-1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 305-4 Environmental Performance Emissions 91 GRI 412 412-2 Employees Employee Growth 106 152 153 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages GRI Standards Disclosure Index Oil and Gas Sector Supplement Disclosure Index GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. GRI Standard Disclosure Location Title Page No. Number Number Number Number 412-3 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 OG1 Economic Performance E&P 83 413-1 Social Performance Corporate Social Responsibility 114 GRI 413 OG2 Sustainability in IndianOil Renewable Energy 64 413-2 Social Performance Corporate Social Responsibility 114 414-1 Corporate Governance – Sustainable Sourcing 42 OG3 Sustainability in IndianOil Renewable Energy 64 GRI 414 OG4 Environmental PerformanceBiodiversity 97 414-2 Social Performance Corporate Social Responsibility 114 GRI 415 415-1 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 OG5 Environmental Performance – Water 93 416-1 Product Responsibility Customer Health & Safety 139 GRI 416 OG6 Environemental PerformanceEmissions 91 416-2 Product Responsibility Statutory Compliance 144 OG7 Not Applicable 417-1 Product Responsibility Product information & Labelling 138 GRI 417 417-2 Product Responsibility Product information & Labelling 138 OG8 Product Responsibility 134 417-3 Product Responsibility Statutory Compliance 144 OG9 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 GRI 418 418-1 Product Responsibility Information Dissemination 142 OG10 Corporate GovernanceHuman Rights 42 GRI 419 419-1 Product Responsibility Product information & Labelling 138 OG11 About the report 42 OG12 Social PerformanceCorporate Social Responsibility 114 OG13 Health & Safety Safety Emphasis for Employees / 124 Contract Labours & Supply Chain OG14 Economic PerformanceMarketing 81 154 155 Enduring Trust. Enabling Growth. About Stakeholder Corporate Sustanability Economic Environmental Social Product GRI Employees IndianOil Engagement Governance in IndianOil Performance Performance Performance Responsibility Linkages Abbreviations KM Kilo Meter PF Provident Fund KPI Key Performance Index PL Pipeline AE&SD Alternate Energy & Sustainable EIL Engineers India Limited KRA Key Result Areas PMS Performance Management System Development ENCON Energy Conservation KSK Kisan Seva Kendra PNCC Panipat Naptha Cracker Complex AFS Aviation Fuel Station EP Environment Protection KW / KWh Kilowatt/ Kilowatt Hour PNCP Panipat Naptha Cracker Plant AOCN Assam Oil College of Nursing EPF & MP Act Employees Provident Funds and LAB Linear Alkyl Benzene PP/ PE Poly Propylene / Poly Ethylene AOD Assam Oil Division Miscellaneous Provisions Act LDO Light Diesel Oil PPE Personal Protective Equipment ASI Archaeological Survey of India EPS Employees Pension Scheme LNG Liquefied Natural Gas PSU Public Sector Undertaking ATF Aviation Turbine Fuel ERDMP Emergency Response & Disaster LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas PTA Purified Terephthalic Acid AU Atmospheric Unit Management Plan LTS Long Term Settlement PX Paraxylene BN Billion ESA External Safety Audit MBN It refers to total heat value of fuel and PV Photovoltaic BPC LBharat Petroleum Corporation ETP Effluent Treatment Plants (MBTU/BBL/NRGF) loss in thousand BTU, BBL refers to R&D Research and Development limited FCC Fluidised Catalytic Cracker barrel of crude processed and NRGF is a derived factor that depends upon RLNG Re-gasified Liquefied Natural gas BPL Below Poverty Line FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of actual intake in both primary and RGGLVY Rajiv Gandhi Gramin LPG Vitran BOD Biological Oxygen Demand Commerce and Industry secondary processing units as per Yojana FO Fuel Oil industry standard BS – IV/ VI Bharat Stage IV / VI RO Retail Outlets FTL Free trade LPG MINAS Minimal National Standard CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate RTI Right To Information FY Financial Year MMSCMD Million Metric Standard Cubic Meters CATCH Cultivating Awareness Towards SC/ST/OBC/PWD Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe / per day Conservation of Heritage GAIL Gas Authority of India Limited Other Backward Castes / Persons MMSCM Million Metric Standard Cubic Meters with Disabilities CCI Competition Commission of India GCC General Conditions of Contract MMT Million metric tons SIGC Shareholders’ / Investors Grievance CDM Clean Development Mechanism GHG Greenhouse Gases MMTPA Million metric tons Per Annum Committee CDP Carbon Disclosure Project GoI Government of India MoP&NG Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural SKO Superior Kerosene Oil CDU Crude oil Distillation Unit GPW Great Place to Work Gas SPM Single Point Mooring CERs Certified Emission Reductions GRI Global Reporting Initiatives MoU Memorandum of Understanding SRC Stakeholders' Relationship CFC Chlorofluorocarbons GRM Gross Refining Margin Committee MSME Micro, Small and Medium CII Confederation Indian Industry GSPL Gujarat State Petronet Ltd Enterprises SRFT Standard Refinery Fuel in Tonnes CO Corporate Office GWh Gigawatt hour MSQ Motor Spirit STP Sewage Treatment Plant COMPAT Competition Appellate Tribunal G4 GRI’s fourth generation indicators MT Metric Tonne TC Time Charter CPCB/SPCB Central Pollution Control Board/ HGU Hydrogen Generation Unit MTCO2e Million Metric Tonne of Carbon TII Transparency International India State Pollution Control Board HOD Head Of Department Dioxide Equivalent TJ Tera joules CPCL Chennai Petroleum Corporation HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation MW Mega Watt Limited TKL Thousand kilo Litre Limited NCF National Culture Fund CREDA Chhattisgarh Renewal Energy TMTPA Thousand Metric Tonnes Per Annum HRSG Heat Recovery Steam Generator NTPC National Thermal Power Corporation Development Authority TPM Total Productive Maintenance HSD High Speed Diesel OGSS Oil and Gas Sector Supplement CRU Catalytic Reformer Unit UAE United Arab Emirates HSE Health, Safety and Environment OHSMS/OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety CSI Customer Satisfaction Index UN United Nations IAF Indian Air Force Management System/Occupational CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Health and Safety Assessment UNFCCC United Nations Framework IndianOil IndianOil Corporation Limited Convention on Climate Change CVC Central Vigilance Commission System IOC Indian Oil Corporation Limited UNGC United Nations Global Compact DCU Delayed Coker Unit OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate IOF Indian Oil Foundation USA United States of America DPE Department of Public enterprises OMC Oil Marketing Company IOT Indian Oil Tanking VLCC Very Large Crude Carrier E&P Exploration and Production ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation IP Integrity Pact WIPS Forum for Women In Public Sector EAC Expert Appraisal Committee OSD Oil Spill Dispersant ISO International Organization for EBP Ethanol Blended Petrol OVL ONGC Videsh Limited Standardization Eco Parks Ecological Parks PCRA Petroleum Conservation Research KAM Key Accounts Management Association EIA Environmental Impact Assessment KL Kilo litre 156 157 Best PSU Company to work for in India G reatPl a ce t o W or k I nstit u t e Excellence Driven by Trust of Billions Corporate Office: 3079/3, Sadiq Nagar, J.B. Tito Marg, New Delhi-110049
