Sustainability Repor t 2017 About this report Both in terms of contents and structure, Bosch observes current standards of sustainability reporting as defined by the UN Global Compact, the German Council for Sustainable Development (RNE), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This publication serves as a progress report within the framework of the Bosch membership in the UN Global Compact. A detailed overview of non-financial information based on the GRI standards (of 2016) can be found online at bosch.link/gri-index-en ENVIRONMENT Reference year 2007 2015 2016 2017 CO₂ emissions (1) 2.6 3.0 3.1 3.2 in millions of metric tons 0%* -29.8%* -30.6%* -32.8%* Nitrogen oxide emissions(1) from combustion processes in metric tons 585.1 585.5 632.7 687.9 Sulfur dioxide emissions (1) from combustion processes in metric tons 347.6 227.7 202.7 217.7 Total energy demand 6.7 7.5 7.6 7.8 in terawatt hours 0%* -33.7%* -35.1%* -37.2%* Electricity(2) 4.6 5.2 5.3 5.6 Natural gas(3) 1.2 1.5 1.5 1.5 Heating oil(4) 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Waste 520.1 675.2 692.5 717.4 in thousands of metric tons 0%* -22.5%* -23.7%* -25.7%* Water 17.3 19.3 19.4 19.3 in millions of cubic meters 0%* -33.3%* -35.9%* -40.0%* Wastewater in millions of cubic meters 13.9 15.5 15.2 14.8 * improvement relative to value added PRODUCTS Patents: 5 817 Environment/Safety portfolio:(5) Share of group sales: 41% Share of R&D expenditure: 54% Procurement:(6) Steel: 1.7 million metric tons with 2.8 million metric tons of CO₂ Aluminum: 0.3 million metric tons with 0.9 million metric tons of CO₂ Plastic: 0.3 million metric tons with 1.4 million metric tons of CO₂ Key figures in detail THE COMPANY Sales revenue: 78.1 billion euros (+6.8% year on year) R&D expenditure: 7.3 billion euros (+5.1% year on year) Profit after tax: 3.3 billion euros (+39.7% year on year) Capital expenditure on property, plant, and equipment: 4.3 billion euros (+2.2% year on year) Personnel expenses: 22.3 billion euros (+4.5% year on year) Capital expenditure on environmental protection: 50.2 million euros (+8.0% year on year) Other expenditure on environmental protection: 135.2 million euros (-3.3% year on year) Ownership structure: shareholdings 92% Bosch Stiftung 7% Bosch family 1% Robert Bosch GmbH SOCIET Y Sales by business sector: Bosch donations to charitable initiatives: 24.6 million euros Mobility Solutions: 61% Total Bosch Stiftung expenditure in 2017: Industrial Technology: 8% 100.5 million euros for 742 projects Consumer Goods: 24% Energy and Building Technology: 7% Regional commitment Bosch Community Fund (Farmington Hills, USA): 4.1 million euros Bosch China Charity Center (Shanghai, China): 2.3 million euros Instituto Robert Bosch (Campinas, Brazil): 0.9 million euros Bosch India Foundation (Bengaluru, India): 1.5 million euros ASSOCIATES Reference year 2007 2015 2016 2017 Accidents per million hours worked 6.8 3.2 2.7 2.3 Industrial accidents number 2 960 2 125 1 849 1 649 Days lost number 38 417 34 437 28 992 27 941 Total number of associates: 402 166 (31.12.2017) Share of women: 25.4% Share of women executives: 16.1% Voluntary resignations: 6.0% (1) Scope I+II, Greenhouse Gas Protocol Training days: 671 000 (2) p  ower consumption, Training program participants: 560 000 not including resold electricity and Training expenditure: 260 million euros self-generated power (3) standardized (4) not including vehicles, standardized (5) excluding BSH Hausgeräte (6) Scope III, Greenhouse Gas Protocol 10.2% 66% reduction in water consumption compared with 2015* women executives fewer accidents per million hours worked 16.1% 4.1% compared with 2007 less waste compared with 2015* KEY FIGURES 32.8% reduction in CO₂ emissions compared with 2007* 740 environmental and occupational safety audits since 2010 Objectives CO₂ emissions: 35% reduction by 2020 compared with 2007* Waste and water: 6% reduction by 2018 compared with 2015* Environmental and occupational safety audits of suppliers: 1 000 by 2020 Accidents per million hours worked: 1.7 (or fewer) by 2020 Women executives: 20% by 2020 * improvement relative to value added NEW APPROACHES NEW TYPES TO MANUFACTURING OF SPACE 5 NEW FORMS OF MOBILITY NEW WAYS OF WORKING APPROACHES TO TRANSFORMING CITIES By 2050, around two-thirds of the world population will live in cities. Traffic is expected to triple in urban centers, which already account for 75 percent of global energy consumption. Air quality will thus remain a central issue, especially in global megacities such as London, New York, and Beijing. Social inequality and unequal access to education will also pose major challenges. How can we respond to these challenges? How can cities be made more sustainable? And how can quality of life be improved in urban environments? These NEW FORMS OF are the questions that Bosch is addressing across business SOCIAL INTERACTION sectors and divisions, with the aim of rethinking the city. Stories on sustainability at Bosch are now online at: bosch.link/sustainability-report 2 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 SUSTAINABLE CITIES: ONE CHALLENGE, TWO PERSPECTIVES Cities’ high energy consumption and heavy traffic and population density can increase emission levels and aggravate climate change. Conversely, cities present many opportunities to promote sustainable development, as they accelerate social and technical progress. Here, Dr. Volkmar Denner, Chairman of the Board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH, and the climate researcher Professor Ottmar Edenhofer discuss the elements of effective urban transformation. Mr. Edenhofer, at the Climate Change Conference COP 17, the first-ever alliance of 1 000 cities around the world was formed. It aims to take a concerted approach to fighting climate change. What role do cities play when it comes to sustainable development? Edenhofer: Cities play a decisive role, and a great deal of potential has yet to be tapped. Many cities are no longer waiting for national guidelines, they are tackling the issues themselves. And this is a good thing. The way we design today’s transport systems, buildings, and other types of infrastructure is heavily influenced by future CO2 emission standards. If we make urban infrastructure more climatefriendly, we can reduce future CO2 emissions by half. About Professor Edenhofer Professor Ottmar Edenhofer (born in 1961, l.) is the Director of the Mercator Research Institute on Global Commons and Climate Change (MCC). He is also Deputy Director and Chief Economist at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) and Professor for the Economics of Climate Change at the Technical University of Berlin. 3 Interview When it comes to reducing CO₂ emissions, Vehicle technology is just one of the elements what can cities start doing now? needed to achieve emissions-free mobility … Denner: Connectivity can play a major role in protecting the Denner: True. We have to motivate more people to combine environment. Take the power supply, for instance: in intelligent modes of transportation, share vehicles, and discover alternabuildings, devices communicate with one another, automatitives to their own cars, such as e-scooters. What’s more, new cally adapt to changing conditions, and thus reduce energy digital services like parking apps can reduce the number of consumption. Virtual power plants store the clean energy from kilometers driven and thus also emissions. Sensors, software, decentralized power generation and distribute it according to and services: these “three s’s” not only reflect core areas of need. And thanks to intelligent control technology, street lights Bosch expertise, they also shape the foundation of smart are turned on only when light is needed. The smarter the city, cities. the more sustainable it is. Bosch has been testing smart-city technologies in 14 urban centers around the world, in Berlin Mr. Edenhofer, what role do you see for Bosch in and Stuttgart, and most recently in Tianjin, northern China. making cities more sustainable? Edenhofer: If we want to achieve the Paris climate goals, we Edenhofer: As the world’s largest automotive supplier, Bosch must also significantly reduce emissions from urban traffic. has an enormous responsibility. In terms of commitment to Driving the car into the city center for work every morning isn’t developing innovative electrical powertrain systems, I think particularly climate-friendly. Bosch is generally on the right path. But more intensive efforts are needed. How can urban mobility be made more Denner: In 2018, we will again spend about 400 million euros sustainable? on e-mobility. At the same time, we are working flat out to Edenhofer: First of all, electric cars have to be powered by develop a CO2-neutral internal combustion engine. In our renewable sources of energy. For this to happen, we have to view, synthetic fuels based on renewable sources of energy levy a charge of at least 30 euros per ton of CO2 – as opposed have a great deal of potential. We have already initiated to the current 7 euros in European emissions trading. Second, projects to mass-produce the technologies needed for this. the recharging network has to be expanded and public transit In addition to this, we are working on solutions that reduce electrified. In addition to this, legislation is needed to replace particulate matter, which is the result of wear from brakes and old technologies that run on fossil fuels – new technologies tires. This year, we are starting production of our iDisc. This cannot simply coexist with them indefinitely. The current dieinnovative brake disc produces 90 percent less brake dust. sel debate has shown that emission standards alone cannot reach climate targets and improve air quality. Instead of proIn closing, let’s have a look into the future: what hibiting diesel altogether, tax incentives for diesel within the do you think the city of 2050 should look like? EU should be done away with. The money saved could then be Edenhofer: By the middle of the century, I hope that emissions spent on public transit, or on research and development for in cities will have been dramatically reduced. I am optimistic clean drive technologies. that it can be done. We need a mix of intelligent, efficient urban planning with short routes, as well as a transformation Mr. Denner, do you share this view? of the automotive sector toward carbon-neutral powertrain Denner: I share the view that new technologies are needed. systems. If we achieve this, we will have come a major step But considering the urgency of climate change, I don’t think closer to our climate targets. focusing exclusively on e-mobility is the right approach. The Denner: The city of 2050 will rely on renewable sources of transition will take time. To achieve climate targets, we must energy, cleverly combine different modes of transport, and thus do everything we can to improve existing technology conserve resources. It will help protect our health and as well. More than any other company, we are working to make our everyday lives easier. In short: the city of the future drive e-mobility forward. But at the same time, we continue will be connected, sustainable, and livable. With technology to invest in the further development of diesel and gasoline “Invented for life”, we aim to make this vision reality. engines. Here, emission standards still provide an important framework. From 2020 onward, emissions in real driving conditions will only be allowed to deviate by a specific factor from the levels measured in the test cycle. Our diesel test vehicles already meet this requirement today. And we are already developing systems whose emissions are well under the legal limits. 4 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY AT BOSCH The Bosch Group is a leading global provider of technology and services, with some 402 000 associates around the world. It comprises roughly 440 subsidiaries and regional companies in 60 countries. Bosch places a great deal of importance on doing business in a sustainable manner. The company focuses on securing its long-term success, all the while protecting the natural environment for future generations. ABOUT BOSCH Developing technology “Invented for life” – and indeed for today’s RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 2017 connected life – is the Bosch Group’s strategic target. Its products and services aim to improve quality of life for people around the world and to conserve resources. To achieve this, Bosch shapes change and seizes 64 400 opportunities, especially in the areas of connectivity, electrification, enassociates are part of the Bosch Group’s global research and development network ergy efficiency, and automation. This approach has proved successful: in 2017, Bosch Group sales grew 6.8 percent year on year, to 78.1 billion 9.3 euros. What is more, the Bosch Group has continued to pursue its aim percent of Bosch sales went toward research and development in 2017 of becoming a leading provider of technology for the Internet of Things 54 (IoT) and mobility solutions. Thanks to its broad portfolio of products and services, and its expertise in sensor technology, software, and services, the company has developed pioneering solutions for smart percent of the research budget was spent on the environment and safety portfolios homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and Industry 4.0. In developing these solutions, Bosch continues to benefit from its global research and development network, which counts some 64 400 associates around the world. In 2017, the company spent a total of roughly 7.3 billion euros on research and development – some 9.3 percent of SALES BY BUSINESS SECTOR its sales. Corporate structure The Bosch Group’s activities are divided into four business sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. 92 percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH is held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a charitable foundation. The majority of voting rights are held by Robert Bosch Mobility Solutions Industrietreuhand KG, an industrial trust. The entrepreneurial owner61% ship functions are carried out by the trust. The remaining shares are held by the Bosch family and by Robert Bosch GmbH. This special Consumer Goods ownership structure guarantees the entrepreneurial freedom of the 24% Bosch Group, making it possible for the company to plan over the long Industrial Technology term and make significant up-front investments in the safeguarding of 8% its future. What is more, the Bosch Group’s profit-oriented approach Energy & Building Technology shapes the foundation of the company’s charitable activities, as well as 7% those of Robert Bosch Stiftung. 5 Responsibility at Bosch Around 64 400 associates around the world are working to develop connected solutions that conserve resources – technology “Invented for life” SUSTAINABILITY AT BOSCH Our “Invented for life” ethos not only applies to our core Bringing economic, ecological, business, but also to the subject of sustainability. We aim to and social concerns into balance make renewable sources of energy more efficient, mobility Bosch has also defined rules and processes that its suppliers emissionsand accident-free, and, in all our fields of business, are required to observe in their sustainability management to develop eco-friendly products that conserve resources. practices. All contracts with suppliers thus include a clause We see ecology as an engine of innovation and a pillar of our on compliance with ILO (International Labor Organization) company’s success. standards, as well as general environmental standards. These include, for instance, notification requirements and bans on At Bosch, “Invented for life” also means making sure our own hazardous substances. With supplier audits, Bosch monitors production processes are safe and not harmful to the environwhether these requirements have been met and observed. ment. To reduce its carbon footprint, the company relies on Until now, 740 environmental and occupational safety audits consistent environmental management. At all relevant locahave already been conducted. Moreover, some 500 preferred tions worldwide, the ISO 14001 environmental management suppliers must demonstrate that they apply a certified environsystem is already in place, and 221 locations have received mental management system. external certification. This is a share of around 76 percent. In addition to this, Bosch continuously improves the environmenA commitment to addressing social issues is another aspect tal performance of its products, across all business sectors. of the Bosch definition of sustainability. Today, the gap beTo this end, the company uses the “Design for Environment” tween rich and poor is one of the biggest challenges society approach, a systematic approach that is applied even in the faces. With its presence in emerging and developing countries, early stages of product development, and which takes the Bosch is responding to this challenge by creating jobs and conentire product life cycle into account. tributing to strengthening local economies. The company also provides financial support to corporate foundations in Brazil, To improve safety in the workplace, Bosch applies an occupaChina, India, and the United States, each of which focuses on tional safety management system based on the globally recogimproving access to education. Robert Bosch Stiftung is also nized OHSAS 18001 standard. Within the next three years, all active in this field. With the dividend it receives from Bosch, the manufacturing and engineering locations will have environmenfoundation supports a broad range of civic initiatives. Besides tal and occupational safety management systems in place, as education, it also funds projects in the areas of healthcare, well as external certification. society, science, and international relations. 6 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 Four areas of action with clear objectives In the company’s efforts to keep economic, ecological, and on the product life cycle, and includes the area of materials social concerns in balance, sustainability-related activities at procurement as well as engineering, manufacturing, logistics, Bosch focus mainly on four areas of action: environment, and product use and disposal. In brief, organizing sustainability products, associates, and society. Bosch has set five central is a cross-sectoral task based on comprehensive sustainability sustainability targets for the medium and long term. management, with clear roles and responsibilities (see illustration). SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 35 percent fewer CO₂ emissions by SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE 2020 compared with 2007* Responsibilities: setting targets, management review 6 percent less waste and water consumption Chairman of the board of management, director of industrial by 2018 compared with 2015* relations, and the core team of the advisory board 1 000 environmental and occupational safety audits of suppliers between 2010 and 2020 20 reports to percent share of women in management positions by 2020 1.7 SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY BOARD or fewer accidents per million hours worked by 2020 Responsibilities: recommending targets and focal points A core team comprising the heads of the corporate environment, HR, and communications departments, in addition to a group that includes the heads of the corporate compliance, manufacturing, purchasing, infrastructure, and internal audit Information on how Bosch came closer to reaching these goals departments, as well as divisional presidents. in 2017 is available on the first cover page. With regard to CO₂ emissions, Bosch is planning to move toward an absolute monitors target that takes its lead from science-based targets (SBT). In addition, the company is pursuing several qualitative and quantitative sustainability targets at some 300 locations. These informs include further reducing packaging waste, optimizing logistics processes, and implementing energy management systems. SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE Responsibilities: answering internal and external questions, A cross-sectoral sustainability organization engaging in dialog with internal and external stakeholders, To monitor progress toward its sustainability targets, Bosch identifying topics, challenges, and areas of improvement has established a sustainability steering committee, which comprises heads of corporate departments and members of the board of management. Bosch strongly believes that its sustainability targets can only be reached if sustainabilityrelated issues and tasks, as well as the corresponding monitoring duties, are made an integral part of processes and business activities. At Bosch, the range of tasks is based * improvement relative to value added 7 Responsibility at Bosch Promoting sustainable development CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SUSTAINABLE With its activities, Bosch supports the United Nations SustainDEVELOPMENT GOALS IN 2017 able Development Goals (SDGs), which were established in 2015. The company is thus actively addressing the challenges society faces. By comparing its sustainability activities with the 17 SDGs, Bosch found that its efforts are especially relevant in the following areas: sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11), measures to reduce CO₂ emissions (SDG 13), the development of innovations (SDG 9), economic performance (SDG 8), promoting health and safety (SDG 3), gender equality (SDG 5), access to education (SDG 4), and responsible consumption and production (SDG 12). The broad range of sustainability-related activities at Bosch can also contribute to achieving other UN targets. In 2017, Bosch paid special attention to the sustainable development of cities. More than half the global population is already located in urban centers, where people live, work, and move about in a limited space. This offers many opportunities for saving energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. To reach the goals of the 2015 Paris agreement and limit global warming to two degrees Celsius or less, emissions in urban centers must be reduced more quickly. With the help of innovative technology, Bosch sees many possibilities to reduce emissions from traffic, power generation, and industrial production. This report presents a summary of these solutions. More information about Bosch and Robert Bosch Stiftung can be found at bosch.com and www.bosch-stiftung.de Source: United Nations Bosch also relies on renewable sources of energy at its locations, such as the hydropower plant it operates in Blaichach, Germany. 8 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 NEW TYPES SMART OF SPACE LIVING AN INTELLIGENT POWER GRID Reducing energy consumption and promoting the use of renewable sources of energy are two important building blocks for more sustainable cities. Microgrids are one promising way of establishing a smarter power supply. The comparably small, independent energy management systems supply large buildings with power from a range of renewable sources. Not only do microgrids make a major contribution to protecting the environment, they are also reliable. For instance, in the event of a weatheror security-related power outage in the main grid, they can supply power to residents and essential services. The Bosch DC Microgrid operates with direct current rather than alternating current, and thus consumes up to ten percent less energy than conventional power plants. More information about Bosch activities in the realm of “new types of space” can now be found online at bosch.link/sustainability-new-types-of-spaces 9 New Types of Space With IoT solutions, Bosch is helping make hospitals more efficient, safer, and more comfortable In the “products” area, Bosch activities support the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): SDG 3, SDG 9, SDG 11, SDG 13 As a growing number of people move to cities, the demand for space in urban centers is also growing. Whether or not this has to mean greater consumption of resources is the subject of debate. Smart Bosch solutions based on the Internet of Things are one way of ensuring that urban growth is sustainable. These solutions can be used, for instance, to improve the it thinks ahead: using GPS data from a energy efficiency of existing buildings, which smartphone, it can calculate when the currently account for 40 percent of global user will be at home and adjust the heating accordingly. Since the beginning energy consumption. To make the cities of this year, Easy Control has been caof the future sustainable, solutions will be pable of recording residents’ routines needed for everything from large buildings and further honing its heat management to even the smallest of living quarters. strategies on that basis. Another technology that makes homes more energy efficient is Bosch Sensortec’s BMA400 acceleration sensor. The sensor can detect, for instance, whether Hospitals are an indispensable part of cording to need. At the same time, an enwindows have been closed, tilted, or left cities, and they must function as seamergy management system enables staff completely open. With this information, lessly as possible, while also trying to to access data at any time and respond it reduces the energy consumption of keep their operating costs down. With immediately in the event of deviations. heating or air conditioning systems. Yet its smart hospital solutions, Bosch helps the BMA400 requires ten times less hospitals keep their costs in check. power than other acceleration sensors. These innovative technologies connect The heat generation of the future This combination of consistently precise different parts of the building with one measurements and low energy consumpanother, thus creating a comfortable According to the International Energy tion earned the sensor a prestigious Inand efficient whole. In North America, Agency’s World Energy Outlook, global novation Award at the Consumer Electhe Bosch subsidiary Climatec has proenergy demand will grow 30 percent by tronics Show in October 2017. vided Banner Health – one of the largest 2040. Both large institutions such as non-profit healthcare service providers hospitals and every individual houseBosch Thermotechnology’s EMMA has in the United States – with connected hold must take measures to counteract also received critical acclaim. In July solutions for building automation, venthis trend. In residential buildings, heat 2017, the energy management system tilation, and fire-alarm systems, as well generation accounts for the lion’s share was nominated for an environmental as nurse-call and infotainment systems of energy consumption. Since 2017, Easy technology prize in the German state of for patients. In total, Climatec supplies Control technology has made it posBaden-Wuerttemberg. EMMA already 15 Banner Health centers, and has thus sible to reduce heating costs by as much connects heat pumps, photovoltaic made a significant contribution to reducas 25 percent in a range of buildings. arrays, and battery storage systems to ing its customer’s energy costs. In BenThe Bosch Junkers smart heat manageone another, and will add electric vehigaluru, India, the Mazumdar Shaw Mediment technology is the first of its kind. In cles in the future. It controls all these cal Center cut its energy costs by about combination with the right radiators and devices and systems to optimize housetwelve percent in less than a year. This is thermostats, Easy Control can monitor hold energy consumption. As a result, because sensor and software-based soas many as 24 individual rooms at once. the energy costs of the heat pump can be lutions ensure that energy is supplied acPerhaps the system’s best feature is that reduced by ten percent. 10 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 NEW FORMS OF MOBILITY THE NEXT FUEL REVOLUTION Limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius is one of the central targets of the Paris climate agreement. In the future, synthetic fuels could make a significant contribution to achieving this goal. When they are produced, these fuels absorb CO₂, thus turning the greenhouse gas into a raw material. With the help of power generated from renewable sources of energy, synfuels can be used to produce gasoline, diesel, or natural gas. Such fuels can make gasoline and diesel carbon-neutral, and thus contribute to limiting global warming. Synfuels can be mixed with conventional fuels, and in this way make a direct contribution to reducing the CO₂ emissions of existing vehicles. According to a Bosch study, 2.8 gigatons of CO₂ emissions could be saved by 2050 if synfuels were used consistently. More information about Bosch activities with regard to “New forms of mobility” can now be found online at bosch.link/sustainability-new-forms-of-mobility SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY 11 New Forms of Mobility In the “products” area, Bosch Around 32 percent of particle emissions but also makes the powertrain system activities support the following in urban traffic are the product of brake more efficient. The e-axle can be used in Sustainable Development Goals and tire wear. This means that this type hybrid and electric vehicles, passenger of pollutant emission – and not fuel comcars, SUVs, and light commercial vehicles. (SDGs): SDG 3, SDG 9, SDG 11, bustion – is the main cause of particulate Production is set to begin in 2019. SDG 13 matter in urban centers. To keep city air clean, reducing brake dust is thus decisive. Besides emissions from power In the shape of its iDisc, an innovative brake Renting rather than buying generation based on fossil fuels disc, Bosch premiered a solution for this problem. Thanks to a special tungsten More than seven million people around and from agricultural activity in carbide coating, the iDisc produces up to the world already use car-sharing services. surrounding areas, road traffic is 90 percent less brake dust than convenExperts expect the number to increase the greatest cause of particulatetional discs. At the same time, the iDisc to some 36 million users by 2025. Digital matter pollution in urban centers. is more durable and less susceptible to applications are driving this potential. This makes smart mobility concorrosion. This is especially beneficial One of them is the Bosch myScotty app, cepts decisive for improving air with electric cars: Thanks to regenerative which pools access to different sharing braking (recuperation), they place less platforms. As a result, users only need to quality and quality of life in cities. stress on the brakes, and thus rather face register once to gain access to thousands of Innovative products and services the challenge of rust film formation on the cars, scooters, and bicycles. This enables form the basis of the approaches friction rings. This problem can be avoided city dwellers to plan their routes flexibly that will make the mobility of the with the iDisc, which is corrosion-resistant. and thus reduce their carbon footprint. future emissions-free, stress-free, In turn, this improves the operating safety MyScotty was launched in Berlin in 2017. of braking maneuvers. Other cities and countries are set to soon and accident-free. Bosch is driving follow. this development forward with climate-friendly technologies, Driving further and more efficiently Preventing traffic jams and improving air connected infrastructure solutions, quality in cities is also the idea behind and comprehensive initiatives. The current average range of an electric the new BePart smart mobility network. It vehicle is 270 kilometers. For many drivers, connects drivers to transport control this is a reason to stick with diesel or centers to provide customized alternative gasoline engines. More high-performance routes. This results in a better flow of traffic batteries, energy efficient lightweight and a reduction in pollutant emissions. components, and innovative powertrain This type of intelligent networking makes systems can help achieve a breakthrough daily life easier for city residents and for e-mobility. Developed in 2017, the commuters, and is paving the way for e-axle is one example of a technology that mobility in the smart cities of the future. is helping e-mobility to a breakthrough. By The first pilot projects with BePart are set combining the motor, power electronics, to begin in German municipalities in 2018. and transmission, it not only saves space, In smart cities, residents benefit from intelligent mobility solutions such as emissions-free modes of transport and connected parking 12 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 Smart mobility concepts are improving air quality in urban centers OTHER PROJECTS Committing to better air quality Road assistance by e-bike Improving air quality in a lasting manner with AirParif, an NGO, to develop a smart In Vienna, the Austrian Automobile Club’s (ÖAMTC) “yellow angels” come to the rescue calls for a comprehensive commitment. mobile measurement system. With the on e-bikes: in urban traffic, the road assistance This is why Bosch has established the help of a wireless sensor and cloud-based service relies on emissions-free Bosch e-bikes. Air Quality Initiative Europe. The project software, the device transmits air quality So far, the project has successfully assisted 800 customers and won the Innovation Award aims to give communities affected by air data in real time to Paris authorities and of the Fédération Internationale de l’Automopollution advice and to cooperate with residents. The city can then use the data bile (FIA). them to develop strategies that can conto define measures aimed at improving Mobility Hackathon in London tribute to reducing air pollution. To do air quality. At the Mobility Hackathon in London, students this, the Air Quality team brought decision discussed topics such as optimum traffic flows, multimodal mobility, and improving air makers from politics, NGOs, the media, and In Italy, where emissions from buildings are quality. The three best ideas were awarded a professional associations together several a major challenge, the “Mission Ambiente prize, and Bosch is helping the winning teams times at innovative dialog events. More – Opera d’Aria” educational program was put their concepts into practice. than 70 cities in four European countries launched at more than 1 000 schools in A postgraduate program for hybrid and – Germany, France, Italy, and the UK – are 2017. The initiative aims to teach students electric mobility now members of the network. about the importance of clean air, and to In cooperation with local partners in Brazil, Bosch is promoting the education of engioffer practical solutions that their families neers with an eye on the mobility of the future. In the participating countries, Bosch has can put into practice in their daily lives. In 2017, the first postgraduate program for hybrid and electric powertrain systems was already put concrete solutions in place Since air pollution does not stop at national established at the industrial college in São in cooperation with local partners. These borders, the Air Quality Initiative plans to José dos Pinhais. include a pilot project in cooperation with extend the program to other countries and Road Safety Award 2017 the city of Stuttgart, which aims to improve regions in 2018, including Scandinavia, The ESP® electronic stability program, which the flow of traffic there. In western England, Spain, the Netherlands, and cities in North Bosch helped develop, was the first-ever too, the Air Quality Initiative is cooperAmerica and Asia. winner of the Premier Prince Michael Road Safety Award. Since it was launched in ating with local authorities to come up 1995, ESP® has made a major contribution with solutions that will help reduce traffic to improving road safety. It has prevented some 188 500 accidents, and thus also saved in downtown areas and thus reduce polluthousands of lives. tant emissions. In France, Bosch is working 13 New Ways of Working NEW WAYS OF WORKING FOCUSING ON INDUSTRY 4.0 Making manufacturing operations more efficient and processes more transparent are two of the challenges that industrial companies currently face. A Bosch project in Berlin shows what approaches to agile manufacturing can look like: the company has connected more than 80 machines for OSRAM, the lighting manufacturer. Their data are transmitted in real time to the Bosch Production Performance Manager software system, and are then available on the OSRAM Ticket Manager, an employee app. With this service, decisive improvements can be made to work processes: activities are no longer based on machines, but rather on areas of responsibility. For instance, employees with the required qualifications receive notification of a new task on their work smartphone. What is more, employees working in production can consult with process experts to continuously adapt the app’s rules to production conditions. In this way, they can reduce energy consumption. More information about “New ways of working” at Bosch can now be found online at bosch.link/sustainability-new-ways-of-working 14 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 Bosch is one of the first global corporations to use the “Working Out Loud” program to connect associates to one another CONNECTED WORK In the “associates” area, Bosch activities support the Working Out Loud (WOL) is a work method following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): and a skill, as well as an informal self-learning program that Bosch uses to connect SDG 3, SDG 5, SDG 8, SDG 9 its associates with one another around the world. The aim is to make expertise accesBosch is helping shape the working world of the future. sible more quickly across hierarchical On the one hand, the company is driving innovation levels, make changes of perspective posin the realms of sensor technology, automation, and artisible and further training an integral part ficial intelligence. These new technologies not only make of everyday working life, and thus increase innovative strength. Groups of five assoeveryday working life easier, but also safer. On the other ciates meet virtually once a week over a hand, Bosch has put new forms of collaboration into period of twelve weeks, either to solve a practice and seized the opportunities offered by digital challenge they have chosen themselves, or transformation. In the future, fast knowledge sharing, an to learn about a topic of interest in greater openness to change, and a willingness to keep learning detail. The groups are free to organize themselves as they choose. The method has from others throughout life will be decisive. been used for three years at Bosch, and digital learning increased once again in 2017. The WOL community doubled to some 2 200 associates from 45 countries, 217 locations, and about 1 600 operating units. The program has garnered positive reviews: in the latest round of feedback, 89 percent of participants said that WOL has benefited them and helped them further develop their digital skills, including a better understanding of social media and networking. 15 New Ways of Working Promoting diversity OTHER PROJECTS At Bosch, networking and creativity are even greater priority. In 2017, the Bosch dailychamps: online activities for Bosch associates around the world two decisive success factors. The company Changsha location in China completed the Who makes the best possible use of diversity strongly believes that collaboration among 18-month „Building a safe plant“ project. A in their everyday working life? On the online people with different areas of expertise comprehensive package of measures has “dailychamps” platform, colleagues decide by nominating an associate who has inspired and broad-ranging experience is the best made each associate at the location aware of them. This person then shares their experience way to promote new ideas. With more than occupational safety. The package includes a online and nominates another colleague, and so on. Associates thus learn about the benefits ten associate networks for a variety of difcontinuous improvement process, intensive of appreciation and openness. In 2017, 900 ferent interest groups, some of which have knowledge sharing between associates associates were nominated around the world, existed for more than two decades, Bosch and their supervisors, work-specific safety and 200 dailychamps shared their success stories. has been promoting networking for many training, information for business partners, years. Groups include women@bosch, and internal audits. As a special feature of Bosch Diversity Day family@bosch, the Bosch Turkish Forum, the project, key performance indicators For the fourth year running, Bosch held its annual Diversity Day in May 2017 at locations and RBg, which represents the interests have been defined for areas in need of around the world. The aim of the event is of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender improvement, and associates have been to encourage debate about what drives and hinders diversity. In Japan, executives engaged associates. Last summer, the LGBT Allies actively involved in making improvements in discussion with the association “Fathering Network was also launched. More than 100 to safety at a number of levels. Today, the Japan”. They concluded that executives play Bosch associates from several countries plant has four different safety awards that a decisive role in determining the extent to which male associates participate in family and in different functions became ambashonor best practices. In 2017, the location life. In Vietnam, associates born before 1975 sadors for LGBT-related topics, and work was accident-free. met to discuss unconscious bias (about the within and outside the company to promote relationship between age and performance, for example) and how this affects everyday acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and At the Llica location in Spain, working with working life. transgender people. forklifts became safer this year. Before they start working, each driver must rule out A new communication initiative has been vehicle defects with a checklist. During their launched that emphasizes the importance drive, sensors record all their activities. Comof diversity. At around 200 locations, bined with an end device that associates posters with pithy statements like “less carry with them, receptors on the forklift can bias, more advantages” show how different detect approaching persons and decelerate perspectives can be beneficial in day-to-day automatically. They also slow down if the working life. What is more, a workshop that forklift is moving so quickly that a collision addresses unconscious bias help associwould be dangerous. The solution helped ates recognize typical stereotypes in their the Llica location reach the end of 2017 everyday working lives, and this allows them without any forklift-related accidents. to develop new perspectives. The workshop is already offered in 15 countries around Since most accidents are the result of the world. In Germany alone, some 2 700 human behavior, Bosch places a great deal associates took part in 2017. of importance on safety training for its associates. In 2017, the company took new Bosch is also shaping the transformation of approaches to this: at the Rayong plant in the working world with around 100 different Thailand and at the Changsha plant in China, working time models, which make work the “GAppNGo” app, which uses augmented more flexible and less dependent on place. reality, was launched on the Bosch IoT Cloud These models help associates strike a in November to raise awareness about healthy balance between their professional accident risks. Associates answer quiz quesand personal lives. JobConnector is another tions about virtual hazards, and thus learn offer that associates are increasingly using. how risks can be avoided. The tool assists them in finding a job-sharing partner online, allowing vacancies to be In Abstatt, Germany, the Chassis Systems filled with two people. In 2017, there were Control division tested a virtual reality safety more than 450 JobConnector profiles, a training session, which created typical work 50 percent year-on-year increase. environments in areas such as logistics, At the Changsha plant in manufacturing, and administration – each of China, the “GAppNGo” app which have specific challenges. Participants raises awareness about occupational safety in a Keeping associates safe were asked to come up with virtual solutions. playful manner In 2018, the training session will be available Bosch is also driving agile, connected manuat all the division’s locations. facturing forward, both with digital services and more efficient operations. In a changing work environment, safety has become an 16 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 NEW APPROACHES TO MANUFACTURING ECO-FRIENDLY MANUFACTURING THE ENERGY SAVERS The Bosch location in Homburg, Germany, is inching ever closer to becoming an energyefficient, self-learning plant. The manufacturing work done by roughly 5 500 Mobility Solutions and Industrial Technology associates saves significant amounts of energy. Their approach is to combine maximum transparency with technical innovation. With the help of around 10 000 data points, data from the machinery is pooled on an internal Bosch online platform. Associates can thus monitor the energy consumption of each individual machine and optimize it accordingly. Technical solutions include the demand-based control of ventilation systems, the utilization of waste heat from various processes, and shutdown management of production machinery. With these and other measures, the location saved around 4 600 metric tons of carbon dioxide in 2017, and reduced CO₂ by 23 000 metric tons compared with 2007. More information about Bosch activities in the realm of “New approaches to manufacturing” is now available online at bosch.link/sustainability-new-approaches-to-manufacturing 17 New Approaches to Manufacturing In 2017, Bosch started operation of the largest solar power plant in the Indian automotive sector In the “environment” area, Bosch supports the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): SDG 9, SDG 11, SDG 12, SDG 13 By 2020, Bosch aims to reduce its own carbon dioxide emissions by 35 percent relative to value added over the 2007 reference year. Last year, the company took significant steps toward reaching this goal. At present, the relative improvement stands at 32.8 percent. This can be attributed to the broad range of green innovations and improvements at Bosch locations around the world. Energy efficiency and resource conservation remain two focal points. Today, it is clear that the production of the future not only has to respond quickly to changing market requirements, it must also be eco-friendly. At Bosch Rexroth, CO₂ reduction has a name: Goheating networks, thus replacing about 500 megaA NEW PRODUCT Green. Since 2011, the program has promoted watt hours of district steam. Since the latter is often DEVELOPMENT CODE energy-saving approaches to manufacturing. Each generated with coal in China, the new method not year, several new international initiatives reduce only saves about 400 metric tons of carbon dioxide, For all of its products, Bosch has introduced a new and mandatory the company’s CO₂ emissions. With hundreds of it also prevents dust and other harmful emissions in product development code. It stipumeasures, CO₂ emissions around the world have a country where smog is a major problem. lates that an entrepreneurial approach and the principle of legality always been reduced by more than 150 000 metric tons form the basis of technology “Invented since the program was launched. for life”. Technology should benefit Smart energy people and conserve resources. The principle of legality and Bosch values In 2017, the newly structured energy supply at the and water management always take precedence over customer Bosch location in Lohr am Main, Germany, was a wishes. For the development and program highlight. Among other things, cast prodAt the Bosch location in Nashik, India, the counapplication of functions, the board of management has formulated the ucts for industrial hydraulics are produced here. For try’s largest solar power plant in the automotive following guidelines: this purpose, two medium-frequency furnaces melt sector went into operation in 2017. With 36 000 ten metric tons of iron per hour. In the past, the need solar panels on roofs, in parking lots, and on open • The development of functions for cycle or test detection purposes is to cool the furnace shell with cooling water meant surfaces, the plant has achieved peak output prohibited. that more than two megawatts of heat output were of ten megawatts and already covers more than • Technology “Invented for life” requires that products fully meet lost per melting unit. Today, this heat is fed into the 40 percent of the site’s energy needs. The aim is to performance and quality standards heating network via heat exchangers. The intelligent fully cover the location’s energy needs with solar for everyday use by consumers. management of the furnace cooling system and a power in 2018. Bosch experts have also come up Optimizing product characteristics purely for testing purposes is not complete redesign of the plant’s energy supply and with an eco-friendly solution to cleaning the panels: permitted. heating network made this possible. Modern burner the water is recycled several times and cleaned in an technology with heat recovery, efficient air compreseco-friendly manner with a new ozonation system. At the start of 2018, more than 40 000 Bosch associates had received sors, and the frequency-controlled management of While the third phase of wastewater cleaning used training on the product development IE4 efficiency-class pumps and motors save up to to require chlorine, Bosch now cleans the water code. By the end of 2018, the entire target group of some 70 000 associ7 500 megawatt hours – the same amount of heat with ozone. This highly reactive gas serves as a disates involved in product development needed for a town of 1 200 inhabitants. In turn, this infectant and reacts quickly to organic substances will have completed training. It is the has saved about 1 700 metric tons of CO₂ at the in water. As a result of the smart energy and water biggest mandatory training program in the company’s history. What is more, Lohr location. management system, the Bosch location in Nashik the basic principles of the product reduced its CO₂ emissions by 13 700 metric tons development code have been included The Bosch Rexroth plant in Beijing has introduced a in 2017, reduced energy consumption by about in the revised Code of Business Conduct. The new version was published similar solution. Thanks to a heat exchanger, waste 14 600 megawatt hours, and saved 1.4 million in December 2017. heat from the hardening shop is now fed into the liters of water. 18 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 NEW FORMS OF SOCIAL INTERACTION COMMITMENT NINJAS ARE SAVING THE FOREST TO SOCIETY In the most densely populated and disadvantaged neighborhood in Curitiba, Brazil, Bosch is supporting the “We Are All Smart” (#WAAS) project. #WAAS makes it possible for schoolchildren to take classes in technology, IT hardware, and software. The project participants are referred to as ninjas, as they are constantly looking to acquire new skills and tools. With the help of technology, the students learn to solve problems, discover their individual strengths, and make use of their creative potential. In the “Space Apps Challenge 2017”, the solution for combating forest fires entered by the three teenagers Jennifer, Mateus, and Raul even caught NASA’s attention: their Juno Radio receives information from NASA satellites on possible fire outbreaks in forests, turns digital data into analog information, and transmits it to radio stations, even in Brazil’s most remote areas. The success of the three teenagers has been an inspiration for the entire neighborhood. More information about Bosch activities in the realm of “new forms of social interaction” can now be found online at bosch.link/sustainability-new-forms-of-social-interaction 19 New Forms of Social Interaction In the “society” area, Bosch supports the following the UK can take a day off work to volunteer Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): SDG 3, SDG 4 on a broad range of projects. During the “Help me grow” garden project in 2017, In cities, many people are living in a limited amount of space – around 30 Bosch associates from Worcester and Denham embellished the gardens this is and will continue to be a major social challenge in urban of a hospice and an outdoor museum. areas. Bosch and its four regional foundations in Brazil, China, India, and the United States are already working on addressing In Germany, Bosch associates in metthis challenge at Bosch locations around the world. Initiatives ropolitan Stuttgart volunteer with the that support up-and-coming talents receive special attention. “KinderHelden” project, which matches mentors with children from disadvanThe current generation of young people will have the opportaged families. In 2017, around 90 Bosch tunity to shape new forms of community life in the cities of the mentors acted as tandem partners for the future. However, not all children and young people can make children of associates, elementary school full use of their potential. With a broad range of educational projstudents, and refugee children. They ects, Bosch is committed to providing today’s youth with opporhelped the children with school and pertunities for a better future, regardless of their background. sonal issues. The aim is to help disadvantaged children get a good education. The project receives funding from the Bosch “Primavera” initiative, a non-profit that was Education is vital for children and young In China, Bosch took part in a project of founded and is run by Bosch associates. people, as it allows them to develop their the “New Sunshine Charity Foundation” personalities and grow into indepenin 2017. The initiative gives around 2 700 dent adults. Since January 2017, Bosch children with leukemia the opportunity Knowledge-sharing with scientists has thus supported “Inspire Suffolk’s” to attend classes at the hospital. The team program in the United Kingdom. lessons means that fiveto eight-year-old In addition to social projects, Bosch supThe program helps young unemployed children undergoing treatment do not ports institutions of higher education. people between the ages of 16 and 25 have to miss school. The Bosch China At present, a cooperation project with build self-confidence and find a path into Charity Center donated 851 000 yuan young researchers at the University of the working world. Last year, 600 young (some 109 000 euros) for school supAmsterdam has allowed the company to people completed the program, with 76 plies and two new schools in Xian and carry out applied research in the realm percent of them going on to start a job or Huhehaote. of artificial intelligence (AI). With three a training program. million euros in funding until 2020, PhD students and post-doctoral researchers In Buenos Aires, Bosch Argentina acCommitted associates are working with Bosch experts at the tively contributes to the “Mecenazgo” Bosch Research Center for Artificial Inyouth training program, which provides Bosch associates around the world are also telligence, as well as on projects at the access to education for young people committed to promoting active community university. Together, the researchers are aged 16 years and older who live in life. They encourage contact between working on AI technologies for the city of precarious conditions. The job training community members and help shape life in the future at the Delta Lab, for instance program reaches about 20 000 young their respective cities. Bosch associates in with applications that prevent accidents. people, who acquire social skills in addition to specialist knowledge. In 2017, Bosch contributed some 25 000 euros for the purchase of a building and power tools, and to finance future training programs. Bosch supports young scientists in the realm of artificial intelligence 20 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 February – Worldwide Celebrating diversity In 2007, Bosch was one of first companies to sign the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charter). The German initiative aims to create a work environment at companies and institutions that is free of prejudice. Regardless of gender, nationality, or age, all associates should be treated with the same level of respect. In the past decade, diversity has become an integral part of everyday life at Bosch. www.bosch.com/diversity 2017 02 01 05 IN REVIEW May – Nashik, India Providing access to January – Brazil clean water Modernizing mining The Bosch location in Nashik, India, had a dam built within just twelve weeks to In Brazil, the mining industry is an imimprove local agricultural conditions. The portant economic sector. However, safety Lakshmanpada project was successfully in the extraction of minerals can still completed at the end of May, ahead of be improved. In 2017, the new Bosch the monsoon season. The dam can store Integrated Solutions Brazil subsidiary around 400 million liters of water, and tackled this challenge and developed thus provide clean drinking water to an IoT solution. Connected Mine consome 200 households from five villages. nects objects, devices, services, and In addition to this, more than half of local machines with an IP address. Moreover, farmers can now plant a second cereal the intelligent production network runs crop each year. And thanks to the rise in automatically, increases energy efficiency, groundwater levels, eight drinking water and reduces both operating costs and wells and four hand pumps now have a emissions. With the new solution’s startstable water supply. stop feature alone, Bosch estimates that 44 metric tons of CO₂ can be saved per vehicle each year. 21 2017 in Review 07 July – Metropolitan Stuttgart, Germany Discovering science In cooperation with Robert Bosch GmbH, for the past ten years Robert Bosch Stiftung 06 has been offering tenth-grade girls from the Stuttgart area an opportunity to discover the fascinating worlds of science and technology. With the Girls’ Campus, the girls attend weekend seminars that provide practical insights into the mobility of the future. The program also includes presentations, guided tours, and presentation training. June – Austria Promoting talent in technical fields For the tenth year in a row, the Bosch Group in Austria has presented the “Invented for life” prize. In the fall of each year, students in their final year of study at the polytechnic are invited to submit their thesis projects in a range of categories. An expert jury of Bosch associates then evaluates the submissions. The winners selected are awarded a six-month internship at a Bosch location in Austria – the perfect start to their careers. November – Worldwide 08 Honoring innovation Each year, innovative projects aimed at improving occupational safety and energy efficiency are initiated at Bosch locations around the world. To raise awareness about these new approaches across the company, in 2017 Bosch began honoring the best ideas with the Bosch EHS Award. The winners included projects from Brazil, China, and Germany. “Energy Management 4.0” makes energy consumption transparent. Among other things, the “Cold Degreasing” project has reduced energy consumption with a newly developed detergent that is effective at low temperatures. In turn, the “GoGreen” initiative takes a comprehensive approach to saving energy. The locations also demonstrated creativity with regard to safety: with August – Southern Europe the “Building a safe plant” project, executives and associates showed their commitment to occupaGiving young people prospects for the tional safety. With “System CIP for Safety”, they future have improved workplace safety with a continuous improvement process. And with “Virtual Reality With the Southern Europe Training Initiative, Bosch began Safety Training @ CC”, associates receive training offering apprenticeships to young people from Italy, Portuin a digital working world. gal, and Spain in 2014. The aim is to contribute to fighting youth unemployment in these countries. Over the past four years, Bosch has created a total of 175 extra apprenticeships and spent 14 million euros on the program. In 2017, 72 young people started apprenticeships: 25 are now learning 11 in their home countries, and the remaining 47 have come to Germany. Thanks to language lessons that last several months and continuous support at their locations, these young women and men are gradually integrating into their places of work and German society. Around 85 percent of the apprentices successfully complete the program. bosch.link/apprenticeship-initiative 22 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 PROGRESS REPORT ACTIVITIES – AN OVERVIEW Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2017 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. Principle Targets ⁄ Basic principles Actions Results Human rights Corporate target Supply chain-related activities 740 audits conducted since 2010 Principle 1: 1 000 supplier audits by Environmental and occupational safety Established in 2008, the Code of Business Support and re2020 audits of the supplier portfolio Conduct has been fully revised spect human rights Basic principles Principle 2: Code of Business Social responsibility Bosch is an active member of the German NetNo complicity Conduct for suppliers Bosch has made economic, social, and work for Business Ethics Compliance & Integrity in human rights ecological concerns an integral part of its Forum. In 2017, the company sponsored the Basic principles of social approach to social responsibility Human Rights working group abuses responsibility at Bosch Purchasing guidelines Bosch purchasing In all contracts, Bosch requires that its Suppliers make necessary improvements; guidelines suppliers adhere to the core labor standards failure to do so can lead to sanctions “We are Bosch” of the International Labor Organization (ILO) (e.g. termination of the supplier agreement) mission statement on the basis of the UN Global Compact Labor standards Corporate target Women executives Share of women in management positions in Principle 3: 20 percent share of Increase the share of women in 2017: 16.1 percent Uphold freedom of women executives management positions The global network counts some 3 000 association by 2020 women@bosch members in 20 countries – with a broad range Principle 4: Basic principles For more than 20 years, the associate of events that promote knowledge sharing/ Elimination of all Basic principles of social network has promoted the interests of development forms of forced and responsibility at Bosch women at Bosch compulsory labor Bosch Human Diversity management In 2017, almost 200 locations took part in the Principle 5: Resources System Expand group-wide programs that aim 4th global Bosch Diversity Day Abolition of child to promote diversity and attract the best “We are Bosch” “Impulse”, a new communication initiative on the labor talent mission statement topic of diversity, was launched at 200 locations Principle 6: The “We LEAD Bosch” Some 2 700 Bosch associates attended workElimination of management guidelines shops on “unconscious bias” discrimination Diversity Charter RBg associate network Some 300 members in ten countries are Guidelines for a flexible The Bosch associate network is committed working to making the LGBT community more and family-friendly to promoting acceptance of lesbian, gay, visible at the company working culture bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people In 2017, the LGBT Allies Network was launched: more than 100 Bosch associates from different divisions are committed to showing support for LGBT issues, both internally and externally The “Chefsache” initiative 15 000 participants took part in 50 events, In a network with well-known German comwhere they helped shape the initiative with panies and organizations, Bosch launched mentoring programs, networks, seminars, the “Chefsache” initiative, which aims to and training sessions support women in management positions 23 Progress Report Principle Targets ⁄ Basic principles Actions Results Labor standards Corporate target Associate aid network 1 170 members supported the Primavera e.V. Principle 3: 20 percent share of In 1990, Bosch associates founded the initiative by volunteering on aid projects in many Uphold freedom of women executives “Primavera e.V.” aid initiative, which aims parts of the world association by 2020 to provide disadvantaged children from the In 2017, donations amounted to almost one world’s poorer regions with better access Principle 4: Basic principles million euros. Since the initiative was founded, to education and training Elimination of all Basic principles of more than 9.5 million euros have been donated forms of forced and social responsibility compulsory labor at Bosch Integration of refugees Bosch associates collected some 400 000 euros With a broad range of initiatives and measfor refugees in 2015. The company doubled the Principle 5: Bosch Human ures, Bosch is committed to supporting amount to 820 000 euros Abolition of child Resources System refugees. Among other things, the company labor In 2016 and 2017, more than 100 projects received “We are Bosch” takes part in the German “Wir zusammen” funding. The projects were selected by a committee Principle 6: mission statement initiative of employer and employee representatives Elimination of “We LEAD Bosch” International foundations In 2017, the Bosch Group spent a total of discrimination management Regional commitment through Bosch Group 24.6 million euros on charitable initiatives. Charta der Vielfalt foundations in Brazil, China, India, and the Of this amount, the foundations supported (Diversity Charter) United States projects with 8.7 million euros Guidelines for a flexible Dual education Around the world, Bosch is training some and family-friendly work Bosch occupational training model in more 7 300 young people, 2 600 of them located culture than 20 countries around the world outside Germany. Moreover, Bosch spent 14 million euros to create additional apprenticeships in Italy, Portugal, and Spain, with the aim of fighting youth unemployment A flexible work culture More than 100 working-time models across Bosch has global guidelines for a flexible hierarchical levels; from part-time work to and family-friendly work culture telecommuting and job-sharing models OHSAS 18001 Occupational safety measures were introduced Certification of Bosch locations based at all manufacturing sites and major engineering on the international occupational safety locations. Until now, 126 locations have received standard external certification. This represents a share of 44 percent In 2017, the number of accidents per million hours worked was reduced to 2.3 (a 66 percent decrease over 2007) Promoting continuous improvement In Germany alone, some 25 000 associates made Bosch relies on the company suggestion suggestions for improvement, which were honored scheme with cash rewards totaling 6.4 million euros Internationality Active participation in the afric@bosch, For Bosch seizes the opportunities of its Bosch abroad, Türkisches Forum Bosch, and diversity, pools intercultural knowledge, chinese@bosch associate networks and ensures that it is passed on Generations In 2017, some 1 600 senior experts and a Bosch promotes cross-generational cocross-generational tandem exchange project operation through lifelong learning, health ensured knowledge sharing across generations management, and knowledge transfer for all associates Integration of people with disabilities At German locations, there are representatives Bosch increases its innovative strength for associates with severe disabilities. Moreover, by focusing on the unique abilities of its Bosch cooperates with sheltered workshops and associates rather than on their limitations is active in a German working group for workshops employing people with disabilities 24 Bosch Sustainability Report 2017 Principle Targets ⁄ Basic principles Actions Results Environmental Corporate target CO₂ reduction CO₂ emissions relative to value added protection 35 percent reduction of Global reduction of CO₂ at all manufacturing reduced by 32.8 percent over the 2007 relative CO₂ emissions and larger development locations reference year Principle 7: by 2020 over the 2007 Precautionary CDP reporting on greenhouse gas reference year environmental emissions earned a grade of “A-” in 2017 protection In 2018: two percent reduction of relative Sustainable products 5 812 patents filed around the world Principle 8: Investments in the further development of waste volumes and Almost 54 percent of R&D expenditure Initiatives to sustainable products water consumption went into the development of sustainable promote greater over the previous year products* environmental responsibility Basic principles The environment/safety portfolio accountGuidelines for occupaed for almost 41 percent of group sales* Principle 9: tional safety and enviDevelopment ronmental protection Waste volume and water consumption Reduced relative volumes of waste by and Reduced waste volume and water 2.7 percent and relative water consumption distribution of Bosch Product consumption at Bosch locations by 6.5 percent over the previous year environmentally Engineering System friendly CDP reporting on water consumption Bosch Production technologies System ISO 14001 Environmental management systems have Bosch locations certified in accordance with been introduced at all manufacturing sites Design for Environment the international environmental standard and major engineering locations; until now, (DfE) 221 have received external certification. “We are Bosch” This represents a 76 percent share mission statement ISO 50001 Energy management systems have been Energy management systems introduced implemented and certified at 54 manufacturing sites (19 percent). A Bosch-wide energy and CO₂ monitoring program is in place at all manufacturing sites and major engineering locations The fight Basic principles Business partner check Compliance lists are used to assess the against Code of Business A new IT tool was implemented to activities of customers and suppliers. In the corruption Conduct assess whether business partners observe event of breaches of compliance, a special compliance guidelines evaluation process is carried out Principle 10: “We are Bosch” Work against mission statement Anti-corruption risk analysis The overall results did not reveal any major corruption Conducted around the world in 2017 risks for Bosch; wherever necessary, approMember of Transparency priate measures were defined and initiated International e. V. (since 1995) Compliance training The mandatory compliance training Member of the Forum In-house training program program includes sessions on the Code for of Business Conduct, product safety Compliance & Integrity Whistleblower portal Compliance hotline and liability, anti-trust laws, and export (since 2007) Anyone – associates (including interns and controls, as well as the product developPhD students), external parties (such as ment code. In 2017, 261 057 associates temps or employees of external service took part in the program providers), or business partners (including suppliers, customers, or cooperation partFirst published in 2008, the Code of ners) can report breaches of compliance Conduct was fully revised in 2017 (observance of laws and internal regulations relating to business activities). If desired, they can even do so anonymously * excluding BSH Hausgeräte Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: in 2010, an office, expert and steering committee were founded. Since then, these bodies have been responsible for the effective implementation of all of the Group’s sustainability-related activities. Scope of reporting: the scope of the information is indicated in the texts, key figures, and targets. This report presents a summary of the Bosch Group’s current sustainability-related activities across sectors and divisions. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period: January 2017 to spring 2018. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2017. The editorial deadline was March 1, 2018. Memberships (examples): B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), United Nations Global Compact (2004), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, GOLD Community member), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007). Other sustainability reports: WIN-Charta Baden-Wuerttemberg (2017), German Sustainability Code (2017), orientation to GRI standards (2016). Legal Notice Published by Robert Bosch GmbH Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany Phone: +49 711 811-0 Corporate Communications and Brand Management (C/CC) Senior Vice-President: Dr. Christoph Zemelka Corporate Health, Safety, Environmental and Fire Protection as well as Sustainability (C/PS) Vice-President: Torsten Kallweit Contact Head Sustainability Office Bernhard Schwager bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Phone: +49 711 811-6402 Project team Annkathrin Ernst, Sven Kahn, Kyra Meckel, Bernhard Schwager Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Picture credits All rights rest with Bosch except p. 1 borchee/istockphoto.com (2), ©Bosch/ www.offenblen.de (3), Theo Marques (5); p. 2 Thomas Trutschel (1); p. 7 Vereinte Nationen; p. 8 borchee/istockphoto.com; p. 13 ©Bosch/www.offenblen.de; p. 18 Theo Marques; p. 20 Charta der Vielfalt (1), Aarre Rinne/istockphoto.com (3) Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available at: bosch.com sustainability.bosch.com sustainabilityblog.bosch.com bosch.link/sustainability-report Robert Bosch GmbH Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany www.bosch.com
