Annual Repor t 2 0 18 SCREEN Group Year ended March 31, 2018 Value Creation by the SCREEN Group As a manufacturer of production equipment, the SCREEN Group contributes to customers’ manufacturing while providing ongoing value to customers, shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders through its business activities. In addition to suppor ting the IoT-driven society that is being developed through the value created by customer products like semiconductors, printed materials, displays, and print circuit board(PCB)s, we’re committed to resolving social issues and to realizing both a sustainable society with a rising standard of living and human happy future. Sustained value creation Invested capital (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Businesses Value provided to stakeholders R&D, Design Procurement, Marketing, Products / Customers Manufacturing Sales Field support Financial Net sales: ¥339.3 billion Solving social issues capital “Process Free cash flow: ¥17.6 billion Semiconductor production and realizing both a SE Customer-oriented equipment business Innovation” sustainable society development, design, Contributing to customers’ with a rising standard Human capital procurement, manufacture, sales and service capabilities manufacturing of living and human Number of employees GA Graphic arts equipment business happy future (consolidated): 5,835 Advanced, Overseas: 2,351 (up 16.4% year-on-year) Japan: 3,484 (up 2.4% year-on-year) state-of-the-art technologies Display production equipment Business locations (number of FT and coater business consolidated subsidiaries) Overseas: 29 companies (increased by 6, compared to fiscal 2015) Japan: 28 companies (increased by 4, compared to fiscal 2015) Improved productivity and quality Manufactured and Growth investment Capital expenditures: ¥14.4 billion PE PCB-related equipment business intellectual capital (up 74.8% year-on-year) R&D expenses: ¥20.8 billion (up 17.1% year-on-year) Reduced environmental impacts New business areas Number of patents held: 4,762 Overseas: 2,566 (increased by 533, compared to fiscal 2015) Energy (FT) Japan: 2,196 (increased by 69, compared to fiscal 2015) Inspection & measurement Life sciences Shareholders and Suppliers investors Participation in consortiums and Mutual growth The SCREEN Group’s six material issues related Social and partnerships with universities Enhanced shareholder returns through open and to the SDGs p.20 IoT and other entities fair procurement AI 8 instances (based on publicly available information) Autonomous cars Basis for value creation Electric vehicles relationship capital Local communities Employees Smartphones Relationships of trust with and society Others customers and Human resources Motivating workplaces suppliers worldwide Employment creation, Corporate Philosophy technological and industrial Sharing the Future Human Resource Development The Pursuit of Technology development, reduction of environmental impacts Medium-term management plan / long-term vision CSR Charter / Code of Conduct 01 02 Message from the President CONTENTS 01 Value Creation by the SCREEN Group 03 CONTENTS Value Creation and 04 Message from the President Business Strategy 07 Three-year Medium-term Management Plan Challenge 2019 08 Message from the CFO / Message from the CTO Invest in Growth to Raise Corporate Value 09 SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. Overview of 13 SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. Performance 15 SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. 16 SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. Sustainability 17 Special Feature: CSR Communication 23 Management Compensation / Evaluation of the Aiming to Be a Sustainable, Development-centered Effectiveness of the Board of Directors / Eiji Kakiuchi President Company Message from the New Outside Director Member of the Board 19 Advancing CSR Management 24 Directors and Auditors Chief Executive Officer Corporate Governance Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen 21 Management and Executive System 25 Compliance and Risk Management / 22 Management and Executive System for Business Investor Relations Operating and Functional Support Companies / 26 Supply Chain Management / Quality Management / Board of Corporate Auditors / Responding to the Ongoing Social Contribution Activities Corporate Governance Code / Outside Directors 27 Initiatives in EHS and Outside Corporate Auditors 29 Human Resource Management Q . H o w w o u l d y o u s u m u p t h e f i s cal y ear en d ed M ar ch 3 1 , 2 0 18? Fiscal 2018 was a fruitful year. With the help of a favorable April 2017, our goal is to maintain approximately ¥300 billion in Data Section market environment for SE, we increased both revenues and profits for a five consecutive fiscal years. While the SE continued annual net sales and raise ratio of operating income to net sales in the final year to 13% or above, with an ROE in approximately to be the engine of our overall growth, I am pleased to report 15% over the period. In fiscal 2018, the first year of Challenge 31 Performance Highlights 47 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows that all segments (SE, GA, FT, and PE) were able to increase 2019, we succeeded in meeting our numerical targets, with net 33 Eleven-Year Trends in Key Financial and Corporate Data revenues and profits over the previous fiscal year. sales of ¥339.3 billion, a ratio of operating income to net sales Non-financial Indicators Under our Challenge 2019 three-year medium-term of 12.6%, and an ROE of 18.2%. 67 Corporate Profile / Consolidated Companies / management plan (hereinafter, medium-term plan) beginning in Financial Section Stock Information 35 Management’s Discussion and Analysis About This Report Consolidated Performance Summary (Year ended March 31, 2018) ■ Net sales ● Ratio of operating income to net sales (%) 43 Consolidated Balance Sheets 68 Editorial Policy / Applicable Standards / Scope of 20 45 Consolidated Statements of Income / Consolidated 12.6 13.8 Coverage / Disclaimer / External Assessments / 11.2 9.1 Statements of Comprehensive Income Website 7.2 10 (Billions of yen) 384.0 46 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets (Forecast) 400 339.3 300.2 0 259.6 237.6 ● The following abbreviations are sometimes used for business segments when they are mentioned in this report: 200 SE = Semiconductor production equipment business GA = Graphic arts equipment business FT = Display production equipment and coater business PE = PCB-related equipment business ● The names of the business segments in the Financial Section (p.35–66) are those used as of March 31, 2018. 0 Challenge 2016 Challenge 2019 ● All years shown are for the accounting year ending March 31 of the year shown. For example, “fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) 2018” means the period from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. 03 04 Message from the President Q.Following a successful fiscal 2018, you are forecasting increased revenues and profits Q . What are your policies regarding engagement with shareholders and investors? for fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 as well. How do you plan to achieve this? Dialogue with shareholders and investors is indispensable me new ideas and opened my eyes to discoveries that we can In fiscal 2019, the second year of the current medium-term plan, some say, the market is undergoing a “super cycle.” In the to managing a company and therefore a high priority for use in running our business. we foresee ourselves achieving an Ratio of operating income to net semiconductor wafer fab equipment (WFE) market, growth SCREEN. Although I am in my seventh fiscal year of being I hope to continue dialogue with shareholders and other sales of 13% or above—one of the plan’s targets—a year ahead of has continued for the past five years. Even if around 2019 involved in investor relations (IR), including a two-year stint as investors at every possible opportunity. In addition, this fiscal schedule. Our SE and FT have already reached 10% or above and brings a slight adjustment, we expect sales to remain above director of IR before becoming president, I still feel strongly year I want to discuss ways to improve corporate governance we expect to see GA and PE hit the next level of growth. the high $50 billion level. With our sights set firmly on this about the importance of investor relations. I am grateful to our with people in charge of shareholder voting rights. In the market for our mainstay SE, we foresee a good fiscal market growth, this fiscal year we will expand manufacturing shareholders, investors, and analysts for how they have given year, especially for memory products, thanks to high demand sites, reinforce IT, and step up capital investment and R&D. from data centers and in the fields of AI and IoT. In the All of this constitutes growth investment aimed at boosting semiconductor market, we are witnessing historic growth, as profitability. Q . A big issue these days is environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. What are your thoughts on ESG? ESG is one of the pillars of management and it is one of our sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN, in Q.Wha t a r e your thoughts and polic ie s on s h a re h olde r re t u rn s ? key focuses as we continue to strive for sustainable growth. particular prioritizing six of these SDGs as the entire SCREEN As a production equipment manufacturer, we have for years Group works together to help society progress in a sustainable Our target under Challenge 2019 is a total consolidated respond to the expectations of shareholders and investors. put the environment front and center in running our business manner. shareholder return ratio of 25% or above. I still don’t believe We intend to balance an increase in shareholder returns with and in developing new products. We are fortunate to count For example, one of the SDGs concerns decent work, and we the dividend payout ratio is high enough, but if we continue to investment in growth. many world-class companies among our customers, and this have been striving towards this goal by promoting work style invest in growth and raise the corporate value, I hope we can is a key reason for our EHS* activities. reform over the past several years. Besides simply shortening Apart from the “E” (environmental) of ESG, what we do working hours, we are taking creative measures to make each regarding “S” (social) and “G” (governance) is harder for the day’s jobs more efficient and revamp work processes. We Total Consolidated Shareholder Return Ratio public to see. This is why I feel it is more important than ever are also striving to create a better working environment by ■ Cash dividends per share ● Total consolidated shareholder return ratio (%) for us to disclose information in a fair and open manner so that expanding the scope of partial telecommuting, which until now 30 the public can understand exactly what we do. has been limited. 20 We have declared that we will incorporate into our business Another example is the SCREEN Business School that we (Yen) 25.2 25.1 20.4 the 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, launched two years ago, where instructors, including myself, 200 10 13.7 environment, and anti-corruption put forth by the United Nations train personnel at all levels in order to foster the next generation 155 Global Compact. We are also earnestly working toward the 17 of managers. 110 (Forecast) 0 100 87 60 35 0 Challenge 2016 Challenge 2019 Q.In 2018, SCREEN celebrates the 150th anniversary of its foundation and the 75th 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) anniversary since its establishment. Tell us about the company’s future aspirations. Note: The above figures were calculated based on a one-for-five consolidation of common stock on October 1, 2016. There are some companies that have been in business for more than 200 years. I believe that a diverse range of human resources is more important than ever in ensuring a company’s sustainable growth. People of diverse nationalities, races, beliefs, and genders are crucial to invigorating a company. I have learned this firsthand thanks to my experience Q.In June 2018, you issued ¥30 billion in convertible bonds. Could you explain the interacting with people all over the world in my early years at SCREEN, when work took background? me to places such as the U.S., the Netherlands, Latin America, and Russia. I believe that fostering diversity in human resources leads to stronger management. Of all the ways to procure funds, we chose an efficient method mainly into capital investment and R&D while holding on to our We will continue boosting corporate value and responding flexibly to the market called zero coupon bonds, which allows us to respond flexibly cash on hand. At the same time, we have formulated a scheme environment, but to do so we still have much to do to improve our governance; for to changes in the future management environment. You may that takes into account a range of criteria that will allow us example, make the Board of Directors more effective, increase the proportion of outside be wondering why we are procuring funds at this point in time to minimize dilution concerns when converting the bonds. directors, and diversify our workforce. We will continue to earn the trust of our stakeholders when we have positive net cash. The reason is that this fiscal By investing our recently procured funds, we are boosting by having all employees and executives work together while we step up efforts to year we are putting funds procured through convertible bonds corporate value. disclose information fairly. We in the SCREEN Group ask for your continued support and encouragement. * EHS: Environmental management (E), health management (H), and disaster prevention and safety (S) 05 06 Three-year Medium-term Management Plan Challenge 2019 Message from the CFO / Message from the CTO Three-year Medium-term Management Plan Challenge 2019 [ Fi scal 2018 – 2020 ] Growth and Qualitative Improvement of the Group Itself The business environment surrounding the SCREEN Group is subject to constant, rapid change. This environment demands speed and innovation, but it also constantly presents business opportunities, and by paying careful attention to risk awareness and avoidance, we see the overall market as continuing to grow. Given this, under the three-year medium-term management plan called Challenge 2019 (from here on referred to as medium-term plan), the Group will maintain the earnings structure and financial base established under our previous medium-term plan, Challenge 2016, while aiming for the growth and qualitative improvement of the Group itself. At the same time, the Group will work to ensure the generation of sustainable profit and shareholder returns. Targets Yoichi Kondo Soichi Nadahara 1. Expand Sales 2. Maintain Profitability and Improve 3. Maintain and Improve Capital Efficiency Managing Director Managing Director Member of the Board Member of the Board Consolidated annual net sales Operating income ratio in the ROE Chief Financial Officer Chief Technology Officer final year of the plan Approx. ¥300 billion 13% or above Approx. 15% M essage f r om th e CFO M essage f rom t he C TO Aggressively Invest in Growth While Broaden Our Field of Vision, Achieved in the first fiscal year Within sight of achieving this one Achieved in the first fiscal year (for two consecutive terms) year early (for three consecutive terms) Maintaining Financial Discipline and Ascertain Technological Trends, Boosting Our Credit Rating Deploy Our Technology Mai n Initiatives 1. Improve the net sales break-even point ratio in existing businesses 4. Advance CSR management with an emphasis In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we increased our R&D this year mostly proceeded as planned. For example, in Control the net sales break-even point in response to sales fluctuations. on ESG* operating income ratio, mainly in the SE, and shortened our the life science field, we released to the market the Cell3iMager E : Creating environmental value and contributing to the 2. Establish earnings platforms in peripheral areas based on the reduction of carbon emissions and recycling of resources cash conversion cycle. With ample cash on hand, our success Estier optical coherence tomography instrument that allows production equipment business in investing in future growth is one of the highlights of this fiscal non-invasive*1 3D analysis of cells and biological tissue. Also, at the societal level Further strengthen after-sales service including modifications (and including S : Ensuring opportunities for decent work and creating social value year. we greatly broadened our contact with medical institutions consumables businesses in GA field). G: Implementing a system of both passive and active governance In June 2018, we issued ¥30 billion in convertible bonds via a model infant heart and a next-generation internal-organ while disclosing ESG information (¥15 billion each in fourand seven-year bonds). The aim is perfusion*2 system. 3. Aggressively invest in growth while maintaining financial discipline * ESG stands for “Environmental,” “Social,” and “Governance.” Explore opportunities for and implement effective M&A. Under a strategy of open to amass cash reserves sufficient enough to allow us to act Now, in a period that is being described as VUCA* 3 , innovation, explore opportunities for and implement such measures as collaboration 5. Enhance shareholder returns quickly upon future growth opportunities and to create a cash circumstances are that R&D has to cover a lot of topics and and business alliances with research institutes and other companies, as well as Aim for a total consolidated shareholder return ratio of 25% buffer that will allow us to deal with sudden changes in the it is difficult to clearly forecast what will occur three or more investment in and support for venture capitals. or above business environment. When asked why we are procuring at years from now. If a new business model emerges from this particular time when we have net cash, I say that now is companies such as GAFA (Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon), the perfect time to do so because we can take advantage of it is possible that existing technology could, in one stroke, the favorable market environment and our strong business become a mere shell. It is vital that we do not miss the wave Achieving Results Beyond Expectations to Spur Us Towards performance in order to be ready for future opportunities. We of technological revolution, so we will ascertain technological Reaching Planned Targets have been able to take the initiative in carrying out flexible, trends and take steps such as constantly updating our effective cash procurement. company’s technological portfolio and roadmap. In particular, In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the first year of medium-term plan, we gained momentum We will continue to maintain financial discipline while aiming regarding AI, which will be the keystone for all technological towards reaching planned targets as we achieved results beyond expectations: net sales of to earn higher credit ratings. Our next target is a Japan Credit innovation, to what degree our company can incorporate it into ¥339.3 billion, an operating income ratio of 12.6%, and an ROE of 18.2%. We also saw an overall Rating Agency (JCR) rating of “A.” We are continuing to shoot our equipment, manufacturing technology, and R&D, will be a improvement in profitability, with the SE, which accounts for two-thirds of net sales, the driving force for an equity ratio of over 50%. We also want to boost our huge key to determining our future. and new business in the FT moving into the black in its seventh year of business. However, we still financial strength in order to survive an economic crisis of the In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, we will continue our have work to do in the GA and the PE, where the operating income ratio stalled at less than 10%. scale of the 2008 global financial crisis. To this end, we will commitment to training engineers, and encourage them to have While keeping a close watch on rising interest rates in the U.S. and on the changing economy, we increase our liquidity on hand, shorten our payable turnover new experience other outside. Their abilities will not improve are striving to reach management targets we set for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018: achieve a period, and strengthen our balance sheets. In addition, if they don’t test their skills in the big ocean. Going forward, it growth rate beyond that of the market, and raise our operating income ratio. We are striving to achieve investment in growth requires that we tighten our operations by will be very important for engineers to broaden their outlook group-wide growth on two fronts. Internally, we aim to diversify our business while expanding the carrying out decision-making that considers the cost of capital and their territory and not limit themselves to their own fields scope of our existing businesses by releasing new products and entering new fields. Externally, we are and clarifies the hurdle rate. of specialty. Accordingly, we want to extend external alliances, looking at taking on new management resources through M&A and investments in other companies. also with overseas companies, in future, too. Katsutoshi Oki Furthermore, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we plan to more than double capital *1 Non-invasive techniques eliminate the potential for damaging organisms and ensure the homeostasis of their internal environment is not disturbed. Managing Director investment to ¥31 billion and increase R&D expenses to ¥25 billion (up ¥5 billion over the previous *2 Perfusion: to pass liquid through a blood vessel *3 VUCA: volatility, uncertainty, complexity, ambiguity Member of the Board year). And we will strive to ensure that these investments lead to increased earnings in the form of Chief Officer of Corporate Strategy reducing the net sales break-even point ratio and lowering the cost of manufacturing. 07 08 Overview of Performance SE: Semiconductor Production equipment business SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. New Arrival Provides equipment for surface processing, a crucial part of circuit formation on silicon wafers for semiconductor devices. Processing CW-2000 LA-3100 includes cleaning, coating / developing, and annealing. Compact Wet Station Flash Lamp Annealing Equipment ● Achieved record highs for net sales and operating income in a robust semiconductor market. ● Finalized plans for construction of a new factory at the Hikone Q Tell us about the measures you are taking continuing strong performance in Taiwan. Plant. Increased production capacity and production efficiency. in fiscal 2019 to achieve goals such as Looking at new products and new business areas, we expect major growth in annealing epuipment. In addition to new flash further raising operating income. ● Aim to further boost profitability by standardizing design, lamp annealing epuipment products, we are making a fullstrengthening after-sales service, and taking advantage of scale market entry with laser annealing epuipment made by The upstream portion of the manufacturing process has a major the new automated factory. LASSE (formerly Exico), which we acquired four years ago. impact on cost, and this is where we are working to standardize Amidst increasing miniaturization, annealing is a crucial process Tadahiro Suhara design. By using our know-how, I think we can incorporate customer demands into development and create a lineup of in determining device characteristics. I believe its growing President, SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. importance means expanding sales for us. standardized modules. This will allow us to respond to individual On the development front, we are enjoying a growing presence customer needs while at the same time reducing lead time. in next-generation semiconductor development, thanks to Through this manufacturing-centered approach, in fiscal 2019 ongoing joint development with research institutes such as Q Could you please sum up the fiscal Q Despite the strong performance, are we are making the supply chain a top priority by revamping imec, Leti, and Albany Nanotech, and recently launched joint year ended March 31, 2018? there any areas where you see room for our organization and further bolstering our supply chain development with Taiwan’s National Tsing Hua University. improvement? management. We are also seeking faster response to customer demands by I think we can say that the semiconductor market was forming alliances in various fields. For example, in March 2018 booming this past year. Besides conventional electronic Although normal business operations are going smoothly we entered into a distribution and support agreement with ion equipment, use of semiconductor devices has expanded overall, I believe that we can do better in balancing out Q The new factory at the Hikone Plant is implant platform manufacturer Axcelis Technologies, Inc., which into areas such as automotive, finance, medicine, and social scheduled for completion in December will accelerate our entry into new product areas. sales among regions. For example, South Korea is a infrastructure, a trend that I think signals the start of a new huge market where there is plenty of room for us to grow. 2018. What are the goals of this factory? growth cycle for the semiconductor industry. We received With regards to operating income ratio, we have to admit orders of at least ¥50 billion for each of the past seven that we could have done better than the 16% mark we With the semiconductor market said to be on the upswing, Q Tell us about your company’s key measures, consecutive quarters, with third-quarter orders of ¥88.3 recorded in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. We equipment manufacturers are responsible for securing enough and the accompanying opportunities and risks. billion in particular exemplifying this robust trend. hope to accelerate the rise in operating income ratio while production capacity to meet our customers’ volume needs. The For the fiscal year as a whole, we set records with net sales increasing sales. Taga Plant, which began operating at full capacity in June 2018, We are bolstering after-sales service as one key measure in raising of ¥227.1 billion and operating income of ¥36.3 billion. The is meeting our current customer demand until the new factory goes profitability. In the newly formed dedicated company department, operating income ratio for the year was 16.0%, but a fourthonline in fiscal 2020 to respond to further increases in market demand. staff are coming up with proposals that benefit our customers quarter figure 19.6% shows that we are capable of reaching But the new factory will offer more than just increased capacity; in the form of improved product performance, stable operation, 20% or higher. its automated equipment will help us improve production efficiency and high productivity. In addition, by developing inexpensive and profitability. Prior to the opening of the new factory, a portion of spare parts that offer greater performance and durability, we are its equipment has been installed in the Taga Plant, where it is being increasing our sales and profits. After-sales service account for Share of Net Sales Segment Sales and Operating Income Ratio Market Share for be used to establish an automated production system before being about 25% of total sales, and we are aiming to expand after-sales (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) ■ Sales Operating income ratio Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment* moved to the Hikone Plant. This will help give us a competitive edge. (billion) (%) services ratio, even while increasing whole sales. 240 227.1 20 Strengthening the organization and training human resources 206.0 are two more ongoing key measures. By creating opportunities 165.8 16.0 15 CY 2017 Q What is your performance forecast for for frank discussion between myself and middle management, I 66.9% 160 14.2 SCREEN this fiscal year, and what is important to am trying to help them understand my own philosophy. Semiconductor Solutions of Group net sales of 10 reaching this forecast? We have created an educational system for new employees ¥339.3 billion 80 11.3 39 % that helps them acquire the skills they need for their jobs through 5 No. 1 global share Investment in memory devices such as DRAM and 3D-NAND comprehensive training sessions every few years. There are has been the market drivers in fiscal 2019, so we can expect also plenty of opportunities for our employees to raise their skills 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) to see even more investment in logics and foundries than last through internship programs at universities around the world. year. And with demand for power devices booming, we are Finally, I am aware of the hidden risks that occur when *Source: Gartner, Market Share: Semiconductor Wafer Fab Equipment, Worldwide, 2017, 18 April 2018 Chart created by SCREEN based on Gartner research “Revenue from Shipments of Single-Wafer Processors, Worldwide, 2017” focusing on increasing sales of these devices for use in cleaning management decisions are made too late. This alone is reason Note: All statements in this report attributable to Gartner represent SCREEN’s interpretation of data, research opinion or viewpoints published as part of a syndicated subscription service by Gartner, Inc., equipment and other products. Looking at individual regions, for us to continue to prioritize quick decision-making, ever-better and have not been reviewed by Gartner. Each Gartner publication speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this report. The opinions expressed in Gartner publications are not representations of fact, and are subject to change without notice. we see increasing sales in South Korea and China, and a products, and an expanding product portfolio. ● Foundry: A company that manufactures semiconductor devices on a contractual basis after obtaining semiconductor design data, masks, and manufacturing process Terminology requirements from fabless manufacturers, etc. 09 10 Overview of Performance SCREEN’s Product Lineup Covers Various Semiconductor Manufacturing Processes Semiconductors are becoming indispensable to our lives: they are at the heart of the appliances and consumer Our cleaning equipment (single wafer, batch-type, spin scrubber) is widely used in FEOL*, the front-end wafer electronics that communicate with each other over the Internet in today’s age of IoT. SE has a competitive process of semiconductor fabrication. In addition to our cleaning equipment, we have been improving our lineup of products that boost performance and productivity in semiconductor manufacturing, a claim that is offerings in products for the front-end wafer process of production such as inspection/measuring equipment backed up by our steady and increasing market share in numerous semiconductor devices. and annealing equipment, and products for the latter stages. In the state-of-the-art field called advanced Semiconductor manufacturing involves numerous cleaning steps that contribute to improving the yield rate. packaging, we have released the DW-6000 Direct Imaging System for Panel Level Packages, which achieves Cleaning is so important, in fact, that it accounts for about 30% of the entire process. 2.0-µm high-resolution imaging, the highest level in the industry. *FEOL: Front End of Line (transistor-forming process) Front-end Wafer Process Cleaning Film Deposition Post-Deposition Cleaning Resist Coating Exposure Development The silicon wafers that form the base of the semiconductor A thin film that will become the circuit Minute particles adhering to the wafer The wafer surface is coated with resist The wafer is exposed using shortAfter exposure, the wafer is sprayed with are cleaned. Even a slight contamination of a wafer will material is formed on the wafer. after film deposition are removed using (photosensitive chemical). The wafer is wavelength, deep-ultraviolet radiation developer to form a resist pattern. The cause defects in the circuit. Therefore, chemical agents are There are a number of ways to form brushes, Nanospray, or other physical then spun, causing a uniform layer of projected through a mask on which the remaining resist areas become the mask for used to remove all contamination, from ultra-fine particles these films, including chemical vapor cleaning methods. resist to be formed on its surface by circuit pattern has been formed. Only the the next process, etching, and that resist to minute amounts of organic (oil, etc.) or metallic residues deposition (CVD), sputtering, and centrifugal force. areas of the resist layer that are exposed pattern becomes the pattern on the layer generated in the production process, or unwanted natural thermal oxidation. to the light undergo a structural change, below. oxide layers generated due to exposure to air. thereby transferring the pattern to the ● SS-3100/SS-3200 Spin Scrubber wafer. There are a variety of exposure ● FC-3100 Batch-type Cleaning Equipment ● DT-3000 Coater/Developer ● DT-3000 Coater/Developer ● SU-3200/SU-3300 units, including steppers, which expose ● SU-3200/SU-3300 Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment several chips at a time, and scanners, which expose the wafer using a slit through which light is projected onto the wafer. FC-3100 SS-3200 DT-3000 DT-3000 Packaging Process These processes are repeated SC DS00REEN J 0000 APAN 00DS Implantation of Inspection/Assembly Resist Stripping Activation Etching Impurities After the wafer processes are finished, the wafer is Resist can be stripped off in one of two Activation is performed by heating the In order to give the silicon There are two kinds of etching. In wet separated into individual chips (dicing). These chips ways: using chemicals to remove the substrate instantaneously using a laser substrate semiconducting etching, the thin film is dissolved using a are connected to a metal frame called a lead frame resist; or by ashing, which removes the or flash lamps. These tools are able to properties, impurities such as chemical solution such as hydrofluoric acid or using metal wire (wire bonding) and then enclosed resist by inducing a chemical reaction activate the doped ions without diffusion. phosphor or boron ions are phosphoric acid. In dry etching, it is removed in ceramic or epoxy resin material (packaging). using gases. If ashing is used to remove Instantaneous activation, measured in implanted in the wafers. using reactive ions or gas. the resist, the wafer is cleaned afterwards. microseconds, is required to create the ● DW-6000 Direct Imaging Equipment for ● SU-3200/SU-3300 micro transistors on the substrate. ● SU-3200/SU-3300 Panel Level Packages Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment Single Wafer Cleaning Equipment ● LT-3100 Laser Annealing Equipment (Carries out exposure of the photo-sensitive ● FC-3100 ● LA-3100 Flash Lamp Annealing Equipment ● FC-3100 Batch-type Cleaning Equipment material on the panel surface) Batch-type Cleaning Equipment DW-6000 SU-3300 LT-3100 LA-3100 SU-3300 11 12 Overview of Performance FT: Display production equipment and coater business SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. Provides a range of equipment and services for the manufacturing of Main Product displays used in digital devices, including TVs and smartphones. While SK Series the company’s main business is production equipment for displays and Coater/developer after-sales service, it also focuses on developing new businesses. ● Achieved large increase in net sales, with operating income ratio above 10%. products and turn a profit for the second year in a row in new businesses. A key target for our highly profitable after-sales Q Where is your company heading in the ● New factories in Hikone, Japan and Changshu, China to go onstream medium-to-long term, and what risks and services is to have it account for 20% of net sales as a whole. this year and contribute to structural reform of manufacturing. opportunities do you foresee? ● Aim to dramatically boost net sales and profits in new businesses. Q Tell us about the new factory at the In the display industry, I see a continuation of the major Hikone Plant, scheduled for completion trend of a shift from LCDs to OLED/flexible displays. Flexible Toshio Hiroe in October 2018, and the new factory in displays hold great promise for in-vehicle applications in particular, and for this to become a reality, OLED technology President, SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. Changshu, China. Why are you building will be indispensable. Our company is determined to meet these factories and what will they achieve? market needs for flexible displays, and to this end we will expand our lineup of production equipment and expand our The main purpose of both these factories is structural business. Q Could you please sum up the fiscal year Q Tell us about the latest market trends and reform, but they have differing functions. At Hikone, based We have a long history of taking on challenges in new ended March 31, 2018? your company’s plans for fiscal 2019. on customer evaluations, we will specialize in developing business fields, and today the market requires technological elemental technologies and designing equipment, and we innovation. I sense that customers have come to recognize It was a good year for the display business and new businesses. Our original prediction for the display business was that will accumulate production technology prowess through the our technological advantages over other companies in the new With market conditions favorable, sales were up in production heading toward 2019, the LCD market would shrink and manufacture of high-value-added key units. In Changshu, products we offer. We must make the most of this opportunity equipment for large panels in China and production equipment for the OLED market (particularly smalland medium-sized we are aiming to build a system for manufacturing products and make it our mission to shift to a sustainable business OLEDs in South Korea and China. The result was net sales of ¥45.2 panels) would expand. However, this forecast is changing. other than key units as we dramatically alter the supply chain. portfolio in the medium term. Diversifying business has its billion, a significant year-on-year rise. As for operating income, in In LCDs, investment continues in production equipment for We are working to realize a line assembly for production risks, but if we give ourselves more choices in where we invest July 2017 we established SCREEN Laminatech Co., Ltd. (which took 10.5th-generation large TV panels, but meanwhile OLED equipment that our Chinese customers will install in the future. our management resources, it will provide opportunities for over the businesses of FUK Co., Ltd.). Despite the goodwill from manufacturers are holding off on new investment as they work The production equipment handled by our production size is business growth. Laminatech’s establishment and strategic orders resulting exerting to solve technical issues such as improving the yield ratio in the getting gradually larger. Having production sites in Japan and Amidst this revolution in technology and business, I hope downward pressure on profits, as a result of factors including an manufacturing process. That being said, many customers are in China, a major customer market, will give us the ability to we can stimulate our company and foster an environment in increase in sales and efforts over the past several years in the area eager to invest in flexible displays such as OLEDs, and because respond flexibly to any coming changes in the market situation which employees can reach their potential and come up with of profit structure reform, we maintained an operating income ratio of this we foresee a demand increase down the road. In order and to provide customers with further value. innovations. of over 10%, exceeding our beginning-of-term forecast. We were to restart investment, our company plans to boost technical able to increase sales of production equipment for 8th-generationdevelopment prowess so that we can respond to customer and-larger LCD panels and turn a profit for the first time in new needs. business areas (such as production equipment for lithium-ion In the display business this fiscal year, we aim to expand batteries). These and other factors helped us increase profit. our lineup of production equipment for OLEDs and other Share of Net Sales Segment Sales and Operating Income Ratio Market Share for Coater/ Equipment Lineup for New Business Fields (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) ■ Sales Operating income ratio Developers for Displays* (billion) (%) Production equipment for Lithium-ion Batteries Production equipment for Flexible Displays 50 15 45.2 ● Coater/dryer (RT Series) ● Polyimide coating system (SK-P Series) 40 38.1 12 CY 2017 ● Lamination equipment (RL Series, SL Series) 31.5 10.1 13.3 % 30 11.5 9 SCREEN Finetech Solutions of Group net sales of Dry coating equipment ¥339.3 billion 20 8.7 6 69 % No. 1 global share ● LIA plasma CVD equipment (VC Series) 10 3 ● LIA sputter equipment (VS Series) 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) RT Series Coater/dryer * Market share is based on total sales for each equipment group. 2017, according to a SCREEN survey (calendar year). ● OLED display: A type of display made using organic materials that emit light when a voltage is applied. These displays offer such excellent features as thinness, lightness, Terminology low power consumption, fast response time, and high contrast. 13 14 Overview of Performance Overview of Performance GA: Graphic arts equipment business PE: PCB-related equipment business SCREEN SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. PE Solutions Co., Ltd. Provides various graphic arts equipment and services. Provides direct imaging equipment for the production of PCBs, as well as inspection equipment and services, among other products. In ● Achieved higher revenue and profit year on year by April 2017, we became an independent business operating company. expanding sales of POD equipment and after-sales service. ● Net sales topped ¥10 billion for the first time thanks to orders from major smartphone suppliers. ● To respond quickly to varying market needs, introduced a business administration division system according to ● Aim to increase sales and improve profit ratio by expanding product. the lineup of direct imaging equipment and inspection equipment. ● Profitability improved in the area of package printing, where we solidified our position and increased sales. ● Make differentiation our forte by advancing development of new equipment. Tsuneo Baba Hitoshi Yamamoto President, SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. President, SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. Q Could you please sum up the fiscal year a business administration division system that divides development, sales, and other functions vertically by product. These will be Q Could you please sum up the fiscal year an AI function has been added, and also via joint development with our South Korean subsidiary TRIVIS, we aim to expand our product ended March 31, 2018? ended March 31, 2018? specialized units that respond swiftly to the differing market needs lineup and boost the sales ratio of inspection equipment to around for CTP and POD. Under this structure, as well as expanding sales 20%. In fiscal 2019, due to factors such as an increase in R&D Fiscal 2018 we produced a good result as both revenue and I feel that we achieved good results for the first fiscal year after of each device, we also aim to boost the sales ratio of after-sales costs, it will be difficult to improve the rate of return, but, among income increased compared to the previous term, to net sales of becoming an independent company, with net sales topping service to more than 30%. Via these initiatives, we aim to achieve our goals, we aim to increase the sales ratio for the highly profitable ¥53.4 billion and operating income of ¥3.0 billion. However, the the key ¥10 billion mark to reach ¥12.1 billion. Sales of leading an operating income ratio of 10% in the third year of our three-year area of services and parts to 30%, and we will work toward an operating income ratio was 5.7%, which is low compared with direct imaging equipment were good, and via orders from major medium-term management plan, which ends in March 2020. operating income ratio above the 10% mark for fiscal 2020. other businesses. We recognize that we have further room for smartphone suppliers in countries such as South Korea and improvement ahead of us. As for our business content, in line with Taiwan, we were also able to improve our market presence. the market prediction from several years ago for a gentle fall in Q What are the opportunities and risks for the business? Although the operating income ratio didn’t reach 10%, operating Q What are the opportunities and risks for the business? CTP and a rising trend for POD, CTP sales declined, while POD income exceeded the initial estimate to reach ¥1.0 billion. sales grew, mainly at various overseas bases. Also, sales and profit We expect business opportunities to increase as a result of At present, we expect the electronics industry to continue to expand increased due to reinforcement of after-sales service, like ink and adjustments to create a proactive sales structure. Furthermore, in due to factors such as increased demand for large circuit boards for maintenance contracts, for which stable earnings can be anticipated. the growth area of POD, particularly because we foresee gains in Q Tell us about the outlook and strategy going forward. IoT and automotive applications and for base station servers aimed package printing, how we can develop our business in this field at next-generation 5G networks. Within that trend, we must keep up Q Tell us about the outlook and strategy going forward. is a challenge that lies ahead. Also, in the high-focus area of ink, Among our direct imaging equipment, in June we released the with technical advances in the production methods of PCBs and in regarding the well-received SC Ink (ink for coated paper), which has new model LANZAN, which is compatible with the MSAP method materials and exposure methods, if we are to avoid a big business For our company right now, increasing our sales is very important for won awards in Europe, U.S., and Japan, we feel that even further of next-generation circuit pattern formation. Also, among our risk. Accordingly, we consider it to be even more important now to improving earnings. To do that, from fiscal 2019, we have introduced differentiation is possible. inspection equipment, too, with the new model MIYABI, to which thoroughly understand the demands of our customers. Share of Net Sales *1 Segment Sales and Operating Income Ratio*1 Market Share for CTP Equipment*2 Share of Net Sales* 1 Segment Sales and Operating Income Ratio*1 Market Share for Direct Imaging Systems*2 (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) ■ Sales Operating income ratio (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2018) ■ Sales Operating income ratio (billion) (%) (billion) (%) 60 12 15 15 52.3 53.4 12.1 45.8 CY 2017 FY 2017 15.7 % 5.7 8 SCREEN Graphic Solutions 3.6 % 10 8.9 8.9 10 SCREEN of Group net sales of 30 of Group net sales of 8.4 PE Solutions ¥339.3 billion 3.2 4 33 % ¥339.3 billion 5 8.3 5 25 % No. 1 global share 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) *1 The operating income ratio is not shown because until fiscal 2016 (fiscal year ended March 31, 2016), GA was a sub-segment. *1 The operating income ratio is not shown because until fiscal 2016 (fiscal year ended March 31, 2016), PE was a sub-segment. *2 Market share is based on total sales for each equipment group. 2017, according to a SCREEN survey (calendar year). *2 Source: Sangyo Times, Inc. Electronic Device Industry News May 31, 2018 (6). (on a fiscal year basis) ● CTP : Stands for “computer to plate”. Production equipment for offset printing. A method for creating printing plates through direct output of the data to be printed from a ● MSAP: Stands for “modified semi-additive process.” A pattern formation method that is expected to become the mainstream next-generation technology in line with size Terminology computer to the printing plates. Terminology reduction and miniaturization of main circuit boards. ● POD : Stands for “print on demand.” Printing of the number of copies needed when they are needed using a digital printer. ● IoT: Stands for “Internet of things.” A system whereby various things are connected to cloud services, servers, etc. via the Internet and control each other remotely through the exchange of information. 15 16 Special Feature: CSR Communication Award-winning Products Ando: So, how did you go about developing protective clothing SEBAPRON chemical-resistant apron, a product light and comfortable that would be easy for you to work in? enough to wear for long periods of work without getting tired. Kikuchi: The Safety Department and Development Department of Ando: So, improvement suggestion activity for incident to the SEBACS joined forces. We also got ideas from the activities of creation of a new product! SEBAPRON has earned the praise of our Health and Safety Committee and our company’s hazard many customers and has helped raise the level of safety in the simulation training. After much trial and error, we came up with the industry as a whole. The Fruits of EHS Activities SS-3100 Exhaust-free Spin Scrubber Ando: You managed to bring the concept of the exhaustAndo: The exhaust-free spin scrubber was also awarded under free spin scrubber to market, but that’s not all. The realization Frontier Gate, a SCREEN in-house technology presentation of this product will lead to even more business as demand for held since 1986. This shows that it is a well-conceived, environmentally friendly products continues to grow. What have technically advanced development. you gained from development of this product? SEBACS won a fiscal 2017 GVA for its BCP (business Okita: I got involved in this project in my third year after I joined continuity plan) activity during the Kumamoto earthquakes in SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions. It was the first time that I 2016. The fiscal 2018 award—the company’s second time GVA in worked as one of the main members of a development project. a row—protection tools was evaluated in a different effort from the At times, I wondered if the product would come to fruition. I previous one. What have you gained from the 2017 GVA? SEBAPRON learned many things along the way, but I think the main one was Kikuchi: I work in the Safety & Quality Control Department, Chemical-resistant Apron the importance of dispelling stereotypes that exhaust is simply doing EHS-related work with site workers and customers. This something to be disposed of. I also learned how important it is award gives the entire company the stimulus and motivation to Nobuaki Okita Kimito Ando Norimichi Kikuchi to change the way of thinking in developing a product. come up with new EHS initiatives and protective gear. Core Engineering Section 5 Track System Operations Director, Member of the Board Assistant Manager, Product Engineer Department General Affairs & Safety & Quality Control Department, Business Division SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. Human Resources Strategy, Tokyo Representative SEBACS Co., Ltd. Creating Shared Value to Solve Social Issues Aiming to Be a Sustainable, Ando: Looking at the SDGs that the SCREEN Group is tackling, the exhaust-free spin scrubber is directly related to SDG Goal 9, factory. In addition, we have earned high praise, including being awarded Best Suppliers award from customers. Development-centered Company which says: “Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and Kikuchi: We have been working on the SEBAPRON to improve chemical-resistant apron ever since it was developed 10 years ~Green Value Awards~ greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies ago. Starting from the product’s first model, we have continued and industrial processes.” The SEBAPRON chemical-resistant to improve it, giving it greater breathability, for example, as we apron is in line with SDG 8, which states, “Protect labor rights and incorporate customer opinions, incident reports, and employee In 2012, the SCREEN Group launched the Green Value Awards (GVA), an in-house program to honor sections of the promote safe and secure working environments of all workers.” I opinions. Even today, we continue to listen to what kind of SCREEN Group that make outstanding contributions to EHS (environment, health, and safety). In this special feature, we am pleased that SEBACS is able to use its business to provide a products customers wish for, so there is still plenty of room to speak with the key players behind two initiatives that were awarded the fiscal 2018 EHS Management Award. They talk product that solves environmental and social issues. evolve. about how SCREEN can be a company that creates value together with customers and solves social issues. Okita: Currently, we are delivering Ando: In business, it used to be good enough to simply products individually to our customers. concentrate on providing customers with better quality and • SS-3100 exhaust-free spin scrubber (semiconductor cleaning equipment) www.screen.co.jp/eng/spe/products/ss-3100/ However, in future when customers cutting costs. But today, it’s crucial for a company to solve issues • SEBAPRON chemical-resistant apron www.sebacs.co.jp/products/sebapron (Japanese only) build new factories, exhaust-free for society as a whole. In society, we share common values To win a GVA, business activities, products, and services are judged on six criteria from the standpoint of EHS machines can replace all existing with our customers. We call working together with customers GVA Assessment Standard innovativeness, originality, practicality, difficulty/effort/continuity, economic effect, and user evaluations. equipment. This will bring significant to realize value “creating shared value.” Pouring our energy into improvements in reducing exhaustcreating shared value is linked to SDGs and CSR activities. We treatment facilities, cutting air will continue to conduct a wide range of activities, including conditioning costs, and lessening taking part in awards programs, so that we can be a sustainable, Contributing to Industry as a Whole CO 2 emissions throughout an entire development-centered company. Ando: The GVA was launched in 2012 with the goal of advancing be reused. When we tried this, we found that and disseminating EHS activities. Each year brings an increasingly it actually worked well. We then fleshed out In the early days of the GVA, most of the entries were related to reducing environmental impact higher level of entries to this award. The two winners of the fiscal the idea and eventually arrived at the product. through, for example, energy efficiency. In recent years, however, there have been more 2018 EHS Management Award were recognized for their particularly Kikuchi: The origins of our development of environmentally and safety conscious products and services; an example is the Ledia5 direct outstanding contributions to industry as a whole. the safety apron go back about 10 years. imaging system, which does not use a mercury lamp. The two GVA products highlighted in Can you tell us what inspired you take on this I borrowed a protective apron from a this special feature are superb examples of using the development of new products to provide challenge and how you brought it to fruition? customer during on-site work, but a liquid solutions to social issues faced by customers. Okita: The idea for the exhaust-free spin chemical got on my skin, and that’s when SCREEN is a development-centered company that strives to make products that solve scrubber came up when customers asked us if I realized there was a safety problem. We the environmental and social issues faced by stakeholders, including customers, local there were some way to reduce the amount of at SEBACS realized that we needed to find communities, and employees. We will continue taking our development efforts to the next level. exhaust from the machine. But if we reduced the safety wear that protected us, so we set out looking for such a amount of exhaust, what would take its place product. However, the only products we could find on the market Shin Minamishima and perform the same role? That’s where we covered the entire body, were heavy and difficult to work in, and Senior Managing Director came up with the idea of cleaning and circulating made you sweat a lot. It was then that we realized that we could Member of the Board, Chief Officer of CSR Management the exhaust inside the machine so that it could only protect ourselves if we made a new product ourselves. 17 18 Advancing CSR Management Advance CSR Management with an Emphasis on ESG Identifying Material Issues in CSR Under the corporate philosophy of “Sharing the Future,” “Human Resource Development,” and “The Pursuit of Technology,” the At the SCREEN Group, under the CSR medium-term plan, we (E), Social (S), and Governance (G), we selected issues that SCREEN Group as a whole—while respecting international frameworks and rules and principles of conduct in accordance with have identified material issues out of the various environmental our company affects, and issues that influence our company, industry standards and through the application of our CSR Charter / Code of Conduct—is working to soundly apply and improve and social problems that we ought to be tackling by taking into and decided to focus on them. In particular, in the area of governance. In our business activities, as well as economic considerations, we also consider our actions from an environmental account societal expectations, such as SDGs. When identifying Environment, we are working to reduce our total CO2 emissions and a social angle, and by acting in accordance with the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) that have been adopted by the these material issues, we attached great importance to our by 20% by fiscal 2026, compared with those as of fiscal 2014. United Nations and have received global agreement, we hope to contribute to the sustainable development of society. dialogue with stakeholders, and for the three fields of Environment ● Material Issues Identified in the CSR Medium-term Plan and Their Status as of the fiscal 2018 CSR Charter Status as of the fiscal 2018 Material Issues SDGs Vision for the fiscal 2020 The SCREEN Group has established a CSR Charter / Code ● SCREEN Group CSR Charter KPI (key performance indicators) Results of Conduct that sets forth the code of conduct that all group E (Environment) Creating environmental value and contributing to the reduction of carbon emissions and recycling of resources at the societal level executives and employees should follow and includes principles 1. Provision of Products and Services Beneficial to Society Providing of products Contributing through businesses Contribute via products to CO2 emissions of conduct based on our corporate philosophy. We are putting 2. Respect for Human Rights and Friendly Work Environment and services that that, for example, reduce CO 2 control goal for fiscal 2020: Reduce 6% 16% reduction in emission intensity of sales* *Amount of CO2 emitted to generate ¥100 million in it into practice in areas including compliance, human rights, 3. Establishment of Friendly Environment for People and Our contribute to reducing emissions by providing ecoor more in emission intensity of sales sales environmental impact friendly products and services compared with fiscal 2014 (GV21 Phase IV) Planet product liability, and the supply chain, thereby fulfilling our social responsibility as a corporation and responding to the expectations 4. Sound and Effective Corporate Governance 1. 27% reduction in emission intensity of shipment volume* 1. Reduce CO2 emissions *Amount of CO2 emitted from business activities for of society. The SCREEN Group is constantly educating employees 5. Compliance with Laws and Regulations, and Standards of Reducing the environmental goal for fiscal 2018: Reduce 4% or more each ton of shipments Ethics Proactive efforts impact of business activities and in emission intensity of shipment volume 2. Certified under Kyoto Life and Culture about the CSR Charter / Code of Conduct. Through this training, for environmental actively engaging in conservation (GV21 Phase IV) Collaborative Rejuvenation Project 6. Appropriate Management and Utilization of Information conservation activities in areas such as forest 2. Conserve biodiversity Created a flowerbed of rare plants at the head office we are working to increase awareness of the importance of and Intellectual Property preservation and biodiversity (No numerical target has been set. Joined agreement on forest conservation Created and carried out plan.) Began environmental conservation activities at the diversity, and of respect for diversity of factors such as nationality, 7. Appropriate Disclosure of Company Information SCREEN Forest in Kameoka, Kyoto Prefecture race, faith, gender, and sexual orientation/gender identity. 8. Corporate Social Responsibility as Good Corporate Citizen S (Social) Offering decent work and creating social value CSR Charter 9. Exclusion of Anti-Social Forces 1. In the results of a health management www.screen.co.jp/eng/csr/csr_charter.html assessment, placed in the 20%–40% range Recognized as an excellent corporation in 1. Each and every employee is Ensuring health, health management, or part of the “White 500” healthy and active 1. Maintain a health management and transforming 2. Launched the Work-style Reform Project, set 2. Productivity and efficiency assessment level within the top 20% ways of working target range for total actual working hours, have been improved, and 2. Set goals for the Work-style Reform to improve the reformed our personnel system employees enjoy a good Project CSR Medium-term Plan Participation in the UN Global Compact quality of work work-life balance Additional adjustment of the personnel system: family-support paid leave, child-rearing support leave, spouse childcare leave, between-shifts In 2014, the SCREEN Group established the “Management In October 2016, SCREEN Holdings signed the UN Global interval of 9 hours or more Grand Design,” based on the technologies and connections with Compact, which is a United Nations initiative that comprises 10 1. Employees are proactive in designing their own careers Developing Attendance rate of 98% at SCREEN BUSINESS society that the company has built up since its founding, as well principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, diverse human 2. Approaches and development Implement personnel development plan SCHOOL compared with target number of plans for nurturing the next as society’s expectations of the group and the social issues it and anti-corruption. The SCREEN resources employees generation of managers are in place must address going forward. We periodically verify and reexamine Group has been pursuing CSR the Management Grand Design, which lays out the grand design management for many years, but A CSR code of conduct is being In January 2018, requested 75 suppliers to Promoting CSR in Conduct supply chain self-assessments, for our proper future manifestation and how to achieve it. Based to continue to grow as a global followed along the entire supply conduct self-assessments, received 93.3% the supply chain solve problems chain response rate, and point average was 76.2% on this, we put together the Challenge 2019 three-year mediumcorporation, we respect global term management plan, one of the key policy initiatives of which is standards such as the Global 1. Continuously engaging in 1. Drafted a plan for a model forest initiative. Began Social activities in 5 key areas*2, and forest conservation activity in March 2018 “Advance CSR management with an emphasis on ESG.” Based Compact and are working toward the contribution SCREEN’s characteristics 1. Establish social contribution activities 2. Received a satisfaction rate of 98% on a questionnaire activities that employees can participate in on that initiative, we determined the CSR Medium-term Plan, and sustainable development of society. are beginning to be widely from employees who participated in the March model centered on continuously recognized both inside and forest initiative coexistence, 2. Check participants’ level of satisfaction we are implementing initiatives based on that plan. empathy, and outside the Group for each event; reach and maintain For the Kyoto Manufacturing Hall of Fame and Workshop 2. Activities in which many Study program, 96.1% of children who participated nurturing of the satisfaction of 70% or higher employees can participate responded in a questionnaire that they enjoyed the next generation *1 are being deployed program (No. of responses: 280 students from 12 schools) ● CSR Medium-term Plan Achievement Scheme G (Governance) Governance from both proactive and reactive approaches / Disclosing ESG informations Identifying material issues Medium-term plan initiatives Medium-term goals 1. Internal controls that ensure the soundness and transparency 1. Continue to satisfy internal governance 1. Carried out audits as planned; continued to Environmental and social issues, Three-year medium-term E (Environment) of management are being audits required by related laws satisfy audits and identification of material issues management plan Challenge 2019 properly implemented 2. Within the SCREEN Group, 100% 2. Within the SCREEN Group, 100% usage of risk Establishing 2. Systematic risk management for usage of risk management sheets and management sheets and absence of any large internal control and ・Climate change on a global scale CSR medium-term plan risk management achieving mediumto long-term risk mitigation effect risks that could have affected business corporate targets is in place ・Changes in the workplace structures to G(Governance) support proactive environment and social stratification PLAN S (Social) governance An effective internal Governance whistleblowing system is in 1. 100% resolution rate on issues raised 1. 100% resolution of issues caused by globalization structure 2. Investigate operational status of 2. Semi-annual checks of persons in charge of operation throughout the Group E(Environment) S(Social) ACTION DO whistleblowing system and improve it harassment consultation office, training of new both in Japan and overseas Emphasis on dialogue Personnel with stakeholders EHS management CHECK Nonfinancial information is 1. Publish integrated report (booklet, website) 1. Identified material issues in ESG, disclosed them medium-term plan G (Governance) Supplier surveys Proactive being effectively disclosed and 2. Maintain RBA (formerly EICC) conformance in Annual Report 2017, active dialogue with GV21 Phase IV* disclosure and stakeholders are being proactively 3. Continuous employee training by each stakeholders such as employee, shareholders, Identification of material issues Activities that internal/external engaged with based on an department through methods such as and investors related to the sustainability of contribute to society sharing of ESG accurate understanding and e-learning and CSR Talks (discussion of 2. A continued RBA low risk rating society and business information proper adherence to international CSR-related topics held each quarter); CSR 3. E-learning completion rate: 86.5% CSR standards Talk implementation rate of 70% or more CSR Talk implementation rate: 81.8% Goals that prioritize * EHS medium-term plan GV21 Phase IV established medium-term goals and a plan for environmental a sustainable society Managed via group EHS management (GV21 Phase IV: see p. 27) Managed via personnel development management or Work-style Reform Working Group, etc. management (E), health management, (H) and disaster prevention and safety (S) (see p. 27). *1 The goals of related SDGs may change according to the content of social contribution activities. *2 Indicates the five fields of Science and Education, Social Welfare, Sports and Culture, Environmental Conservation, and Community Contribution. 19 20 Corporate Governance Governance from Both Proactive and Reactive Approaches Management and Executive System for Business Operating and Functional Support Companies The SCREEN Group has been working actively to enhance corporate governance to further improve transparency, soundness, To clarify management oversight and business execution roles, in bold decision making. In addition, as at the holding company, and efficiency in management and thus benefit all stakeholders. To further strengthen our business foundation, we are taking both April 2016 the Group business operating and functional support each of these companies maintains a management committee companies adopted corporate officer systems similar to that in to deliberate matters related to management and to facilitate proactive and reactive approaches to corporate governance under three-year medium-term management plan Challenge 2019. place at holding company. By clearly defining the responsibilities the decision making of their respective boards of directors and and authority of the business operating and functional support representative directors. Management and Executive System companies, we are building a system that facilitates nimble and The SCREEN Group takes the form of a company with a board an operational structure that is able to rapidly respond to changes of corporate auditors under the Companies Act of Japan. This in the business environment, the term of office for directors is set at Board of Corporate Auditors system maintains a balanced perspective to allow the Board of one year, and they are elected to office by shareholders annually at The Board of Corporate Auditors holds two regular meetings per and Management Committee and conduct inquiries using periodic Directors to exert maximum efficiency and effectiveness, while the General Meeting of Shareholders. month and additional meetings as necessary. hearings and reports on the directors’ and corporate officers’ having management oversight over the entire Group securely in The Board of Directors includes three outside directors to The corporate auditors monitor the business execution of the business execution. They also review documents related to place. Currently, the Board of Directors comprises nine directors, improve its transparency and soundness, and to strengthen directors to help ensure that the Company is being run in a sound major decisions and conduct on-site audits of the Company’s and the Board of Corporate Auditors comprises four corporate management oversight. The Company has adopted a corporate manner that is aimed at sustainable growth. Corporate auditors headquarters and the Group’s major business sites, including auditors. officer system to promote faster, more efficient management. The attend important meetings such as those of the Board of Directors overseas locations. As the Group’s highest decision-making organ, the Board of Management Committee, comprising the full-time directors and Directors decides and approves the Group’s basic management corporate officers, ordinarily meets twice a month to deliberate policies, basic strategies, and important matters related to business matters related to management and business execution and Responding to the Corporate Governance Code Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors execution, in addition to overseeing business execution. The board facilitate the decision making of the Board of Directors and The SCREEN Group has taken measures to respond to the June 2015 Outside directors and outside corporate auditors are selected holds regular monthly meetings and also holds additional meetings representative directors. The presidents of the business operating application of the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Code. based on experience and expertise, with the aim of drawing on a as necessary. To clarify the responsibilities of directors and promote and functional support companies (eight companies in total) also The Group’s previous Compensation Advisory Committee has been variety of perspectives to ensure objective, bias-free management. ● Corporate Governance Structure participate as needed. reinforced and renamed the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Our company works to ensure the independence of the outside Committee, and the selection of candidates for director and corporate directors and outside corporate auditors, applying the Tokyo S hareho l ders’ M eeti ng auditor positions has also been made subject to advice. The Group has Stock Exchange’s standards of independence as well as the Appointment also more clearly specified the division of roles between the holding Group’s own criteria for Independence of outside directors and Appointment Proposal and and and Report dismissal report company and the business operating and functional support companies, outside corporate auditors. All five outside directors and corporate dismissal Request for as well as the selection criteria for directors and corporate auditors, auditors are registered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange as advisory including outside directors and corporate auditors. The SCREEN Group independent directors and corporate auditors. Nomination and Compensation B oa r d of Board of Directors Cor por a te is responding to the Corporate Governance Code on an ongoing basis, To maximize the efficacy of Board of Director’s meetings, Au ditor s Make a Appointment, dismissal, Proposal and such as disclosing more information behind the selection of directors the outside directors and corporate auditors are provided with recommendation and oversight report Monitoring and corporate auditors and providing more information to independent information and explanations of proposals to be discussed ahead Representative Director Holding Company (managerial oversight) Oversight outside directors. We will continue to pursue transparency, soundness, of time. Advisory Committee Management Committee and efficiency as we aim for the overall benefit of all our stakeholders. Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors Improvement Proposal and Corporate Governance Report (July 6, 2018) www.screen.co.jp/eng/profile/20170509_Ind_Crit_E.pdf instructions report www.screen.co.jp/profile/20180706_CGR_J.pdf (in Japanese only) Director and Corporate Officer ● Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Executive Division A c cou nti ng A ud ito r Name Relation to the SCREEN Group Contributions Meeting Attendance Oversight Outside Directors Proposal and report Provided opinions from various perspectives Yoshio Tateishi OMRON is a business partner of the Audit based on his deep insight fostered during Board of Directors (Honorary Chairman, OMRON Corporation) Group, but the volume of trade is Group Committees years of management experience and his wide14/14 Business Operating and In office from June 2006 to June 2018 insignificant. ranging experience in the business community. Board of Directors (business execution) Shosaku Murayama iPS Portal is a business partner of the Provided insight from various perspectives Oversight • CSR Committee Appointment, (Representative Director and President, iPS Group, as we outsource some salesbased on the wealth and breadth of his Board of Directors Cooperation Proposal and dismissal, Portal, Inc.) promotion-related work to it, but the experience at the Bank of Japan and 14/14 report Functional Support Companies and oversight In office since June 2013 volume of trade is insignificant. other companies. • EHS Committee President Shigeru Saito Provided insight from various perspectives Board of Directors No special relationship with the Management Committee (Chairman and CEO, TOSE CO., LTD.) based on the wealth of his experience in • Timely Disclosure Committee Group. 14/14 In office since June 2013 corporate management and elsewhere. Oversight Outside Corporate Auditors Proposal and report Board of Directors I n te r n a l Au dit Kenzaburo Nishikawa Provided insight from a neutral, objective (President and Representative Director, No special relationship with the perspective based on the wealth of his 14/14 Subsidiaries of the Business Operating, Shigagin Lease Capital Co., Ltd.) Group. experience in corporate management Board of Corporate Functional Support, and Holding Companies In office since June 2014 and elsewhere. Auditors 25/25 Provided insight from a neutral, objective Board of Directors Yoshio Nishi 14/14 No special relationship with the perspective based on the wealth of his (Chairman, Kyoto Research Institute, Inc.) Group. experience in corporate management Board of Corporate Ma n a ge ment Grand Desi g n, C SR C harter In office since June 2016 and elsewhere. Auditors 25/25 ( SCR E E N G r ou p C o de o f M anag ement / Reg ul ati o ns) Note: The attendance rate of inside directors to the Board of Directors meetings and that of inside corporate auditors to the Board of Corporate Auditors meetings were both 100%. 21 22 Corporate Governance Management Compensation Directors and Auditors (As of July 1, 2018) Directors’ and corporate officers’ compensation consists of three awareness of contributing to medium-to long-term business Dir ector s elements: performance and enhancing corporate value. (1) Fixed compensation (a fixed amount paid each month) Management compensation is determined following deliberations (2) Performance-linked stock compensation (decided based on after seeking advice from the Nomination and Compensation how well the annual targets were met); and Advisory Committee, which comprises representative directors and (3) Performance-linked stock compensation (decided based on outside directors. Shin how well the annual targets of the medium-term management Please note that corporate auditors are paid only fixed Minamishima Katsutoshi Oki plan were met). compensation, the amount of which is determined after deliberation Eiji Kakiuchi Senior Managing Director Managing Director The performance-linked stock compensation plan clarifies the by the Board of Corporate Auditors. President Member of the Board Member of the Board linkage between the company’s stock value and the compensation Note: Outside directors are paid fixed compensation and performance-linked compensation. Member of the Board Chief Officer of Chief Officer of Chief Executive Officer CSR Management Corporate Strategy paid to directors and corporate officers. This serves to raise ● Total Amount of Compensation (by Type, Board Member Category), Number of Eligible Board Members (Fiscal 2018) Total amount of Total amount for each type of compensation (million yen) Number of Category compensation eligible board (million yen) Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation Performance-linked stock compensation members Directors (outside 372 219 86 66 7 directors excluded)* Kimito Ando Corporate auditors (outside Soichi 42 42 − − 2 Director corporate auditors excluded) Nadahara Yoichi Kondo Member of the Board Outside directors 41 32 9 − 5 Managing Director Managing Director General Affairs & Member of the Board Member of the Board Human Resources Strategy * The number of eligible board members and the amount of compensation include a director who retired as of June 27, 2017. Chief Technology Officer Chief Financial Officer Tokyo Representative Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors The SCREEN Board of Directors conducted an analysis and its operations. It was also revealed that outside directors and evaluation* of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors for outside corporate auditors have been well informed and kept up Shosaku fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. As a result, it was found to date by management on the company’s situation, and that Murayama that the composition of the board was effective in carrying out opportunities for dialogue have been secured. Director (Outside) Shigeru Saito Makoto Yoda * The objective of the analysis and evaluation is to boost the functions and effectiveness of the Board of Directors and raise corporate value. A questionnaire was given to the directors and Member of the Board Director (Outside) Director (Outside) corporate auditors to seek their evaluations and opinions on the composition of the Board of Directors, how it is run, on the provision of information to outside directors, and other items. (Representative Member of the Board Member of the Board Director and President, (Chairman and CEO, (Advisor, Summery of the Results of the Evaluation on Effectiveness of Board of Directors (May 8, 2018) iPS Portal, Inc.) TOSE CO., LTD.) GS Yuasa Corporation) www.screen.co.jp/eng/ir/news/pdf/20180508_BME_E.pdf Message from the New Outside Director Cor p or ate A u d itor s Kenzaburo Nishikawa Contributing to Raising Corporate Value by Dealing with Unseen Corporate Auditor Risks That Accompany Change Tatsuo (Outside) Miyawaki (President and Representative Senior Corporate Akio Umeda Director, Shigagin I was appointed as an outside director as of June 26, 2018. SCREEN’s businesses, Auditor Corporate Auditor Lease Capital Co., Ltd.) products, and markets differ greatly from those of the company I headed previously. However, I find we share a common requisite as companies that strive for sustainable growth: to keep on changing without falling behind changes in the business environment. Meanwhile, change is always accompanied by risks. From a governance perspective, one of the crucial points in business management is to accurately determine whether a change means an opportunity or a risk. It is especially vital to Yoshio Nishi Makoto Yoda prepare measures against unseen, hidden risks, rather than against visible risks, which can be easily offset. It is in this area where I hope to contribute the most by drawing Substitute Corporate Auditor (Outside) Director (Outside) Corporate Auditor on my experiences and knowledge so that SCREEN can achieve further results and Tetsuo Kikkawa Member of the Board (Outside) (Advisor, GS Yuasa Corporation) enhance corporate value. (Chairman, Kyoto (President and Attorney-at-Law, Research Institute, Inc.) Kyoto Mirai Law Firm) 23 24 Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen Supply Chain Management The SCREEN Group strives to be a responsible corporate citizen by abiding by society's norms and contributing to the sustainable Compliance with RBA Code of Conduct fiscal 2017) in fiscal 2018, focusing on risk items that had come development of society. (Formerly EICC) up in previous surveys, such as human rights and labor issues. The results of both years’ surveys showed a low awareness of The SCREEN Group, mainly in the SE, complies with the Responsible harassment issues. In response to fiscal 2017 survey results, we Compliance and Risk Management Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct* so that it can accurately took measures including bringing up the harassment issue at determine and minimize risk on an ongoing basis. Compliance Risk Management * The Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) was renamed the RBA Code of supplier liaison meetings and providing training and educational Under the SCREEN Group’s CSR Charter / Code of Conduct, In accordance with the SCREEN Group Risk Management Conduct in October 2017 and expanded to cover all industries and not just the materials on the matter to suppliers. We are currently preparing electronics industry. the SCREEN Group ingrains a code of conduct into the hearts Guidelines and risk management operational rules, we measures in response to the fiscal 2018 survey results. and minds of directors, corporate officers, and all employees formulate and abide by basic policy that is shared and enforced In addition, in response to fiscal 2018 survey results, we analyzed so that we can operate SCREEN in a fair and transparent throughout the entire group. Every year we update our list of matters such as the risks regarding foreign, child, and youth Promoting Compliance with the SCREEN laborers. We found no risks regarding slave labor, forced labor, or manner. Our CSR Committee, which is chaired by SCREEN key risks and propose and implement appropriate controls to Supplier Code of Conduct child labor. Holdings’ president and made up of CSR officer from the reduce these risks. To lessen risks that could negatively impact The SCREEN Group formulated its SCREEN Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Conduct business operating and functional support companies and CSR SCREEN’s management, we have established a groupwide risk www.screen.co.jp/eng/csr/society/supplier_code.html Conduct in 2013 in compliance with the EICC (now the RBA department heads, meets quarterly to share information and to management structure comprising SCREEN Holdings’ president Code of Conduct). As a code of conduct for the supply chain, it is confirm that the entire group is in compliance. At overseas group as the Risk Management Group Chief Officer, group company available on our website for our suppliers to learn and abide by. Conflict Minerals companies, internal audits are conducted to determine the level presidents as individual Risk Management Officers, and the CSR To determine our suppliers’ level of compliance with the SCREEN The SCREEN Supplier Code of Conduct details our policy on of compliance and find and solve problems. officer as the Risk Management Officer. Each department and Supplier Code of Conduct, we surveyed 60 SE suppliers in conflict minerals. Since 2014, our supplier survey has had a section group company determines risks and places them in categories fiscal 2017 and 70 major suppliers (companies not surveyed in to determine whether suppliers are dealing in conflict minerals. ● Risk Management Structure such as Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, the Environment (including Climate Change), Fair Business Management Risk Management Group Chief Practices, Consumer Issues, and Community Engagement. We Quality Management Committee Officer then evaluate these risks and come up with appropriate controls. (SCREEN Holdings, president) The 17 SCREEN Group companies previously certified for ISO such efforts to provide society with beneficial products and services 9001 have all upgraded certification to ISO 9001:2015 as part of that use proprietary technology built up over the years, many of our Risk Management Officers efforts to continue improving customer satisfaction. As a result of customers gave us high marks for our products in fiscal 2018. PLAN Risk Management Officer (CSR officer) ACTION DO Risk Managers Ongoing Social Contribution Activities CHECK Risk Management Advocate (CSR & Group Audit Department General Manager) Founded on the concepts of coexistence, consideration for others, and nurturing of the next generation, the SCREEN Group carries out Proposal and execution of Group companies social contribution activities in five areas: Science and Education, Social Welfare, Sports and Culture, Environmental Conservation, and Risk Management Officers, Risk Managers implementation plan, follow-up Community Contribution. We were certified under the Kyoto Life In addition to running About once a month, the SCREEN Investor Relations: Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors and Culture Collaborative Rejuvenation workshops at the Kyoto cafeteria invites facilities for the Project of Kyoto City. Manufacturing Hall of disabled to sell confectionary products Through our investor relations (IR), we strive to give our releasing FAQs on these and other IR activities in a timely manner. Fame, our engineers that they made, as a way to support shareholders and investors a greater understanding of the To ensure that as many shareholders as possible can attend give science lessons to employment SCREEN Group by communicating our management, business, our General Meeting of Shareholders, we schedule it to avoid elementary school children. In fiscal 2017, we for these and financial position in a timely, accurate, and clear-cut manner. conflicting with other companies’ meeting dates and we gave lessons to 512 students from 12 schools. people. IR also provides a means for us to get opinions and other send out invitations well in advance to maximize the number feedback from these stakeholders that we use to maximize of shareholders who can attend. Individual and corporate Science and The SCREEN Group education corporate value. Following earnings announcements and at shareholders can also exercise their voting rights online using a At Inca Digital Printers, a group works to protect conferences, our CEO, corporate strategy director, CFO and other computer or smartphone, and institutional investors can do so company in the U.K., employees and maintain forests Environmental top management members give interviews to and hold dialogue via an Electronic Voting System Platform. Social contribution raise money as a member of the conservation Social welfare ~Coexistence~ for charity with our stakeholders. For overseas investors, we provide an English summarized Kyoto Model Forest ~Consideration for others~ ~Nurturing of the next generation~ through We also have a comprehensive range of IR publications, including version of the Notice of the General Meeting of Shareholders on Association. numerous Annual Reports, Fact Books (Investor Guides), and JapaneseTDnet (Timely Disclosure Network operated by the Tokyo Stock Sports and Community events. language shareholder newsletters. On our website can be found Exchange) and on our global website. Posting the Notice of the culture contribution information such as earnings presentation documents and General Meeting of Shareholders and the voting results of the product press releases. In May 2018, we increased the amount meeting on our website ensures maximum transparency. of information on earnings presentation documents and started In support of Tensai-Art Kyoto, We hold periodic clean-ups of areas surrounding an NPO promoting the talents of SCREEN Group sites. An outstanding example Number of Dialogue-Based IR Activities (Fiscal 2018) disabled artists, we display their is our Hikone Plant, where employees have for ● Institutional investor events, domestic conferences: 7 works of art inside our facilities. many years been clearing the underbrush along local rivers as part of efforts to protect and ● Earnings presentations: 4 ● Plant tours for institutional investors: 1 beautify the environment. ● Meetings with institutional investors and analysts: Approximately 400 ● Company briefings for individual investors: 15 ● Overseas IR activities: 3 (North America, Europe, and Asia) ● Plant tours for individual investors: 1 Note: For details on these and other community service activities, see our Sustainability Data Book. 25 26 Initiatives in EHS The SCREEN Group’s Initiatives in EHS Environmental Management: Environmental Conservation and Product EHS Environmental Conservation Product EHS One of the main initiatives of the SCREEN Group’s Challenge 2019 three-year medium-term management plan is the As well as reducing CO2 emissions, decreasing energy usage, In order to provide products that are safe and that take into promotion of CSR management focused on ESG. In line with that promotion, and linked to the CSR medium-term plan, we and cutting the emission of waste, the SCREEN Group is consideration the global environment, we are working on providing are implementing Green Value (GV) 21. We are managing “Environmental management (E),” “Health management (H),” and also working on environmental conservation with the goal of products that contribute to curbing CO2 emissions, expanding “Disaster prevention and Safety (S)” on an integrated basis as Group EHS management. biodiversity protection, including measures against water risks. environmentally friendly products, training experts in product ● Chronology of EHS Initiatives The SCREEN Group’s CO2 emissions for the year ended March safety, and complying with product-related laws and regulations. April 1995 April 2000 April 2009 April 2011 April 2014 April 2017 2018 were 54,776 t-CO2, and waste amounted to 2,495 metric CO2 emissions from products for the 10-year use period of March 1994 1997 2000 2009 2011 2015 2016 Launch of Environmental Kyoto Basic Act on Establishing a Revision of Energy ISO 26000 (SR standard) ISO 14001 revised Paris Agreement tons, with both reaching the target figures for emissions per 2018 are estimated at 2.31 million t-CO2, which is a 16% improvement Management Office Protocol Sound Material-Cycle Society Conservation Act came into effect unit weight of product shipments. in terms of emission intensity compared with the year ended March 2008–2012 Kyoto Protocol commitment period Destruction of ozone Global layer, acid rain, etc warming Eco Value (EV) 21 Green Value (GV) 21 ● CO2 Emissions and Emissions per Unit Weight of Product Shipments 2014. Environmentally friendly “Green Products” reduced CO2 ■ CO2 emissions (SCREEN Group in Japan) emissions by an estimated 53,600 t-CO2 in the same period. Phase I/II Phase I Phase II Phase III Phase IV Medium-Term Plan ■ CO2 emissions (SCREEN Group overseas) ● Product CO 2 Emissions MS ISO 14001 (environment) Integrated EMS Continuation of Group EHS ● Emission intensity (actual for SCREEN Group in Japan) certification disaster preparedness (Environment/energy/ ● Emission intensity (actual for SCREEN Group overseas) ■ CO2 emissions ● Emission intensity of sales OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) Integrated EHS EHS operations health and safety/ (Thousand (t-CO2/ （千トン） metric tons) （t-CO 2metric ／トン） tons) (10,000 t-CO 2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) Energy (+ ISO50001) (+ ISO 22301) business continuity) 80 9.19 8.89 8.52 8.44 8.82 10 500 94％ 1,200 6.72 814 825 859 847 Construction of system Expansion of MS and 8.47 6.76 400 Implementation of Promotion of CSR 60 6.71 55 5 900 for global environmental improvement of Globalization and optimization of 53 53 53 684 Theme 52 disaster preparedness management focused 4 4 4 3 4 300 Goal for fiscal 2019 (765) conservation and environmental environmental safety management EHS activities on ESG 40 0 600 promotion of initiatives management 200 · Establishment of 20 49 48 49 50 51 300 · Expansion of EMS 192 196 223 254 231 Basic goals Environmental · Promotion of integrated EHS 100 · Acquisition of OHSMS Establishment of BCM Improved evaluation Management Office · Acquisition of EnMS certification 0 0 certification system via external indices 0 · Voluntary plan · Integrated report 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 · Environmental report (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) · Acquisition of EMS certification · Energy and resource · Acquisition of BCMS · Training of personnel Main · Environmental information system conservation · Zero emissions · Measures to meet European chemical certification to promote EHS Disaster Prevention and Safety: From Safety Management at Production Sites to BCP policies · Environment beautification · Green products · Management of · Preparation of substance regulations activities chemicals and gasses information base Health and Safety Disaster Prevention BCM At the SCREEN Group, we aim for zero occupational accidents Aiming to strengthen our ability to respond in times of largeAiming for a 20% Reduction in Total CO2 Emissions by Fiscal 2026 that cause four or more working days to be lost. We are also scale disasters, we have set forth the goals of improvement In GV21 phase IV, we set a long-term goal of reducing total valueBase year: fiscal 2014 Goal for fiscal 2026 striving to reduce the frequency rate of occupational accidents, via practical drills and establishment of a management system 837 t-CO 2/¥100 million 679 t-CO 2/¥100 million and the number of points accumulated in the SCREEN Group’s for an emergency response headquarters. We conduct chain CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) by 20% by fiscal 2026 compared with fiscal 2014, and we are implementing wide-ranging proprietary internal occupational accident point system. drills at least once a year, and we are working to ensure the Facilities 2% operational establishment of the Bousaiz disaster information measures toward that goal. We calculated value-chain CO 2 ● Frequency Rate of Occupational Accidents Total CO2 management system. emissions by adding CO2 emissions such as those produced by emissions ● Frequency rate of occupational accidents ● Average for manufacturing industry SCREEN products during customer use (Scope 3) to facility CO2 1.15 emissions (Scope 1+2). 20% 1.2 0.94 1.06 1.06 1.02 Use of sold products improvement in 1.0 95% emission intensity 0.8 0.6 ● Group EHS Management Framework 0.4 0.21 0.22 0.19 Mitigation * T h e l o n g t e r m t o t a l C O 2 0.2 emissions target is the total 0 0 Control of Scopes 1, 2, and 3, 0 Environmental Management greenhouse gas which are standards for the emissions calculation and reporting of Adaptation 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Years ended March 31) Safety confirmation system Bousaiz Survival card greenhouse-gas emissions. Adapt to current Note: Frequency rate = (No. of casualties/Total work hours) ×1,000,000 Long-term target: Reduce total CO2 emissions and future impacts of No. of casualties due to occupational accidents for each 1,000,000 total hours of work. by 20% by fiscal 2026*(Compared with fiscal Disaster Prevention climate change (natural 2014 levels, on a per-sales unit basis) disasters, infectious and Safety diseases, etc.) Health Management: Creating an Environment in Which Employees Can Work Happily Environmental Conservation Disaster Prevention BCM ・Reduce environmental impact and preserve biodiversity At the SCREEN Group, in order to maintain a healthy workplace At the SCREEN Group, to promote employees’ health, each ・Improve ability to deal with major disasters Health Management environment and to prevent illness, we are working on employees’ year we hold a fitness campaign that focusses on themes that Product EHS Health and Safety Health Control health management through the goals we have set in reducing are close to home, such as walking, weight and blood pressure ・Supply products that contribute to safety and the global ・Eliminate occupational accidents resulting in environment ・Establish healthy workplaces and prevent diseases sick leave and making workplaces free of passive smoking. measurement, and the recording of sleep hours. This initiative is four or more lost work days leading to a reduction in the rate of sick leave days. Integrated Management System ● Rate of Sick Leave Days Furthermore, for the year ended March 31, 2018, we ISO 14001 (environment), ISO 50001 (energy), OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety), ISO 22301 (business continuity) ● Rate of sick leave days received certification under the Certified 0.8 0.647 The SCREEN Group has obtained certification of four international environmental regulations, a rise in occupational 0.590 Health and Productivity Management 0.6 management systems and implements an integrated management safety risks as products become larger, the growing complexity Organization Recognition Program (White system consisting of “Environmental management (E),” “Health in managing the health of employees as types of employment 0.4 500) promoted by the Japanese Ministry management (H),” and “Disaster prevention and Safety (S).” diversify, and the risk of the supply chain being interrupted due to 0.2 of Economy, Trade, and Industry. We manage various risks and opportunities in a comprehensive natural disasters. We have included the management of these risks 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 manner. These risks and opportunities include an increasing need and opportunities in our mediumand long-term plans in order to (Years ended March 31) for products with low environmental impact, increasingly stringent ensure that we achieve our goals. Rate of sick leave days = Total number of sick leave days/employees’ total number of prescribed work days × 100 New index established in fiscal 2017, for which we target a reduction compared with the previous fiscal year. 27 28 Human Resource Management Virtuous Circle of Growth between People and the Company ● SCREEN BUSINESS SCHOOL The SCREEN BUSINESS SCHOOL offers a wide range of educational and training programs so that employees can take The SCREEN Group has formulated basic policies in 7 fields of human resource management (see diagram below). These policies the initiative and better themselves in all stages of their career. In fiscal 2018, we launched new programs such as business are in line with our corporate philosophy of “Sharing the Future,” “Human Resource Development,” and “The Pursuit of Technology,” fundamentals, female employee skill development, and a young business leader training course. A total of 970 employees took part and founded on the pillars of our “CSR Charter / Code of Conduct” and “SCREEN Group Code of Management”. Under these in these and existing programs. policies, we strive to create an environment where a diversity of employees can maximize their talents and enjoy rewarding work. The SCREEN Group will endeavor Labor-Management Relationship to hire and maintain employees free The SCREEN Group will perform fair Meetings are held twice a month for labor-management negotiations. Labor-management conferences are held when necessary to from discrimination based upon race, and acceptable evaluations based discuss a range of issues related to the labor environment. Under our Work-Style Reform Project, union members take part in studying color, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual on roles and job performance of and implementing systems and measures related to things like reducing total working hours and getting employees to take paid leave. Employment orientation, national origin, age, mental each individual employee. or physical disability and genetics. Work The SCREEN Group will promote Evaluation Environment The SCREEN Group will create Evaluation and Treatment fair treatment to reward contribution and maintain a safe, hygienic and The SCREEN Group performs fair and acceptable evaluations based on each employee’s role and job performance. We also fairly by each individual employee, Code of healthy work environment so that the reward employees for the contributions they have made based on corporate and sectional performance. We also hold periodic training reflecting the results of employee Human employees can work comfortably and Resources Laborfor evaluators so that they can gain a deeper understanding of the goals-based management and evaluation methods that form the evaluations and corporate and at ease. Treatment Management Management basis of their evaluations and treatment of employees. sectional performance. Relationship The SCREEN Group will address the improvement of various laborThe SCREEN Group will support the career paths of each individual Personnel Use of related policies and the betterment Building a Friendly Work Environment Human of work environment through sincere employee and develop diverse Development ● Work-Style Reform Resources discussions between labor and human resources in a systematic management. In April 2017, SCREEN launched its Work-Style Reform Project. The systems, mechanisms, and IT related to work-style manner by enhancing programs and measures based on medium The SCREEN Group will actively reform went into full effect in April 2018. Work-style reform is a crucial element to realizing our mission under Challenge and long-term perspectives. utilize diverse human resources to 2019 “Growth and qualitative improvement of the Group itself” and to further boosting the competitiveness of the SCREEN help each individual employee fulfill Group. To maximize the productivity and creativity of its human resources, the SCREEN Group is building a pleasant his/her ability to a maximum extent. workplace where employees can perform their jobs in a healthy, safe, and stress-free environment. Personnel Development and Use of Human Resources 1. Management resolve: Work1. Work reform and improvement at style reform declaration SCREEN Group companies The SCREEN Group formulated its Basic Philosophy on developing human resources over the medium to long term. The Basic Philosophy Work reform/ states the concept and basic policies of personnel development. By implementing the programs and measures that will bring the basic 2. Awareness reform through Awareness 2. Create and utilize IT improvement policies to fruition, we aim to promote the growth of all employees—the foundation for improving corporate value—and foster the next education and enlightenment infrastructure Work-style generation of management personnel. reform ● Concept of Personnel Developmen Concept of Personnel Development is to show objectives for personnel development and 1. Build mechanisms to reduce Systems/ total working hour relationship between “Company” and “Employee” based on the code. mechanisms Company 2. Revise systems to create friendly work environment Activation of Sections and Generation of Profits ● Improving Work-Life Balance ○ We will support the career paths of Offer more opportunities for Support the career paths each individual employee by enhancing SCREEN Holdings and its business operating and functional support companies strive to build and maintain an environment self-growth to our employees of our employees with programs and measures based on who are eager to develop aspirations for self-growth. medium and long-term perspectives. in which diverse employees can use their abilities to the fullest while carrying out home duties such as taking care of children themselves by pursuing for Create or elderly family members. best performance with high OpporSupport ○We will actively utilize diverse human Main work-life balance systems (as of April 2018) aspirations. tunity Growth resources to help each individual PitStop 5 Employees who take less than 60% of their paid leave during Subsidy for Subsidy to partially compensate for wages lost due to employees fulfill his/her ability to a paid leave a given year must take at least five consecutive days off in the childcare, etc. taking leave or working shorter hours to care for infants. Energize following year. maximum extent. Subsidy to pay for daycare and other expenses for Workplace Leave for employees caring for family members, or undergoing Subsidy for early Family support employees making an early return to work after taking fertility treatment, medical treatment, or preventative treatment (up return to work childcare leave. paid leave Create an environment so that diverse human resources ○We will aim to establish a structure by to five days a year). Skills training for can respect each other and fulfill their abilities. which our employees and companies Child-raising Leave for employees attending school-related events of their employees Online learning program so employees can study while support leave children up to third year in junior high school (up to two days a year). they are on childcare leave. can grow together organically. on childcare leave Growth and Performance of individuals Spouse childcare Leave for employees to help wife care for infant after giving leave birth (paid leave of three consecutive business days). Employee SpouseLeave for employees who want to accompany their spouse to an Subsidy to partially compensate for wages lost due Subsidy for accompaniment leave overseas posting (unpaid leave, limited time period). to taking leave or working shorter hours to care for nursing care leave elderly or sick family members. Flexible working hours (with no mandator y core time) for ● Personnel Development Basic Policies We have declared five basic policies, and are deploying systems and measures for their achievement. Flex time employees who are pregnant, caring for elderly or sick family Subsidy for nursing Subsidy to partially pay for the purchase or rental of (no core time) members or infants, or undergoing medical treatment. care equipment nursing care equipment. Steadily develop human resources which are the source of Develop human resources which can extend and integrate Partial workWork system allowing employees to do some of their work Nursing care Dedicated staff provides consultation on company systems, 01 04 at home if they are pregnant, caring for elderly or sick family consultation government support, and private nursing care services. strength of the SCREEN Group strength across sections with global views at-home system members or infants, or undergoing medical treatment. Nursing care Seminars provide the basics on nursing care so that Minimum break System allowing employees to have a minimum number of hours employees do not have to quit their jobs to care for Develop human resources which can create a new value by Develop next-generation directors which can set and realize the between finishing work one day and starting work the next day seminars 02 05 between work days elderly or sick family members. enhancing expertise vision by fusing sections and employees (minimum of nine hours). Limited geographical System limiting the work region for employees who cannot be Develop human resources which can lead and activate sections region system transferred far away due to elderly/sick care or infant care duties. 03 by challenging for change depending on each role and quality 29 30 Performance Highlights 〈 Financial 〉 〈 Nonfinancial 〉 Sales by Segment CO 2Emissions and Emissions per Unit of Weight of (year ended March 31, 2018) Sales by Region (year ended March 31, 2018) Product Shipment Green Products as a Percentage of Sales PE Other and Europe Other ■CO2emissions (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■CO2emissions (SCREEN Group overseas) ■ No. of certified products ● Percentage of sales (actual) ¥12.1 billion (3.6%) Intersegment ¥23.1 billion (6.8%) ¥10.4 billion (3.1%) ● Emissions per unit weight of product shipment (Actual for SCREEN Group in Japan) Sales (Thousands of metric tons) (t-CO2 /Metric tons) (Units) (%) ¥1.3 billion North America Japan 80 10 180 89 92 92 94 95 100 FT ¥62.2 billion (18.3%) (0.4%) ¥38.7 billion 9.19 8.47 6.72 136 ¥45.2 billion Net Sales (11.4%) Net Sales 60 6.76 6.71 55 5 133 85 (13.3%) Asia&Oceania 53 52 53 53 4 120 GA ¥339.3 ¥339.3 ¥204.8 billion (60.4%) 40 4 4 4 3 0 104 116 119 50 billion billion ¥53.4 billion ■ China ¥74.1 billion(21.9%) 60 (15.7%) ■ Taiwan ¥71.2 billion(21.0%) 20 49 48 49 50 51 25 SE ■ South Korea ¥40.5 billion(12.0%) ¥227.1 billion ■ Other ¥18.8 billion(5.5%) (66.9%) 0 0 0 SE = Semiconductor Production Equipment Business 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 GA = Graphic Arts Equipment Business (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) F T = Display Production Equipment and Coater Business PE = PCB-related Equipment Business Water Used Number of Occupational Accidents and Incidents ■ Water used (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ Water used (SCREEN Group overseas) ■ Occupational accidents (SCREEN Group in Japan) ■ Incidents (SCREEN Group in Japan) Net Sales Operating Income and Ratio of Operating Income to Net Sales (Thousands of m3) (Number) 2,500 50 ■ Operating income ● Ratio of operating income to net sales (Billions of yen) (%) 2,034 2,021 2,034 2,063 40 (Billions of yen) 2,000 20 1,840 36 29 50 40 400 50 25 339.3 42.7 19 29 32 12 1,500 30 27 300.2 40 20 300 33.7 2,013 7 15 259.6 2,014 1,985 2,005 18 11 235.9 237.6 1,000 20 30 15 1,821 7 28 200 23.5 12.6 500 10 22 17 16 20 17.1 11.2 10 11 9.1 100 7.2 0 0 10 8.9 5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 3.8 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Number of New Employees and Their Retention Rate After Three Years Number of Employees (Holding, business operating and functional support companies) Number of employees(consolidated)(■ Japan ■ Asia &Oceania ■ North America ■ Europe） ■New employees* ● Retention rate after three years Return on Equity and Capital Expenditures and R&D ■ Number of Employees(Holding, business operating and functional support companies ) *Those who joined the company on April 1 or October 1 of each fiscal year Equity and Equity Ratio Expenses and Depreciation and Amortization (Persons) (Persons) 6,000 5,835 97.8 98.1 (%) ■ Equity ● Equity ratio ■ Capital expenditures ■ R&D expenses ■ Depreciation and amortization ● ROE 5,422 80 100 (%) 4,968 5,082 5,182 100 (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) 5,000 89.5 200 170.8 60 30 16.3 18.4 18.2 20 59.7% 60 54 52 54 90 47.5 4,000 62.8% 49 87.8 44.4 44.3 65.3% 65.0% 47 12.3 66.7% 150 37.2 46.7 45 20.8 3,000 40 80 110.8 119.6 142.8 20 6.7 17.7 10 2,228 2,212 2,187 2,165 2,181 100 86.4 30 13.9 15.1 14.4 2,000 25.0% 70 12.2 17.4% 18.2% 19.5% 21.8% 20 1,000 10 8.2 0 7.7% 7.6% 6.8% 6.8% 6.6% 50 15 4.5 4.1 6.6 4.8 6.3 5.0 5.3 5.7 0 8.1% 8.9% 8.6% 8.7% 8.7% 0 60 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (As of March 31) (Years ended March 31) Number of Patents Held (Holding, business operating and functional support companies) (Number) ■ Japan ■ Overseas Interest-bearing Debt and Debt/Equity Ratio Cash Flows 5,000 4,762 4,222 4,418 ■ Interest-bearing debt ● Debt/Equity ratio ■ Operating activities ■ Investing activities ■ Financing activities 4,160 (Billions of yen) (Times) (Billions of yen) 4,000 3,709 49.0 2,566 50 2.0 50 2,033 2,124 2,303 40 41.3 39.6 39.6 1.6 24.7 28.8 3,000 1,718 25 14.7 2,000 30 1.2 2,127 2,098 2,115 2,196 0 1,000 1,991 17.5 -4.2 -1.4 -3.8 -2.5-2.8 -5.8 20 0.8 -6.3 0.48 13.1 -11.2-11.5 0 -25 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 10 0.36 0.33 0.4 -29.3 -27.4 (Years ended March 31) 0 0.12 0.08 0.0 -50 Note: Holding, business operating and functional support companies 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 [Holding company]SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. (As of March 31) (Years ended March 31) [Business operating companies]SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co.,Ltd. / SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Advanced System Solutions Co., Ltd. [Functional support companies]SCREEN Manufacturing Support Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN Business Support Solutions Co., Ltd. / SCREEN IP Solutions Co., Ltd. 31 32 Eleven-Year Trends in Key Financial and Non-financial Indicators Eleven-Year Trends in Key Financial and Non-financial Indicators Consolidated Eleven-Year Summary SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2018 For the Year: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Net sales ¥ 339,369 ¥ 300,234 ¥ 259,675 ¥ 237,646 ¥ 235,946 ¥ 199,795 ¥ 250,090 ¥ 254,953 ¥ 164,129 ¥ 219,049 ¥ 279,816 $ 3,201,594 Cost of sales 229,838 206,687 178,677 165,192 177,175 157,790 187,325 182,990 137,827 169,391 208,266 2,168,283 Cost of sales to net sales (%) 67.7% 68.8% 68.8% 69.5% 75.1% 79.0% 74.9% 71.8％ 84.0％ 77.3％ 74.4％ Operating income (loss) ¥ 42,725 ¥ 33,732 ¥ 23,557 ¥ 17,168 ¥ 8,903 ¥ （4,833） ¥ 13,498 ¥ 26,811 ¥（14,046） ¥ （4,510） ¥ 14,628 $ 403,066 Operating income to net sales (%) 12.6% 11.2% 9.1% 7.2% 3.8% -2.4% 5.4% 10.5％ -8.6％ -2.1％ 5.2％ Profit attributable to owners of parent (loss) ¥ 28,507 ¥ 24,169 ¥ 18,816 ¥ 12,122 ¥ 5,419 ¥（11,333） ¥ 4,637 ¥ 25,687 ¥ （8,003） ¥（38,191） ¥ 4,578 $ 268,934 Comprehensive income 34,934 28,011 11,567 24,018 14,262 （6,031） 4,192 22,576 （5,257） − − 329,566 Depreciation and amortization 5,708 5,398 5,030 4,880 4,101 4,731 4,986 5,805 7,012 8,414 5,563 53,849 Cash flows from operating activities 28,878 49,024 14,721 （1,492） 24,703 （15,320） 11,279 34,299 25,113 （24,593） 7,934 272,434 Cash flows from investing activities (11,230) (5,860) （2,558） （6,318） （4,201） （5,768） （4,162） （2,191） 6,885 （6,921） （16,510） (105,943) Cash flows from financing activities (11,512) (27,479) （2,846） （3,823） （29,302） 21,534 （9,468） （22,250） （27,124） 34,071 669 (108,604) Capital expenditures 14,429 8,256 6,352 6,659 4,574 6,450 7,347 3,613 1,911 4,007 12,866 136,123 R&D expenses 20,837 17,794 15,166 13,972 12,274 12,685 13,889 12,130 11,615 16,073 16,248 196,575 Per Share of Capital Stock: Yen U.S. dollars Net income (loss) ¥ 608.62 ¥ 511.96 ¥ 396.75 ¥ 51.07 ¥ 22.83 ¥ （47.75） ¥ 19.54 ¥ 108.21 ¥ （33.71） ¥ （160.86） ¥ 18.81 $ 5.74 Net income ― diluted − − − − − − − − − − 17.39 − Cash dividends 110.00 87.00 60.00 7.00 3.00 − 5.00 5.00 − − 10.00 1.04 Net assets 3,661.96 3,040.79 2,533.41 467.13 364.23 321.24 379.44 367.00 272.15 292.12 514.26 34.55 At Year End: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total assets ¥ 366,193 ¥ 300,660 ¥ 270,094 ¥ 249,517 ¥ 232,376 ¥ 232,390 ¥ 245,382 ¥ 253,127 ¥ 216,622 ¥ 246,918 ¥ 291,114 $ 3,454,651 Return on total assets (%) 8.5% 8.5% 7.2% 5.0% 2.3% -4.8% 1.9% 10.9% -3.5% -14.2% 1.5% Current assets ¥ 261,486 ¥ 215,159 ¥ 188,522 ¥ 160,367 ¥ 157,327 ¥ 161,614 ¥ 177,543 ¥ 183,523 ¥ 139,984 ¥ 168,191 ¥ 196,989 $ 2,466,849 Property, plant and equipment, net 48,973 41,758 43,378 42,606 40,711 39,902 38,669 40,699 45,413 50,955 49,069 462,009 Current liabilities 175,529 135,576 120,857 92,750 114,367 120,014 123,223 148,132 93,874 132,431 123,702 1,655,934 Long-term debt 5,227 10,907 18,986 32,666 21,943 29,642 25,988 10,634 48,195 32,967 40,644 49,311 Equity 170,839 142,805 119,650 110,865 86,448 76,248 90,069 87,118 64,607 69,353 122,094 1,611,688 Equity ratio (%) 46.7% 47.5% 44.3% 44.4% 37.2% 32.8% 36.7% 34.4% 29.8% 28.1% 41.9% Return on equity (%) 18.2% 18.4% 16.3% 12.3% 6.7% -14.2% 5.2% 33.9% -11.9% -39.9% 3.6% Capital stock ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 54,045 $ 509,858 Retained earnings 117,359 92,937 71,602 54,448 41,824 36,405 55,440 26,418 731 8,734 49,390 1,107,160 Number of shares issued (in thousands) 50,795 50,795 50,795 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 253,974 Number of employees 5,835 5,422 5,182 5,082 4,968 4,955 4,890 4,732 4,679 4,992 5,041 Key Environmental Indicators CO2 emissions (t-CO2) 54,776 53,357 52,523 52,625 53,810 48,600 37,858 31,312 29,993 39,164 39,903 3 Water used (thousand of m ) 2,063 2,034 2,021 1,840 2,034 2,151 2,113 2,084 1,918 2,381 2,528 Total waste discharged (metric tons) 2,696 2,064 1,848 2,048 1,893 1,744 1,806 1,794 937 1,098 1,313 Notes: 1. Dollar figures are translated, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥106 to US$1.00. 5. Effective from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, as for main unit sales in the SE and the FT, the revenue recognition method was changed to the completion 2. Net income (loss) per share of capital stock is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during each term, excluding the of installation basis. Accordingly, amounts for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 have been reclassified with amounts calculated by applying this change of Company's treasury stock. Fully diluted net income per share of capital stock is not shown for the years that net losses were recorded or no dilutive stock accounting policies retroactively. existed. Net assets per share of capital stock is calculated based on the fiscal year-end total number of shares outstanding, excluding the Company's treasury 6. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Net income per share of capital stock, cash dividends per share stock. of capital stock, net assets per share of capital stock and number of shares issued are calculated based on the assumption that the consolidation of shares had 3 . Return on total assets and return on equity are calculated on the basis of average total assets and average equity, respectively, at the current and previous been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. fiscal year-ends. 7. The Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. The 4. Effective from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, the Accounting Standard for Presentation of Comprehensive Income has been adopted. Under the SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are recorded as treasury stock under shareholders' equity and are deducted from the number of shares outstanding new accounting standard, the above table includes comprehensive income, whereas these amounts are not shown before the years ended March 31, as of the fiscal year end for the purpose of calculating net assets per share of capital stock (106 thousand shares as of year ended March 31, 2018) and are 2009. deducted from the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of calculating net income per share of capital stock (61 thousand shares for the year ended March 31, 2018). 33 34 Financial Section Management’s Discussion and Analysis Operating Results SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Fiscal Years Ended March 31 Consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 before income taxes to ¥41,952 million, and profit attributable to rose ¥39,135 million, or 13.0%, year-on-year to ¥339,369 million. owners of parent reached ¥28,507 million, an increase of ¥4,338 This section provides an analysis of the Group's consolidated financial statements, which have been compiled in accordance with On the earnings front, although fixed costs, including personnel million, or 18.0%, from the previous fiscal year. generally accepted accounting principles in Japan. expenses, increased, operating income rose ¥8,993 million yearNet income per share of capital stock improved by ¥96.66 from The U.S. dollar figures appearing in the financial statements have been translated from Japanese yen amounts for convenience only at on-year, or 26.7%, to ¥42,725 million (Ratio of Operating Income the previous fiscal year to ¥608.62, but return on equity worsened the rate of ¥106 to US$1.00. to Net Sales 12.6%) due to an increase in sales and other factors. by 0.2 percentage points from the previous fiscal year to 18.2%, Regarding other income and expenses, the recording of gain on and return on total assets remained unchanged year-on-year at Financial Position sales of investment securities and other things increased income 8.5%. Total assets as of March 31, 2018 stood at ¥366,193 million, up ¥27,964 million, or 19.6%, from March 31, 2017, despite the payment ¥65,533 million, or 21.8%, from the previous year due to increases in of cash dividends and the acquisition of treasury stock. The increase ● Consolidated Net Sales by Reportable Segment ● Net Income Per Share of Capital Stock notes and accounts receivable trade, inventories and other factors. was due mainly to the recording of profit attributable to owners of ■ SE ■ GA ■ FT ■ PE ■ Other (Billions of Yen) (Yen) Total liabilities amounted to ¥195,313 million, up ¥37,569 million, parent and an increase in the valuation difference on available-for-sale 350 339.3 800 or 23.8%, from the previous fiscal year due to factors such as an securities, reflecting an increase in the market value of held stock. 300.2 300 259.6 608 increase in notes and accounts payable trade. As a result, the equity ratio as of March 31, 2018 was 46.7%. 235.9 237.6 600 250 511 Total net assets amounted to ¥170,880 million, an increase of 200 396 400 150 ● Working Capital ● Equity and Equity Ratio ■ Equity ● Equity Ratio 100 200 (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) （％） 50 51 22 100 85.9 200 60 0 0 79.5 44.4 44.3 47.5 46.7 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 75 67.6 67.6 150 45 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 37.2 42.9 50 100 170.8 30 ● Ratio of Operating Income to Net Sales and Ratio of Net Income to Net Sales ● Return on Equity and Return on Total Assets 142.8 110.8 119.6 25 50 86.4 15 ● Ratio of Operating Income to Net Sale ● Ratio of Net Income to Net Sales ● Return on Equity ● Return on Total Assets (%) (%) 0 0 0 15 20 18.4 18.2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (As of March 31) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (As of March 31) 12.6 16.3 11.2 15 ● Interest-Bearing Debt ● Net Assets Per Share of Capital Stock 10 9.1 12.3 (Billions of Yen) (Yen) 7.2 60 4,000 3,661 8.0 8.4 10 7.2 41.3 3,040 5 3.8 6.7 8.5 8.5 45 39.6 39.6 3,000 2,533 5.1 5 7.2 5.0 30 2,000 2.3 2.3 17.5 0 0 13.1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 15 1,000 467 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) 364 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (As of March 31) (As of March 31) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 As of March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 Net sales ¥ 339,369 ¥ 300,234 ¥ 259,675 ¥ 237,646 ¥ 235,946 $ 3,201,594 Total assets ¥ 366,193 ¥ 300,660 ¥ 270,094 ¥ 249,517 ¥ 232,376 $ 3,454,651 Gross profit ¥ 109,531 ¥ 93,547 ¥ 80,998 ¥ 72,454 ¥ 58,771 $ 1,033,311 Reportable Segment: SE 205,303 163,899 132,524 114,733 119,015 1,936,821 Operating income ¥ 42,725 ¥ 33,732 ¥ 23,557 ¥ 17,168 ¥ 8,903 $ 403,066 GA 48,478 42,075 50,334 53,289 48,963 457,340 Operating income to net sales (%) 12.6% 11.2% 9.1% 7.2% 3.8% FT 36,253 31,826 28,372 20,624 13,664 342,009 Income before Income Taxes ¥ 41,952 ¥ 31,055 ¥ 23,943 ¥ 15,782 ¥ 8,401 $ 395,774 PE 9,727 8,925 − − − 91,764 Profit attributable to ¥ 28,507 ¥ 24,169 ¥ 18,816 ¥ 12,122 ¥ 5,419 $ 268,934 Other 10,311 9,054 6,637 4,979 3,566 97,274 owners of parent Adjustments 56,121 44,881 52,227 55,892 47,168 529,443 Per share of capital stock (yen) Working capital 85,957 79,583 67,665 67,617 42,960 810,915 Net income ¥ 608.62 ¥ 511.96 ¥ 396.75 ¥ 51.07 ¥ 22.83 $ 5.74 Interest-bearing debt 13,157 17,587 39,636 39,677 41,375 124,123 Net income—diluted − − − − − − Equity 170,839 142,805 119,650 110,865 86,448 1,611,688 Return on equity (%) 18.2% 18.4% 16.3% 12.3% 6.7% Equity ratio (%) 46.7% 47.5% 44.3% 44.4% 37.2% Return on total assets (%) 8.5% 8.5% 7.2% 5.0% 2.3% Net assets per share of capital stock (yen) ¥ 3,661.96 ¥ 3,040.79 ¥ 2,533.41 ¥ 467.13 ¥ 364.23 $ 34.55 Notes: 1. Return on equity and return on total assets are calculated on the basis of average equity and average total assets, respectively, for the current and previous fiscal year-ends. Notes: 1. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Net assets per share of capital stock are calculated based 2. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Net income per share of capital stock is calculated based on on the assumption that the consolidation of shares had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. the assumption that the consolidation of shares had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 2. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and before, the former GP segment (including the PCB-related equipment business) are included within GA for the 3. The Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. purposes of the above table. The SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are recorded as treasury stock under shareholders' equity and are deducted from the weighted average 3. The Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. number of shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of calculating net income per share of capital stock (61 thousand shares for the year ended The SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are recorded as treasury stock under shareholders' equity and are deducted from the number of shares March 31, 2018). outstanding as of the fiscal year end for the purpose of calculating net assets per share of capital stock (106thousand shares as of year ended march 31, 2018). 35 36 Financial Section Segment Information Cash Flows In the semiconductor equipment segment, although sales In the segment for display production equipment and coater Regarding cash flows from operating activities, inflows such equipment such as R&D equipment. to foundries decreased year-on-year, sales to memory business, sales in the domestic market fell, but sales of as increases in income before income taxes and in notes and Regarding cash flows from financing activities, debt manufacturers and logic device makers increased. By product, production equipment for large-sized panels to China rose, accounts payable trade for the year ended March 31, 2018 repayments, the payment of cash dividends and the acquisition sales of single-wafer cleaning equipment decreased, but sales as did those of production equipment for OLED displays to exceeded outflows such as an increase in notes and accounts of treasury stock led to expenditures of ¥11,512 million of batch-type cleaning equipment and coater/developers rose. China and South Korea. This helped boost net sales in this receivable-trade and in inventories to create revenue of ¥28,878 compared with expenditures of ¥27,479 million in the previous By region, sales to Taiwan fell, but sales grew in South Korea, segment to ¥45,252 million, up 18.8% year-on-year. Although million, compared with ¥49,024 million in the previous term. term. China and North America. As a result, net sales in this segment fixed costs rose and the variable cost ratio worsened, the sales Regarding cash flows from investing activities, expenditures As a result, cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2018 reached ¥227,185 million, an increase of 10.2% on the increase helped operating income grow to ¥4,590 million, up reached ¥11,230 million from ¥5,860 million in the previous totaled ¥50,817 million, up ¥5,894 million from March 31, previous period. Operating income rose by ¥6,987 million from 4.5% year-on-year. term due partly to the purchase of property, plant and 2017. the previous year to ¥36,302, a 23.8% year-on-year gain as In the segment for printed circuit board (PCB)-related sales and the variable cost ratio improved, despite an increase equipment, in line with increased demand for high-end Thousands of in fixed costs such as personnel expenses. smartphones, sales of leading direct imaging systems rose, Millions of yen U.S. dollars Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 In the graphic arts equipment segment, although sales of CTP particularly in South Korea and Taiwan. That pushed net Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 28,878 ¥ 49,024 ¥ 14,721 ¥ (1,492) ¥ 24,703 $ 272,434 equipment fell, sales of print-on-demand (POD) equipment sales in this segment to ¥12,194 million, up 36.7% year-onrose. Assisted by an increase in sales of consumable goods, year. Operating income benefited from the higher sales to Cash flows from investing activities (11,230) (5,860) (2,558) (6,318) (4,201) (105,943) such as ink, net sales in this segment reached ¥53,414 million, reach ¥1,014 million, up 34.8% year-on-year, despite higher Cash flows from financing activities (11,512) (27,479) (2,846) (3,823) (29,302) (108,604) up 16.5% year-on-year. On the back of higher sales, operating temporary costs caused by the company split. Effect of exchange rate changes (242) (919) (1,151) 2,062 2,335 (2,283) on cash and cash equivalents income grew 108.0% year-on-year to ¥3,061 million. Net increase (decrease) in cash ¥ 5,894 ¥ 14,766 ¥ 8,166 ¥ (9,571) ¥ (6,465) $ 55,604 and cash equivalents ● Net Sales and Income (Loss) in Reportable Segments Thousands of Analysis of Operating Results Millions of yen U.S. dollars Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 Net Sales Reportable Segment: SE ¥ 227,185 ¥ 206,098 ¥ 165,801 ¥ 157,479 ¥ 163,132 $ 2,143,255 Net Sales GA 53,414 45,830 61,280 55,707 52,156 503,906 Net sales for the Group as a whole for the fiscal year ended Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent FT 45,252 38,104 31,590 23,774 19,850 426,906 March 31, 2018, reached ¥339,369 million, an increase of The total amount of income taxes increased by ¥6,602 million ¥39,135 million, or 13.0%, from the previous term. to ¥13,471 million due to factors such as a higher tax rate, the PE 12,194 8,918 − − − 115,038 absence of tax loss carryforwards at some subsidiaries and Other 1,624 1,453 1,085 770 808 15,321 Operating Income higher income before income taxes compared with the previous Intersegment sales (300) (169) (81) (84) － (2,832) Although fixed costs, such as personnel expenses, increased, term. Consolidated ¥ 339,369 ¥ 300,234 ¥ 259,675 ¥ 237,646 ¥ 235,946 $ 3,201,594 growth in sales saw operating income increase ¥8,993 million As a result, profit attributable to owners of parent rose ¥4,338 Operating Reportable Segment: SE ¥ 36,302 ¥ 29,315 ¥ 18,716 ¥ 15,738 ¥ 8,760 $ 342,472 Income (26.7%) year-on-year to ¥42,725 million. million to ¥28,507 million. (Loss) GA 3,061 1,472 3,169 2,840 2,768 28,877 FT 4,590 4,392 2,748 339 (422) 43,302 Income before Income Taxes PE 1,014 752 − − − 9,566 Exchange loss on foreign currency transactions increased, Other (1,544) (1,453) (1,138) (805) (652) (14,566) but a year-on-year reduction in impairment loss on non-current Total ¥ 43,423 ¥ 34,478 ¥ 23,495 ¥ 18,112 ¥ 10,454 $ 409,651 assets and loss on retirement of non-current assets resulted in Adjustments (698) (746) 62 (944) (1,551) (6,585) an improvement of income and expenses of ¥1,904 million from Consolidated ¥ 42,725 ¥ 33,732 ¥ 23,557 ¥ 17,168 ¥ 8,903 $ 403,066 the previous term. Notes: 1. The SCREEN Group has created four business segments for reporting: Semiconductor Equipment Business (SE), Graphic Arts Equipment Business (GA), As a result, income before income taxes rose by ¥10,897 million Display Production Equipment and Coater Business (FT), and PCB-Related Equipment Business (PE). The products and services of each segment are as follows: to ¥41,952 million. SE : Development, manufacturing, sale, and maintenance services of semiconductor production equipment GA: Development, manufacturing, sale, and maintenance services of graphic arts equipment F T : Development, manufacturing, sale, and maintenance services of display production equipment PE : Development, manufacturing, sale, and maintenance services of PCB related equipment (Changes in reportable segments) On April 1, 2017, the printed circuit board (PCB)-related equipment business of the previous SCREEN Graphic and Precision Solutions Co., Ltd. was spun off to form SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd., a fully owned Group subsidiary. Consequently, from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the Graphic arts equipment and PCB-related equipment businesses were classified as reportable segments under the segment names Graphic arts equipment (GA) business and PCB-related equipment (PE) business. In line with these changes, the other reportable segments have also been renamed as follows: Semiconductor Solutions (SE) Business → Semiconductor Equipment Business (SE) Finetech Solutions (FT) Business → Display Production Equipment and Coater Business (FT) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and before, the former Graphic and Precision Solutions (GP) segment (including the PCB-rerated equipment business (PE)) are included within GA for the purposes of the above table. 2. The “Other” category incorporates operations not included in reportable segments, including development, manufacturing and sales of equipment in life science business and other, software development, planning and production of printed matter and other businesses. 3. For more information such as details of each reportable segment, see Note 9, “Segment Information.” 37 38 Financial Section Research and Development Expenses Capital Expenditures and Depreciation and Amortization At the SCREEN Group, we maintain a close relationship between In the field of displays in the segment for display production For the year ended March 31, 2018, Group capital expenditures, and manufacturing facilities for both fields. SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and the group companies, and equipment and coater business, we developed the SK-E1500G/H including expenditures for intangible fixed assets, totaled ¥14,429 Capital expenditures in the PCB-related equipment segment through that fusion and the advancement of our core technologies coater/developer systems that are specifically designed to handle million. were used for R&D facilities for PCB-related equipment, among of surface treatment, direct imaging and image processing, 6th-generation substrates for production of OLED panels. The In the semiconductor equipment segment, capital expenditures other things, and totaled ¥147 million. we actively pursue R&D initiatives from basic research through systems enable stable mass production as they suppress static centered on R&D and manufacturing facilities for semiconductor Capital expenditures for other businesses totaled ¥505 million product development. electricity and contamination from particulate matter such as the production equipment amounted to ¥9,053 million. and were used for R&D facilities, among other things. During the year under review, in addition to our investment gas and chemical components that are released in the production Capital expenditures in the graphic arts equipment segment On a groupwide basis, capital expenditures amounted to ¥3,059 to expand and strengthen existing businesses mainly in the process of OLED panels. In the field of energy, we developed rollcentered on R&D facilities for graphic arts equipment and core million and included the construction (in progress) of a new factory semiconductor equipment segment, we also actively promoted to-roll broad coating technology for automotive secondary battery business systems and totaled ¥878 million. In the segment at the Hikone Plant. Depreciation and amortization during the R&D in the fields of energy, inspection and measurement and life electrodes. In this segment for the year, R&D expenses were for display production equipment and coater business, capital year came to ¥5,708 million, up ¥310 million, or 5.7%, from the science for a total investment in R&D of ¥20,837 million. ¥1,265 million. expenditures were ¥787 million and centered on R&D facilities previous fiscal year. The Group’s main R&D achievements in the fiscal year under In the PCB-related equipment segment, we developed the review are described below. MIYABI 7 automatic optical inspection system for high-end ● Capital Expenditures ● Depreciation and Amortization In the semiconductor equipment segment, in the development HDI boards to meet customer needs for greater definition and of ultra-miniaturization technologies for semiconductor circuits, density in substrates. Amid the industry’s size reduction and (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) 14.4 5.7 we continued from the previous term the joint development with miniaturization of main substrates and in response to next15 6 5.3 4.8 5.0 overseas research institutes of cutting-edge semiconductor generation circuit pattern formation, we worked to develop direct 4.1 processing in the fields of cleaning, wet etching, lithography imaging systems with both high definition and high productivity. 10 4 (coater/developers) and laser annealing. To meet customer 8.2 Overall, our R&D expenses in this segment for the year were ¥676 6.6 6.3 demand, including the demand for higher stability, productivity million. 4.5 and cost efficiency as well as for compatibility with nextIn addition to the R&D in above segments, SCREEN Holdings 5 2 generation processes, we worked to improve the speed and also engaged in basic research and R&D related to new business functionality of the SU-3300 single-wafer cleaning device. We also fields. That sum reached ¥3,740 million for the fiscal year. 0 0 developed the LA-3100 Flash Lamp Annealer, which has greatly In the inspection and measurement field, we developed the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) contributed to improving state-of-the-art devices and which IM-5100 visual inspection system for cold-forged parts used allows the high-precision control of heating temperature profiles in transmissions and other core areas of vehicles, for which to the millisecond. Overall, R&D expenses in this segment for the safety is paramount. The system helps ensure quality and boost Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars year were ¥12,158 million. productivity by its ability to automatically detect fine flaws to the Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 In the graphic arts equipment segment, we continued from the size of several tens of micrometers. Capital expenditures ¥ 14,429 ¥ 8,256 ¥ 6,352 ¥ 6,659 ¥ 4,574 $ 136,123 previous term our joint development with a European company In the life science field, we developed the Cell3iMager Estier Reportable Segment: SE 9,053 5,070 3,571 4,221 2,224 85,406 of high-speed, in-line digital printing solutions for the corrugated optical coherence tomography system that can observe and GA 878 1,055 823 866 868 8,283 cardboard industry. We also developed the Trupress Jet measure 3D images without damaging live cells. We also worked FT 787 297 181 172 86 7,425 L350UV+LM digital label printing press that can adapt to diverse to develop a next-generation space-saving ink-jet pill printer that PE 147 56 − − − 1,387 substrates and ensures the safety of labels for food packaging. enables automatic pill inspection and multi-color printing. Other 505 686 245 139 206 4,763 For the year under review, R&D expenses in this segment were Note that basic research expenses are, in principle, allocated to their respective Adjustments 3,059 1,092 1,532 1,261 1,190 28,859 ¥2,998 million. segments and calculated as part of segment income or loss reported under Segment Information. Depreciation and amortization ¥ 5,708 ¥ 5,398 ¥ 5,030 ¥ 4,880 ¥ 4,101 $ 53,849 Reportable Segment: SE 3,052 2,602 2,490 2,620 2,542 28,792 ● R&D Expenses and Ratio of R&D Expenses to Net Sales GA 492 624 646 625 485 4,642 ■ R&D Expenses ● Ratio of R&D Expenses to Net Sales FT 145 102 88 59 80 1,368 (Billions of Yen) (%) 25 10 PE 14 64 − − − 132 Other 414 344 185 119 110 3,906 20 8 Adjustments 1,591 1,662 1,621 1,457 884 15,009 5.9 5.8 5.9 6.1 15 5.2 6 Note: For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 and before, the former Graphic and Precision Solutions (GP) segment (including the PCB-rerated equipment business (PE)) are included within GA for the purposes of the above table. 10 4 12.2 13.9 15.1 17.7 20.8 5 2 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Years ended March 31) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 R&D expenses ¥20,837 ¥17,794 ¥15,166 ¥13,972 ¥12,274 $196,575 R&D expenses to net sales (%) 6.1% 5.9% 5.8% 5.9% 5.2% 39 40 Financial Section Risk Factors (11)Procurement of funds (14)Impact of impairment accounting Certain loan contracts of the Company provide for financial Due to the application of impairment accounting for fixed (1)Semiconductor and FPD market trends (6) Intellectual property rights covenants regarding its consolidated net assets at the end of assets, future trends in property prices and the earnings outlook While the semiconductor and FPD markets have recorded Over the years the Group has striven to introduce into the each fiscal year and its consolidated ordinary income (loss) of for the business could have a material impact on the Group’s significant growth on rapid technological innovation, they are market products utilizing the latest technologies and has each fiscal year. If these covenants were to be breached and financial condition and business performance. also susceptible to deterioration in market supply-demand created various proprietary technologies within each business the financial institutions required repayment, the Company balance which leads to cyclical upturns and downturns. Given division. In addition, the Group has worked to establish and could be forced to forfeit the benefit of time in relation to such (15)Recoverability of deferred tax assets such market conditions, the SCREEN Group is promoting protect its intellectual property rights under related intellectual loans. In such a case, the Company could also forfeit the benefit The SCREEN Group records deferred tax assets against an improvement in its break-even sales ratio so that it can property laws and in contracts with other companies. However, of time in relation to its bonds and other loans. If the Company temporary differences due to future losses and loss consistently generate profits during market downturns. given the increasing complexity of intellectual property rights in forfeits the benefit of time for its loans and incurs the obligation carryforwards for tax purposes based on rational forecasts of However, unexpectedly large market downturns can have a leading-edge technology fields, there is the risk that the Group to make a lump-sum repayment, it could have a material impact future income taxes and its judgments of their recoverability. material impact on the Group’s financial condition and business could in the future become involved in intellectual property on the Group’s financial condition. The Company currently has The Group reviews its assumptions on future income taxes performance. disputes and that such disputes could have a material impact no loan based on a contract providing for financial covenants. based on such factors as changes in the management on the Group’s financial condition and business performance. environment. A resulting decision that some or all of these (2)Concentration of transactions with specific customers (12)Exchange rate fluctuations deferred tax assets are unrecoverable and that the writing down The SCREEN Group delivers production equipment to leading (7)Information security As the Group has a high overseas sales ratio, we make a of deferred tax assets is necessary could have a material impact semiconductor manufacturers in Japan and overseas. However, In the course of its business operations, the Group handles proactive effort to avoid exchange rate risks on export sales by on the Group’s financial condition and business performance. as raising production capacity and responding to miniaturization various personal, customer and technological information. conducting transactions denominated in yen. However, some trends in this industry requires huge capital investments, certain The Group has established SCREEN Group Rules for IT transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. While the (16)Other risks leading manufacturers are consolidating. Accordingly, the Management to strengthen the security of internal information Group is working to minimize the impact of exchange rate In addition to the above described risks, the Group’s business Group’s sales are tending to concentrate on specific customers. systems as well as the SCREEN Group CSR Charter, which fluctuations by using forward exchange contracts and other operations are affected, as are those of other companies, by As a result, fluctuations in capital investments and orders by establishes a Code of Conduct for all Group employees to measures to minimize the impact on its business performance, risks of the global and domestic political environment, the these specific customers could have a material impact on the comply with in their business operations, seeking to reinforce rapid fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material economic environment, natural disasters such as earthquakes Group’s financial condition and business performance. information management. However, unforeseen leaks of impact on the Group’s financial condition and business and floods, wars, terrorism, epidemics, stock markets, confidential information could have a material impact on the performance. commodity markets, regulations by government, etc., the (3)Concentration of production sites Group’s financial condition and business performance. supply systems of business associates and employment The SCREEN Group’s domestic manufacturing sites are (13)Retirement benefit obligations conditions. Adverse developments in any of the above areas concentrated in the Kyoto and Shiga regions, and a largescale (8)Corporate acquisitions and capital participation The Group calculates accrued pension and severance costs could, therefore, have a material impact on the Group’s financial earthquake or other disaster affecting this area could seriously The Group may engage in corporate acquisitions or capital based on assumed discount rates set by actuarial calculations condition and business performance. damage the Group’s operations. To minimize the potential for loss participation in other companies as part of its business strategy. and on expected returns on pension asset investments. If and ensure continuation or early resumption of business operations, While the Group will thoroughly examine each specific project differences arise between actual results and assumed costs, the Group has been promoting business continuity management before taking action, business plans may not proceed as changes in assumed parameters and/or declines in pension (BCM). However, the halting of operations at a production site originally planned after an acquisition or a business alliance fund returns, the recognition of future costs and the recording as a result of such a disaster could have a material impact on the is concluded, and this could have a material impact on the of benefit obligations could be affected. Group’s financial condition and business performance. Group’s financial condition and business performance. While the Group is working through a conversion from a qualified retirement pension system to a cash balance plan (4)Product quality (9)Major lawsuits and a defined contribution plan and taking other measures to The SCREEN Group has created its quality management system The SCREEN Group could become the target of a lawsuit for a reduce the impact of retirement benefit obligations, worse than on the basis of standards for quality management systems (ISO variety of reasons related to its business activities. If the Group forecasted investment returns and other factors could have a 9001) and works to enhance the quality of its products and were to become the subject of a major lawsuit, said lawsuit material impact on the Group’s financial condition and business services. Nevertheless, if a product defect should arise and could, depending on its outcome, have a material impact on the performance. lead to a large-scale recall or product liability resulting in losses Group’s financial condition and business performance. to a customer, the Group could incur significant additional expenses and suffer a decrease in trust, prompting a decline in (10)Interest rate fluctuations sales. Such cases could have a material impact on the Group’s All the Group’s interest-bearing debt as of the end of the fiscal financial condition and business performance. year was fixed-rate debt and was, therefore, not subject to interest rate fluctuation risk. Nevertheless, the Group’s financial (5)New product development condition and business performance could be materially In order to strengthen its earnings structure by expanding affected by the impact of interest rate fluctuations on new fund market share, the Group is working to concentrate development procurement at variable interest rates. themes in line with the respective strategies of each in-house company to share technologies held within the Group and effectively utilize external technology resources to strengthen and invigorate its development capabilities in the timely introduction of products that incorporate the latest technologies. However, extended development periods could result in delays in new product releases that could have a material impact on the Group’s financial condition and business performance. 41 42 Financial Section Consolidated Balance Sheets SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 and 2017 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Assets 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities and Net Assets 2018 2017 2018 Current Assets: Current Liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents (Note 11) ¥ 50,817 ¥ 44,923 $ 479,406 Current portion of long-term debt (Notes 5 and 11) ¥ 5,680 ¥ 4,080 $ 53,585 Time deposits (Note 11) 2,297 3,910 21,670 Lease obligations (Notes 3 and 11) 391 405 3,689 Notes and accounts receivable-trade (Note 11) 85,407 59,152 805,726 Notes and accounts payable— Allowance for doubtful receivables (Note 11) (588) (569) (5,547) Trade (Note 11) 115,111 84,302 1,085,953 Inventories (Note 7) 106,322 91,721 1,003,038 Construction and other 6,077 3,801 57,330 Deferred tax assets (Note 4) 6,730 5,972 63,491 Accrued expenses 7,887 7,234 74,406 Prepaid expenses and other 10,501 10,050 99,065 Income taxes payable 9,651 6,509 91,047 Total current assets 261,486 215,159 2,466,849 Provision for product warranties 6,374 5,761 60,132 Provision for bonuses 4,204 3,405 39,660 Provision for directors' bonuses 220 82 2,075 Provision for loss on order received 58 89 547 Other current liabilities 19,876 19,908 187,510 Total current liabilities 175,529 135,576 1,655,934 Long-Term Liabilities: Long-term debt (Notes 5 and 11) 5,227 10,907 49,311 Net defined benefit liability (Notes 14) 857 764 8,085 Provision for directors' retirement benefits 141 130 1,330 Provision for stock payment 28 − 264 Provision for management board incentive plan trust 46 − 434 Lease obligations (Notes 3 and 11) 1,859 2,195 17,538 Property, Plant and Equipment, at Cost: Deferred tax liabilities (Note 4) 10,787 7,349 101,764 Land 9,662 9,554 91,151 Asset retirement obligations 57 49 538 Buildings and structures 53,308 52,604 502,906 Other long-term liabilities 782 774 7,378 Machinery, equipment and other 57,780 51,732 545,093 Total long-term liabilities 19,784 22,168 186,642 Lease assets 5,025 6,426 47,406 Construction in progress 6,125 1,886 57,783 Contingent Liabilities (Note 10) Total property, plant and equipment 131,900 122,202 1,244,339 Net Assets (Note 6): Accumulated depreciation (82,927) (80,444) (782,330) Shareholders’ Equity: Net property, plant and equipment 48,973 41,758 462,009 Capital stock Authorized—180,000,000 shares in 2018 and 2017 Issued—50,794,866 shares in 2018 and 2017 54,045 54,045 509,858 Capital surplus 4,546 4,600 42,887 Retained earnings 117,359 92,937 1,107,160 Treasury stock, at cost 4,142,444 shares in 2018 and 3,831,798 shares in 2017 (18,085) (15,300) (170,613) Total shareholders’ equity 157,865 136,282 1,489,292 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 18,428 12,847 173,849 Foreign currency translation adjustment (4,716) (4,911) (44,491) Investments and Other Assets: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (738) (1,413) (6,962) Investment securities (Notes 11 and 13) 41,480 33,205 391,321 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 12,974 6,523 122,396 Lease assets (Notes 3 and 8) 24 36 226 Non-controlling interests: Net defined benefit asset (Note 14) 5,577 4,703 52,613 Non-controlling interests 41 111 387 Deferred tax assets (Note 4) 439 536 4,142 Total net assets 170,880 142,916 1,612,075 Other assets 8,214 5,263 77,491 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 366,193 ¥ 300,660 $ 3,454,651 Total investments and other assets 55,734 43,743 525,793 Total Assets ¥ 366,193 ¥ 300,660 $ 3,454,651 The number of treasury stock as of March 31, 2018 includes 106 thousand shares of the company held by a trust related to a performance-linked share The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. compensating system for directors and corporate officers. 43 44 Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income 2018 2017 2018 Shares of Valuation Foreign RemeasureNet Sales (Note 9) ¥ 339,369 ¥ 300,234 $ 3,201,594 issued capital difference on currency ments of Nonstock Capital Capital Retained Treasury available-fortranslation defined controlling Total net Cost of Sales (Note 9) 229,838 206,687 2,168,283 (thousands) stock surplus earnings stock sale securities adjustment benefit plans interests assets Gross profit 109,531 93,547 1,033,311 Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2017 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,583 ¥ 71,602 ¥ (13,273) ¥ 8,364 ¥ (3,910) ¥ (1,761) ¥ 639 ¥ 120,289 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 66,806 59,815 630,245 Profit attributable to owners of parent − − − 24,169 − − − − − 24,169 Operating income (Note 9) 42,725 33,732 403,066 Cash dividends paid, ¥60.00 per share − − − (2,834) − − − − − (2,834) Other (Income) Expenses: Valuation difference on − − − − − 4,483 − − − 4,483 Interest and dividend income (599) (563) (5,651) available-for-sale securities Interest expenses 603 819 5,689 Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − − (1,001) − − (1,001) Exchange loss on foreign currency transactions, net 762 314 7,189 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − − 348 − 348 Insurance income (190) (110) (1,792) Acquisition of treasury stock − − − − (2,027) − − − − (2,027) Compensation income (22) (130) (208) Disposal of treasury stock − − 0 − 0 − − − − 0 Loss on retirement of non-current assets 611 1,232 5,764 Purchase of shares of consolidated − − − − − − − − Gain on sales of investment securities (Note 11) (873) (1,065) (8,236) (2) (2) subsidiaries’ treasury stock Loss on valuation of investment securities 167 173 1,575 Purchase of shares of consolidated − − 19 − − − − − − 19 subisidiaries Impairment loss (Note 15) 77 1,856 726 Other, net 237 151 2,236 Other − − − − − − − − (528) (528) Net other (income) expenses 773 2,677 7,292 Balance at the End of Fiscal 2017 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,600 ¥ 92,937 ¥ (15,300) ¥ 12,847 ¥ (4,911) ¥ (1,413) ¥ 111 ¥ 142,916 Income before Income Taxes 41,952 31,055 395,774 Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2018 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,600 ¥ 92,937 ¥ (15,300) ¥ 12,847 ¥ (4,911) ¥ (1,413) ¥ 111 ¥ 142,916 Income Taxes (Note 4) Profit attributable to owners of parent − − − 28,507 − − − − − 28,507 Current 13,389 8,192 126,311 Cash dividends paid, ¥87.00 per share − − − (4,085) − − − − − (4,085) Deferred 82 (1,323) 774 Valuation difference on available-for− − − − − 5,581 − − − 5,581 Total income taxes 13,471 6,869 127,085 sale securities Profit 28,481 24,186 268,689 Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − − 195 − − 195 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests (26) 17 (245) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − − 675 − 675 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 28,507 ¥ 24,169 $ 268,934 Acquisition of treasury stock − − − − (2,785) − − − − (2,785) Disposal of treasury stock − − − − − − − − − − Per Share of Capital Stock: Purchase of shares of consolidated − − (54) − − − − − − (54) Yen U.S. dollars subsidiaries’ treasury stock 2018 2017 2018 Purchase of shares of consolidated − − − − − − − − − − subisidiaries Net income ¥ 608.62 ¥ 511.96 $ 5.74 Other − − − − − − − − (70) (70) Net income—diluted − − − Balance at the End of Fiscal 2018 50,795 ¥ 54,045 ¥ 4,546 ¥ 117,359 ¥ (18,085) ¥ 18,428 ¥(4,716) ¥ (738) ¥ 41 ¥ 170,880 Cash dividends, applicable to earnings for the year 110.00 87.00 1.04 Notes: The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Net income per share of capital stock is calculated based on the assumption that the consolidation of shares had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. The Company introduced a performance-linked share compensation system for directors and corporate officers from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Thousands of U.S. dollars The SCREEN Holdings shares remaining in trust are recorded as treasury stock under shareholders' equity and are deducted from the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year for the purpose of calculating net income per share of capital stock (61 thousand shares for the year ended Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income March 31, 2018). Valuation Foreign Remeasuredifference on currency ments of NonCapital Capital Retained Treasury available-fortranslation defined controlling Total net Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income stock surplus earnings stock sale securities adjustment benefit plans interests assets Balance at the Beginning of Fiscal 2018 $ 509,858 $ 43,396 $ 876,764 $ (144,340) $ 121,198 $ (46,329) $ (13,330) $ 1,047 $ 1,348,264 SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Profit attributable to owners of parent − − 268,934 − − − − − 268,934 Thousands of Cash dividends paid, $ 0.82 per share − − (38,538) − − − − − (38,538) Millions of yen U.S. dollars Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities − − − − 52,651 − − − 52,651 2018 2017 2018 Foreign currency translation adjustment − − − − − 1,838 − − 1,838 Profit ¥ 28,481 ¥ 24,186 $ 268,689 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans − − − − − − 6,368 − 6,368 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 2) Acquisition of treasury stock − − − (26,273) − − − − (26,273) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 5,580 4,483 52,641 Foreign currency translation adjustment 198 (1,006) 1,868 Disposal of treasury stock − − − − − − − − − Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 675 348 6,368 Purchase of shares of consolidated (509) − − − − − − − (509) subsidiaries’ treasury stock Total other comprehensive income 6,453 3,825 60,877 Purchase of shares of consolidated subisidiaries − − − − − − − − − Comprehensive Income ¥ 34,934 ¥ 28,011 $ 329,566 Other − − − − − − − (660) (660) Comprehensive income attributable to Balance at the End of Fiscal 2018 $ 509,858 $ 42,887 $ 1,107,160 $ (170,613) $ 173,849 $ (44,491) $ (6,962) $ 387 $ 1,612,075 Owners of parent 34,960 27,999 329,811 Non-controlling interests (26) 12 (245) The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. The Company implemented a one-for-five consolidation of its common stock on October 1, 2016. Shares of issued capital stock are calculated based on the The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. assumption that the consolidation of shares had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. 45 46 Financial Section Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies 2018 2017 2018 Cash Flows from Operating Activities: （a）Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements state the value of inventories mainly by either the first-in, firstIncome before income taxes ¥ 41,952 ¥ 31,055 $ 395,774 The accompanying consolidated financial statements of SCREEN out method or the specific identification method. With regard Depreciation and amortization 5,708 5,398 53,849 Holdings Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) have been prepared to the amounts stated in the balance sheet, the book value Impairment loss 77 1,856 726 in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Financial devaluation method is used to write down the value of inventory Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 167 173 1,575 Instruments and Exchange Law and its related accounting in the event of a decline in profitability. Consolidated overseas Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (873) (1,065) (8,236) regulations and in conformity with accounting principles generally subsidiaries state inventories mainly at the lower of cost or net Loss on retirement of non-current assets 611 1,232 5,764 accepted in Japan, which are different in certain respects as realizable value either by the first-in, first-out method or the Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability (160) (12) (1,509) to application and disclosure requirements from International specific identification method. Increase (decrease) in provision for bonuses 799 2,361 7,538 Financial Reporting Standards. The accounts of the consolidated (e)Securities Increase (decrease) in provision for directors' bonuses 137 10 1,292 The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries classify overseas subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance Increase (decrease) in provision for stock payment 28 − 264 securities as “available-for-sale securities.” Available-forwith either International Financial Reporting Standards or U.S. Increase (decrease) in provision for management board incentive plan trust 46 − 434 sale securities with available fair values are stated at fair generally accepted accounting principles, with adjustments Increase (decrease) in provision for product warranties 611 1,190 5,764 value. Unrealized holding gains (losses) on these securities for the four specified items as applicable. The accompanying Increase (decrease) in provision for loss on order received (30) 86 (283) are reported, net of applicable income taxes, as a separate consolidated financial statements have been restructured and Interest and dividend income (599) (563) (5,651) component of net assets. Realized gains and losses on the translated into English, with some expanded descriptions, Interest expenses 603 819 5,689 sales of such securities are computed using moving average from the consolidated financial statements of the Company Decrease (increase) in trade notes and accounts receivable (25,928) 8,175 (244,604) cost. Other securities with no available fair values are stated at prepared in accordance with Japanese GAAP and filed with the Decrease (increase) in inventories (17,391) (16,397) (164,066) moving average cost. appropriate Local Finance Bureau of the Ministry of Finance as Decrease (increase) in other current assets 441 (1,534) 4,160 required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Some (f)Depreciation Increase (decrease) in trade notes and accounts payable 30,011 14,683 283,123 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment of the Company supplementary information included in the Japanese language Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 3,486 8,921 32,887 statutory consolidated financial statements, but not required and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries is computed Other, net 110 342 1,039 for fair presentation, is not presented in the accompanying primarily by the straight-line method. Depreciation of property, Subtotal 39,806 56,730 375,529 consolidated financial statements. Certain Japanese yen amounts plant and equipment of the consolidated overseas subsidiaries Interest and dividend income received 593 564 5,594 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been is computed mainly by the straight-line method. The estimated Interest expenses paid (596) (876) (5,623) translated into U.S. dollar amounts solely for the convenience useful lives for buildings and structures and machinery and Contribution in connection with the shift to a defined contribution pension plan (1) (0) (9) of readers outside Japan, using the prevailing exchange rate equipment are 2 to 60 years and 2 to 17 years, respectively. Income taxes paid (10,924) (7,394) (103,057) as of March 31, 2018, which was ¥106 to U.S. $1.00. This Maintenance and repairs, including minor renewals and Net cash provided by operating activities 28,878 49,024 272,434 translation should not be construed as a representation that the betterments, are charged to expenses as incurred. Leased Cash Flows from Investing Activities: amounts shown could be converted into U.S. dollars at this or assets related to finance lease transactions in which ownership Decrease (increase) in time deposits, net 1,625 (1,708) 15,330 any other rate of exchange. Certain amounts in the prior years’ transfers to the lessee are depreciated in the same manner as Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9,907) (5,497) (93,462) consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to owned property, plant and equipment. Leased assets related to Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 398 313 3,755 conform to the current year’s presentation. finance lease transactions in which ownership does not transfer Purchase of investment securities (826) (193) (7,792) （b）Principles of consolidation are depreciated on a straight-line basis, with the lease periods Proceeds from sales of investment securities 1,549 2,733 14,613 The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the as the useful life and no residual value. Purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation (34) − (321) accounts of the Company and significant companies over which (g)Impairment of fixed assets Payments for transfer of business (1,341) − (12,651) the Company has power of control through majority voting The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries evaluate the book Other, net (2,694) (1,508) (25,415) rights or the existence of certain other conditions evidencing value of fixed assets for impairment. If the book value of a fixed Net cash used in investing activities (11,230) (5,860) (105,943) control by the Company. Investments in significant affiliates and asset is impaired, the amount by which the book value exceeds Cash Flows from Financing Activities: significant unconsolidated subsidiaries are accounted for by the the recoverable amount is recognized as impairment loss. Proceeds from long-term debt − 1,000 − equity method. (h)Software Repayments of long-term debt (4,080) (9,080) (38,490) (c)Translation of foreign currencies Software, included in “Other assets,” is amortized using the Repayments of finance lease obligations (413) (415) (3,896) Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies straight-line method over its estimated useful life (3-5 years for Redemption of bonds − (13,600) − are translated into Japanese yen at year-end rates. Except for internal use software and 3 years for software for sale). Net decrease (increase) in treasury stock (2,785) (2,027) (26,274) shareholders’ equity accounts, which are translated at historical (i)Research and development Cash dividends paid (4,069) (2,834) (38,387) rates, balance sheets of the consolidated overseas subsidiaries Expenses related to research and development are charged to Dividends paid to non-controlling interests − (3) − are translated into Japanese yen at year-end rates. Except for income as incurred and amounted to ¥20,837 million ($196,575 Payments related to changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that − (513) − transactions with the Company, which are translated at rates thousand) in 2018 and ¥17,794 million in 2017. do not result in change in scope of consolidation Purchase of treasury stock of consolidated subsidiaries (165) (7) (1,557) used by the Company, income statements of the consolidated (j)Cash and cash equivalents Net cash used in financing activities (11,512) (27,479) (108,604) overseas subsidiaries are translated at average rates. The Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and deposits Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (242) (919) (2,283) resulting translation adjustments are presented as foreign placed with banks on demand or with maturities of three Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 5,894 14,766 55,604 currency translation adjustment in net assets. months or less. Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 44,923 30,157 423,802 (d)Inventories Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period ¥ 50,817 ¥ 44,923 $ 479,406 The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries The accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 47 48 Financial Section (k)Goodwill Standard for Measurement of Inventories” (ASBJ Statement (Primary treatments revised) currently in the process of determining the effects of these new Goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over No. 9, issued on July 5, 2006), the amounts are provided for as * Treatments for taxable temporary differences for investments standards on the consolidated financial statements. the fair value of net assets acquired, is amortized on a straightprovision for loss on order received.) in subsidiaries within the context of non-consolidated financial line basis over a period of five years. However, if the amounts are (u)Provision for stock payment statements (Additional Information) not material, it is expensed in the year of the acquisition. Provision for corporate officer's stock payment represents * Treatments in determining recoverability of deferred tax assets in a (Arrangement to deliver company shares through a trust to (l)Bonds issue costs the amounts for future payments of the Company's stock to company which was categorized as ‘Type1’ according to the guidance Directors and others) Bonds issue costs are charged to expenses as incurred. corporate officers. The provision is recognized based on the (2)Effective date The Company has introduced a performance-linked share (m)Income taxes amount that is expected to be paid, which is determined using Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, compensation system (hereinafter referred to as “the System”) The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries record deferred points allocated to each corporate officer as prescribed in the 2019 for Directors (excluding outside directors; below, the same) of the tax assets and liabilities on loss carryforwards and temporary share granting rules. (3)Effects of the application of the standards Company and its subsidiaries, as well as Corporate Officers of differences between the carrying amounts of assets and (v)Provision for management board incentive plan trust The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are the Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used Provision for director's stock payment represents the amounts currently in the process of determining the effects of these new to as “Directors and others”) aimed at developing awareness for income tax purposes by using the asset/ liability approach. for future payments of the Company's stock to directors. The Guidance on the consolidated financial statements. of contributing to improving mediumto long-term business (n)Allowance for doubtful receivables provision is recognized based on the amount that is expected performance and enhancing corporate value. By making the An allowance for doubtful receivables is provided to cover to be paid, which is determined using points allocated to each “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Statement linkage between the financial performance of the Company and its possible losses on collection. The Company and its consolidated director as prescribed in the share granting rules. No.29, March 30, 2018) subsidiaries and stock value, and the remuneration paid to Directors domestic subsidiaries provide the allowance for doubtful (w)Derivatives and hedge accounting “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue and others, more explicit, the System is intended to enable Directors receivables by adding individually estimated uncollectible If derivative financial instruments are used as hedges and meet Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No.30, March 30, 2018) and others to not only enjoy the benefits of increases in the stock amounts of specific items to an amount based on the actual certain hedging criteria, the Company defers recognition of gain (1)Overview price, but also to bear the risk of declines in the stock price, and to rate of past uncollected receivables. The consolidated overseas or loss resulting from a change in the fair value of the derivative The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the US share the benefits and risks resulting from changes in stock price subsidiaries provide the allowance for doubtful receivables financial instrument until the related loss or gain on the hedged Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) jointly developed with shareholders. based mainly on the estimated uncollectible amounts of specific item is recognized. When a forward foreign exchange contract comprehensive accounting standards for revenue recognition, (1) Overview receivables. meets certain conditions, the hedged item is stated at the and published in May, 2014 Revenues arising from contracts with This System is a performance-linked share compensation system (o)Provision for bonuses forward exchange contract rate. If interest rate swap contracts customers (IFRS 15 at the IASB and Topic 606 at the FASB)”. under which a trust established by the Company acquires shares The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries provide are used as hedges and meet certain hedging criteria, the net Based on the circumstances to apply Topic 606 from the fiscal year of company stock and delivers the shares through the trust based provision for employees’ bonuses based on the estimated amount to be paid or received under the interest rate swap beginning on or after December 15, 2017 and IFRS 15 from the on points granted according to rank and the level of attainment of amounts of payments to be accrued in the fiscal year. contract is added to or deducted from the interest on the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2018, the Accounting numerical targets related to management indicators according to (p)Provision for directors’ bonuses assets or liabilities for which the swap contract was executed. Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) developed comprehensive stock issuance provisions determined by the Board of Directors Certain consolidated subsidiaries provide provision for directors’ The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts and accounting standards for revenue recognition and published them of the Company and its subsidiaries. In principle, the time when bonuses based on the estimated amounts of payments for the interest rate swap contracts only for the purpose of mitigating together with application guidance. the Directors and others will receive the shares of Company stock fiscal year. future risk of fluctuation in foreign currencyc exchange rates and From the viewpoint of comparability between financial statements, issued is upon retirement of the Directors and others. (q)Employees’ severance and retirement benefits interest rates. In terms of forward foreign exchange contracts, which is one of the benefits of consistency with IFRS 15 and as (2) Company shares remaining in the trust The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries provide funded the Company uses them within the amounts of foreign currency a basic policy in developing accounting standards for revenue Shares of Company stock remaining in the trust are recorded as or unfunded defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans receivables and authorized forecast transactions. The following recognition by the ASBJ, the accounting standards are to be treasury stock in the Net Assets section based on book value for employees’ severance and retirement benefits. The Company table summarizes the derivative financial instruments used in established incorporating the basic principles of IFRS 15 as the (excluding incidental expenses) of the trust. At the end of the current and certain consolidated domestic subsidiaries have a cash hedge accounting and the related hedged items. starting point. In addition, if there are items to be considered in consolidated fiscal year, the book value of the treasury stock in balance plan in defined benefit pension plans combined with practice conducted in Japan so far, alternative treatments are question was ¥764 million ($7,208 thousand) and the number of Hedging instruments: Hedged items: defined contribution pension plans. Certain consolidated domestic supposed to be added within a scope which does not impair shares was 106 thousand shares. Forward foreign exchange contracts Foreign currency receivables subsidiaries have unfunded lump-sum payment plans. Certain Interest rate swap contracts Interest on long-term debt comparability. consolidated overseas subsidiaries have defined contribution (2)Effective date The Company executes and manages derivative transactions plans. In calculating retirement benefit obligations, the method of Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, in accordance with established internal policies and specified attributing expected benefit to periods up to the end of the fiscal 2022 limits on the amounts of derivative transactions allowed. The year is based on a benefit formula basis. Actuarial gains and losses (3)Effects of the application of the standards derivative transactions are reported to and approved by the are recognized in expenses using the straight-line method within The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are Board of Directors. The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness the average of the estimated remaining service years of employees semiannually by comparing the cumulative changes in the (mainly 13 years) commencing with the following period. hedging derivative instruments and the items hedged. (r)Retirement benefits for directors and corporate auditors Certain consolidated subsidiaries have unfunded retirement and (Accounting standards issued but not yet applied) termination allowance plans for directors and statutory auditors. “Implementation Guidance on Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ The amounts required under the plans have been fully accrued. Guidance No. 28, February 16, 2018 ) (s)Provision for product warranties “Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred Tax The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries provide for Assets” (ASBJ Guidance No. 26 (revised 2018), February 16, estimated product warranty costs for the warranty period after 2018 ) product delivery based on actual payments in the past. (1)Overview (t)Provision for loss on order received On the transfer of practical guidance on tax effect accounting Estimated loss accrued in or after the next fiscal year is provided from Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) to cover possible future loss related to orders received if future to Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ), the above losses are expected and can be reasonably estimated. (If the net guidance has been revised, adhering fundamentally to its sales value is negative after calculations based on the “Accounting contents, in regard to the following treatments: 49 50 Financial Section Note 2: Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Note 4 : Income Taxes Amounts reclassified as net income (loss) in the current period that were recognized in other comprehensive income in the current or The Company is subject to several taxes based on income available to offset the respective future taxable incomes of these previous periods and the tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2018 and with an aggregate statutory tax rate of approximately 30.8% companies. Significant components of the Company and its 2017 were as follows: in 2018 and 2017. As of March 31, 2018, the Company and consolidated subsidiaries' deferred tax assets and liabilities as certain consolidated subsidiaries had net tax loss carryforwards of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars aggregating ¥51,755 million ($488,255 thousand), which were 2018 2017 2018 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: Thousands of ¥ 9,132 ¥ 7,352 $ 86,151 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Increase (decrease) during the year 2018 2017 2018 Reclassification adjustments (873) (1,065) (8,236) Deferred tax assets (current) Subtotal, before tax 8,259 6,287 77,915 Accrued bonuses for employees / provision for bonuses ¥ 1,752 ¥ 1,560 $ 16,528 Tax (expense) or benefit (2,679) (1,804) (25,274) Loss on valuation of inventories 2,600 2,810 24,528 Subtotal, net of tax 5,580 4,483 52,641 Provision for product warranties 1,903 1,723 17,953 Unrealized income on inventories 1,323 1,082 12,481 Foreign currency translation adjustment: Other 2,354 2,267 22,209 Increase (decrease) during the year 198 (1,006) 1,868 Valuation allowance (3,195) (3,460) (30,142) Deferred tax liabilities (current) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans: Adjustment of allowance for doubtful accounts and other (27) (11) (255) Increase (decrease) during the year 240 (73) 2,264 Net deferred tax assets (current) ¥ 6,710 ¥ 5,971 $ 63,302 Reclassification adjustments 446 421 4,208 Deferred tax assets (noncurrent) Subtotal, before tax 686 348 6,472 Net operating loss carryforwards ¥ 14,900 ¥ 14,801 $ 140,566 (11) − (104) Research and development expenses 1,232 1,248 11,623 Tax (expense) or benefit Depreciation 2,270 1,597 21,415 Subtotal, net of tax 675 348 6,368 Impairment loss 1,153 1,361 10,877 Total other comprehensive income ¥ 6,453 ¥ 3,825 $ 60,877 Net defined benefit liability 297 491 2,802 Other 2,235 2,605 21,085 Valuation allowance (20,894) (20,733) (197,113) Note 3 : Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Deferred tax liabilities (noncurrent) Undistributed earnings of consolidated overseas subsidiaries (1,803) (1,156) (17,009) Significant noncash financing activities for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (7,778) (5,105) (73,377) Net defined benefit asset (1,958) (1,918) (18,472) Newly booked assets and liabilities related to finance leases Other (2) (4) (19) Thousands of Net deferred tax liabilities (noncurrent) ¥ (10,348) ¥ (6,813) $ (97,622) Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 A reconciliation of the aggregate statutory income tax rate and the effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income Lease assets ¥ 59 ¥ 40 $ 557 taxes for the year ended March 31, 2017 was as follows: Lease obligations 63 44 594 A reconciliation for the year ended March 31, 2018 is not shown due to the fact that the rate difference was not greater than five hundredths of the aggregate statutory income tax rate. 2018 2017 Statutory income tax rate −% 30.8% Nondeductible expenses − 0.3 Valuation allowance − (6.0) Tax rate difference from parent company − (1.9) Undistributed earnings of consolidated overseas subsidiaries − (1.0) Consolidated overseas subsidiaries' source of dividends − 0.9 Other, net − (1.0) Effective income tax rate −% 22.1% 51 52 Financial Section Note 5 : Short-Term and Long-Term Debt Note 7 : Inventories Short-term debt generally consists of short-term notes from banks. There was no short-term debt as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. Inventories as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 consisted of the following: Long-term debt as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 consisted of the following: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Thousands of 2018 2017 2018 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Merchandise and finished goods ¥ 51,303 ¥ 50,771 $ 483,991 2018 2017 2018 Work in process 44,263 32,943 417,575 0.35% to 1.69% loans from Japanese banks, due in installments through March 31, 2021 Raw materials and supplies 10,756 8,007 101,472 Secured ¥ − ¥ − $ − Total ¥ 106,322 ¥ 91,721 $ 1,003,038 Unsecured 8,156 10,622 76,943 0.59% loans from a governmental institution, due in installments through March 31, 2021 Note 8 : Leases Secured − − − Unsecured 1,000 1,800 9,434 1. Finance leases 2) Depreciation method for leased assets 0.80% to 1.32% loans from an insurance company, due in installments Information related to finance leases, excluding those leases As described in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting through September 30, 2021 for which the ownership of the leased assets is considered and Reporting Policies, (f) Depreciation” Secured − − − to be transferred to the lessee, as of and for the years ended Unsecured 1,751 2,565 16,519 March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 2. Operating leases Total 10,907 14,987 102,896 (As lessee) (As lessee) Current portion of long-term debt shown in current liabilities (5,680) (4,080) (53,585) 1) Description of leased assets Future minimum lease payments as lessee: Long-term debt, less current portion ¥ 5,227 ¥ 10,907 $ 49,311 1. Tangible fixed assets: Mainly the production facilities Thousands of and the R&D facilities in the Semiconductor Equipment Millions of yen U.S. dollars As is customary in Japan, substantially all of the bank borrowings As of March 31, 2018, the total financing available under these Business (“Buildings and structures”and “Machinery, 2018 2017 2018 are subject to general agreements with each bank which provide, contracts amounted to ¥30,000 million ($283,019 thousand), equipment and other”) Due within one year ¥ 608 ¥ 626 $ 5,736 among other things, that additional security and guarantees for and no amount of these commitment lines had been used. 2. Intangible fixed assets: Software Due after one year 948 962 8,943 present and future indebtedness will be given upon request by The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows: Total ¥ 1,556 ¥ 1,588 $ 14,679 the bank and that any collateral so furnished will be applicable to all indebtedness to that bank. In addition, the agreements provide that the bank has the right to offset cash deposited against any Thousands of Note 9 : Segment Information Years ended March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars long-term or short-term debt that becomes due and, in case of 2020 ¥ 1,504 $ 14,189 1. General information about reportable segments (Changes in reportable segments) default and certain other specified events, against all other debts 2021 3,614 34,094 (1)Reportable segments On April 1, 2017, the printed circuit board (PCB)-related equipment payable to the bank. To date, the Company has not received any 2022 109 1,028 The SCREEN Group’s reportable segments are the business business of the previous SCREEN Graphic and Precision Solutions such requests from its banks. 2023 and thereafter − − units for which the Company obtains financial information Co., Ltd. was spun off to form SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd., The Company has contracts for commitment lines by which banks Total ¥ 5,227 $ 49,311 separately in order for the Board of Directors to conduct a fully owned Group subsidiary. Consequently, from the fiscal are bound to extend loans up to a prearranged amount upon request. periodic investigations to determine distribution of management year ended March 31, 2018, the Graphic arts equipment and resources and evaluate their business results. PCB-related equipment businesses were classified as reportable The Group utilizes a holding company structure under which segments under the segment names Graphic arts equipment (GA) Note 6 : Net Assets and Per Share Data it has established business operating companies organized by business and PCB-related equipment (PE) business. categories of products and services. Each business operating In line with these changes, the other reportable segments have Under Japanese laws and regulations, the entire amount paid that the Company can distribute as dividends is calculated based company establishes a comprehensive strategy and implements also been renamed as follows: for new shares is required to be designated as capital stock. on the nonconsolidated financial statements of the Company in business activities related to the products and services it handles Semiconductor Solutions (SE) Business Semiconductor However, a company may, by a resolution of the Board of accordance with Japanese laws and regulations. for both domestic and overseas markets. Equipment Business (SE) Directors, designate an amount not exceeding one half of the Net income per share is based on the weighted average number Accordingly, the Group comprises four reportable segments Finetech Solutions (FT) Business Display Production Equipment price of the new shares as additional paid-in capital, which is of shares of capital stock outstanding. Diluted net income per based on said business operating companies and organized and Coater Business (FT) included in capital surplus. Under the Japanese Corporate Law share is computed using the weighted average number of shares by products and services. The four segments are as follows: Segment information for the previous fiscal year has been prepared (the “Law”), in cases in which a dividend distribution of surplus after assuming conversion of all dilutive convertible notes and the Semiconductor Equipment Business (SE), Graphic Arts according to the reclassified segments and is presented under is made, the smaller of an amount equal to 10% of the dividend exercise of all outstanding stock acquisition rights. Diluted net Equipment Business (GA), Display Production Equipment and “Information about reportable segment income(loss), segment or the excess, if any, of 25% of capital stock over the total of income per share of capital stock for the fiscal year ended March Coater Business (FT), and PCB-Related Equipment Business (PE). assets and other material items” for the fiscal year ended March additional paid-in capital and legal earnings reserve must be 31, 2018 is not shown because there was no dilutive stock. At 31, 2017. set aside as additional paid-in capital or legal earnings reserve. the annual shareholders’ meeting held on June 26, 2018, the (2) Products and services of reportable segments Legal earnings reserve is included in retained earnings in the shareholders approved cash dividends of ¥110.00 ($1.04) per The SE segment develops and manufactures semiconductor 2. Basis of measurement about reportable segment accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Additional paidshare, totaling ¥5,143 million ($48,519 thousand). The application production equipment and conducts sales and maintenance income (loss), segment assets and other material items in capital and legal earnings reserve may not be distributed as had not been accrued in the consolidated financial statements services. In the GA segment, graphic arts equipment is The accounting methods applied to reportable business dividends. Under the Law, all additional paid-in capital and all as of March 31, 2018. Such appropriations are recognized in the developed, manufactured, sold and maintained. The FT segment segments are identical with those stated in Note 1, “Summary of legal earnings reserve may be transferred to other capital surplus period in which they are approved by the shareholders. develops, manufactures and markets display production Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies.” Income for each and retained earnings, respectively, and are potentially available Note: The total amount of dividends includes ¥12 million ($113 thousand) of equipment and coater equipment, and it also conducts reportable segment reflects operating income. Intersegment dividends for 106 thousand shares of SCREEN holdings Co., Ltd. held by for dividends. Both of these appropriations generally require a a trust related to a performance-linked share compensation system for maintenance services. In the PE segment, PCB-related revenues and transfers are calculated based on market prices. resolution of the shareholders’ meeting. The maximum amount directors and corporate officers. equipment is developed, manufactured, sold and maintained. 53 54 Financial Section 3. Information about reportable segment income (loss), segment assets and other material items (2) Property, plant and equipment Information about property, plant and equipment by geographic area is omitted because the amount of fixed assets held in Japan Millions of yen Reportable segment exceeds 90% of the amount of property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheet. As of and for the year ended March 31, 2018 SE GA FT PE Others Adjustments Consolidated Sales 2. Information about major customers Sales to outside customers ¥ 227,182 ¥ 53,221 ¥ 45,210 ¥ 12,132 ¥ 1,624 ¥ − ¥ 339,369 Thousands of Year ended March 31, 2018 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Intersegment sales and transfers 3 193 42 62 15,312 (15,612) − Net sales Total 227,185 53,414 45,252 12,194 16,936 (15,612) 339,369 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (related segment: SE) ¥ 48,131 $ 454,066 Segment income (loss) ¥ 36,302 ¥ 3,061 ¥ 4,590 ¥ 1,014 ¥ (1,544) ¥ (698) ¥ 42,725 Segment assets ¥ 205,303 ¥ 48,478 ¥ 36,253 ¥ 9,727 ¥ 10,311 ¥ 56,121 ¥ 366,193 Other Year ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Depreciation and amortization 3,052 492 145 14 414 1,591 5,708 Net sales Impairment loss − − − − 77 − 77 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (related segment: SE) ¥ 71,860 Capital expenditures 9,053 878 787 147 505 3,059 14,429 Millions of yen As of and for Reportable segment the year ended March 31, 2017 SE GA FT PE Others Adjustments Consolidated Note 10: Contingent Liabilities Sales Sales to outside customers ¥ 205,989 ¥ 45,779 ¥ 38,095 ¥ 8,918 ¥ 1,453 ¥ − ¥ 300,234 As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries were contingently liable for the following: Intersegment sales and transfers 109 51 9 − 13,353 (13,522) − Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total 206,098 45,830 38,104 8,918 14,806 (13,522) 300,234 2018 2017 2018 Segment income (loss) ¥ 29,315 ¥ 1,472 ¥ 4,392 ¥ 752 ¥ (1,453) ¥ (746) ¥ 33,732 Segment assets ¥ 163,899 ¥ 42,075 ¥ 31,826 ¥ 8,925 ¥ 9,054 ¥ 44,881 ¥ 300,660 As guarantors of Other Employees’ housing loans ¥ 26 ¥ 37 $ 245 Depreciation and amortization 2,602 624 102 64 344 1,662 5,398 Trade notes receivable endorsed − 47 − Impairment loss − 1,450 − 303 − 103 1,856 Total ¥ 26 ¥ 84 $ 245 Capital expenditures 5,070 1,055 297 56 686 1,092 8,256 Thousands of U.S. dollars As of and for Reportable segment the year ended March 31, 2018 SE GA FT PE Others Adjustments Consolidated Note 11: Financial Instruments Sales Sales to outside customers $ 2,143,226 $ 502,085 $ 426,509 $ 114,453 $ 15,321 $ − $ 3,201,594 1. Qualitative information on financial instruments Intersegment sales and transfers 29 1,821 397 585 144,451 (147,283) − A. Qualitative information on financial instruments Total 2,143,255 503,906 426,906 115,038 159,772 (147,283) 3,201,594 The SCREEN Group procures funds necessary to conduct business by means such as loans from financial institutions and the Segment income (loss) $ 342,472 $ 28,877 $ 43,302 $ 9,566 $ (14,566) $ (6,585) $ 403,066 issuance of bonds in accordance with annual funding plans. Investments of capital are limited to instruments that satisfy safety and Segment assets $ 1,936,821 $ 457,340 $ 342,009 $ 91,764 $ 97,274 $ 529,443 $ 3,454,651 liquidity requirements. Derivative transactions are used only to hedge financial risk such as the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates Other and interest rates. Speculative transactions are not undertaken. Depreciation and amortization 28,792 4,642 1,368 132 3,906 15,009 53,849 Impairment loss − − − − 726 − 726 B. Details of financial instruments used, risks and processes for risk management Capital expenditures 85,406 8,283 7,425 1,387 4,764 28,858 136,123 Notes: 1. The “Other” category incorporates operations not included in reportable segments, including development, manufacturing and sales of equipment in life science Financial instruments Risks Processes for risk management business and other, software development, planning and production of printed matter and other businesses. The amounts outstanding are managed for each client and by 2. Segment operating income (loss) adjustments of ¥(698) million ($(6,585) thousand) and ¥(746) million for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, Notes and accounts receivable-trade Credit risk of clients due date. Also, the financial condition of the clients is monitored. respectively, are the Company's profit (loss) not attributable to a reportable segment. Segment assets adjustments of ¥56,121 million ($529,443 thousand) and ¥44,881 million for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are Accounts receivable denominated Risk of fluctuation in foreign The risk is hedged by using forward foreign exchange contracts the corporate assets not apportioned to each reportable segment. in foreign currency currency exchange rates on certain portions of the receivables. 3. Segment income (loss) is reconciled with operating income (loss) in the consolidated statements of operations. Risk of fluctuation in market The fair values of the instruments and financial conditions of Investments in securities <Related Information> prices issuers are regularly monitored. 1. Information about geographic areas Notes and accounts payable-trade, Liquidity risk Funding plans are prepared and renewed, and a certain level of loans, bonds and lease obligations liquidity on hand is maintained. (1) Net Sales Loans Risk of fluctuation in interest rates The risk is hedged by using interest rate swaps. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 The derivative transactions which the Company uses are forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts and are Japan ¥ 62,248 (18.3%) ¥ 59,386 (19.8%) $ 587,245 only used for the purpose of mitigating risks of fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. For information about Taiwan 71,263 (21.0%) 93,749 (31.2%) 672,292 hedging instruments, hedged items, hedging policies, evaluation of hedge effectiveness and management of derivative transactions, South Korea 40,571 (12.0%) 20,509 (6.8%) 382,745 see Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies (w) Derivatives and hedge accounting.” The Company believes China 74,166 (21.9%) 49,981 (16.7%) 699,679 that its credit risk is insignificant as the counterparties to its derivative transactions are limited to creditable financial institutions. United States 38,517 (11.3%) 27,246 (9.1%) 363,368 Europe 23,170 (6.8%) 22,873 (7.6%) 218,585 C. Supplemental information on fair values Others 29,434 (8.7%) 26,490 (8.8%) 277,680 The contract amounts of the derivative transactions described in Note 12, “Derivative Transactions,” do not reflect the market risks of Total ¥ 339,369 (100.0%) ¥ 300,234 (100.0%) $ 3,201,594 the derivative transactions themselves. Notes: 1. Net sales are categorized by country or geographic area based on the location of customer. 2. The numbers shown in parentheses are component ratios. 55 56 Financial Section 2. Fair values of financial instruments Note 12: Derivative Transactions As of March 31, 2018 and 2017, the book value and fair value of financial instruments and the differences between these figures are set forth in the table below. The table does not include financial instruments whose fair values were not readily determinable. (See Note 2) Outstanding derivative transactions as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 1. Derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has not been applied 2018 2017 2018 Currency related Years ended March 31, Book value Fair value Difference Book value Fair value Difference Book value Fair value Difference (1) Cash, cash equivalents and time deposits ¥ 53,114 ¥ 53,114 ¥ − ¥ 48,833 ¥ 48,833 ¥ − $ 501,076 $ 501,076 $ − Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (2) Notes and accounts receivable-trade 85,407 59,152 805,726 2018 2017 2018 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*1) (588) (569) (5,547) Portion Portion Portion Contracted exceeding Fair Recognized Contracted exceeding Fair Recognized Contracted exceeding Fair Recognized 84,819 84,819 − 58,583 58,585 2 800,179 800,179 − Years ended March 31, amount one year value gain (loss) amount one year value gain (loss) amount one year value gain (loss) (3) Investments in securities Non-exchange traded Available-for-sale securities 40,520 40,520 − 32,368 32,368 − 382,264 382,264 − forward foreign Total assets ¥ 178,453 ¥ 178,453 ¥ − ¥ 139,784 ¥ 139,786 ¥ 2 $ 1,683,519 $ 1,683,519 $ − exchange contracts (1) Notes and accounts payable — trade ¥ 115,111 ¥ 115,111 ¥ − ¥ 84,302 ¥ 84,302 ¥ − $ 1,085,953 $ 1,085,953 $ − (Sell–U.S. dollars) ¥ 6,662 ¥ − ¥ 177 ¥ 177 ¥ 4,739 ¥ − ¥ (151) ¥ (151) $ 62,850 $ − $ 1,670 $ 1,670 (2) Long-term debt 10,907 10,908 1 14,987 15,041 54 102,896 102,906 10 (Sell–Euro) 3,187 837 (119) (119) 2,910 837 (63) (63) 30,066 7,896 (1,123) (1,123) (3) Lease obligations 2,250 3,568 1,318 2,600 4,332 1,732 21,227 33,660 12,433 (Sell–Pound) 886 − (2) (2) 208 − (2) (2) 8,358 − (19) (19) Total liabilities ¥ 128,268 ¥ 129,587 ¥ 1,319 ¥ 101,889 ¥ 103,675 ¥ 1,786 $ 1,210,076 $ 1,222,519 $ 12,443 (Sell–Australian dollars) − − − − 42 − (1) (1) − − − − Derivative transactions (*2) (Sell–Singapore dollars) 201 − (0) (0) 240 − (1) (1) 1,896 − (0) (0) (1) Without application of hedge accounting ¥ 56 ¥ 56 ¥ − ¥ (218) ¥ (218) ¥ − $ 528 $ 528 $ − Total ¥ 10,936 ¥ 837 ¥ 56 ¥ 56 ¥ 8,139 ¥ 837 ¥ (218) ¥ (218) $ 103,170 $ 7,896 $ 528 $ 528 (2) With application of hedge accounting − − − − − − − Total derivative transactions ¥ 56 ¥ 56 ¥ − ¥ (218) ¥ (218) ¥ − $ 528 $ 528 $ − Notes: Method of estimating fair value The fair values of exchange forward transactions as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were estimated based on the prices presented by financial institutions. (*1) Allowance for doubtful receivables recorded for notes and accounts receivable-trade is subtracted. (*2) Net assets and liabilities incurred by derivative transactions are shown in net figures, and items whose total amounts are liabilities are indicated in parentheses. Notes: 1. Method of estimating fair values of financial instruments and items regarding investment in securities, and derivative transactions Assets (1) Cash, cash equivalents and time deposits 2. Derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has been applied As these assets are settled on a short-term basis, their fair values are approximately equal to their book values. For this reason, their fair values are reported based on their applicable book values. (1) Currency related (2) Notes and accounts receivable-trade The fair values of these assets are based on the current value classified by length of time until settlement and discounted with consideration for the Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars length of time until settlement and credit risk. As notes and accounts receivable-trade due within one year are settled on a short-term basis, their fair 2018 2017 2018 values are approximately equal to their book values. For this reason, their fair values are reported based on their applicable book values. (3) Investments in securities Portion Portion Portion The fair values of securities are based on market prices on the stock exchange. For information about securities classified by purpose, see Note 13, Securities. Hedged Contracted exceeding Fair Contracted exceeding Fair Contracted exceeding Fair Years ended March 31, items amount one year value amount one year value amount one year value Liabilities (1) Notes and accounts payable -trade Alternative method for As these liabilities are settled on a short-term basis, their fair values are approximately equal to their book values. For this reason, their fair values are forward foreign reported based on their applicable book values. (2) Long-term debt exchange contracts The fair values of other long-term debt are based on the current value, which is the principal discounted with consideration for the length of time until (Sell–U.S. dollars) Accounts receivable ¥ 527 ¥ − Note ¥ 56 ¥− Note $ 4,972 $− Note repayment and credit risk. (3) Lease obligations (Sell–Euro) Accounts receivable − − − 217 − Note − − − The fair values of lease obligations are based on the current value, which is the principal discounted with consideration for the length of the remaining Total ¥ 527 ¥ − Note ¥ 273 ¥− Note $ 4,972 $− Note period of lease obligation and credit risk. Derivative transactions Note: Forward foreign exchange contracts subject to alternative method are accounted for together with accounts receivable as hedged items. Accordingly, their fair See Note 12, “Derivative Transactions.” values are included in the fair values of accounts receivable. 2. The book value of financial instruments whose fair values were deemed to be exceedingly difficult to estimate as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: (2) Interest rate related Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Category Book value Book value Book value 2018 2017 2018 Non-listed equity securities ¥ 960 ¥ 837 $ 9,057 Portion Portion Portion Hedged Contracted exceeding Fair Contracted exceeding Fair Contracted exceeding Fair The amount in the above table includes investments in a nonconsolidated subsidiary of ¥6 million ($57 thousand). These items do not have market prices Years ended March 31, items amount one year value amount one year value amount one year value and are deemed to require excessive cost to estimate the future cash flows. Therefore, they are not included in (3) “Investments in securities” as it is Exceptional accounting for deemed to be exceedingly difficult to estimate the fair values. interest rate swap contracts 3. Expected redemption amounts of receivables and securities with maturities after the consolidated financial statement date (Fixed rate payments and variable rate receipts) Long-term loans ¥ 1,260 ¥ 420 Note ¥ 2,100 ¥ 1,260 Note $ 11,887 $ 3,962 Note Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Note: Interest rate swap contracts subject to exceptional accounting treatment are accounted for together with long-term loans as hedged items. Accordingly, their 2018 2017 2018 fair values are included in the fair values of long-term loans. Due Due Due Due Due Due between between between between between between Due one year five years Due one year five years Due one year five years within and and Due after within and and Due after within and and Due after one year five years ten years ten years one year five years ten years ten years one year five years ten years ten years Cash, cash equivalents ¥ 53,092 ¥ − ¥ − ¥ − ¥ 48,812 ¥ − ¥− ¥− $ 500,868 $− $− $− and time deposits Notes and accounts receivable-trade 85,407 − − − 58,682 470 − − 805,726 − − − Investments in securities-available− − − − − − − − − − − − for-sale securities with maturities Total ¥ 138,499 ¥ − ¥ − ¥ − ¥107,494 ¥ 470 ¥− ¥− $1,306,594 $− $− $− 4. Expected repayment amounts of long-term debt after the consolidated financial statements date See Note 5, “Short-Term and Long-Term Debt.” 57 58 Financial Section Note 13: Securities (3) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan assets to liability (asset) for retirement benefitss Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 1. The following table summarizes acquisition costs and book values and any differences between these amounts of securities with 2018 2017 2018 available fair values as of March 31, 2018 and 2017: Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 33,640 ¥ 33,164 $ 317,359 Plan assets 38,360 37,120 361,887 Available-for-sale securities (4,720) (3,956) (44,528) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 0 17 0 2018 2017 2018 Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits ¥ (4,720) ¥ (3,939) $ (44,528) cost Book value Difference cost Book value Difference cost Book value Difference Securities with book values 857 764 8,085 exceeding acquisition costs: Net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit asset 5,577 4,703 52,613 Equity securities ¥ 12,257 ¥ 38,708 ¥ 26,451 ¥ 12,788 ¥ 30,881 ¥ 18,093 $ 115,632 $ 365,170 $ 249,538 Total net liability (asset) for retirement benefits ¥ (4,720) ¥ (3,939) $ (44,528) Others − − − − − − − − − Total ¥ 12,257 ¥ 38,708 ¥ 26,451 ¥ 12,788 ¥ 30,881 ¥ 18,093 $ 115,632 $ 365,170 $ 249,538 Securities with book values not exceeding acquisition costs (4) Retirement benefit costs Equity securities ¥ 2,054 ¥ 1,812 ¥ (242) ¥ 1,633 ¥ 1,487 ¥ (146) $ 19,377 $ 17,094 $ (2,283) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Others − − − − − − − − − 2018 2017 2018 Total ¥ 2,054 ¥ 1,812 ¥ (242) ¥ 1,633 ¥ 1,487 ¥ (146) $ 19,377 $ 17,094 $ (2,283) Service cost ¥ 1,325 ¥ 1,507 $ 12,500 Interest cost 345 341 3,255 2. Total sales of available-for-sale securities for the year ended March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥1,549 million ($14,613 thousand), Expected return on plan assets (989) (971) (9,330) and the related total gain amounted to ¥873 million ($8,236 thousand) . Total sales of available-for-sale securities for the year Net actuarial loss amortization 426 437 4,018 ended March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥2,733 million, and the related total gain and loss amounted to ¥1,065 million and ¥0 million, ¥ 1,107 ¥ 1,314 $ 10,443 Total retirement benefit costs respectively. (5) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in other comprehensive income Note 14: Employees’ Severance and Pension Benefits Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Breakdown related to retirement benefit plans for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: Actuarial gains and losses ¥ 686 ¥ 348 $ 6,472 1. Defined benefit plans Total balance ¥ 686 ¥ 348 $ 6,472 (1) Movements in retirement benefit obligations Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (6) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in accumulated comprehensive income 2018 2017 2018 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Balance at beginning of year ¥ 33,181 ¥ 32,601 $ 313,028 2018 2017 2018 Service cost 1,325 1,507 12,500 Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized ¥ (728) ¥ (1,413) $ (6,863) Interest cost 345 341 3,255 Total balance ¥ (728) ¥ (1,413) $ (6,863) Actuarial loss (gain) (241) (336) (2,274) Benefits paid (1,179) (1,023) (11,123) (7) Plan assets (8) Actuarial assumptions Other 209 91 1,973 1. Plan assets comprise: The principal actuarial assumptions at March 31, 2018 and Balance at end of year ¥ 33,640 ¥ 33,181 $ 317,359 2018 2017 2017 were as follows: Bonds 46% 46% 2018 2017 (2) Movements in plan assets Equity securities 23% 22% Discount rate 0.9%~1.3% 0.9%~1.3% Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Cash and cash equivalents 2% 4% Long-term expected rate Life insurance company of return 3.0% 3.0% 2018 2017 2018 general accounts 19% 20% Balance at beginning of year ¥ 37,120 ¥ 36,143 $ 350,189 The Group does not take into account an expected pay raise rate in Alternative 10% 8% calculating retirement benefit costs. Expected return on plan assets 989 971 9,330 Total 100% 100% Actuarial gain (loss) 18 (426) 170 Notes: Alternative is investment mainly for multi-asset investment fund. 2. Defined contribution plans Contributions paid by the employer 1,033 1,176 9,745 Contributions paid by the Company and its consolidated Benefits paid (1,169) (1,002) (11,028) 2. Long-term expected rate of return subsidiaries to defined contribution plans for the fiscal year Other 369 258 3,481 Current and target asset allocations, historical and ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to ¥922 million Balance at end of year ¥ 38,360 ¥ 37,120 $ 361,887 expected returns on various categories of plan assets ($8,698 thousand) and ¥700 million, respectively. have been considered in determining the long-term expected rate of return. 59 60 Financial Section Note 15: Impairment of Fixed Assets Note 16: Subsequent Events For the year ended March 31, 2018, there was no significant impairment loss. For the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company and its (Issuance of Euro Yen Zero Coupon Convertible Bonds) consolidated subsidiaries recorded impairment loss of ¥1,856 million. Significant properties included in this loss are listed in the table below. The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the issuance of euro yen zero coupon convertible bonds due 2022 (hereinafter in 1. referred to as the “Convertible Bonds,” of which the bonds shall be referred to as the “Bonds and the attached subscription rights to For the year ended March 31, 2017 shares shall be referred to as the “Subscription Rights to Shares”) and euro yen zero coupon convertible bonds due 2025 (hereinafter in (1) Assets for which impairment loss was recognized 2. referred to as the “Convertible Bonds,” of which the bonds shall be referred to as the “Bonds and the attached subscription rights to Location Major use Asset category Impairment loss shares shall be referred to as the “Subscription Rights to Shares”) on May 24, 2018. The payments for the Bonds were completed on Millions of yen June 11, 2018. The outline of the issuance is as follows: Kumiyama-cho, KuzeMachinery and Operating assets ¥ 1,753 gun, Kyoto, etc. equipment, etc. 1. Outline of Euro Yen Zero Coupon Convertible Bonds due 2022 (2) Background to recognition of impairment loss (1) Issue Price (amount to be paid) The estimated future cash flows generated from the use of the groups of assets held by SCREEN Graphic and Precision Solutions 100.5% of the principal amount of the Bonds (The Bonds are issued in the denomination of ¥10 million ($94 thousand) each.) Co., Ltd. fell below the book values, and accordingly the book values of the assets were reduced to their recoverable amount, and (2) Offer Price the reduction was recorded as an impairment loss in other expenses. 103.0% of the principal amount of the Bonds (3) Aggregate Principal Amount of the Bonds (3) Breakdown of impairment loss ¥15,075 million ($142,217 thousand) plus an aggregate payment amount of the Bonds in respect of replacement certificates (for lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced certificates, if issued in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonds) Millions of yen (4) Aggregate Face Amount of the Bonds Property, plant and equipment ¥15,000 million ($141,509 thousand) plus an aggregate principal amount of the Bonds in respect of replacement certificates Buildings and structures ¥ 26 (5) Coupon Machinery, equipment and other 1,405 Zero Lease assets 2 (6) Closing Date and Issuing Date of the Bonds Investments and other assets June 11, 2018 (London time; unless otherwise indicated, hereinafter the same shall apply) Other assets 320 (7) Redemption date Total ¥ 1,753 June 10, 2022 (8) Class, contents and number of shares to be issued upon exercise of subscription rights to shares (4) Grouping a. Class and contents: Common stock of the Company(share unit number: 100 shares) For assessing fixed asset impairment, the SCREEN Group generally groups its assets at each company level. The Company and its b. Number: The number of common shares of the Company to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of the Subscription Rights consolidated subsidiaries group their idle assets by the individual asset. to Shares shall be the number obtained by dividing the total principal amount of the Bonds in respect of exercise requests by the (5) Calculation method for recoverable amounts conversion price provided in (10) below. However, fractions less than one share that arise due to such exercise are rounded down The recoverable amounts of the business assets are based on the net sales values, and assets which are deemed difficult to be and amounts thereof will not be adjusted in cash. sold or converted to a different use are assessed at zero. (9) Total number of subscription rights to shares: The total of 1,500 units plus the number of units obtained by dividing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds in respect of replacement certificates of the convertible bonds by ¥10 million. (10)Amounts to be paid upon exercise of Subscription Rights to Shares a. Upon exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares, the relevant Bond shall be deemed to be acquired by the Company as a capital contribution in kind by the relevant bondholder at the price equal to the principal amount of the Bond. b. Conversion price ¥11,578 ($109) per share (initial conversion price) c. Adjustment of conversion price: The conversion price shall be adjusted in accordance with the following formula when the Company issues common shares or disposes of such shares held by the Company, at an amount to be paid that is lower than the current market price of the common shares of the Company after the issuance of the Convertible Bonds. In the following formula, the “number of already issued shares” means the total number of the issued shares of common stock of the Company (excluding the shares held by the Company). Number of shares to be Amount to be issued or disposed of × paid in per share Number of already + issued shares Conversion Current market price Conversion price after adjustment = price before × adjustment Number of already issued shares + Number of shares to be issued or disposed of The conversion price shall also be adjusted as appropriate if certain events occur, such as a split or consolidation of the common shares of the Company, or an issuance of subscription rights to shares (including those attached to convertible bonds) that enable the holders thereof to make requests for the delivery of common shares of the Company at a price less than the current market price of such shares. 61 62 Financial Section (11) Exercise period of Subscription Rights to Shares (8) Class, contents and number of shares to be issued upon exercise of subscription rights to shares The exercise period shall be from June 25, 2018 to May 27, 2022 (at the local time of the location where exercise requests are a. Class and contents: Common stock of the Company(share unit number: 100 shares) received). However, such period shall differ in the following cases: (a.) in the case of redemption before maturity, the period shall be b. Number: The number of common shares of the Company to be delivered by the Company upon exercise of the Subscription Rights until three business days before the redemption date in Tokyo (except for Subscription Rights to Shares with respect to Bonds for to Shares shall be the number obtained by dividing the total principal amount of the Bonds in respect of exercise requests by the which redemption before maturity is not selected in the case of redemption before maturity due to the change in taxation stipulated in conversion price provided in (10) below. However, fractions less than one share that arise due to such exercise are rounded down and the requirements of the Convertible Bonds.); (b.) in the case of acquisition of Convertible Bonds or retirement by purchase of Bonds amounts thereof will not be adjusted in cash. by the Company, the period shall be until the Bonds are retired; and (c.) in the case of a default on the Bonds, the period shall be until (9) Total number of subscription rights to shares: such default. In any of the above cases, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised after May 27, 2022 (in the local time The total of 1,500 units plus the number of units obtained by dividing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds in respect of of the location where exercise requests are received). replacement certificates of the convertible bonds by ¥10 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Convertible Bonds, if the Company acquires the (10)Amounts to be paid upon exercise of Subscription Rights to Shares Convertible Bonds, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised in the period from the date following the date of notification a. Upon exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares, the relevant Bond shall be deemed to be acquired by the Company as a capital of acquisition to the date of such acquisition or from 14days before the date of acquisition to the date of such acquisition. In addition, contribution in kind by the relevant bondholder at the price equal to the principal amount of the Bond. if the Company reasonably determines that it is necessary for the purpose of carrying out a corporate reorganization or similar action b. Conversion price stipulated in the requirements of the Convertible Bonds, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised during the period ¥12,337 ($116) per share (initial conversion price) designated by the Company, which may not exceed 30 days and shall end no later than 14 days from the date following the effective c. Adjustment of conversion price: date of the corporate reorganization or similar action. The conversion price shall be adjusted in accordance with the following formula when the Company issues common shares or disposes Furthermore, if the date on which exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares comes into effect (if the relevant date is not a business of such shares held by the Company, at an amount to be paid that is lower than the current market price of the common shares of the day, such date will be the following business day in Tokyo) falls on the two business day period in Tokyo before a record date specified Company after the issuance of the Convertible Bonds. In the following formula, the “number of already issued shares” means the total by the Company or another date specified for determining shareholders in relation to Article 151, Paragraph 1 of the Act on Booknumber of the issued shares of common stock of the Company (excluding the shares held by the Company). Entry Transfer of Company Bonds, Shares, etc. (hereinafter, the “Shareholder Record Date”; if said Shareholder Record Date does not fall on a business day in Tokyo, such period shall be the three business day period in Tokyo before the Shareholder Record Date, and Number of shares to be Amount to be the Shareholder Record Date shall be the following business day in Tokyo), the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised. issued or disposed of × paid in per share However, if there is a change in Japanese laws and regulations or practice relating to the delivery of shares upon the exercise of Number of already + Subscription Rights to Shares through the book-entry transfer system established pursuant to the Act on Book-Entry Transfer of 60 issued shares Conversion Current market price Conversion price Company Bonds, Shares, etc., the Company may amend the restriction on the exercise period of the Stock Acquisition Rights to after adjustment = price before × adjustment Shares under this paragraph to reflect such change. Number of already issued shares + Number of shares to be (12) Conditions for exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares issued or disposed of Partial exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares is impossible. (13) Amount of common stock and legal capital surplus to be increased if shares are issued upon exercise of stock acquisition rights The amount of common stock to be increased if shares are issued upon the exercise of the Stock The conversion price shall also be adjusted as appropriate if certain events occur, such as a split or consolidation of the common Acquisition Rights to Shares shall be one-half of the maximum amount of increase in common stock and others as calculated pursuant to shares of the Company, or an issuance of subscription rights to shares (including those attached to convertible bonds) that enable Article 17 of the Ordinance on Accounting of Companies, with any fraction of less than one yen resulting from the calculation rounded up. the holders thereof to make requests for the delivery of common shares of the Company at a price less than the current market price (14) In place of redemption of all of the Bonds at the time of the exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares, purpose to the effect of such shares. that the payment of the full amount of the amount to be paid upon exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares was made (11) Exercise period of Subscription Rights to Shares Not applicable. However, upon exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares, the relevant Bond shall be deemed to be acquired by The exercise period shall be from June 25, 2018 to May 28, 2025 (at the local time of the location where exercise requests are received). the Company as a capital contribution in kind by the relevant bondholder at the price equal to the principal amount of the Bond. However, such period shall differ in the following cases: (a.) in the case of redemption before maturity, the period shall be until three (15) Matters concerning the transfer of the Subscription Rights to Shares business days before the redemption date in Tokyo (except for Subscription Rights to Shares with respect to Bonds for which redemption Not applicable before maturity is not selected in the case of redemption before maturity due to the change in taxation stipulated in the requirements of the (16) Collateral and Guarantee of the Bonds Convertible Bonds.); (b.) in the case of acquisition of Convertible Bonds or retirement by purchase of Bonds by the Company, the period No collateral or guarantee shall be until the Bonds are retired; and (c.) in the case of a default on the Bonds, the period shall be until such default. In any of the above cases, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised after May 28, 2025 (in the local time of the location where exercise requests 2. Outline of Euro Yen Zero Coupon Convertible Bonds due 2025 are received). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Convertible Bonds, if the Company acquires the (1) Issue Price (amount to be paid) Convertible Bonds, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised in the period from the date following the date of notification of 100.5% of the principal amount of the Bonds (The Bonds are issued in the denomination of ¥10 million ($94 thousand) each.) acquisition to the date of such acquisition or from 14days before the date of acquisition to the date of such acquisition. In addition, if the (2) Offer Price Company reasonably determines that it is necessary for the purpose of carrying out a corporate reorganization or similar action stipulated 103.0% of the principal amount of the Bonds in the requirements of the Convertible Bonds, the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised during the period designated by the (3) Aggregate Principal Amount of the Bonds Company, which may not exceed 30 days and shall end no later than 14 days from the date following the effective date of the corporate ¥15,075 million ($142,217 thousand) plus an aggregate payment amount of the Bonds in respect of replacement certificates (for lost, reorganization or similar action. stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced certificates, if issued in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonds) Furthermore, if the date on which exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares comes into effect (if the relevant date is not a business (4) Aggregate Face Amount of the Bonds day, such date will be the following business day in Tokyo) falls on the two business day period in Tokyo before a record date specified ¥15,000 million ($141,509 thousand) plus an aggregate principal amount of the Bonds in respect of replacement certificates by the Company or another date specified for determining shareholders in relation to Article 151, Paragraph 1 of the Act on Book-Entry (5) Coupon Transfer of Company Bonds, Shares, etc. (hereinafter, the “Shareholder Record Date”; if said Shareholder Record Date does not fall Zero on a business day in Tokyo, such period shall be the three business day period in Tokyo before the Shareholder Record Date, and the (6) Closing Date and Issuing Date of the Bonds Shareholder Record Date shall be the following business day in Tokyo), the Subscription Rights to Shares may not be exercised. However, June 11, 2018 (London time; unless otherwise indicated, hereinafter the same shall apply) if there is a change in Japanese laws and regulations or practice relating to the delivery of shares upon the exercise of Subscription Rights (7) Redemption date to Shares through the book-entry transfer system established pursuant to the Act on Book-Entry Transfer of 60 Company Bonds, Shares, June 11, 2025 etc., the Company may amend the restriction on the exercise period of the Subscription Rights to Shares to Shares under this paragraph to reflect such change. 63 64 Financial Section (12) Conditions for exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares a. Partial exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares is impossible. b. A holder of the Convertible Bonds may exercise the Subscription Rights to Shares if the condition set out in 1) or 2) below is satisfied: 1) prior to (and including) 10 June 2022, as at the last Trading Day of any calendar quarter, the Closing Price of the Shares for 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on such date is more than 150 per cent (rounded down to the nearest yen) of the Conversion Price in effect on the last Trading Day of such calendar quarter; and 2) from (and including) 11 June 2022 but prior to (and including) 11 March 2025, as at the last Trading Day of any calendar quarter, the Closing Price of the Shares for 20 consecutive Trading Days ending on such date is more than 130 per cent (rounded down to the nearest yen) of the Conversion Price in effect on the last Trading Day of such calendar quarter, on and after the first day of the following calendar quarter in the case of above, in the case of the calendar quarter commenced on 1 April 2018, on and after 25 June 2018, and in the case of 2) above, in the case of the calendar quarter commencing on 1 April 2022, on and after 11 June 2022) until the end of such quarter in the case of 1) above, in the case of the calendar quarter commencing on 1 April 2022, until 10 June 2022, and in the case of 2) above, in the case of the calendar quarter commencing on 1 January 2025, until 11 March 2025). The above conditions to the exercise of Subscription Rights to Shares shall not be applicable 1) during any period in which (a) the long-term issuer rating assigned to the Company by Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. or its successors (together, “JCR”) is BB+ (or equivalent if the rating category is changed) or lower, (b) a longterm issuer rating is no longer assigned to the Company by JCR and/or (c) the long-term issuer rating assigned to the Company by JCR has been suspended or withdrawn;.or 2) during any period after a notice of redemption of the Bonds before maturity is given by the Company (except for Subscription Rights to Shares with respect to Bonds for which redemption before maturity is not selected in the case of redemption before maturity due to the change in taxation stipulated in the requirements of the Bonds.); or 3) upon carrying out a corporate organization or similar action by the Company, during any period from the date when a notice of such corporate organization or similar action is given to a holder of the Convertible Bonds in accordance with terms and conditions of the Convertible Bonds until the effective date of such corporate organization or similar action, unless the exercise of Subscription Rights to Shares is not allowed as indicated in (11) above. A “closing price” of the Company’s common stock at a certain date means a closing price of the Company’s common stock in regular trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on that date. A “trading day” means a day when the Tokyo Stock Exchange is open and does not include a day when a closing price is not announced. (13) Amount of common stock and legal capital surplus to be increased if shares are issued upon exercise of Subscription Rights to Shares The amount of common stock to be increased if shares are issued upon the exercise of the Stock Acquisition Rights to Shares shall be one-half of the maximum amount of increase in common stock and others as calculated pursuant to Article 17 of the Ordinance on Accounting of Companies, with any fraction of less than one yen resulting from the calculation rounded up. (14) In place of redemption of all of the Bonds at the time of the exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares, purpose to the effect that the payment of the full amount of the amount to be paid upon exercise of the Subscription Rights to Shares was made Not applicable. However, upon exercise of each Subscription Rights to Shares, the relevant Bond shall be deemed to be acquired by the Company as a capital contribution in kind by the relevant bondholder at the price equal to the principal amount of the Bond. (15) Matters concerning the transfer of the Subscription Rights to Shares Not applicable (16) Collateral and Guarantee of the Bonds No collateral or guarantee 3. Use of Proceeds The net proceeds from the issue of euro yen zero coupon convertible bonds due 2022 and euro yen zero coupon convertible bonds due 2025 are expected to be used primarily for the following capital expenditures: (1) approximately ¥15,000 million ($141,509 thousand) by the end of March 2020, for capital expenditure aimed at improving production capacity and efficiency, including the construction of new facilities in the Group’s Hikone plant; and (2) approximately ¥15,000 million ($141,509 thousand) by the end of March 2020, for capital expenditure in relation to research and development (“R&D”) facilities, aimed at maintaining and expanding the Group’s product competitiveness through development of cutting-edge technologies in the SE segment, strengthening core technologies and product capabilities in the Group’s other existing businesses, and expanding the business portfolio (including new businesses) of the Group as a whole. 65 66 Corporate Data About This Report Cor porate Profile (As of March 31, 2018) Editorial Policy Since fiscal 2010 our Annual Reports* have integrated financial and non-financial information for the purpose of more comprehensive reporting Company Name: SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. Capital: ¥54 billion of our corporate activities. Established: October 11, 1943 Number of Employees: 5,835 employees (consolidated) Additional detailed information is posted on our website: our Fact Books (Investors’ Guides) have financial information and our Sustainability Representative: Eiji Kakiuchi, President and CEO Main Sites: Head Office, Rakusai (WHITE CANVAS Data Book (CSR Data Sheets) have non-financial information. Shin Minamishima, Senior Managing Director RAKUSAI), Kumiyama, Yasu, Hikone, Taga, *Some of the financial information (Management’s Discussion and Analysis) is only in the Annual Report (PDF). Shinagawa, Monzennakacho (WHITE *Financial statement footnotes appear only in the English version. CANVAS MON-NAKA), Kumamoto Consolidated Companies (As of March 31, 2018) Applicable Standards Overseas Domestic CSR information is presented in accordance with the Core option of the GRI* 1 Standards 2016. As an index of disclosure items, our website North America SCREEN Semiconductor Solutions Co., Ltd. has a GRI Content Index* 2. *1 Global Reporting Initiative SCREEN SPE USA, LLC ／ SCREEN GP Americas, LLC ／ Tech In Tech Co., Ltd. *2 See the GRI Content Index (www.screen.co.jp/eng/csr/report/gri.html) SEBACS Co., Ltd. Silicon Light Machines Corp. ／ SCREEN North America Holdings, Inc. Quartz Lead Co., Ltd. Europe FASSE Co., Ltd. SCREEN SPE Germany GmbH ／ Scientific and Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment Recycling Co., Ltd. SCREEN Graphic Solutions Co., Ltd. Scope of Coverage Laser Systems & Solutions of Europe SASU ／ Media Technology Japan Co., Ltd. This report covers SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. (holding company) and its consolidated companies (as of March 31, 2018). Inca Digital Printers LTD. ／ SCREEN GP IJC Ltd. ／ MT Service Japan East Co., Ltd. Data that does not relate to these companies is presented in the form of footnotes. SCREEN GP Europe B.V. MT Service Japan West Co., Ltd. Asia & Oceania SCREEN Finetech Solutions Co., Ltd. SCREEN Electronics Shanghai Co., Ltd. ／ FEBACS Co., Ltd. SCREEN SPE Taiwan Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN SPE Singapore PTE. Ltd. ／ SCREEN Laminatech Co., Ltd. Disclaimer SCREEN PE Solutions Co., Ltd. SCREEN SPE Korea Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN GP China Co., Ltd. ／ ・ The plans, strategies, and statements related to the outlook for future results in this document are in accordance with assumptions and MEBACS Co., Ltd. SCREEN GP Shanghai Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN GP Hangzhou Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN Advanced System Solutions Co., Ltd. beliefs determined by management based on currently available information. However, it should be noted that there is a possibility that SCREEN HD Korea Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN GP Taiwan Co., Ltd. ／ S. Ten Nines Kyoto Co., Ltd. actual results could differ significantly due to such factors as social and economic conditions. SCREEN Holdings Singapore PTE. Ltd. ／ SCREEN Manufacturing Support Solutions Co., Ltd. ・ All amounts shown in billions of yen are truncated to the nearest billion. Amounts shown in millions of yen are rounded to the nearest million yen. SCREEN GP Australia PTY., Ltd. ／ SCREEN FT Taiwan Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN Kumamoto Co., Ltd. SCREEN Finetech Solutions Shanghai Co., Ltd. ／ SCREEN Business Support Solutions Co., Ltd. Trivis Co.,Ltd. Tec Communications Co., Ltd.* SCREEN IP Solutions Co., Ltd. External Assessments Alpha MED Scientific Inc. SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd. is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, the FTSE Blossom Japan Index, the SNAM Sustainability *Name changed to SCREEN Creative Communications Co., Ltd. on April 1, 2018. Index, and the JPX-Nikkei Index 400. In addition, SCREEN was recognized under the 2018 Certified Health and Productivity Management 12 other companies Organization Recognition Program of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). Stock Information (As of March 31, 2018) Stock Information Bank References Authorized Number of Shares: 1 8 0 ,0 0 0 ,0 0 0 MUFG Bank, Ltd. (Former The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) / Number of Shares Issued: 5 0 ,7 9 4 ,8 6 6 Resona Bank, Ltd. / The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. / The Shiga Bank, Ltd. / Since 2004 Since 2017 2018 Since 2016 2018 Number of Shareholders: 1 0 ,5 0 7 Development Bank of Japan Inc. Number of Shares Held by NonJapanese Companies Underwriter and Individuals: 1 3 ,3 9 6 ,7 2 7 ( 2 6 .3 7 %) Website Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Stock Listings: Tokyo SCREEN Holdings Investor Information Code Number: 7735 Sub-Underwriters official website www.screen.co.jp/eng/ir Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. / www.screen.co.jp/eng Major Shareholders ・ Annual Reports (PDF) Percentage of Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. ・ Fact Books (Investors’ Guides) Number of total shares shares issued (excluding ・ Sustainability Data Book (CSR Data Sheets) (thousands) treasury stock, %) ・ GRI Content Index The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 6,688 14.30 Breakdown by Type of Shareholder ・ IR Library (Financial Reports, Presentations, etc.) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 4,508 9.64 ・ IR News Nippon Life Insurance Company 1,830 3.92 Treasury stock Individuals and ・ IR Calendar The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. 1,346 2.88 7.94% others ・ Others STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505001 981 2.10 Securities Companies 11.03% SCREEN’s Business Partners Shareholders’ 917 1.96 2.09% No. of shareholders: Corporate Social Responsibility Association Synchronize Resona Bank, Limited 912 1.95 Non-Japanese 10,507 www.screen.co.jp/eng/csr companies and No. of shares issued: Financial The Shiga Bank, Ltd. 848 1.81 ・ Sustainability Data Book (CSR Data Sheets) individuals 50,794,866 institutions The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (Currently MUFG Bank, Ltd.) 784 1.68 26.37% 46.29% ・ GRI Content Index ・ Corporate Governance (Corporate Governance Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 723 1.55 Report, Criteria for Independence of Outside Other Japanese Note: SCREEN Holdings holds 4,036,744 shares of treasury stock (percentage companies Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, etc.) of total number of shares outstanding : 7.94%) but is excluded from the list of major shareholders. 6.25% ・ ISO Certification Status 67 68 Tenjinkita-machi 1-1, Teranouchi-agaru 4-chome, Horikawa-dori, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8585, Japan TEL: +81-75-414-7233 FAX: +81-75-414-7687 IR-AR2018E̲2018.09 R2̲Yu
