UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS POLPHARMA GROUP www.polpharma.pl DEAR COLLEAGUES, PARTNERS AND FRIENDS, We are pleased to present you with we also engage our suppliers and partners For us, the philosophy of sustainable devethe Communication on Progress Report in the supply chain in activities promoting lopment is not only an important point providing up-to-date information on the human rights, improved work standards, of reference in the management process status of implementation of the 10 Global protection of environment and antibut also the foundation of our company’s Compact Principles by the Polpharma -corruption. Our key expectations in this values. Therefore, minimizing our negative Group in Poland. The Report describes the regard are described in the Polpharma impact and creating the maximum positive policies and practices used by the company Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct. impact on society and the environment in 2017 and the steps taken to implement is an integral part of our business goals for We are the largest Polish pharmaceutical the Global Compact Principles. The docuthe upcoming years. The principles formucompany and an important employer in the ment also outlines measurable results lated within the Global Compact initiative regions where we operate. We think about of our commitment to and continuous will serve as signposts directing us on this our responsibility globally, and by implesupport of the Global Compact initiative. journey. menting the Social Responsibility Strategy Our business is based on the concept of we contribute to the achievement of 6 out sustainability. In our daily work, we follow of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals: Polpharma Group’s Code of Ethics and 3. Good health and well-being 5. Gender the Social Responsibility Strategy. At the equality 8. Decent work and economic growth Markus Sieger same time, we are aware that our impact 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure President of the Management goes far beyond the company’s offices 12. Responsible consumption and production Board of Polpharma SA and manufacturing sites. For this reason, 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions. CEO of Polpharma Group 2 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS The Polpharma Group in Poland operates based on the Social Responsibility Strategy. It focuses on the following three areas: serving the patients and the community, ethical conduct of business and innovation and advancing knowledge. Principle 1. Polpharma Group’s commitments directly relating to human rights include: UNGC: Businesses should 1 4 support and respect the Promotion of preventive Ensuring and promoting protection of internationally care among patients and elevated standards proclaimed human rights. employees of work safety Principle 2. UNGC: Businesses should 2 Supporting patient compliance 5 Building a culture of diversity make sure that they are not 3 6 complicit in human rights Strengthening Building a responsible abuses. corporate ethics supply chain The Polpharma Group has a Code of Ethics in place, as well as: Code of Ethics Violation Reporting and A procedure on prevention Investigation Procedure of mobbing and discrimination at work 3 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress We carefully review all reports of potential toll-free number 800 706 848. In line with the violations of the law, the Code of Ethics EU requirements, Braille is featured on the or internal regulations. If it is found that packaging of all of our products. mobbing or discrimination (including harassWe understand the right to health and the ment) occurred, corrective measures may key role of prophylaxis and early disease include a conversation with the manager, prevention in assuring it. Therefore, we carry education, coaching, change in position, and out programmes addressed to those at risk even termination of the employment contract, and create online educational resources. depending on the severity of the harmful We also help patients follow doctor’s orders. or illegal behaviours. In 2017, three formal In 2017 our messages reached nearly 18 million complaints were filed. In one of the cases, people, both directly (through screening tests it was concluded that mobbing did not occur, and conferences) and indirectly (through the but a decision was made to terminate the media), and our health education websites employment contract for other reasons. The were visited by over 5.4 million unique visitors. second complaint was considered valid, and steps were taken in accordance with the We are members of the Ethics Ombudsman company’s internal regulations. The third Coalition group within the framework of the complaint was not resolved in 2017. programme “Business and Human Rights. Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles In 2015, we announced our Supply Chain on Business and Human Rights 2014–2020”. Sustainability Strategy. Polpharma Group’s The Coalition is a platform for exchanging Supplier Code of Conduct is an important knowledge on the best Polish and foreign part of this document, and it defines the business ethics management practices. In 2017, key requirements that our suppliers have the Coalition’s efforts included a presentation to meet, including employment conditions and of the results of the “Standards of managing employee rights. In 2017, all of our suppliers ethics systems at Polish organisations” survey received and committed to adhering to the and publication of the guidebook “Preventing Code of Conduct. corruption and malpractices: a system-wide To meet the needs of blind and partially protection of whistle-blowers in Poland”. sighted people, all package inserts of our medicines are available in audio format at the 4 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress LABOUR Principle 3. STANDARDS UNGC: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. UNGC: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Our Social Responsibility Strategy defines our commitments in the area of labour UNGC: Businesses should standards. These include policy creation and educating managerial staff to build uphold the effective a culture of diversity. This allows us to diminish the risk of employment abolition of child labour. discrimination. Principle 6. Diversity management is a conscious effort on the part of our company to see the differences between the employees and develop appropriate strategies, policies and programmes. The purpose of diversity management is to create a work environment UNGC: Businesses should where all employees feel respected and appreciated and have the right conditions uphold the elimination to live up to their full potential. In May 2015, we became a signatory to the Diversity of discrimination in respect Charter and have been actively involved in promoting this initiative ever since. of employment and occupation. Intergenerational management is one of the crucial aspects of diversity management in the Polpharma Group. 5 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress We combat discrimination of people with disabilities, seeking Strategy the Polpharma Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct defines to increase employment of this workforce group at our organisathe key requirements that our suppliers have to meet, including tion. Based on the findings of the access audit conducted employment conditions and employee rights as well as occupaby the Integration Foundation, we made the necessary alternational health and safety. tions in our Warsaw office to accommodate the needs of people We assure the freedom of association for our employees. with motor disabilities, as shown by the certificate “Obiekt bez We have collective agreements covering almost all employees barier” (Building without barriers). at the Pharmaceutical Works in Starogard Gdański, Polfa Warszawa Payroll policy is an important component of our efforts to prevent and Medana Pharma. In other Polpharma Group companies and discrimination. The same remuneration rules apply to all Polpharma divisions, including the Manufacturing Divisions in Duchnice and employees. The company has a fair and transparent payroll policy Nowa Dęba, the Biotechnology Division in Gdańsk and the Trade in place, with a function valuation committee, an assessment Office in Warsaw, remuneration regulations apply. In 2017, a total system, and a bonus system, and remuneration is determined of 63.52% of all Polpharma Group in Poland employees were based on the employee’s qualifications and grading. All staff covered by collective agreements. members hired under an employment contract, including both fullAlso noteworthy are the collaborative efforts between the -time and part-time employees, have the same access to fringe company and the trade unions to prevent mobbing, discrimination benefits and other benefits to which they may be entitled under and corruption. The unionists actively support the development the regulations of the relevant Group company. and delivery of training and awareness campaigns addressing these We implement the Sustainable Supply Chain Strategy, which allows issues, and representatives of the trade unions participate in the to take care of compliance with relevant work standards also work of the Anti-Mobbing Committee. at our suppliers and business partners. Forming the basis of the 6 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Environmental commitments play an important part in our Social Responsibility Strategy. UNGC: Businesses should support a precautionary As part of our environmental goals, we have committed to: approach to environmental challenges. Reduce electricity consumption. Our focus areas in 2017 included optimisation of the central dust collection system, optimisation of the compressed air station, modernisation of the primary chilled water circulation system, and implementation Principle 8. of an automated restart of HVAC system after a temporary voltage failure. UNGC: Businesses should Reduce heat consumption. In 2017, our efforts to reduce heat consumption included undertake initiatives the use of heat recovery for heating the central heating water and replacement to promote greater of steam traps in the heating system in some of our production floors. environmental responsibility. Reduce water intake. In 2017, we focused on reducing consumption of purified water used in manufacturing at the water demineralisation station and shortening Principle 9. of the washing recipes. Maximise the use of recycled primary packaging. UNGC: Businesses should encourage Maximise the percentage of waste sent to recycling. In 2017, our result was 72%, the development and we constantly raise awareness among our employees of the importance and diffusion of these efforts through education during periodic training. of environmentally friendly technologies. Reduce generated waste. In 2017, we eliminated solid waste from the wastewater treatment process and reduced consumption of gelatine mass. 7 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Our efforts in the area of sustainable development are based on the Integrated Environmental and OHS Management System compliant with the international standards ISO 14001 (environmental management), OHSAS 18001 and PN-N-18001 (OHS management) and PN-EN 17025 (quality management in research laboratories). As part of this System, we implement our environmental policies, including Environmental Sustainability Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Laboratory Management Policy. Detailed directions of our environmental efforts are defined in our declarations of principles: GREEN PROCESS DECLARATION optimising and streamlining technological and support processes; SOLVENT MANAGEMENT DECLARATION minimizing solvent use and using solvents with the lowest possible level of toxicity; WASTE MANAGEMENT DECLARATION minimizing waste and maximising recycling; GREEN TRANSPORT DECLARATION promoting the use of public transport and cycling; promoting safe and green transport of goods. 8 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL CARE THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN Raw material sourcing Manufacturing Sales and marketing We qualify our raw material suppliers We use state-of-the-art and costWe use in accordance with the Good effective technologies that are safe for e-invoices Manufacturing Practice our employees and the environment We modify our manufacturing We monitor and manage our We use packaging that technologies to use raw materials, environmental footprint can be recycled or recovered solvents and packaging that are safer for the environment We implement modern and We raise awareness of the standards eco-friendly solutions and invest among our suppliers in environmental education of our employees We make group purchases of raw materials to use synergies and We improve recycling and minimise our carbon footprint waste disposal Meeting high environmental standards is something we require The Polpharma Group is also a member of the Partnership not only from ourselves but also from our suppliers. Our key “Together for the Environment” initiated by the UNEP/GRIDrequirements in this regard are described in the Polpharma Group’s Warsaw Centre in collaboration with the United Nations Supplier Code of Conduct. Environment Programme (UNEP). 9 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress COMBATING CORRUPTION One of the commitments made copy in their native language. In addition by Polpharma Group as part of the to the Code, Polish companies in the Social Responsibility Strategy Polpharma Group also have other procePrinciple 10. is to strengthen the company’s ethics dures in place, including anti-corruption, culture by combating corruption. To live conflict of interest management and UNGC: Businesses should up to this commitment, we actively acceptance of gifts, invitations and work against corruption in all involve our top and middle management other benefits. The conflict of inteits forms, including extortion in promoting our ethical principles within rest management procedure includes and bribery. the company, and every employee investigation of conflicts of interest is required to attend ethics training between employees, as well as between at least once every two years. employees and third parties, such as suppliers and customers. In 2017, The Polpharma Group has a uniform a conflict of interest survey was carried Code of Ethics based on common values. out among the management and certain It was published in a booklet format, employee groups. Based on the survey and all employees received their own 10 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress results, appropriate steps were taken to minimise the risk of conflicts of interest, including changes in the reporting structure or line. The Polpharma Group has set up a system of information on suspected corruption to the Compliance Officer. In 2017, no cases of corruption were recorded, and no suspicion of corruption was reported. We educate our employees on how to combat fraud. In 2017, we developed both classroom training and e-learning modules for our existing employees and new hires and set up a dedicated intranet website with tutorials. POLPHARMA GROUP’S COMMITMENT We constantly remind our staff how to report TO THE FULFILMENT OF PARTICULAR violations in mailings and during employee SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS trainings. Polpharma Group’s Social Responsibility Strategy also serves as a tool to meet As a signatory to the Medicines for Europe challenges faced by the pharmaceutical industry and the Polish economy Industry Code, we use the Code as a resource as a whole. By implementing the Strategy, we contribute to the fulfilment for our website where we publish informaof 6 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted for the world tion about offering payments to public offiby the United Nations: cials, sponsored conferences, and congresses for medical organisations and healthcare professionals. We also engage our suppliers and partners in the supply chain in our effort to combat corruption. Our key expectations in this regard are described in the Polpharma Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 11 Polpharma Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress www.polpharma.pl
