F LY I N T O T O M O R R O W JA L REP ORT 2 0 1 8 Fiscal year ended March 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 The JAL Group will strive to achieve corporate rationale and follow it as a universal business purpose and fundamental goal by practicing the JAL Philosophy. J A L G R O U P C O R P O R AT E P O L I C Y JAL PHILOSOPHY PART 1 In Order to Lead a Wonderful Life PART 2 To Become a Wonderful JAL The JAL Group will: CHAPTER 1 The Formula for Success CHAPTER 1 Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is (The Formula for Life and Work) Pursue the material and intellectual Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is The Result of Life and Work = Attitude x Discuss Frankly Effort x Ability Lead by Example Be the Center of the Vortex growth of all our employees; CHAPTER 2 Have the Right Attitude Base Criteria for Decision-Making on Valuable Lives Are Entrusted to Us in Our Work Be Thankful “Doing What Is Right as a Human Being” Put Yourself in the Customer’s Position Deliver unparalleled service to our Have a Beautiful Mind Be Humble and Honest CHAPTER 2 Have a Keen Sense of Profitability Always Be Cheerful and Positive Maximize Revenues and Minimize Expenses customers; and A Small Good Is Like a Great Evil, While a Elevate Our Cost-Consciousness Great Good May Appear Merciless Pursue Profit Fairly Wrestle in the Center of the Ring Manage the Company Based on Accurate Figures Grasp Matters Simply Increase corporate value and contribute Possess Opposing Extremes CHAPTER 3 Unite Our Hearts Make the Best Baton Pass CHAPTER 3 Accumulate Tedious Efforts Align Mental Vectors to the betterment of society. with Passion Work Earnestly “Workfloor” Management Follow the Merit System Accumulate Tedious Efforts Work with Voluntary Attention CHAPTER 4 Possess a Fighting Spirit Fire Yourself Up Maintain an Ardent Desire Strive for Perfection Never Give Up Until We Succeed Boast and Make It Come True CHAPTER 4 Ability Will Improve Possess True Courage Ability Will Improve CHAPTER 5 Be Creative in Our Work Today Should Be Better Than Yesterday, Tomorrow Better Than Today Conceive Optimistically, Plan Pessimistically, and Execute Optimistically Think Through to Visualize the Results Decide and Act with Speed Face Challenges with Courage Aim High 01 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Message from the Chairman CONTENTS Message from the Chairman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03 Looking Back at My Time as President 04 I served as President for approximately six years since February About the JAL Group 2012. During this time, I worked together with every JAL Group staff in pursuing our goal of becoming the world’s most preferred History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04 and valued airline group. By arousing a sense of profitability At a Glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06 through the introduction and penetration of the Amoeba Financial and Non-financial Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 Management System and building a shared set of values through a better understanding and practice of the JAL Philosophy, I believe 12 that we have succeeded in laying the foundation for a new Management Strategies Designed to Create Value corporate awareness within the JAL Group. Message from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Selecting My Successor & Value Creation Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Expectations for the New President Message from the CFO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Medium Term Management Plan Rolling Plan 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 During my six years in office, we have seen the company deliver Human Resources Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 stable, positive financial performance. However, to realize further growth as defined in our Medium Term Management Plan, I felt that now was the right time to pass the baton to the next A Business Base that Supports Value Creation ESG Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 50 generation and appointed former General Manager of the Engineering & Maintenance Division Yuji Akasaka as the new President effective April 1, 2018. In the nomination process for the Board of Directors and Officers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 position of President, it was important to select the individual best Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 able to implement the JAL Group Corporate Policy and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 management strategies, and it was only after exhaustive discussions External Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 with the external directors that the Nominating Committee made its decision. Mr. Akasaka has many years of experience in JAL Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 Group’s managing divisions for maintenance and safety and has Compliance / Risk Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 worked hard to improve the quality of maintenance and maintain Editorial Policy flight safety. He is a man with a strong sense of responsibility for 76 This JAL Report 2018 is an integrated report on JAL’s Business Outline financial performance and CSR activities, based on safety and a passionate commitment to frontline operations. various guidelines, to provide a deeper understanding of such matters as the JAL Group’s corporate Furthermore, he has gained top level management experience as value and growth potential. President of JAL Engineering Co., Ltd. I am confident that he is an International Passenger Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Period covered by the report individual who, as JAL President, will be able to amply display the Domestic Passenger Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Primarily April 2017 to March 2018 (fiscal 2017) leadership qualities he has developed during his career. Cargo and Mail Business / Other Businesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Scope of the report The JAL Group How I See My Role Financial / Data Section Financial Data — Seven-Year Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 82 Date of publication August 2018 JAL corporate website www.jal.com/en/ Going forward, I will leave business operations and execution in the hands of the President, while I, as Chairman, will ensure that Offering a comprehensive insight into JAL’s business Evaluation and Analysis of Financial Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 approach and activities, as well as investor and CSR meetings of the Board of Directors are run appropriately to increase Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96 information. board effectiveness and fully support the President as he works to Consolidated Subsidiaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119 fulfil his duties. By enhancing the presence of the JAL Group ESG Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 through external activities, I remain committed to making International Route Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 contributions to increasing corporate value. I would appreciate your Domestic Route Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124 continued warm support. Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 Data on Incidents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 Yoshiharu Ueki Representative Director, Chairman Stock Information / Corporate Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 02 03 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 HISTORY Since its establishment, the JAL Group has developed its business to meet the needs of the times. Following bankruptcy in 2010, the Group was given the opportunity to restructure, and since then has been progressing steadily focused on the goals of delivering unparalleled service to customers About the JAL Group and contributing to the betterment of society. 1951～2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Rebirth of JAL 1951 2013 2015 2017 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value August: Establishment of Japan Airlines June: JAL SKY SUITE named Best Business September: Opens the JAL Nadeshiko Lab January: Awarded most punctual major 2011 March: Completes corporate Class Airline Seat worldwide at Skytrax’s 2013 World Airline Awards November: Inaugurates Tokyo = Dallas/ Forth Worth route Asia-Pacific airline by FlightStats, Inc. in the Mainline category and Network category (fifth consecutive year, reorganization proceedings July: Launches Narita = Helsinki route seven wins in total) March: Launches Tohoku Support October: First Japanese airline to receive February: Selected as a Health & Productivity Project certification for operational Stock for the third consecutive year April: Commences operations with procedures that reduce March: Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for a new “Tsurumaru” logo environmental impact from the third consecutive year Head Office Building at the time of establishment April: Commences a joint business ASPIRE (San Francisco route) May: Selected as a Competitive IT Strategy A Business Base that Supports Value Creation with American Airlines Company for the second consecutive year JAL Nadeshiko Lab June: Begins offering complimentary inflight internet service on domestic flights 1970 February: Lists ‌ on the first section of a 2014 June: Receives Skytrax award for the Best Economy Class Airline Seat for the second time number of stock exchanges April: Commences a joint business with Finnair September: Launches Narita = Melbourne route JAL’s new Tsurumaru logo (foreground) July: Begins offering inflight internet service Launches Narita = Kona route on domestic flights December: CONTRAIL atmospheric observation 1985August: ‌JAL flight 123 accident 2012 2016 April: Launches Kumamoto project receives the Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity in the InternaApril: Inaugurates the Boeing 787-8 on the tional Contribution Category and Oita Support new Tokyo (Narita) = Boston route Project July: Begins offering inflight internet October: Commences a joint service on international flights Business Outline business with Iberia September: Relists on the first section of the Tokyo 2010January: F‌ iles for reorganization Stock Exchange, two years and eight months after filing for bankruptcy protection proceedings under the CorpoOctober: Commences a joint business with British Delivery of JAL’s first Boeing 787 rate Reorganization Act Airways December: Inaugurates Tokyo (Narita) = San Diego route For more details, please refer to JAL’s History online http://www.jal.com/en/outline/history/ Financial / Data Section Operating Revenue 1,383.2 (Billions of yen) 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,309.3 January 19, 2010 Press Conference 1,288.9 1,238.8 1,204.8 04 05 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 AT A GLANCE International Passenger Operations Domestic Passenger Operations Other businesses Other businesses 22.3% 22.3% About the JAL Group International passengers International passengers Cargo and mail 6.7% Fiscal 2017 revenue by category 33.5% Cargo and mail 6.7% Fiscal 2017 revenue by category 33.5% Domestic passengers Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Domestic passengers 37.5% 37.5% Passenger revenues Revenue passengers carried* +2.3% Passenger revenues Revenue passengers carried +4.5% (Billions of yen) (Thousand passengers) vs. fiscal 2016 (Billions of yen) +3.9 % (Thousand passengers) vs. fiscal 2016 600 +11.5 % 9,000 8,460 8,394 8,585 600 vs. fiscal 2016 35,000 32,114 32,570 34,033 vs. fiscal 2016 31,218 31,644 7,723 7,793 518.2 487.4 487.5 501.2 498.6 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation 454.8 448.7 462.9 437.5 25,000 415.2 400 6,000 400 15,000 200 3,000 200 5,000 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Load factor* Revenue Passenger Kilometers* / Available Seat Kilometers* +2.4% Load factor Revenue Passenger Kilometers / Available Seat Kilometers Business Outline vs. fiscal 2016 （%） 90.0 (Million passenger km / Million seat km) 60,000 +3.4 % （%） 80.0 (Million passenger km / Million seat km) 60,000 vs. fiscal 2016 +0.8% 51,836 85.0 +0.8pt 46,235 47,696 50,563 50,621 75.0 +2.5 pt vs. fiscal 2016 +4.5 % vs. fiscal 2016 vs. fiscal 2016 vs. fiscal 2016 40,305 40,633 42,013 40,000 40,000 35,390 36,109 37,084 36,306 35,869 35,423 35,714 81.0 71.8 80.3 80.0 79.7 70.0 69.3 67.9 23,993 24,341 24,550 25,643 23,745 76.5 20,000 66.1 20,000 75.7 75.0 65.0 64.0 Financial / Data Section 70.0 0 60.0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ■Revenue Passenger Kilometers ■Available Seat Kilometers ■Revenue Passenger Kilometers ■Available Seat Kilometers * ‌From fiscal year 2015, revenue passengers carried, load factor, revenue passenger kilometers and available seat kilometers include code-share tickets sold by other companies for JAL-operated flights. 06 07 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCI AL HIGHLIGHTS Financial Data (As of March 31, 2018) Non-financial Data (As of March 31, 2018) Operating profit margin Profit attributable to owners of parent Equity ratio Number of Group companies Consolidated staff headcount Traffic results 12.6 135.4 57.2 134 33,038 Domestic passengers 34.03 About the JAL Group % ￥ billion % companies people mil ion ■ Operating revenue (Billions of yen) ■ Operating profit (Billions of yen) ■ Profit attributable to owners of parent (Billions of yen) ■ Shareholders’ equity (Billions of yen) （⇩3 companies year over year） （⇧285 people year over year） passengers Operating profit margin (%) ■ Total dividends (Billions of yen) Equity ratio (%) 77 subsidiaries （⇧1.46 million passengers year over year） (including 51 consolidated subsidiaries) 56.2% 57.2% 57 affiliates International passengers 8.58 174.4 (including 14 accounted for by the equity method) 15.7% 52.7% 53.4% 13.4% 13.2% 166.2 51.5% 164.1 mil ion 12.7% 12.6% Management Strategies Designed to Create Value 1,060.3 149.0 1,309.3 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,288.9 1,383.2 135.4 843.0 972.0 Number of Group aircrafts passengers 776.4 （⇧0.19 million passengers year over year） 40 690.2 Large Boeing 777 Operational rate 71 37.7 43.5 38.7 Domestic and International routes total 33.2 Medium 29.0 179.6 209.1 Boeing 787/767 166.7 170.3 174.5 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation 65 98.6 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Small Boeing 737 % （⇩1.1 pt year over year） ROIC* Free cash flow* EBITDA margin Regional jet 55 10.1 101.3 22.1 9.3 Average fleet age On-time arrival rate years % ￥ billion % Domestic and International routes total TOTAL 231 （%） ROIC （%） ROE ■ Cash flow from operating activities (Billions of yen) ■ EBITDA (Billions of yen) Business Outline ROA（%） ■ Cash flow from investing activities (Billions of yen)* EBITDA margin (%) 85.1 Free cash flow (Billions of yen) aircrafts 26.5% 105.1 101.3 24.0% % 81.2 21.5% 21.8% 22.2% 22.1% （⇧1 aircraft year over year） （⇩2.1 pt year over year） 61.8 37.5 312.3 321.1 21.5% 305.4 281.5 292.7 286.2 261.1 281.0 247.9 253.1 20.3% △215.5 △207.2 Financial / Data Section 18.1% △199.2 14.0% △166.7 △180.1 Flight destinations 13.0% 12.8% 13.7% (including code-share flights) 343 12.7% 13.3% 12.0% 10.7% 10.1% 10.3% 9.7% cities （⇧5 year over year） 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) * Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) = * Excludes deposits and withdrawals Net operating profit after tax (NOPAT)/ from fixed deposit account 08 fixed assets (including future rental 09 expenses under operating leases) JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS NPS*1 Aircraft accidents / Serious incidents Awards and Recognition International2.0 pt⇧ Domestic 1.7 pt⇧ Aircraft accidents 0 cases, serious incidents （Aircraft accidents⇩1 case year over year, serious incidents ⇧1 case year over year） 1 case ■Services Skytrax 5-Star Airline The World Airline Star Ratings Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Eruboshi” certification Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare About the JAL Group （ ） * ‌For details of aircraft accidents and serious incidents, Best Economy Class Airline Seat 2018 (second consecutive year, three wins in total) “Kurumin” certification please refer to P.126: Data on Incidents. FlightStats work with Pride Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Best Major Airline for On-time Performance in the Certified as a Gold Company in the Pride Asia-Pacific Region 2017 Rating System 2017 (second consecutive year) Customer injuries Irregularities due to human error Irregular operations PERFORM ME A TI ON N CE 1st in Mainline category (sixth consecutive year, 2017 2 47 51 eight wins in total) SE R S ■ ‌Workstyle Innovation, Health and Productivity VIC E AWARD 1st in Network category (sixth consecutive year, Management cases cases cases eight wins in total) （⇩6 cases year over year） （⇩1 case year over year） （⇩15 cases year over year） Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Trip Advisor Shiny telework prize, Minister’s Special Prize for Promoting Telework The 2018 Travelers’ Choice™ awards for airlines Best Airline in Japan Top 10 World`s Best Airline – 4th Place Tokyo Metropolitan Government A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Award for Promoting Staggered Commuting (Jisa Biz) CO2 emissions per revenue ton kilometer*2 Industrial waste*3 Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and 82.2 3,266 Tourism (MLIT) of Japan Tokyo Metropolitan Government vs. fiscal 2005 11th MLIT Award for Promoting Barrier Free Measures to Certified as a company that supports and promotes sport % tons improve the usability for the disabled customers （⇩2.4 pt year over year） （⇩170 tons year over year） ■ Business Reform JCSI (Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index) Survey Procurement Leaders International Airlines category World Procurement Awards 2018 First for customer satisfaction The GEP Procurement Team Award Winner First for loyalty (reuse intention rate) CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) *4 Heat use (crude oil equivalent) *3 Water use*3 ■IT 9.14 43,512 435 Global Traveler Business Outline Nikkei Business Publications Voted Best Trans-Pacific Airline 2017 million tons Kiloliters thousand m3 Voted Best Airline to Japan 2017 IT Japan Award 2018 Grand Prix （⇧0.32 million tons year over year) （⇩1,424kl year over year） （⇧9 thousand m year over year) 3 OAG ■Web Communications Ranking of best on-time performance (OTP) First in Mega Airlines category Japan Institute of Design Promotion Good Design Award Number/ratio of women in management positions Ratio of paid holiday taken (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and 51 consolidated subsidiaries) (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.) ■Diversity 853 16.3 89.5 German Design Council Financial / Data Section people % % Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan German Design Award 2018 (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Excellent Communications Design （⇧7 people year over year) (±0 year over year) （⇧4.0 pt year over year) Winner, Web Category Nadeshiko Brand 2018 (fourth consecutive year) *1 Net Promoter Score; a popular method of measuring the customers’ intention to recommend Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of ■Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index *2 All international and domestic routes operated by the JAL Group Japan (METI) *3 Data for domestic offices, airports and maintenance facilities New Diversity Management Selection 100 Selection The MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Select *4 Excludes overseas offices and airports Index 10 11 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT We will embrace challenge to become a truly global airline, Introduction: Safety and Sense of Security customers” and “contributes to the betterment of society” as stated in our Corporate Policy. create new values one step ahead of competitors and About the JAL Group We thank you for your continued warm support of the JAL Group. achieve sustainable growth through the joint efforts of every staff. I have recently been appointed President of Japan Airlines in June JAL Vision: JAL in 10 Years’ Time 2018. Since joining JAL, I have spent a major part of my career in the Maintenance and Corporate Safety divisions. Therefore, I have In April 2017, the JAL Group established the JAL Vision, which a deep conviction that flight safety is the basis of existence of the outlines the company we aspire to be 10 years from now. In the JAL Group and our social responsibility. Before my appointment as Medium Term Management PlanRolling Plan 2018 announced in Management Strategies Designed to Create Value President, I held dual positions as General Manager of the JAL February 2018, we incorporated the concept of the Grand Design, Engineering & Maintenance Division and President of JAL which describes JAL in concrete and quantitative terms when the Engineering Co., Ltd. I was engaged in organizational operations JAL Vision turns into reality. and corporate management, and also aircraft maintenance technological development. Going forward, I will draw on my past (1) Transform JAL into a truly global airline experience to fulfill my duty of leading the Group along the right At present, 60% of users of JAL Group international flights are path as JAL President. Japanese passengers, indicating that the JAL Brand has yet to The most important role as President is to rigorously pursue penetrate overseas markets. Meanwhile, the number of inbound safety and sense of security, and further, on developing a road map visitors to Japan is growing rapidly, presenting an excellent A Business Base that Supports Value Creation for growth, implement the Medium Term Management Plan and opportunity to inspire them to use JAL flights and discover the get positive results. JAL’s strengths lie in the competencies of the merits of flying with JAL. To become an airline that is recognized frontlines to deliver safe operations and the abilities of every staff and supported internationally, we aim to serve 500 major cities who supports daily flight safety. On the other hand, the worldwide and achieve 50% of revenue from overseas sales in our management team will create work environments, where each international passenger business. To achieve these targets, we will staff can achieve self-growth, demonstrate his or her ability as a launch initiatives to nurture professionals who understand diverse professional and work with a sense of responsibility, pride and cultures and flexibly adapt to diversity, which has gained motivation. I will work together with them and do my best to momentum worldwide. create a company which “delivers unparalleled service to our Business Outline Corporate Policy To customers worldwide, From region to society JAL Vision Medium Term Management Plan To continue to be “the world’s most preferred and valued airline” in order to realize the Financial / Data Section JAL Group Corporate Policy, we will maintain flight safety and strive to achieve the Yuji Akasaka following goals through the joint efforts of every staff who supports the “Wings of JAL”: Representative Director, × ＝3 Executive President 1 Transform JAL into a truly global airline 2 Create new values one step ahead of competitors Achieve sustainable growth 12 13 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT (2) Create new values one step ahead of competitors Meanwhile, the most important factor to attain growth in Various industries are promoting the use and application of new the airline industry is to ensure flight safety. Therefore, we will About the JAL Group technologies to their operations. Likewise, the airline industry will expand our safety systems and safety culture, which we have quickly adopt cutting-edge technologies in its services and business cultivated through long years of experience, and on this processes to create new values that cater to customers and social foundation, drive development in the airline industry. needs and to deliver fresh, new experiences. For example, I think Furthermore, as the sustainable growth of a company is that there are still many people who feel inconvenienced or founded on a sustainable society, we will contribute to resolving stressed at the airport, on board or before and after their trip when social issues by incorporating initiatives to achieve the SDGs in our using aircraft. By incorporating new technologies and systems, I business activities. For example, as the airline industry consumes Management Strategies Designed to Create Value feel that we can resolve these problems and provide stress-free large amounts of fossil fuel, we have an obligation to responsibly services to every customer. To achieve this, JAL has opened a deal with CO2 emissions and climate change. We will respond by facility that tests and verifies new technologies and services called switching to highly fuel-efficient, operating eco-flights (fuel-saving JAL Innovation Lab. Through these efforts, we aim to stimulate air flight methods) and promoting the practical use of biojet fuel on a travel demand and create new businesses. full scale. (3) Achieve sustainable growth To meet the expectations of all our stakeholders, we will realize the To continue to grow in the intensely competitive airline industry, it JAL Vision. Further, we will increase corporate value through A Business Base that Supports Value Creation is essential that we place emphasis on profitability and maintain a initiatives to increase both the economic and social value of the JAL sincere apologies for the damage or inconvenience caused and will distribute management resources strategically to increase corporate firm financial base. Therefore, we raised the notch for profitability, Group. make every effort to prevent a recurrence. We will scrutinize this value. Regarding capital investment, we compiled a 440 billion yen targeting an operating margin of 10% or above, sales turnover of and all past incidents as well as incidents occurring at other budget for growth investments, which represents roughly twotwo trillion yen, operating profit of 250 billion yen and market Medium Term Management Planairlines, and make continuous efforts to achieve our safety targets. thirds of 660 billion yen, or total investment for a three-year period capitalization of three trillion yen. Rolling Plan 2018: An Important Process to To respond systematically, the Flight Safety Research Department from 2018. Following the revamp of our passenger service system This would place us among the world’s top five airline Realize the JAL Vision was established in April 2018. We will also share JAL Group’s for the first time in 50 years in November 2017, we will steadily companies and I believe this level is attainable. know-how on safety with society. make improvements in other areas, including route expansion, the The JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years introduction of highly fuel-efficient aircraft, service quality 2017 to 2020 is an important step in laying the groundwork for Customer satisfaction targets: Amid efforts to achieve the world’s upgrades and new business launches. realizing the JAL Vision. The year 2020 is the final year of the Plan top level of customer satisfaction, JAL was awarded the highest Business Outline and represents a milestone when flight slots at Tokyo’s two airports 5-star rating for its service from the international airline rating (1) ‌Full Service Carrier business: Refining our network, will be expanded, coinciding with the Olympic and Paralympic company SKYTRAX on July 17, 2018. This certification represents products and services Games Tokyo 2020. To build momentum to realize the JAL Vision, global recognition of JAL’s service rooted in Japanese-style The full service carrier business has been and will continue to be which goes beyond the period of the Medium Term Management hospitality. Going forward, we will continue to listen to global our core business. Efforts to continuously refine our FSC business Plan, we have established management targets in three areas; customer feedback and strive to provide the world’s finest quality are essential for growth. safety, customer satisfaction, and finance. of service. As we see a major business opportunity in 2020 when flight slots at Tokyo’s two airports will be expanded, we will seize the Financial / Data Section Safety targets: We are pursuing a wide range of initiatives to reach Financial targets: To maintain the current high level of profitability, opportunity to improve our international routes. In particular, we the targets of zero aircraft accidents and zero serious incidents. our financial targets are an operating profit margin of 10% or will improve routes linking Southeast Asia, a market with Regrettably, however, a serious incident occurred on May 24, above and Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) of 9% or above, both significant growth potential, and North America. 2018, in which a 767 aircraft suffered engine damage after of which we successively recorded in our financial statements for Further, in addition to JAL Group-operated flights, we will take-off from Kumamoto Airport and engine parts fell to the the fiscal year ended March 2018. On maintaining profitability and forge partnerships with overseas airlines and expand our global ground over Mashiki Town in Kumamoto Prefecture. We offer our balancing a firm financial base and high capital efficiency, we will network. By using our partners’ resources, we aim to improve 14 15 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT connectivity and raise presence in overseas markets, which would haul international routes, which we announced in May 2018. humans to determine and decide how to combine human vectors of all staff have been aligned and team skills and teamwork otherwise take time to achieve through our own efforts. Adopting a new business model, the new company will cater to resources and technology and what projects best suit the JAL have improved significantly. I strongly feel that we have reached About the JAL Group In domestic passenger operations, the cutting-edge Airbus diversified needs and price-sensitive customers. It will be a new Group. Likewise, to apply new technologies to new systems, the the stage to fully demonstrate our strengths for the benefit of A350 will be put into service on major routes from 2019. As the type of airline, which balances low costs and high quality, willpower and creativity of humans will be required. I see the key society and become a company, where every staff feels fulfilled, A350 is fitted with the latest, advanced cabin facilities, we hope to harnessing JAL’s know-how and strengths. We will differentiate the to success as human engagement in system operation. To create valued and happy working for JAL and seek long-term employment deliver a totally new passenger experience. We are also making new LCC from our FSC business by further refining our FSC sustainable innovations consecutively, it is essential that we with sense of security. efforts in domestic network operations and routes linking outlying services. We are in the preparatory phase to launch operations in demarcate human domains and technological domains in a We aspire to become “the world’s most preferred and valued islands to spread inbound visitors across regions in Japan. During the 2020 summer timetable with hopes of impressing customers balanced manner and nurture human resources capable of airline,” never forgetting the support we received from many the period of the Medium Term Management Plan, we will renew and have them say, “JAL’s LCC has high standards.” adapting to new systems and creating innovations for the future. people in society. We will do our utmost to live up to the Management Strategies Designed to Create Value small aircraft operating on outlying island routes, in particular, to Further, amid the increase of foreign carrier entrants into the The most important qualities of human resources in the expectations of our stakeholders. I would appreciate your the latest model, equipped with outstanding levels of safety and Japanese market, we will actively invest in infrastructure to cater to future will be willpower and creativity. And to stimulate these continued support. efficiency. their needs, such as the maintenance business, airport handling qualities it will evidently be increasingly important to develop business and tourism-related business for inbound visitors. individual abilities and diversity. (2) ‌New businesses: Expanding business domains By developing our FSC, LCC and incidental businesses, we The JAL Group is a team of professionals working in a variety To offer customers and regions with new values, we will actively will contribute to achieving the targets of the Japanese of job types, and by its nature, is composed of team members with develop and foster new businesses and growth businesses. While government; make Japan a tourism-oriented nation and attract 40 diverse willpower. I feel that we can develop their willpower and ambitious goals are vital, it is essential that the businesses serve the million inbound visitors a year, and realize growth of the JAL Group creativity by utilizing them in society as well as in each job type, A Business Base that Supports Value Creation needs of the relevant region and are profitable. To achieve this, we from fiscal year 2021 onward. and by collaborating with other airlines, while applying their will expand businesses in areas where we can make optimal use of knowledge and know-how. JAL’s assets our know-how and customer base and where we can (3) Innovation: ‌ Human resources × Technology In addition to introducing new technologies, we will nurture leverage our strengths. The JAL Vision expresses the base for innovation generation as human resources who can harness new technologies and reform One of these new challenges is the establishment of a new “Human resources × Technology.” A wide range of technological corporate awareness with speed. low-cost carrier (LCC) business to operate on mediumto longadvancements have been made in recent times, but it is the role of In Closing: In Pursuit of New Challenges We have been able to move to a new phase of embracing new challenges for growth through the support of many parties since Business Outline our bankruptcy. I would like to make our challenges come true and create new values that will genuinely benefit society. This is also part of my responsibility as an engineer. The JAL Group has a management philosophy known as the JAL Philosophy. I repeatedly remind JAL Group staff that in addition to practicing it, they must never forget the background that led to its formation. The JAL Philosophy was created based on reflections Financial / Data Section and lessons learned from our bankruptcy. With this in mind, each staff will remain committed to thinking about what he or she can do for the customer and for society. In any era, JAL’s greatest asset is its human resources. Our Yuji Akasaka workplaces are wide-ranging and staffed by extremely outstanding Representative Director, professionals. By introducing the JAL Philosophy, the mental Executive President 16 17 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 VALUE CREATION PROCESS To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy and continue to be “the world’s most preferred and Value delivered to customers valued airline,” we use the JAL Group’s capital for business development, bringing together the About the JAL Group individual strengths of the JAL team to offer new value to customers and society. With flight safety as our very foundation, we support value creation through the JAL Philosophy and the amoeba management system. Safety ON TI ME PERFORM A N CE 2017 SE R VIC S E AWARD Airports On-time operations Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Supports sense of Cargo & Mail Input security and comfort in the skies Comfort Offers services adapted to the nature of the cargo in the air freight and airmail transport Reservations sectors Human capital and Sales Convenience (Diverse human resources) Develops services to meet customer needs Safety Intellectual capital Charter A Business Base that Supports Value Creation (Operational and fleet management) Allocation of resources Maintenance Natural capital Value delivered to society (Natural resources) Ensures aircraft safety JAL The Amoeba through proactive action to prevent accidents Philosophy Management Social capital System (Route network) Coexist with Contribute to Nurture Future the Earth Communities Generation Production capital Back offices (Aircraft, ground facilities) Business Outline Plans service of unparalleled quality and supports Financial capital frontline staff to deliver it Cabin (Firm financial foundation) Attendants Delivers to passengers a Flight refreshing and inspiring flight experience Operations Delivers to passengers safe flights of high quality Financial / Data Section Financial foundation Corporate governance 18 19 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 SAFETY CHARTER JAL PHILOSOPHY Flight safety is the foundation and social responsibility of the Safety Advisory Group About the JAL Philosophy Promoting More Intensive Practice and JAL Group. To fulfill this responsibility, JAL established the Penetration of the JAL Philosophy Safety Charter. The JAL Group established the Safety Advisory Group in August We adhere to the JAL Philosophy as the shared mindset, values and About the JAL Group 2005 to receive advice from an objective perspective following an attitude of every person engaged in JAL products and services. As The annual JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting marks its eighth Safety Charter operational improvement order issued by the Ministry of Land, JAL Group staff deepen their personal understanding of the JAL session in 2018. It is greeted enthusiastically each year as staff share Safety in flight operations is the very foundation and social Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. The Safety Advisory Group is Philosophy and employ it as a common basis for decision-making in their thoughts on the JAL Philosophy and examples of how they responsibility of the JAL Group. To carry out our mission of a panel of five experts from outside the JAL Group who have everyday work, it becomes a uniting force enabling them to have applied it. Participants come not only from Japan; each year assuring safety, the management will exert its strong resolve and extensive knowledge and experience in areas such as human advance together toward the ambitious goal of “becoming the there are also many applications from China, Southeast Asia and staff will bear an awareness of their individual roles and factors, analysis of failures and imperfections, organizational world’s most preferred and valued airline.” other regions. The presentations by colleagues performing a wide responsibilities, and together we will combine our utmost knowledge and capabilities to ensure the safety and reliable management and culture, and safety. The panel is chaired by Mr. To deepen understanding of the JAL Philosophy, we conduct range of roles are enlightening and instructive, and serve as a good Management Strategies Designed to Create Value operation of each and every flight. Kunio Yanagida, a non-fiction writer. JAL Philosophy Education seminars three times a year for all opportunity for participants to reflect on how to practice the JAL In order to carry out our mission, we will; operatives in Japan and overseas who handle JAL products and Philosophy in their duties. Starting from fiscal year 2016, the various • ‌Perform our duties in compliance with regulations, faithfully Follow-up meetings with management services. The JAL Group spans a wide range of job categories, but departments and Group companies have begun planning and following the basics. The members of the Safety Advisory Group hold annual follow-up all participants in these seminars sit at the same table, regardless of implementing independent initiatives to ensure practical application • ‌Be sure to make checks, without relying on assumptions. meetings with management. The progress of JAL Group’s safety seniority, position or department, which helps generate an of the JAL Philosophy. In addition voluntary study meetings are • ‌Relay information thoroughly, promptly and accurately, and ensure transparency. measures is examined and the members offer advice where appropriate. atmosphere of mutual understanding. organized by staff on a continuous basis as part of activities to • ‌Respond to problems and issues quickly and precisely. Members also carry out observations and staff dialogs at a JAL Philosophy Education facilitators are selected from various create a culture that promotes the study and practical application of • ‌Maintain a constant awareness of issues, and make necessary wide range of worksites, where they pick up on points for discussion divisions, from Cockpit Crew and Cabin Attendants to Engineering the JAL Philosophy. reforms without hesitation. and other issues that need to be addressed. & Maintenance, Airports and Sales. They hold seminars in the Tokyo The JAL Group will continue to nurture human resources region and also travel to other regions of Japan, adapting the through diverse activities that promote the wider application of the A Business Base that Supports Value Creation teaching materials to the specific needs of the participants. JAL Philosophy. This will enable every JAL Group staff to provide Safety Advisory Group members All JAL Group staff carry a safety card imprinted with the Education seminars in the United States, Europe, Asia-Oceania and customers with unparalleled service, increase corporate value and Mr. Kunio Yanagida Non-fiction writer, critic Safety Charter, on which they base their conduct at work each (Chair) China are given using Japanese or English teaching materials. contribute to the betterment of society. day. Prof. Yotaro Professor, Kogakuin University, Professor Emeritus, University In addition to JAL Philosophy Education, study meetings are Hatamura of Tokyo / Areas of expertise: nano-micro machining, production processing, medical support engineering, failure held once a month for directors and divisional general managers science, study of danger, creative design theory Safety Awareness Education Prof. Shinichi Professor Emeritus, National Defense Academy of Japan / and three times a year for other managerial staff. Kamata Areas of expertise: organizational theory, business administration To maintain flight safety, the JAL Group provides education to Prof. Shigeru Haga Senior Technology Advisor, Research Institute for Social Safety, Overview of the approach to instilling the JAL Philosophy impart the knowledge and skills required in everyday duties. We Professor Emeritus, Rikkyo University / Areas of expertise: traffic psychology, industrial psychology, human engineering carry out safety awareness education to nurture staff equipped with Executives / Managers General posts Prof. Akinori Professor, Waseda University / Area of expertise: human General Managers a constant high level of safety awareness. Komatsubara life engineering Leader Workshops Safety seminars Safety Promotion Center JAL Philosophy Education Business Outline JAL Philosophy Education Based on the so-called the “Three Actuals” (the actual site, item At a JAL Philosophy study meeting held in an overseas region and people), we organize a commemorative ascent of Mount On August 12, 1985, JAL flight 123 crashed on the ridges of Mount Independent activities in departments and Group companies Osutaka, the scene of the JAL flight 123 accident. This forms part of Osutaka and 520 precious lives were lost. To reaffirm the importance to promote practical application of the JAL Philosophy a safety seminar in which participants directly confront the aircraft of flight safety and to instill the lessons learned from this accident in Penetration JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting / in-house newsletters / accident and learn for themselves what they can do and what they our minds, we established the Safety Promotion Center in April 2006. activities Intranet / Employee Awareness Surveys need to do to maintain flight safety. In fiscal year 2017, a safety For all JAL Group staff, this facility serves as the “safety Independent voluntary workshops by staff seminar for new recruits was completed by 1,902 participants, a foundation” from which they work to deliver safe and reliable safety awareness seminar by 459 and a safety seminar for newly operations in response to society’s needs, constantly mindful that appointed managerial staff by 289. precious lives are entrusted to us in our work. Financial / Data Section The Safety Promotion Center is open to the general public. In JAL Group emergency evacuation training fiscal year 2017, the Center received Since November 2016, all JAL Group staff have undergone 20,091 visitors from inside and emergency evacuation training to acquire knowledge of emergency outside the Group, bringing the situations and ensure the ability to respond appropriately. Up to the cumulative total since fiscal year end of fiscal year 2017, the training had been completed by 5,339 2006 to 216,780. participants. The cumulative figure is due to reach 10,000 by the end of fiscal year 2018. 20 21 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 THE AMOEBA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SAFETY About the Amoeba Management System Future Initiatives Under the amoeba management system, corporate management is Up till now, we have focused on operating and embedding the OUTPUT The JAL Group Corporate Policy commits us to providing customers with unparalleled About the JAL Group not the responsibility of top management alone; all staff are amoeba management system, but to ensure future growth and service. Unparalleled service means delivering the world’s highest levels of safety, involved. Organizations are divided into the smallest possible units promote human resources development, we will work on Safety on-time operations, comfort and convenience. Of these, absolute priority must be and the results of activities conducted by each unit are presented in consolidating divisional profitability based on full staff participation, given to guaranteeing safety, which is the foundation of the JAL Group. Flight safety On-time operations an easily understandable manner. The system thus encourages which is one of the five key initiatives selected for specific action relies on each staff sharing clear values and possessing an awareness of his or her participation in management by every staff, that is, “management under the “JAL Action” in the new Medium Term Management Comfort responsibility as a member of the JAL Group. By ensuring that all departments by all.” Plan. cultivate a safety culture and continuously accumulating safety layers, we will maintain We aim to achieve sound and flexible corporate management Convenience flight safety and inspire customers to place their confidence in the JAL Group. On this Management Strategies Designed to Create Value by bringing together individual strengths in a style of management Rigorous profitability management foundation, we seek to deliver improved on-time performance, comfort and that encourages full staff participation. We will pursue initiatives to continue and intensify the improvement Unparalleled Service convenience, and thus offer customers a safe and comfortable flight. of hourly profitability, unit revenue and productivity within each Outline of the Amoeba Management System Group department and company. We will also reinforce cost control and How the Management Cycle Works in response to changes in the market environment and fluctuations in revenues to optimize the balance sheet and improve risk Safety targets The introduction of the amoeba management system has clarified resilience. In the awareness that flight safety is its foundation and social responsibility, the JAL Group maintains flight safety by the roles and responsibilities of each organization and made it accumulating safety layers as the leading company for safety in the transport sector. possible to identify the revenue and costs of each unit. As staff in Management by all each department can see the results of their efforts clearly reflected We will work to bring together individual strengths, increase Maintaining flight safety (numerical targets) Accumulating safety layers (behavioral targets) A Business Base that Supports Value Creation in the revenue and costs, they develop a sense of responsibility for practical effectiveness in reaching our targets, visualize ■ Aircraft accidents: zero ■ Evolve the Safety Management System to the world’s highest standard the results and feel more motivated and creative in their work management data more accessibly and encourage all staff to display ■ Serious incidents: zero ■ Evolve the Security Management System to the world’s highest standard attitude. creativity and initiative in reaching targets. We will also devote * Target of “zero” for each fiscal year. ■ Pass on lessons learned from accidents Under the amoeba management system, every unit prepares increased energy to nurturing leaders with the managerial flair to * For each of the above policies, specific endpoints will be selected and targeted in each fiscal year. an annual plan for revenues and costs (Master Plan) and implements motivate staff. a monthly management cycle (PDCA) to accomplish the annual Increase effective use of management resources plan. The monthly management cycle requires each unit to set Maintaining Flight Safety Evolve the security management system to the world’s action targets at the start of each month for the coming month We will work as a team to implement “muscular management” by highest standard based on the current environment. After business results for the improving profitability within each Group department and company, To maintain flight safety, which is the foundation of the JAL Group, ③ ‌Ensure reliable operation of the security management system month are released, the difference between the target and result is undertaking effective investments, improving asset utilization, we will continue working to realize zero aircraft accidents and zero We will maintain a high level of security across the Group through calculated and reasons for the difference are clarified. The findings optimizing inventories and implementing other measures to serious incidents. In addition to our focus on efforts to prevent systematic analysis, evaluation and management of security risks. are utilized to prepare targets for the following month. Thus, in increase return on invested capital (ROIC). recurrence of similar accidents, we will work to proactively prevent ④ ‌Cultivate security awareness among all staff addition to the annual plan prepared at the start of each fiscal year, aircraft accidents by detecting precursors to accidents and serious We will improve security awareness and knowledge among all Business Outline monthly targets are also set, which facilitates prompt response to incidents. staff to ensure appropriate action and reporting. changes in the environment. Operating a stage-by-stage monthly management cycle of this kind enables all staff to participate in Accumulating Safety Layers Pass on lessons learned from accidents management. ⑤ ‌Implement safety awareness education based on the Three After passing through a stage where the results and targets Evolve the safety management system to the world’s Actuals Philosophy are checked by the relevant department, they are presented to highest standard We will ensure that lessons learned from past accidents are senior management by the relevant divisional managers or affiliated ① ‌Introduce an integrated safety database for risk management passed on and will provide education on safety awareness based company presidents at the Group Earnings Announcement Session. Integrating and analyzing disparate safety data will improve the on the Three Actuals Philosophy (the actual site, item and The session is attended by around 160 participants, including the quality of analysis and response and raise the efficiency of risk people) that captures the essence of the issues. Financial / Data Section President, all directors, presidents of major affiliated companies and Group Earnings Announcement Session as part of the Amoeba Management management. ⑥ ‌Conduct emergency evacuation training observers, who join in earnest discussions on JAL Group System ② ‌Take measures against human error through the Human Factor We will provide training in how to respond to an emergency management with the common aim of realizing the Corporate Analysis and Classification System situation so that all Group staff know how to assist cabin Policy. This analysis method seeks to prevent human error by including attendants and customers in the event of an emergency. environmental and organizational factors in its analysis and * ‌“Conduct risk management of Flight crew fatigue” was one of the safety targets addressed in response measures. fiscal year 2017. We have now completed the creation of corresponding systems within the JAL Group and have therefore completed the response to this issue as a safety target. It will now be implemented as a policy measure by the Flight Operations Division and Group companies. 22 23 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Mr. Kunio Yanagida × Yuji Akasaka Dialog The Safety Advisory Group, an external panel of safety specialists established in 2005, provides Yanagida: It’s reassuring to hear your firm commitment directly from you. In the management crisis of 2005, I had the strong JAL with advice based on the members’ vast experience and extensive knowledge. We invited Mr. impression that JAL’s safety had fallen into a crisis, whereas in the Kunio Yanagida, who observed JAL’s safety initiatives for many years as Chairperson of the Safety About the JAL Group bankruptcy of 2010, JAL’s financial base triggered the crisis. They Advisory Group, to talk about the safety philosophies he advises the JAL Group to adopt and the were both crises but quite different in nature. In the sense that the issues to be addressed toward their realization. company’s pillars had both nearly collapsed, it was a period when you delved into the heart of the problem and asked yourselves Born in Tochigi Prefecture in 1936. Graduated from the Faculty of Economics, The University of Tokyo. Worked as a city news reportwhat JAL aspired to be. Under the leadership of the then President, er for NHK until 1974. Became an author and winner of major awards including the Oya Soichi Nonfiction Award in 1972 for Mahha Mr. Kunio Yanagida Mr. Ueki, the entire staff worked together to rebuild the company no Kyofu (The Horror of Mach), the Kodansha Nonfiction Award in 1979 for Gan Kairo no Asa (Morning on the Cancer Corridor), Chairperson of the Safety and we are starting to see the results of your efforts. Now the the Vaughan-Ueda International Journalist Prize in 1984 and the Kikuchi Kan Prize in 1995. Honored with the 50th Anniversary of Advisory Group Civil Aviation Development Minister of Land Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Commendation in 2002 for disseminating aviation baton to fulfill management responsibilities has been passed on to Management Strategies Designed to Create Value safety philosophies. Chairperson of JAL’s Safety Advisory Group since 2005. you. I feel that it is extremely important that you decide what you intend to do in the next five and ten years, and not merely carry on Akasaka: I agree. In the current social environment, the second to from your predecessor. third person perspective which you advocated has gained greater Management Fulfills Its Responsibility for Akasaka: We introduced SMS to reflect on the series of safety attention. For instance, people today have access to real-time Safety issues that arose in 2005. As you mentioned, I feel the emphasis is Akasaka: Up till now, we worked hard to recover what we lost in information. But we live in an insecure world, where the impact currently placed on so-called “organizational factors” when the aftermath of our safety issues and bankruptcy. Our initiatives and fear arising from this accessibility is not happening to others Yanagida: Over the course of ten years, Safety Management dealing with accidents and problems such as malfunctions. Against are moving in the right direction and we have gradually regained but could even happen to us. In other words, events seen through System (SMS) has become a keyword in safety issues and it has this background, the essence of SMS is to properly clarify customer trust. I honestly think that this was the result of the the eyes of the third party not long ago can be seen through our become widely recognized that organizations as well as frontline management’s direct involvement and responsibility for safety. As competencies of our frontline workers. It was an accomplishment own eyes. From here on, we must consider how to deliver sense of President, I, too, will fulfill my direct responsibility for safety. This is that came from hard work, while management backed them up. security from the first and second person perspectives. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation workers have a responsibility for safety. The JAL Group has also introduced SMS. What are your thoughts on SMS? how I interpret SMS. The frontlines are JAL’s life lines that must never be changed. Going forward, we will move to the next phase of creating Yanagida: Access to real-time information will even change the unprecedented innovations in management and safety. My quality of information. No matter how technically safe operations responsibility is to deliver innovations and values, centered on may be, it is the passengers who feel uneasy and wonder what the safety and an ease of mind, in particular. consequences would be if something went wrong. I feel that management requires a new factor of quality; the ability to instill Deal with Events in Society an organizational culture where minor events are thoroughly dealt with a Sense of Ownership with from the users’ first and second person perspectives. Kunio Yanagida Yuji Akasaka Chairperson of the Safety Representative Director, Advisory Group Executive President Yanagida: When the former President, Mr. Ueki, took office, he Sharing Lessons Learned from Accidents Widely asked the then Honorary Chairman Mr. Inamori, “On implementing with Society reforms, will you give me the authority to ground all flights if I Business Outline think there is a dangerous situation?” I think this was the first step Akasaka: I would like to share our past experiences and in rebuilding the company. As Mr. Ueki has had countless knowledge with other companies, instead of keeping them to experiences, as a pilot, of making speedy decisions under pressure, ourselves, and have them applied in society. he is a man of decisive character. This served as the driving force of reforms and motivated staff to join hands to revitalize the Yanagida: JAL opened the Safety Promotion Center in 2006, and company. This attitude inspired customers to put their confidence since then has welcomed approximately 220,000 visitors. Half of in JAL. To me, it seems significant that in this era you, Mr. Akasaka the visitors were from other companies. This is meaningful in that with your engineering background, will be standing at the helm and manage the company as top management. Safety is a * The ‌ second to third person perspective: a concept advocated by Mr. Kunio Financial / Data Section precondition, but in order to increase trust, you need to add the Yanagida. The first person perspective is how the passenger would feel, the second person perspective is how the staff’s family and closely related element of an ease of mind. I feel that JAL’s next goal will be to people would feel, and the third person perspective is making decisions seek ways of building sense of trust. Safety is not simply and taking actions as professionals, based on expertise and procedures. The second to third person perspective means to put yourself in the first establishing manuals but delivering something extra as well. In and second person perspectives, while maintaining a cool, objective reality, I think that it will be very challenging work. attitude as a professional. 24 25 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 the Center not only symbolizes our resolve to prevent the Great East Japan Earthquake is how to “expect the unexpected.” very important change. information-gathering capability, I urge you to nurture staff with recurrence of aircraft accidents, but also signifies the public nature We must include factors that were previously excluded based on In fiscal year 2018, a Aviation Safety Research Department intuitive ability to say, “This is a case that JAL needs to look into.” of our business, that is, widely sharing lessons drawn from the probability theory in all probable situations, instead of making was created in the Corporate Safety and Security Division. This Furthermore, what is naturally very important for JAL is that About the JAL Group accidents with society. As JAL stands at the forefront of safety, this excuses for failures because it was beyond expectations. Likewise, strikes me as being an important unit. By creating an independent all staff members approach their work enthusiastically and with is an important corporate activity and social contribution activity. when it comes to safety, we should not maintain safety by simply department within an organization and not outside it like a motivation. I think this is where the root of safety issues will lie. The Center is exactly the base for conducting CSR activities. following the manual. We should factor in the possibility of pitfalls research center, communication with frontlines can be maintained Scientific studies show that human error decreases when people in the manual or consider procedures for situations that cannot be and risk information can be analyzed, accumulated and fed back feel motivated and are given the freedom to act independently at Akasaka: JAL has reached the phase of sharing vast experiences dealt with the manual alone. I think this feeds into the question of without being rushed by day-to-day events. work. It might be difficult, but, for example, if you were to ask and knowledge from the past with external parties. Therefore, we creating employee education programs and work environments, staff to conduct self-analysis and indicate the cause when must continue to make optimal use of the Safety Promotion Center where individuals learn to think of the essence of problems for Akasaka: Information from the past and outside the organization reporting their mistakes, it would become a shared asset of the for the benefit of society. When I used the words, “a nation themselves, instead of merely obeying orders. When this approach is a true gold mine. The biggest goals of the Aviation Safety organization. I think that creating an environment of praise and Management Strategies Designed to Create Value oriented toward safety and an ease of mind” I meant delivering has penetrated organizations, genuine safety will permeate Research Department are to comprehensively handle and vitalizing the workplace would lead to motivating staff to work safety and an ease of mind to Japanese society. It is significant that organizations and an ease of mind will improve. We live in an disseminate internal and external information, and nurture human with a sense of fulfillment. we are engaged in creating, improving and delivering safety and Internet society, where information can be searched and obtained resources capable of carrying out this task. an ease of mind. online. This can mislead people into thinking that all work can be Akasaka: We need to utilize the individuality of every staff. While done through the Internet. JAL is implementing initiatives to Yanagida: I look forward to seeing this Department become an showing an understanding for individual situations, we will work Yanagida: In this sense, I see the opening and development of the nurture independent thinking, but I feel that the first step is to important pillar of JAL’s safety initiatives. From the outset, the together in an atmosphere of mutual respect. We need each and Safety Promotion Center as symbolic and an indication of a change raise self-awareness. Safety Advisory Group has recommended the importance of every staff. As President, I would like to create workplaces where in corporate value. In order to be entrusted with precious human drawing on past lessons within and outside the company. Now this each staff feels motivated at work. lives and transport them with an ease of mind, you should cultivate Akasaka: We see it as a problem when people become overtask is being performed by an independent department. As JAL has a future-oriented attitude of learning from past failures in a dependent on the Internet and data. It has also become a major A Business Base that Supports Value Creation positive manner and issuing forward-looking messages. In the past, issue in human resources development. I would like to build a many companies wasted a great deal of energy on concealing or framework for the young generation to learn ways of thinking ignoring their mistakes to protect their organization or cover up for through training so that they can recognize the fun and value of individuals. In the coming age, management will play the role of thinking at an early stage. flag bearer, who takes the initiative to cultivate a safety culture in the company and in society. Yanagida: Yes, this is very important. As automation proceeds, we have been hearing for some time now that reading skills and Akasaka: Management especially should see and feel the severity creativity are declining. With advances in AI such as self-driving of the aircraft wreckage and victims’ belongings and stretch their cars, it will become very difficult to nurture humans who think imagination until they can envision the serious impact their independently. All the more, we should seriously come to grips decisions and judgment could have on safety. This is the attitude with this problem. that they must possess. Business Outline Akasaka: If we only believed in what instruments and figures Nurturing Staff Who Can Think for Themselves indicated without looking at the actual situation on the frontline, we would not be able to detect what is actually happening. The Yanagida: One of the important lessons we learned from the greatest risk at present is over-dependence on machines when making decisions. If we can clarify tasks required by humans, we will be able to create a society where human resources and technology can coexist. We are in a transition period, but we need to take scientific approaches and rectify the current situation. Learning from Case Studies at Other Companies Financial / Data Section Yanagida: The specialized in-house magazines, published by JAL’s Flight Operations and Maintenance divisions have undergone a major change. The heart of problems at other airlines is presented carefully in detail, as if the incident occurred at JAL. Further, lessons learned are expanded horizontally across divisions. I think that is a 26 27 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 ON-TIME OPERATIONS Achieving further improvement on our record of on-time Flight safety and on-time operations are our most important customer commitments and must be stringently PERFORM performance is the subject of day-to-day cross-departmental ME A observed so that customers can use our services with trust and confidence. TI ON N activities. In January 2018, the US-based company FlightStats, CE Through collaboration across job categories and proposed improvements, we work continuously to achieve the About the JAL Group part of FlightGlobal named JAL the most punctual Asia Pacific world’s highest levels of safety and on-time operations. airline in both the Mainline and Network categories based on the on-time arrival rate. It was JAL’s sixth successive year in the 2017 SE top position and its eighth year overall. R VIC S E AWARD Management Strategies Designed to Create Value A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Reservations and ticketing Spot-in Check-in Fueling Security checkpoints Operations control Cockpit crew Baggage pick-up Trained personnel provide accurate The aircraft marshallers work with Check-in personnel manage The appropriate amount of fuel is Obtaining passenger cooperation in All relevant information (such as After receiving reports from the Passengers are asked to make sure reservation and ticketing services the wing tip wardens to guide passengers, baggage check-in loaded depending on weather advance enables the security check information on weather and airport cockpit crew on the previous flight they pick up the correct baggage. and inform customers of the aircraft to the proper parking spot procedures and providing informaconditions, the number of passento be conducted both smoothly and conditions) is gathered and passed and the aircraft’s condition from Every effort is made to ensure a departure time and other necessary after landing. tion of the location of the boarding gers and crew and cargo weight. rigorously in order to maintain flight on to the cockpit crew for use in maintenance engineers, the cockpit smooth end to the trip by avoiding information. gate and the boarding time. Avoiding waste to promote ecosafety. determining the appropriate route, crew decides the flight plan and unnecessary delay in baggage friendly operations is an important flight path and altitude. briefs the cabin attendants. reclaim. consideration in this procedure. Pre-arrival, PrePrevious day Pre-departure Inflight Arrival immediately post-arrival departure Business Outline Airport Maintenance Cabin cleaning and stocking Catering Boarding gate Load control Cabin attendant Welcoming passengers at To ensure a smooth boarding Maintenance engineers inspect the The personnel who clean the seats, To ensure not only hygiene but also Before boarding begins, ground staff Baggage and cargo loading The cabin attendant quickly prepare the arrival gate procedure the following day, seat aircraft after landing based on some restrooms and other facilities and on-time operations, the catering pass the passenger informations to Swift and accurate loading is carried to welcome the passengers. By Connecting passengers are informed assignments for passengers traveling 50 designated checkpoints, including tidy and replenish cabin service trucks must leave the processing the cabin crew. Efficient proceout with the help of a detailed plan directing passengers to their seats, of the shortest route to their next in groups and passengers requiring looking for dents or other damage. goods such as blankets, pillows and center and deliver the meals dures—for instance arranging for based on data showing the number making sure that baggage is stowed flight’s boarding gate to help ensure assistance are checked in advance. Measures are taken in response to inflight magazines play a vital role in according to a strict timetable. different groups of customers to of passengers, the size and weight appropriately and carrying out other a smooth connection. Support is any reports of problems or maintaining a comfortable cabin board in the optimal order— ensure of baggage and cargo, etc. safety checks, the cabin attendant provided to facilitate disembarkation malfunctions from the cockpit crew. environment. a smooth boarding process. facilitate on-time departure. of passengers requiring help. Financial / Data Section 28 29 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 COMFORT CONVENIENCE For a More Comfortable Travel Experience compliant inflight meals for Muslim customers are now offered on Becoming the Network of Choice for Customers configured aircraft as part of initiatives to offer new value on all international routes from Japan as part of an enhanced response domestic routes. Flight safety and on-time operations are absolute fundamentals for to diverse needs. We believe that the JAL Group route network is one of its strengths Elsewhere, in addition to further expanding the number of About the JAL Group the JAL Group. To ensure customers` experience more comfortable and an important factor when customers choose the JAL Group. As routes operated with Embraer 190 aircraft, chiefly on flights to and and pleasant, our staffs are strongly encouraged to have the Domestic routes well as offering a route network and timetable that meet the needs from Itami Airport, we have introduced the most advanced customers perspective to improve our products and services. In the pursuit of “convenience and simplicity,” all 77 aircraft serving of customers and society, we also deliver highly convenient products turboprop ATR42-600 aircraft on routes to outlying islands in JAL’s domestic routes are now JAL SKY NEXT-configured aircraft and services that accurately meet customer needs at every stage up Kagoshima Prefecture operated by Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. Specific Initiatives with leather-covered seats and complimentary inflight Wi-Fi. to arrival at the destination. As well as offering customers “time These measures make a significant contribution to improved In our lounge service we have opened a new Diamond value” through high-speed transportation—one of the great comfort and convenience on regional network routes. International routes Premier Lounge—the top-class lounge for domestic passengers—at advantages of air transport—we believe that delivering quality Going forward, the JAL Group will continue to respect the Management Strategies Designed to Create Value We have expanded the number of international routes operating Naha Airport. The lounges at Kagoshima, Komatsu, Matsuyama, service for an appropriate fare is also an important factor in customer perspective as we work to improve customer convenience with JAL SKY SUITE-configured aircraft—whose concept is to offer and other airports have been upgraded to elegant spaces of high improving customer convenience. and comfort by embracing the challenge of further expanding our all customers a “one-class quality upgrade”—thus realizing an quality based on a Japanese-style design concept, with the catering route network and improving products and services. In this way, we unprecedented level of inflight comfort. service also enhanced. In the Spring of 2019, the refurbishment is Specific Initiatives remain firmly committed to delivering unparalleled service so that Among our lounge facilities, the Sakura Lounge in the Narita scheduled for the lounge at Itami Airport (Osaka). all customers may enjoy a refreshing and inspiring travel experience. Airport satellite zone has benefited improved food menus, and International routes refurbishment, while the First Class lounge at Haneda Airport now As a result of these initiatives, the JAL Group was able to improve On international routes, we increased seasonal flight frequency to offers a new exciting teppan grill dining experience featuring fresh its level of customer satisfaction in fiscal year 2017 as measured by meet robust demand on the Narita = Guam, Narita = Bangkok and fish caught in the morning at Tokyo Haneda Market.*1 At overseas Net Promoter Score (NPS).*2 Kansai = Honolulu routes. On the Haneda = Honolulu route, First airports, Sakura Lounge at Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International Additionally, in the TripAdvisor 2018 Travelers’ Choice™ Class service was offered during the summer peak demand period, A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Airport has been given a complete redesign and an improved menu, Awards for the world’s favorite airlines, JAL was chosen as Japan’s with promotional measures stepped up to deliver a high-quality while Sakura Lounge at airports in Honolulu, Bangkok, Frankfurt, best airline, while in the 2017 World Airline Awards operated by travel experience for customers flying to Hawaii. To meet high and San Francisco has been given an upgraded menu and improved SKYTRAX, JAL won the award for the world’s Best Economy Class demand during the July to October summer period, frequency on furnishings and layout. Airline Seat. the Narita = Moscow route was increased to daily operation. For inflight meals on European, North American, Australian *1 Tokyo Haneda Market: http://hanedaichiba.jp and Southeast Asian routes, we are collaborating with professional *2 ‌International routes: 2.0 point improvement; domestic routes: 1.7 Domestic routes point improvement chefs to deliver top-quality inflight meals based on the concept of On domestic routes, flight frequency was increased on the Haneda an “exclusive restaurant in the sky.” Specifically, there has been a = New Chitose and Haneda = Naha routes during some busier very positive customer response to the Shiseido Parlour for the periods such as the summer, the year-end period and other periods Resort inflight menu being offered on Premium Economy and of expected high demand. We began adding the new JAL SKY Economy Class flights on JAL’s Honolulu route, as well as to the AIR NEXT-configuration to our fleet from fiscal year 2014 and are now Series menu offered on Premium Economy and Economy Class successively introducing it on the 737-800 aircraft operated by flights to Europe, North America, Australia and Southeast Asia. Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. We are also switching to Business Outline Meanwhile, the brand new BEDD for Kids range and halalcomplimentary inflight Wi-Fi service available on JAL SKY NEXTTOPICS JAL Awarded 5-Stars in SKYTRAX World Airline Star Rating At the SKYTRAX 2018 World Airline Awards ceremony, JAL Economy Class Airline Seat for the second consecutive year and Financial / Data Section won the top ranking of 5-Stars in the World Airline Star Rating, the third time overall. Not content with our 5-Star rating, we acknowledging that JAL equals the highest standards of quality will continue refining our efforts to offer the world’s highest among world airlines. Additionally, JAL received the Best level of service. 30 31 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CFO We will strategically allocate capital to increase corporate value, Rolling Plan 2018 as a roadmap covering the period of the JAL competitiveness, generate strong returns, and thereby increase while maintaining a frim financial structure as well as high capital efficiency at the same time. Group Medium Term Management Plan from the second year corporate value. To ensure effectiveness of our investments, we are onwards. The Rolling Plan 2018 includes a new concept called the targeting ROIC of 9% each fiscal year. About the JAL Group Grand Design, which provides quantitative and specific details of In principle, capital investment will be conducted within My Role as the CFO of the JAL Group the company itself when we achieve the JAL Vision. Based on a operating cash flow and we will ensure there is always sufficient stable profitability and a sound financial structure, we will aim for a free cash flow to fund dividends for our shareholders. We are also The JAL Group is aiming to be an airline equipped with both sales turnover of 2 trillion yen, an operating profit of 250 billion well aware of the need to improve capital efficiency. We intend to stability and growth in the highly competitive and fast-changing yen, and total market capitalization of 3 trillion yen through use debt financing flexibly, taking advantage of the current airline industry. As the Chief Financial Officer of the JAL Group, my making growth investments actively, while emphasizing profitability favorable financial environment that allows us to secure funds at Management Strategies Designed to Create Value mission is to ensure that the company thrives with our customers, with a target of operating profit margin of at least 10%. low interest rates over long periods. We will use debt financing in a shareholders, society, staff and all other stakeholders through In the Medium Term Management Plan, we have set a disciplined way, taking into account the Group’s ability to repay strategically allocating capital to enhance corporate value, while financial target of at least 9% ROIC (return on invested capital), as debts by operating cash flow and maintaining our shareholders’ maintaining the high level of profitability and solid financial a measurement of investment efficiency to check its contribution in equity ratio at the current level in order to maintain financial structure that we have been working hard to bring to the current the enhancement of corporate value, together with an operating stability. Also, we are targeting a Single A Flat credit rating or outstanding levels. profit margin target of 10% or higher for every year in order to higher (issued by a Japanese credit agency) to support the Group’s achieve high profitability. strong funding capabilities. Review of Fiscal Year 2017 Ended March 31, The Grand Design aims for a market capitalization of 3 2018 trillion yen 10 years from now. In finalizing the Grand Design, we Strategic Capital Allocation to Increase A Business Base that Supports Value Creation took into account dialogues held with our investors and other Corporate Value In the fiscal year 2017, overall air demand continued to be robust stakeholders, concluding that it was important to express JAL through increasing domestic passenger demand and inbound Group’s corporate value by adopting a quantitative target such as In the previous JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for passenger demand, backed up by moderate economic recovery. market capitalization. Currently, JAL’s valuation is at a disappointing Fiscal Years 2012 to 2016, we had placed a priority on increasing The JAL Group recorded higher revenues and operating profits EV/EBITDA multiple of roughly 4 times, which is lower than the equity capital amounts and building a solid financial base that than the previous year. In November 2017, we revamped our industry average of around 6 times for global airlines. would establish a sound financial structure and high resilience to passenger service system for reservations, ticketing and boarding To close this gap, we have set quantitative targets for risk. We targeted operating profit margin of 10% or above and a procedures for both domestic and international passengers – the corporate value that should reflect our strong will to transform JAL shareholders’ equity ratio of at least 50%. We have achieved a first major upgrade in about 50 years. We invested 80 billion yen into a truly global airline. Guided by the above indicators, we will shareholders’ equity ratio of around 60%, showing the progress and spent six years to complete the system transformation project, steadily implement management initiatives to increase profit and we have made in creating a solid financial base. We have stepped bringing us in line with global standards. The new passenger achieve our targets through their realization. forward to the next stage, considering the improvement of capital Business Outline service system allows for greater precision and sophistication in We have undertaken to more clearly explain our capital efficiency that includes the management of an appropriate level of revenue management, also bringing with it the renewal of the JAL investment plan in detail in the Rolling Plan 2018. In the three cash and deposit amounts on hand. Therefore, our basic policy is e-commerce website, and it is expected to increase revenue further years of the plan (fiscal years 2018 to 2020), we intend to invest a to strategically allocate capital to increase corporate value, while while reducing IT system maintenance costs. Through the improved total of 660 billion yen, of which 440 billion yen, or two-thirds of maintaining a sound financial structure and high capital efficiency. usability of overseas websites, we are already seeing benefits, such the total, should be spent for growth investments to generate new In the Rolling Plan 2018, we made it clear to our investors as a sharp increase in sales through those websites. cash flows and increase corporate value. For example, we will the level of liquidity we need to maintain. From the perspective of Norikazu Saito Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer invest in the following: state-of-the-art aircraft to increase stable operation, we aim to maintain cash and deposit on hand at General Manager of the Finance & Accounting Division Financial Strategy in the Medium Term efficiency and expand capacity to cater to robust demand, an equivalent level of roughly 2.6 months of annual sales turnover Financial / Data Section Management Plan Rolling Plan 2018 enhancements in safety, quality and service, ground facilities and IT and to treat any exceeding amounts as additional capital that can drive greater efficiency and expansion into new business domains. be allocated. To reach this amount, we considered the amount of In April 2017, we presented the JAL Group Medium Term In addition to our capital investment plan, we have budgeted liquidity required for normal operations, including seasonality and Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017 to 2020 and the JAL 50 billion yen for strategic growth investment to support the JAL possible declines in cash flow, in the event of an economic crisis as Vision, which describes the conceptual image of the company we Group in embracing new challenges. It will be allocated to severe as the global financial crisis in 2008. aspire to be. Furthermore, in February 2018, we presented the investment projects which would dramatically improve As explained earlier, we plan to use interest-bearing debts to 32 33 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CFO fund growth investments, while ensuring financial stability. We will employees, we introduced a new system that pays annual bonuses Building Trust with Our Investors Through To Our Shareholders and Investors strategically allocate the additional capital consisting of the free based on the Group’s performance achievement to its profit target. Close Communication cash flow to be generated and debt usage. Specifically, we plan to As the quality of human resources is the most significant key factor About the JAL Group Flight safety is the top priority of the JAL Group and we will inject about 80 billion yen into the corporate pension fund to that differentiates us in the airline business, we trust that our To provide investors a clearer picture of our business and make it steadily work to maintain safe operations. Meanwhile, the airline strengthen the fund’s financial base and proactively mitigate shareholders and investors recognize the importance of investing in easier to evaluate, we have improved the quality of information industry, particularly in Japan, is now an industry experiencing potential financial risk. We have also set a strategic growth human resources. content provided at briefings of our management plan and great growth. As demand for air travel is strong domestically and investment line of 50 billion yen, and the remaining capital will be financial results, and increased opportunities for communication. internationally, the expansion of airport slots at Tokyo’s two used to further improve shareholder returns. Appropriate Risk Management We also proactively disclose data which had not been previously airports represents a major business opportunity for the airline Shareholder returns are one of our highest priority disclosed, e.g., simulations of impacts of fuel prices and exchange industry. The JAL Group will challenge this opportunity with Management Strategies Designed to Create Value management matters. We are targeting a dividend payout ratio of Airlines are exposed to various risks in their operations. We are rates on profit and expected benefits of our new passenger service courage. To ensure success, we will develop a clear financial policy, around 30%. In addition, with our ROE benchmark of 10% or steadily working to strengthen the Group’s risk resilience. Our system, including costs and revenue forecasts and projected timing strategically allocate our capital to increase corporate value, flexibly above, and the maintenance of a dividend on equity ratio (DOE) of policy is to conduct business operations focused on profitability of those benefits. respond to changes in the market and stay ahead of our rivals, and at least 3%, we intend to pay stable and highly predictable rather than business scale. We have also established a Financial Additionally, capital policy disclosure has been made more maintain stable management and a sound financial base. dividends. We will always consider and conduct share repurchase Risk Committee as a management organization, which runs a detailed than it had previously been, including the amount of I hope this message gives our shareholders and investors a in a timely manner, considering factors that include liquidity levels, financial simulation each month based on global economic trends, capital available for allocation, and the basis for our calculations. better understanding of the financial strategies of the JAL Group projected funding needs (growth investment, etc), free cash flow fuel prices, exchange rates and recent demand trends, and shares Based on this clearer disclosure policy, we intend to build a more and raises your expectation toward the increase of the JAL Group’s forecasts, and share prices at that time. the simulation results with top management. In this way, we have trustworthy relationship with our investors through more corporate value and shareholder returns, as we grow into the Human resources are the most important factor which drives established a system to respond quickly to any event risk. opportunities for direct feedback and interactive communication. future. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation sustainable growth of the JAL Group. As the JAL Group values its In addition, we use derivatives and other tools to mitigate At the same time, the Board of Directors has said they human resources, we view the management resource allocation to risks which have a major impact on the financial performance of require more feedback from our investors. Therefore, we collect human resources as important as returns for other stakeholders. In airlines, such as those related to fluctuations in fuel prices and information from meetings with investors such as the topics fiscal year 2017, we introduced and disclosed a new performanceexchange rates. As a result, we have been able to eliminate most discussed and questions raised, and report back to the Board. linked stock remuneration system for executive officers. For of the market risks over a three-year time span. Capital Allocation Capital investments for fiscal years 2018-2020 (1) Maintain approx. 2.6 months’ worth of revenue as standard cash on hand required for stable management Business Outline 660 and recognize the excess amount as additionally allocatable capital. Aircraft (2) Actively promote further growth investments and create maximum free cash flows Total billion yen (3) Utilize interest-bearing debt for growth investments and improve capital efficiency (1) Growth investments (4) Strategically allocate additional capital Introduce aircraft that will contribute to route Replacement investments Growth investments expansion, flight frequency increase, or operational 220 billion yen 440 billion yen (Unit: billions of yen) 2 Existing debt 3 FY2018~2020 Additional Capital Available efficiency improvement. Generate new cash flow repayments for Allocation Free cash dividends paid, Utilize flow*1 etc. debts*2 (2) Replacement investments Improve the corporate Investment to achieve pension fund financially Strategic Replace old regional prop extraordinary growth 4 Consider approx. 80 billion yen growth aircraft, aircraft parts, or etc. injection ahead of schedule investment Additionally line 2 Strategic 130 allocatable capital Investments to achieve Ground·IT, etc. extraordinary growth Financial / Data Section growth 4 1 investment line Set a 50 billion yen strategic growth investment line (3) Growth investments 50 billion yen 300 Further increase shareholder returns Improve quality, service or 3 Approx. 2.6 months’ worth of cash 1 Pay stable and highly predictable amounts of dividends, ●‌ efficiency. Develop new on hand required for stable management taking into account DOE (Dividend on Equity Ratio) *3 in business domains, etc. addition to the payout ratio ●‌Consider and execute share repurchase in a timely manner Cash and deposits at Cash and deposits at (4) Replacement investments end of fiscal year 2017 end of fiscal year 2020 Replacement of existing old Ground · IT, etc. Aircraft facilities or for compliance *1 Free cash flow (3-year aggregate) = Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from investing activities to laws and regulations, etc. 210 billion yen (3) + (4) 450 billion yen (1) + (2) *2 3-year aggregate new debts used (new procurements repayment of new procurements) *3 Indicates dividends yield of shareholders’ equity DOE (Dividends on Equity Ratio) = Total Dividends ÷ Equity 34 35 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2018 JAL Vision Positioning of Rolling Plan 2018 About the JAL Group The company we aspire to be The pursuit of our vision continues Announced in April 2017, the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020 presented the JAL In fiscal year 2017, the first year of our Medium Term Management Plan, we accelerated initiatives to “transform JAL Vision of the company we aspire to be. In Rolling Plan 2018, we presented a new concept called the Grand Design, which into a truly global airline” and launched initiatives to “create new values one step ahead of competitors.” We have outlines the concrete, quantitative profile that will result from realization of the JAL Vision. identified fiscal year 2018 as a year to accelerate growth through innovation. The JAL Group’s initiatives will contribute to the success of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games and to reaching the target of attracting 40 million overseas visitors to Japan annually. In parallel, we will make steady progress with our sights set on the next stage of Management Strategies Designed to Create Value growth from fiscal year 2021. JAL Vision FY 2017 2018 〜2019 2020 2021 〜 To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy and become “The world’s most valued and preferred airline,” Challenge to transform JAL into a truly global airline we will focus on the following while continuing our unwavering efforts and determination in maintaining flight safety Achieve THE Challenge to create new values one step ahead of competitors Challenge to achieve sustainable growth × = Transform JAL Create new values Achieve ［So far］ [Growth Initiatives] 1 2 3 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation JAL Focus JAL Focus into a truly one step ahead of sustainable global airline competitors growth Service system Full Service Carrier Business New Businesses FY2020 Targets As a Japanese carrier, we will leverage We will continue to embrace new Being in a competitive and volatile Launched a Innovate Expand Japan’s uniqueness and strengths, many challenges and be one step ahead industry, we will continue our focus world-class passenger Expand networks better products business Revenue 1,600 billion yen and services domains of which are acclaimed around the of competitors in the industry. We on balancing growth and stability. To service system Expansion of global traffic A personalized and timely Develop and cultivate Operating profit 180 billion yen world, and further expand our business will continuously work to create accomplish this, we have set dual 350 billion using the dual hub network delivered service that will growth businesses by of Narita and Haneda, and provide an exceptional leveraging JAL’s assets; EBITDAR yen in global markets. We aim to become relevant and inspiring value offergoals of both high profitability and cooperating with our travel experience to knowledge and customer an airline that is recognized and ings. To accomplish this, we will financial stability. We will actively Partnerships partner airlines. customers worldwide. base. supported by customers in both Japan treat each and every customer invest in future growth, pass on Expanded partnerships and around the world. To accomplish encounter as unique, and provide benefits to customers, shareholders Foundation for innovation with global partners this, we will promote diversification of values and human resources, and adapt unparalleled travel experience through intertwining highest service and staff, and contribute to regions and the society at large. Human Resources × Technology Expand Business flexibly and speedily to global changes. quality and latest digital technology. Domains Business Outline Refine Our Full Within this 10-Year Grand Design period, we will Service Carrier Business •‌Service over 500*1 major cities in the •‌Provide a stress-free travel •‌Aiming to maintain the target of world experience for all our customers profit margin 10% or above, achieve Operating Revenue 2 tn yen/ Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 •‌Have 50%*2 of revenue from •‌Create new businesses and services that stimulate air travel demand Operating profit 250 bn yen/Market Additional slots at metropolitan overseas sales for international capitalization 3 tn yen passenger operations •‌Adopt new technology and source capabilities to improve quality and •‌Maintain safe operations and lead Inbound demand 2017 result 28.69 million 2020 target 40 million 2030 target 60 million •‌As a group of professionals that are development of the airline industry productivity, and to innovate Financial / Data Section able to dynamically accommodate with multi-cultural and diversified customer experience •‌Actively contribute to tackling social markets and environments issues such as SDGs*3 *1 ‌As of March 2018, 343 cities, including alliances and *3 Global Sustainable Development Goals codeshares *2 FY2016 30%+ 36 37 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2018 JAL Focus 2 key drivers for growth Refine Our Full Service Carrier (FSC) Business [Top Out] FSC business New businesses Products and services FSC business New businesses About the JAL Group Expand To ensure that all customers enjoy a stress-free experience, we aim to provide Refine products Networks networks customers worldwide with a comfortable travel environment combined with and services We see the expansion in functions scheduled for 2020 at metropolitan Foundation for innovation personal and timely service. In fiscal year 2018, we will introduce inflight satellite Foundation for innovation Management Strategies Designed to Create Value airports as a business opportunity and will be rolling out new routes with television, and from fiscal year 2019, when we introduce Japan’s first Airbus × × potential to expand economic contacts with Japan and increase the number of A350-900 aircraft, each seat on domestic routes will have an individual monitor overseas visits to provincial areas. In addition to our own flight operations, we and power supply. We will also enhance multilingual service provision and expand will also actively expand tie-ups with new business partners beyond the scope the range of inflight menus catering to diverse dietary needs as part of measures of existing alliances to enhance our global network. to support an optimal travel experience for all customers. 2018―2020 Challenge to create new values one step ahead of competitors 2021― Challenge for sustainable growth 2018―2020 Challenge to create new values one step ahead of competitors 2021― Challenge to achieve sustainable growth A Business Base that Supports Value Creation JAL Operation As of February 2018 90 cities Excellent Quality & Comfort • ‌Increase flight frequency on international • ‌Introduce inflight satellite TV in FY2018 and routes such as Asia and resort routes, and personal monitors and seat power supply on operate additional charter flights, in domestic routes in FY2019. FY2018. Open new routes between Amami Islands, aiming to become a registered Airbus A350 • ‌Introduce the A350, fitted with cutting-edge World Natural Heritage Site, and Okinawa. inflight facilities on domestic routes from FY2019. • ‌Serve new destinations on the west coast of North America in FY2019 and improve Servicing over 500*1 • ‌Improve services to ensure peace of mind for connectivity between North America and major cities in the world every customer, meeting diverse needs, Asia. including the provision of multilingual services and variety of meal choices. • ‌Increase international flights, with the *1 As ‌ of March 2018, 343 cities, including expansion of flight slots scheduled for 2020 alliances and codeshares Personal & Timely Providing a stress-free at metropolitan airports. travel experience for all • ‌Provide timely information on flight delays, our customers Business Outline cancellations, etc., to each customer, and Airline Partners As of February 2018 253 cities Having 50%*2 of revenue ensure a smooth recovery procedures with mobile apps from FY2018. • ‌Expand global network with existing joint from overseas sales for business partners, oneworld members and international passenger • ‌Introduce new mobile device functions such operations New Partners From FY2018 other codeshare partners. as providing timely travel information and campaign coupons that suit customer needs • ‌Forge partnerships with new airline partners from FY2019. *2 FY2016 30%+ and increase destinations of codeshare flights in the Hawaiian Islands, Asia, Russia, • ‌Provide stress-free service at touchpoints etc. such as at the airport, leveraging IoT, AEROFLOT Hawaiian VISTARA Vietjet Aviation AeroMexico Russian Airlines Joint Stock biometric authentication and high-precision Airlines Company • ‌Coordinate with each partner to increase position technology. JAL’s presence in overseas markets. Financial / Data Section 38 39 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2018 Foundation for Innovation Expand Business Domains [Stretch] Human Resources × Technology About the JAL Group Aspiring to be a company that offers new value to customers, local communities, and society, FSC business New businesses the JAL Group will seek to launch growth businesses that build on its store of expertise and its By combining advanced technology with the human resources which are JAL Group’s FSC business New businesses Expand business customer base. We will therefore work to promote joint projects with partners in other industry domains strength, we aim to realize innovation and thereby accelerate growth. By nurturing human sectors that stimulate demand for inbound travel to Japan and support regional revitalization. resources who can link individual ideas and customer needs with the creation of new Foundation for innovation We will also seek to expand the provision of commissioned services in airline-related business concepts, we will work to create a constant flow of new products, services, and businesses, Foundation for innovation × domains, and to create new businesses and services that stimulate air travel demand. in this way achieving sustainable growth. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Human Resources × Technology 2018―2020 Challenge to create new values one step ahead of competitors 2021― Challenge for sustainable growth Airline-related and New business domain revenue target +100 billion yen (1.3 fold increase from FY2016) Develop new revenue sources To build a foundation that cultivates innovation by joining Technology Stimulate inbound travel demand LCC Partner strategy and Human Resources together and support regional revitalization Deepen relations with Inbound demand・ Introduce high-quality foreign-affiliated Japanese LCC partner to Airline Business Japanese products capture overseas travel demand and contribute to bringing more inbound visitors and dispersing collaborating with the agriculture and fishing industry. travel across Japan by offering inexpensive fares. Appealing air transport Cultivate innovation in every possible domain products and services for and become a company that sustainably grows Regional revitalization Participate in developing travel business Expand ground handling business global markets A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Contribute to expansion of regional Expand ground handling services to nonresident population through meet the increasing number of investment and collaboration with foreign carriers ahead of the Olympic ALL JAPAN Tourism Oriented Country and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. Fund, Hyakusen Renma Inc., etc. Technology & Data Innovation Lab Partners PoC*1 Idea & Action Airline-related businesses Contribute to the Expand provision of comprehensive Expand capacity for providing pilot maintenance services training Maintaining safe operations and lead • ‌Put ideas into action with cutting-edge • ‌Establish JAL Innovation Expand provision and support of Expand capacity to technology by collaborating with over 100 Lab and promote open airline industry MRO*, including management provide pilot training. development of the partner companies. innovation. advisory, leveraging JAL’s knowledge. Alleviating pilot shortages will allow the * Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul industry to meet growing travel demand. airline industry • Innovate businesses reform leveraging data value. • ‌Put ideas into action AI, Robots, VR/AR, IoT, Big Data, Blockchain, Wearable speedily and turn unknown domains into Devices, 3D Printing, Drones, etc. Human Resources business opportunities New Business domains Create new values offerings Establish Fin Tech New business development Company opportunities Business Outline Enter the international brand Enter into new businesses leveraging JAL’s Employee’s wisdom and aspirations on “This is what I want to do or be” prepaid card business through the strengths. Collaborate with external partners, Creating new businesses joint business /provide new financial and cutting-edge technologies to achieve and services that products and services as a neobank. improved customer services and materialize stimulate air travel Highly aspiring organizations The power of individuality Job satisfaction and high new business creation opportunities. demand productivity • ‌Build a highly specialized • ‌Improve services to achieve the Participate in supersonic Participate in space professional team utilizing inbound visitors target by improving •P ‌ ractice new workstyles ahead of aircraft development development technology and the individuality and intercultural communication skills. other entities such as the talents of each employee. • ‌Create environments where diverse “workation” model through • ‌Improve the quality and speed of human resources can take active part, coordination with local governments. decision-making through as a leading company of diversity •R ‌ ealize operation process TOPICS autonomous breakthrough leaders management. innovation utilizing AI and robotics. Financial / Data Section incorporating OODA*2 principles. • ‌Achieve JAL Group Establishment of a New International Low-Cost Carrier Business in the Mediumto Long-Haul Market female manager ratio •C ‌ reate a health management model through industry-academia As one of our initiatives to expand our business domains, we have Preparations are under way with a target of operational launch for of 20% by FY2023 collaboration. and 30% thereafter. established T.B.L. Co., Ltd., to prepare the launch of a low-cost carrier the 2020 summer schedule. business operating mediumto long-haul flights to and from Japan. Corporate Name: T. B. L. Co., Ltd. The new carrier, a JAL consolidated subsidiary, will be based at Location of Head Office: Narita, Chiba Prefecture Embody the JAL Philosophy Narita International Airport and will operate mediumto long-haul Investment Amount: 980 million yen (Shareholder: Japan Airlines 100%) services to Asia, Europe, North America, and other regions. Representative Director: Shingo Nishida *1 Proof of Concept *2 OODA：Observe/Orient/Decide/Act. A decision-making process to enhance speed and creativity through the OODA Loop. 40 41 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN ROLLING PLAN 2018 Progress of Medium Term Targets Medium Term Revenue and Profit Targets About the JAL Group The JAL Group will work to achieve management targets in three areas, safety, customer satisfaction and finance, while Looking ahead toward fiscal year 2020, we expect to gradually increase capacity such as upgauging on domestic flights, upholding our policy to maintain flight safety, the basis of the Group’s existence, and to realize our overarching management given the increase of international flight slots at Narita and Haneda airports. We also aim to increase revenue in operations goal, the Corporate Policy. outside the full service carrier business. As a result, our targets for fiscal year 2020 are sales turnover of 1.6 trillion yen and operating profit of 180 billion yen. 3 management targets 1,600.0 JAL Target Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Indicator FY2017 result Actions 1,455.0 1,383.2 1,288.9 400.0 • ‌Implement a risk management system which grasps 326.0 310.0 0 signs of serious trouble based on data, utilizing a 296.8 Aircraft accidents 94.0 most advanced integrated safety database. ■： Other 92.0 Safety • ‌Reinforce recurrence prevention and proactive Revenue ■： Cargo and mail revenue 78.2 Realize “Zero Aircraft ■： Domestic passenger revenue 520.0 prevention utilizing new human factor analysis (JPY billion) 518.2 ■： International passenger revenue 498.6 1,200.0 Accidents” and “Zero Serious methods. 1 Incidents” Serious incidents • ‌Continue to hold safety awareness education * ‌Figures reflect the effects of seminars based on the “Three Actuals” (the actual proration of domestic sector 515.0 revenue in international tickets 415.2 462.9 place, items, people). and revised proration rules (Domestic routes -6 billion yen, • ‌Further refine JAL’s strengths and utilize ICT/IoT 1.7 International routes +6 billion yen) FY2016 result FY2017 result FY2018* plan FY2020 target Customer A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Domestic + Points capabilities to deliver exceptional customer service and meet needs of diversified customer groups Satisfaction NPS around the world. 13.2 12.6 （Net Promoter Score） 11.5 11.3 Achieve world top-level 2.0 • ‌Improve NPS by +5.3pt* on domestic flights and customer satisfaction by International + Points +4.5pt* on international flights by FY2020. Operating 174.5 180.0 FY2020 * Compared with FY2017Q1 scores profit ▲：Operating profit margin 170.3 167.0 • ‌Continue profitability-focused management, (JPY billion) 12.6 Operating profit maximize revenues and minimize expenses, and Finance margin % achieve “10% or above operating profit margin.” Achieve “10% or above • ‌Undertake “Lean management” with emphasis on FY2016 result FY2017 result FY2018 plan FY2020 target operating profit margin” and asset efficiency while investing for growth, and Return on achieve “9% or above Return On Invested Capital 125 10.1 “9% or above ROIC (Return on (ROIC).” Invested Capital)” Invested Capital % (ROIC) • ‌Consider optional application of International 117 ●： International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). ASK ●： Domestic 109 (%) ●： Total Business Outline 102 107 105 102 100 101 103 FY2016 result FY2017 result FY2018 plan FY2020 target Financial / Data Section 42 43 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY We support all staff in their efforts to pursue the JAL Vision by creating work environments and promote diversity in order to make JAL a truly global airline where Our greatest emphasis is on developing human resources systems that allow each individual to work independently and be highly motivated diverse human resources express their individuality. who use their own discretion and judgment and providing them About the JAL Group with opportunities to voluntarily meet challenges. Therefore, we Creating Systems to Practice ■ ‌Build challenging organizations that realize value have established evaluation criteria to accurately evaluate their the JAL Philosophy and Embrace Challenges creation challenges and entirely reviewed our employee education for Personal Growth To “create value one step ahead of competitors,” we will build programs. We will build a framework to nurture diverse human organizations that possess a challenging spirit. Given the resources to welcome a diverse range of guests under the The most important goal of the JAL Group is to realize the dramatically changing environment, we will nurture leaders who management policy, “Transform JAL into a truly global airline.” Corporate Policy, which first states that we will “Pursue the meet challenges and spontaneously propel reforms. We will also Management Strategies Designed to Create Value material and intellectual growth of all employees.” First of all, my encourage professional development among staff. In these ways, Supporting JAL Professionals and Realizing greatest mission as General Manager of Human Resource we aim to become a company that has gathered momentum for the Corporate Policy Management is to create an environment where every staff is value creation and where staff work enthusiastically to turn their actively involved in and enthusiastic about work. ideas into reality. Workstyle innovation is the very essence of our Corporate Policy On creating a positive work environment, we will work to and an issue we have tackled based on a roadmap planned out in nurture human resources who challenge themselves with courage. ■ ‌Practice the JAL Philosophy more intensively to achieve 2015. Our target total work hours* is 1,850 hours and we are very This will be approached from two aspects: cultivate staff awareness targets close to hitting it. Regarding health management, a Health to think and act independently and provide them with The basis of these measures is to practice the JAL Philosophy more Management Officer was newly appointed last year and began opportunities to take on challenges. intensively. For the philosophies to permeate the company, we will releasing messages from the management concerning employee A Business Base that Supports Value Creation To develop human resources capable of adapting speedily encourage each staff to practice them on improving his or her health. We also expanded our support system for mental health and appropriately to the rapidly changing external environment, understanding and link their efforts to the achievement of from cockpit crew and cabin attendants to ground staff and Group we have introduced JAL OODA as a tool to improve the quality and individual and organizational targets. company staff. speed of decision-making. We took the elements of OODA, In the sense that we operate aircraft safely, JAL Group’s Observe, Orient, Decide and Act, and arranged them to create JAL Human Resources u Technology = Innovation human resources are already a professional team. On top of this, it OODA. To promote this decision-making process, we have can be said that human resources who can meet challenges to launched three initiatives: promote employee autonomy through An important issue in our human resources strategy is building realize the Corporate Policy are true professionals. By supporting education seminars, demonstrate autonomy and independence systems which promote independent thinking to create new true professionals, we will support the company in realizing the without waiting for orders, and support autonomous selfbusinesses and services. The basis of generating new ideas and Corporate Policy. governing organizations by reviewing business practices. innovations is termed as “Human Resources x Technology.” In * Total ‌ work hours (annual) = standard number of work days per year x Under the slogan of our human resources strategy, “Link the other words, we will combine the ambitions of “what I want to be standard number of work hours per day (8 hrs) + overtime and rest day Business Outline work hours – [(number of days of annual paid leave + number of days of contribution of individual strengths to value creation,” we will or do” of each staff who practice the JAL Philosophy and the rapid special leave + number of days of work absence) x standard number of further refine and vigorously promote the following four measures evolution of technologies to design, create and deliver new value. work hours per day (8 hrs)] as set out in Rolling Plan 2018. ■ ‌Build mentally and physically healthy, highly Goal of human resources strategy (Slogan) motivating and productive work environments Link the contribution of individual strengths to value creation 7 initiatives (Action) Takuya Oda We will develop highly productive work environments through (1) ‌Nurture leaders who promote innovation Executive Officer, General Manager 4 declarations 1. Challenging organizations of Human Resource Management workstyle innovation, wellness activities and other measures to (Commitment) Build challenging organizations to (2) Create ‌ a professional team to realize value Financial / Data Section realize value creation creation provide opportunities for the active participation of diverse human 2. Diverse human resources (3) Nurture global human resources resources and create an environment essential to the attainment of Encourage expression of individuality in an atmosphere of mutual respect sustainable growth. (4) Promote diversity 3. Environments to increase labor productivity Build mentally and physically healthy, highly motivating (5) ‌Accomplish workstyle innovation leading to growth and productive work environments ■ ‌Encourage expression of individuality in an (6) Promote health management atmosphere of mutual respect 4. Base Practice the JAL Philosophy more intensively to achieve individual and organizational targets (7) Practice the JAL Philosophy We will continue working to cultivate global human resources and 44 45 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY Diversity and Inclusion Cultivating global human resources LGBT* initiatives Opportunities for people with disabilities With the aim of developing human resources who respect and can The JAL Group works to promote understanding of LGBT and also The JAL Group actively promotes the employment of people with In 2014, JAL Group top management declared their commitment to adapt to diverse cultures, we are working to nurture a mental to ensure that its in-house systems are LGBT-friendly. As part of this, disabilities and aims to create an environment in which having a About the JAL Group diversity. Since then, we have aspired to be a company where approach that is understanding of other cultures and to improve in fiscal 2017, JAL established a system under which staff can disability is not seen as a career barrier. For the JAL Group, everyone can work in a positive atmosphere regardless of gender, intercultural communication abilities. register their same-sex partner, who then, along with their family promoting opportunities for people with disabilities is important as age, nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, social class, disability, sexual For staff in our Japan region, in addition to overseas postings, members, enjoys the same benefits as afforded to the legally a means of ensuring diversity in human resources. Initiatives are orientation, gender identity, career or other personal attributes. we offer other opportunities to experience working in or interacting married opposite-sex partners of staff and their families. The JAL implemented on a Group-wide basis, with training given to In initiatives to date, we have established an organization for with other cultures. These include external training schemes, chiefly Group believes in offering professional opportunities to diverse reinforce coordination with the human resources managers of the promotion of diversity in the Human Resources Division to through the JAL Global Challenge Program, a program launched in human resources and continues to roll out initiatives to create a Group companies. In this way, we ensure that each Group company create a foundation for welcoming diverse human resources. fiscal year 2017 through which young mid-level staff can access work environment where all staff can feel secure and confident. actively promotes the employment of people with disabilities. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Regarding individual measures, we decide on key performance internships at overseas enterprises. In fiscal year 2018, we will also * ‌A general term for the sexual minority groups Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and indicators and then check their progress in meetings attended by promote e-learning programs in understanding other cultures and Transgender. Opportunities for senior staff the relevant directors. introduce initiatives to raise the overall level of English-language The JAL Group has put in place systems that offer active Building on this foundation, we will extend measures to skills and stimulate foreign language study. opportunities to staff who wish to continue working after promote human resources diversity going forward with the aim of For staff in overseas regions, we provide training courses to retirement age. Around 75% of those reaching retirement age take becoming a leading company in diversity management. get to know the whole of JAL and longand short-term postings to advantage of these systems (as of July 2018). the Japan region. Additionally, we promote interaction with staff in To demonstrate that JAL is an organization with high Career opportunities for female employees the Japan region and create opportunities to cultivate mutual aspirations, we will expand opportunities for senior staff in the We announced numerical targets of a 20% ratio of female understanding. By progressing with this global approach, we aim to future. We believe that it is important not only to benefit from the managers within the JAL Group and a 15% or higher ratio of “stay one step ahead in value creation.” experience and knowledge which they have built up over their A Business Base that Supports Value Creation female managers at section head level or higher in JAL by fiscal year many years of service, but also to transmit to junior staff the special 2023. We are continuing with related initiatives centered on approach and attitudes to work that are the mark of veterans. improving work environments, strengthening human resources ■ Participation in JAL Global Challenge Program cultivation and developing the corporate culture. The current This training program has as its objective to develop human resources who will help JAL “stay one step ahead in value number of female executives is 10. creation” as it transforms into a truly global airline. It offers staff Participation in Tokyo Rainbow Pride 2018 the opportunity to experience working at an overseas venture Number of Female Ratio of Female Managers business in a different industry sector. Managers in the JAL Group in the JAL Group I went to work at a venture business in India that employs 2013 691 14.1 around 200 people in IT development. Before then, I had only a 2014 756 15.1 vague idea of India, but after I started actually working with 2015 799 15.6 them, I was impressed by the keenness to study and the 2016 846 16.3 friendliness of Indian people. 2017(FY) 853 16.3 From my experience of working at the venture business Business Outline and living in India, I learned to take the unexpected in my stride The JAL Nadeshiko Lab entered its third year of operation in fiscal and to cultivate a wide variety of interests. I also understood that year 2017, during which it extended the range of activity of its building relationships of trust with people regardless of language and culture is important researchers beyond the Tokyo region to bring its activities closer to a when operating in an greater number of international context. I staff. feel that my mission now is to share my experience with as many colleagues as possible to ensure that Financial / Data Section JAL can build trust with * ‌The JAL Nadeshiko Lab is a cross-departmental project, including Group companies in its remit, which was founded in September people around the world. Munefuyu Tokitsu 2015 to promote professional opportunities for women and other Passenger System Planning Division diverse human resources. 46 47 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY Workstyle Innovation Promotion of Health Management ■ New workstyle using satellite office We continue to move forward with a range of initiatives to innovate The good mental and physical health of all staff is an essential About the JAL Group The department I work for is responsible for systems including workstyles and create a basis that enables everybody to work with precondition for driving forward efforts to become the world’s most the personnel evaluation system and the salary system. As these positive efficiency. Innovations include the utilization of IT tools, preferred and valued airline and also for promoting the material and are important topics for both the company and for staff, we are changes in the office layout and enhancement of teleworking expected to undertake wide-ranging discussion of the best way intellectual growth of all staff as advocated in the JAL Group systems, which of all allow staff to determine when and where they to design and operate the systems. Corporate Policy. work. As we approached the new fiscal year, we decided to hold Accordingly, the JAL Group has formulated the JAL Wellness In fiscal year 2017, we introduced the “workation” system, in an overnight camp where we could remove ourselves from the 2020 health promotion plan in coordination with the Medium Term which teleworking is used to enable staff to spend some time on day-to-day work routine and take time to discuss the issues we Management Plan. Focusing on the key themes of lifestyle-related Management Strategies Designed to Create Value work tasks during vacations. It is hoped that this will encourage need to tackle. illness, cancer, mental health, smoking and women’s health, we staff to take longer vacations. When we were discussing the camp venue, we found out cooperate through the plan with staff, companies and health In fiscal year 2018, we will launch initiatives using artificial that a satellite office had been set up at Kamiyama in Tokushima insurance associations to enhance the health of the precious asset Corporate officers take a leading role in “wellness” activities, such as Sports Prefecture. We decided to use it for our camp in the hope that intelligence and robotics to speed up the review of work processes represented by our staff and their families. Day events held in each region. the location would allow us to take a broader view and would and the integration of common tasks. In recent years, we have coordinated with initiatives in stimulate insights from new perspectives. diversity and inclusion and in workstyle innovation to support staff As part of workstyle innovation, we have a system of Total work hours* to continue working when they face a range of issues, including the teleworking in place, so we were able to use the in-house By encouraging varied workstyles and creating a corporate ethos infrastructure and materials in challenge of combining work commitments with cancer treatment. that is fair to staff whose time is limited by duties such as childcare the usual way, but the relaxed Going forward, the JAL Group will redouble its efforts to or nursing care, JAL seeks to become a company where all can mood in the rich natural promote health management through two main approaches: strong A Business Base that Supports Value Creation participate. setting of the camp led to leadership from management headed by the Health Management We advocate a healthy work-life balance that allows all staff lively discussions. Officer, and initiatives introduced at individual locations by Wellness to perform their duties efficiently in order to improve productivity It became clear to me Leaders, who are appointed to workplaces throughout Japan to and use the time saved for physical and mental recreation and that workstyle innovation not promote health. self-development. We believe that when these experiences are fed only leads to flexible work patterns, but is also a way of back into the workplace, new value will be created, which will in stimulating new ideas. turn lead to corporate growth. Consequently, we are taking Fumikazu Nagashima HR Strategy Department measures to encourage to plan taking paid leave and to limit work hours to an appropriate level. In fiscal year 2017, the average annual paid leave taken was 17.9 days, or 89.5% of the total entitlement, while the average monthly overtime total was 7.9 hours (excluding general JAL staff on shift work). The actual average for total work hours in fiscal year Business Outline 2017 was 1,888 hours, against a target figure of 1,850 hours, representing an 81.5% fulfilment of target. * ‌Total work hours (annual) = standard number of work days per year x standard number of work hours per day (8 hrs) + overtime and rest day work hours – [(number of days of annual leave + number of days of special leave + number of days of work absence) x standard number of work hours per day (8 hrs)] Ratio of Monthly average Number of annual paid overtime and telework cases Financial / Data Section leave taken rest day work (Total number (%) hours of staff) 2015 84 11.4 1,729 2016 85.5 12 2,922 2017 (FY) 89.5 7.9 5,701 48 49 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 ESG MANAGEMENT Business operations in harmony with the environment and society We are striving to create a sustainable society through the rigorous pursuit of safety and sense of Initiatives to Achieve the SDGs Importance of internal penetration of the SDGs security, and business operations in harmony with the environment and society. In our initiatives to achieve the SDGs, it is important that About the JAL Group Basic stance awareness of SDGs have filtered throughout the JAL Group. We As JAL Group’s businesses are an integral part of air transport are working to share and penetrate the SDGs by disseminating infrastructure, I feel that tackling issues related to our operations information through in-house newsletters and the Intranet, and first and foremost will contribute to social and economic in-house training programs such as initial training for new With the aggravation and intensification of social issues in recent development. employees and new managers and seminars by outside lecturers. years, it has become a vital mission of companies to adopt a more Based on this thinking, we will pursue initiatives to achieve committed stance to realize business operations in harmony with the SDGs in three areas, on the premise of maintaining flight safety Management Strategies Designed to Create Value the environment and society. We feel that we need to be a – Coexistence in Harmony with the Earth, Regional Contributions company which gains the trust of society through efforts to and Nurturing the Next Generation. In addition, we will actively rigorously pursue safety and sense of security and proactively tackle social issues defined in the SDGs such as diversity and tackle social issues. Therefore, we have included “Contribute to inclusion, respect for human rights and corporate governance, resolving social issues” such as the SDGs* in our 10 Year Grand which support our business base, while fulfilling our role as an air Design, which encompasses the three years covering the new transport operator. In-house newsletter Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017 to 2020 as well as our goals after the year 2020. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation The global pledge to “leave no one behind,” which is embedded at the heart of the SDGs must be achieved by 2030. It is inevitable that we implement measures to combat climate Relationship ESG Categories Issues to be Addressed Goals with SDGs change such as CO2 emission reduction, which is closely linked to ●‌Coexist with the Earth ●‌CO2 emissions that are 23% lower than fiscal year 2005 by fiscal year aviation. I also feel that the JAL Group can play a major role in E nvironment (P54-57) 2020 contributing to employee motivation, economic growth and community development. ●‌Contribute to Communities ●‌Contributions to regional revitalization through the JAL NEW-JAPAN (P62, P78-81) PROJECT and other projects The JAL Group will take action to raise staff awareness of ●‌Swift support for disaster relief efforts and compassionate support their role in society, conduct operations taking into consideration ●‌Nurture Future Generations for recovery efforts as air transport infrastructure (P62-63) ●‌Reach the goal of 1 million SORAIKU® participants by fiscal year 2020 social impacts and responsibly disclose financial and non-financial information. Furthermore, we will fulfill our corporate mission by Soceity ●‌Promoting Diversity and Inclusion ●‌Achieve 20% of JAL Group women in manager-level positions by (P46-47, P58-59) fiscal year 2023 Business Outline implementing measures to raise SDGs awareness internally and ●‌Respect for Human Rights (P59) ●‌Appropriately respond to the Sustainable Sourcing Code*1 for the externally, deepen the understanding of the SDGs by a greater ●‌Building Sustainable Supply Chains Tokyo 2020 Games number of people and contribute to the development of a (P60-61) ●‌Contribute to building a social legacy*2 sustainable society towards a sustainable earth and sustainable human-environment systems. ●‌Maintain flight safety ●‌Zero aircraft accidents (P20, P23-27, P126) ●‌Zero serious incidents * ‌SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals. A framework of realistic and Junko Okawa concrete initiatives aimed at solving poverty, hunger, energy, climate ●‌Increase customer value change, social justice and other social issues. The SDGs were adopted at (P28-31, P76-81) ●‌Achieve the world’s top customer satisfaction by fiscal year 2020 Vice Chairman the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit held in New York in Governance (NPS): Oversees JAL SDGs September 2015. They comprise 17 goals and 169 targets to be achieved • Domestic routes +5.3pt Financial / Data Section by 2030. Companies are seen as key players in reaching these goals. ●‌Maximize corporate value through • International routes +4.5pt appropriate corporate governance (P70-75) ●‌Increase corporate value and achieve accountability through highly transparent management and strong management monitoring *1 A ‌ code formulated by the Tokyo Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games aimed at ensuring fairness and integrity as well as economic rationale in the sourcing of products and services essential to the delivery of the Games. The code also encourages procurement practices that give due consideration to sustainability. *2 Long-term, ‌ sustainable benefits for society. 50 51 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 ESG MANAGEMENT Dialog with Our Stakeholders JAL Group Basic CSR Policy Through dialogs with external experts, we strive to gain our stakeholders’ understanding of JAL JAL Group Corporate CSR Policy Group initiatives, and identify and adapt to changes in the business environment to resolve social The JAL Group will: Pursue the material and intellectual growth issues. About the JAL Group We will contribute to realizing a sustainable society through efforts of all our employees; Deliver unparalleled service to customers; to resolve social issues, anchored in our firm commitment to flight and Increase corporate value and contribute to the betterment safety which is the basis and value of existence of the JAL Group. of society. ESG Management based on the JAL Philosophy We discussed ESG management with Professor Iwao Taka on April 18, 2018. Professor Taka pointed out that there are important perspectives and issues 1. ‌Leverage the advantages of our core air transport that must not be overlooked when implementing measures expected of us in business promoting ESG management. We also renewed our awareness of the importance Work to solve social issues through the air transport business, Management Strategies Designed to Create Value of disseminating information on our activities. with top priority on ensuring flight safety. ① Coexist with 2. ‌Promote initiatives across the JAL Group (From right) < Views from the members > the Earth Iwao Taka ● ‌JAL should position environmental initiatives and information disclosure as its Implement Group-wide initiatives targeting three CSR issues, Professor, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, priority initiatives, and further, recognize the direct impact of aircraft renewal, route Reitaku University Solve cooperating with Group businesses as necessary. changes and other measures on environmental activities. social issues Contribute to Communities Junko Okawa ● ‌I am aware that the JAL Philosophy has penetrated into JAL Group staff, but the Vice Chairman 3. ‌Make a broad contribution to society as a member Oversees JAL SDGs main doctrine is to think and do what is right as a human being. Given this objective, every staff has a responsibility for environmental considerations and ESG. of society Takahiro Shimojo When briefing staff on ESG, you should go back to Dr. Inamori’s philosophy of “Do As a member of society, we will communicate the JAL Group’s Executive Officer what is right as a human being,” and as a result, staff will get a clearer picture of Business firm commitment to safety and its safety initiatives, while the significance of ESG. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation NonGeneral Manager, Communication Division CSR business working to resolve a broad range of issues facing society. ● ‌Bribery and anti-competition practices are the greatest risks when companies Yuko Horio CSR expand their business internationally. Bribery, in particular, undermines discipline Nurture Vice President, Corporate Brand Promotion Department Future Generations and order and causes administrative corruption of the counterpart country. This 4. Focus on JAL’s unique strengths theme leads to the environment and human rights; therefore, you should be JAL Philosophy Develop initiatives and create value that only JAL can deliver particularly aware of these issues when promoting ESG. through efforts that embody the JAL Philosophy, the basis of ● ‌I hope that the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 will leave proud legacies shared awareness, values, and thinking of all Group employees. for children across Japan. As JAL has considerable influence in society, please ② ④ ③ involve your suppliers and promote the creation of a sustainable society. JAL Group’s Key CSR Issues (Materiality) A broad perspective contained in environmental problems We held a discussion with the World Wildlife Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan) on April 6, 2018. WWF Japan explained global movements to realize a We will maintain flight safety, which is JAL Group’s universal priority As social issues will change depending on the times and the low-carbon society after the Paris Agreement and presented issues and Business Outline issue, define our priority issues (materiality); Coexistence in environment, we expand opportunities for dialog with external expectations towards the JAL Group. We agreed with WWF Japan that JAL Harmony with the Earth, Regional Contributions and Nurturing the experts and gain feedback on JAL Group’s initiatives in order to check should press forward based on long-term goals. Next Generation, and resolve social issues while referring to ISO the rationality of our priority issues. Through this process, we will respond to social needs and issues and realize a sustainable society. < Views from the members > 26000 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). (From left) Naoyuki Yamagishi ● ‌Institutional investors are looking into the potential of companies in the ultra-long Leader range (2050-2100), which is accelerating the movement among companies to Climate and Energy Group respond to this trend. Conservation Division CSR Management WWF Japan ● ‌Companies are required to take action to achieve long-term reduction of CO2 emissions. It is also important to manage assets across their life cycle and actively Yosuke Ikehara use and disseminate renewable energy. Project Leader Financial / Data Section CSR Promotion Board of Directors To contribute to the realization of a sustainable society, the CSR Framework Climate and Energy Group ● ‌To achieve CNG2020* established by the International Civil Aviation Organization Conservation Division Committee meets every six months according to the promotion (ICAO), JAL is advised to improve fuel efficiency, use biofuel to contribute to WWF Japan President sustainable development, disclose details of purchased carbon offset credit and framework shown on the left. The Committee implements the Takahiro Shimojo biojet fuel and reduce CO2 emissions above the targets. Close attention will be paid PDCA cycle effectively by clarifying JAL Group’s present situation of Executive Officer to how far JAL can exceed CNG2020 targets Corporate Brand Promotion Council General Manager, Communication Division fulfilling society’s expectations, clarifying issues, and considering the ● ‌The key points are participation in the establishment of international rules for bio CSR Committee Yuko Horio jet fuel and the selection of high-quality CO2 credit. direction of responses, and enhances and promotes JAL’s CSR Vice President, Corporate Brand Promotion Department * CNG2020: ‌ A global CO2 reduction target. ICAO adopted the following goals for aviation: activities. fuel efficiency improvement of 2% per annum and carbon neutral growth from 2020. 52 53 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Initiatives to Coexist with the Earth Reducing Environmental Impact and Promoting Environmental Protection through Business Activities Basic Approaches Global Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions 2) ‌CO2 emission reductions from operational fuel economy and regular engine cleaning. At the general assembly of the International Civil Aviation improvements CO2 reduction initiatives are also being promoted through the JAL Group’s Environmental Guidelines and Concrete Organization (ICAO) convened in 2010, two aspirational goals were In addition to eco-flights by cockpit crew through optimal timing Fuel-saving Project consisting of activities across organizations. About the JAL Group Initiatives agreed on for the international aviation sector: 2% annual fuel and selection of operational methods with top priority on flight Progress is monitored and results are shared throughout the The JAL Group recognizes the impact of its air transport business on efficiency improvement and carbon neutral growth from 2020 safety, we are also conducting various activities in workplaces to company in order to implement the PDCA cycle for reducing CO2 the environment and understands it must work to reduce that onwards. Airlines throughout the world are working to achieve reduce CO2 emissions, such as reducing aircraft weight to improve emissions. impact and protect the environment through measures in all aspects these goals. of its business. Achieving the goals will require initiatives in the following four To this end we have developed environmental guidelines areas: 1) New aircraft related technology, 2) Operational highlighting areas that the Group needs to tackle and a concrete improvements, 3) CO2 emissions trading, and 4) Utilization of *CO2 reduced action plan. biofuel. in fiscal year 2017 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value The JAL Group is launching new initiatives to further utilize Reduced 17,000 tons Engine water washing Environmental Guidelines and Action Plan biofuel while continuing to enhance its existing measures. Regular We regularly wash aircraft engines to remove dust and other small airborne particles stuck inside the engines in order to maintain W EB www.jal.com/en/csr/environment/vision/ maintenance and improve, fuel economy. 1) New aircraft related technology Upgrading to fuel-efficient aircraft such as the Boeing 787 can reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 15-20% compared to Reduced 900 tons Reduced use of auxiliary power unit (APU) conventional planes. While further stabilizing its financial base, the (closed cabin shades exercise) JAL Group will continue to upgrade its fleet based on a plan to While parked Closing window shades blocks out sunlight, lowers cabin temTackling Climate Change more fuel-efficient aircraft to further reduce its CO2 emissions. peratures, and reduces use of air-conditioning. This shortens the A Business Base that Supports Value Creation operating time of the APU at the rear of the aircraft, thereby CO2 Emissions Reduction Target and Progress reducing CO2 emissions. To reduce its environmental impact, the JAL Group has established a Share of Fuel-efficient Aircraft in JAL Group’s Fleet Reduced 5,800 tons Lightened aircraft loads target of reducing CO2 emissions from aircraft to 23% per revenue 100％ The amount of water loaded for use onboard our aircraft is being ton kilometer below the fiscal year 2005 level by fiscal year 2020. 36% 29% 23% 20% 19% Other Before departure optimized based on past usage records in order to lighten aircraft weights. This initiative received the Awards Committee Chairman’s Through measures taken in daily flight operations and Special Prize from the Japan Aeronautical Engineers’ Association scheduled fleet upgrades for improved fuel economy, we reduced in fiscal year 2017. CO2 emissions in FY2017 by 2.4% year over year, and at the end of 50％ Ascent with early acceleration Reduced 5,500 tons FY2017 a cumulative reduction of 17.8% from 2005. 65% 71% 77% 80% 81% Fuel-efficient At takeoff Ascending after takeoff while accelerating from an earlier point aircraft than normal, which is a noise reduction takeoff method, is effective for reaching cruising altitude earlier in the flight and CO2 Reductions reducing fuel consumption. Therefore, JAL is actively utilizing this CO2 Reductions 0% approach to reduce CO2 emissions. 110％ 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiscal year-end Business Outline CO2/RTK (vs. FY2005) Reduced 35,900 tons Reduced air resistance Fuel-efficient aircraft: A350, 787, 777, 737-800, E170/190 Actual figures to fiscal year 2017; plans from fiscal year 2018 During descent Setting flaps at shallow angles and delaying the timing for lower100％ ing the wheels and flaps, while maintaining safety, is being conducted to minimize inflight air resistance and reduce CO2 FY2017 82.2% emissions. 90% 80% Reduced 5,500 tons Reverse thrust measures When certain conditions are met to allow the aircraft to stop Target of 77% At landing safely, the engines’ reverse thrusters, which are used to decelerate 70% when landing, are deployed at minimum output (idling) in order Financial / Data Section to reduce CO2 emissions. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Reduced 5,200 tons Engine out taxi – use of only one engine on the ground While taxiing When taxiing to parking spots, our cockpit crews shut down one of the aircraft’s two engines to reduce CO2 emissions, only when specified conditions are met. 54 55 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 3) CO2 emissions trading Initiatives in Japan Initiatives as an Eco-First Company Using Aircraft to Address Climate Change The ICAO General Assembly convened in October 2016 agreed to The JAL Group conducted a test flight in January 2009 using Asia’s CONTRAIL Project atmospheric observations institute the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for first biofuel produced from non-edible plant oils. Later, under a In 2010, we fulfilled our Eco-First Commitment, leading to official The JAL Group is part of the CONTRAIL Project, run jointly by the About the JAL Group International Aviation (CORSIA), which mandates that international government-industry-academia framework for realizing biofuel certification as an Eco-First Company. We will continue to National Institute for Environmental Studies, the Meteorological air transport operators reduce CO2 emissions that exceed a standard production in Japan, we served as the Secretariat for the working implement our Sky Eco program, Research Institute, JAMCO Corporation, and the JAL Foundation. level through emissions credits or use of biofuel. group which studied the feasibility of biofuel production from city which aims to ensure the Earth and Through the project, greenhouse gas data collected by The JAL Group is redoubling its efforts to reduce CO2 waste products. As result, we believe that the most promising its abundant resources are passed on scheduled international flights, is published by the National Institute emissions and has started to implement measures to reduce impact approach is manufacturing biofuel from waste such as city garbage, to the next generation so that they for Environmental Studies and utilized in research studies globally. on profitability, including use of biofuel at prices equivalent to which has a major advantage in terms of procurement of raw can continue to view and enjoy our conventional fuels. materials and transport costs. beautiful planet from the skies. We intend to continue contributing to this effort as a member Management Strategies Designed to Create Value 4) Utilization of biofuel (Sustainable Aviation Fuel: SAF) of the All Japan Team consisting of government, industry and Initiatives at Ground Facilities As the all-important key to major CO2 reductions, biofuel is being academia with a view to establishing a roadmap to commercial Waste reduction and recycling developed in countries worldwide. The full-scale use of biofuel on a flights using domestically produced biofuel by 2020 and full-scale We promote the 3 R’s (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) to help achieve a global scale is expected from 2030, but the JAL Group is already commercial production from 2030. recycling-based society and continue to conduct activities such as Since December 2017, we have operated Boeing 777-200 aircraft with the working to increase its use in order to make major reductions to discontinuation of printed manuals for cabin attendants, recycling CONTRAIL Project livery and also the logo for the UN’s Sustainable DevelopCO2 emitted by its aircraft and help realize a recycling-based society. of beverage cans, newspapers and plastic bottles from aircraft ment Goals (SDGs) in order to further promote awareness of the SDGs. Process of converting waste to aviation biofuel cabins, and reuse of air cargo packing materials in recycled plastic Initiatives in the U.S. Gasification Chemical synthesis Fuel conversion Neat products. (gasification SynGas (Fischer-Tropsch process aviation As commercial production of biofuel has already started in the U.S., reactor) synthesis) (upgrading) biofuel Biodiversity Initiatives A Business Base that Supports Value Creation + the JAL Group is actively working to develop business relationships Elimination Inflight meals and other initiatives of impurities with strategic partners to promote biofuel, including participation in Raw materials Inflight meals use food ingredients sourced for sustainability, (waste material) Production of ethanol Conversion to jet fuel an event* where commercial flights are operated with biofuels using fermentation (alcohol-to-jet fuel) including coffee beans certified by the Rainforest Alliance on which meet criteria and are of the same quality as conventional international and domestic flights. fossil fuels. Cellulose (paper) Production of ethanol using Distillation separation Isobutanol fermentation Buckingham Palace Declaration The JAL Group has signed the Buckingham Palace Declaration Raw materials Production of ethanol Conversion to jet fuel prohibiting the transport of illegal wildlife and wildlife products. (waste material) using fermentation (alcohol-to-jet fuel) Joining with International Air Transport Association (IATA) Recycling polyethylene sheets used as cargo packing materials member companies and related government authorities, we will work to prevent the transport of illegal wildlife and wildlife Reducing electricity use products. We continued to upgrade the lighting in maintenance facilities to Business Outline LED and other energy efficient lights, achieving a 2.5% year-on-year Protecting the red-crowned crane reduction in domestic electricity use in fiscal year 2017. For the third The JAL Group works to protect the red-crowned crane, one of consecutive year we were awarded certification as an Excellent Japan’s designated natural monuments. In October 2017, volunteer Operator for Energy Conservation (S-Class) by the Ministry of JAL Group staff helped maintain the crane’s winter feeding grounds Economy, Trade and Industry. in Tsurui Village, Hokkaido. * ‌JAL participated in Fly Green Day 2017 at Chicago O’Hare International Airport in November 2017, operating its Chicago-Tokyo flight loaded with biofuel for 5% of the fuel consumed on the flight. New initiatives The JAL Group, Tokushima Prefecture and Tokushima Airport Building concluded an agreement on conducting joint Financial / Data Section environmental initiatives at Tokushima Awaodori Airport. We first plan to establish a hydrogen station at the airport in fiscal year 2018 and then begin using hydrogen forklifts that run on fuel cells. 56 57 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Human Resources Human Rights Health Management Opportunities for Senior Staff Human Right Initiatives LGBT Initiatives Ensuring flight safety, the basis of existence as a company, and The JAL Group established a framework for continuing employment To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy, we are working to Based on the statement from top management issued in 2016, JAL About the JAL Group providing top-level services are ultimately dependent on the physical within the Group after the retirement age for those interested in reinforce respect for human rights across the Group by putting our is continuing activities to deepen understanding of LGBT-related and mental health of our staff. The JAL Group promotes health fiscal year 2012, even before the amended Act on Stabilization of action policy – the JAL Philosophy – into practice. Educating our issues. management under the strong leadership of top management, led Employment of Elderly Persons went into effect in April 2013. In workforce about human rights is a vital step in eliminating These have included conducting an e-learning course for all by the Health Management Officer. fiscal year 2017, we revised our existing program to improve discrimination based on gender, age, nationality, race, ethnicity, staff and a discussion session with LGBT students who will be In addition, starting this year, we have actively participated in working terms and thereby provide greater opportunities. The religion, social class, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, starting the job search process. We also conducted training that joint projects between industry, government and academia in order improvements included allowing staff to continue working at the career and other personal attributes. To address this issue, we are involved direct discussions with LGBT individuals for staff who to proactively incorporate knowledge from external sources and same company they worked prior to reaching retirement age. working to raise staff awareness of human rights through various interact with customers onboard aircraft and at airport counters further deepen JAL’s health management practices. One such Enabling staff to continue to utilize the knowledge and experience internal educational programs, such as training courses for new and participated in external events promoting understanding of Management Strategies Designed to Create Value project is the Research Program for Health Behavior Modification by they acquired over many years while transferring their skills to hires and managers. LGBT issues. Utilizing IoT, which is aimed at prevention of severe diabetes. younger staff as a highly specialized professional team is helping to In compliance with the U.K.’s Modern Slavery Act, we publicly Through participation and support for the program, JAL intends to further raise the quality of services we provide to customers. disclose initiatives being conducted by the JAL Group and its further promote health management with in the company while suppliers to prevent slave labor and human trafficking. also broadly contributing to the promotion of health in society. Within the Group, a hotline has been established accessible to The JAL Group will continue taking measures to maintain and all JAL Group staff to report and discuss harassment-related promote the physical and mental health of staff and contribute to matters. A promise is also that staff will not be subjected to unfair society by providing safe and comfortable flights. treatment if they use the hotline. JAL will continue to respect human rights, appropriately A Business Base that Supports Value Creation manage risks to prevent actions that infringe upon human rights and work to maintain processes by which reforms are implemented should risks materialize. Participating in KYUSHU RAINBOW PRIDE 2017 Modern Slavery Act Statement Our initiatives have been highly regarded, and in fiscal year 2017, as W EB www.jal.com/en/csr/modern-slavery-act.html Opportunities for People with Disabilities in 2016, JAL received a Gold ranking in the Pride rating system, established by work with Pride, an LGBT volunteer group that The JAL Group actively promotes the employment of people with promotes and supports the establishment of LGBT-related diversity As a participating company in the disabilities. Kilatto, a coffee shop run by staff with low-level intellectual United Nation’s Global Compact, management at corporations and other organizations. Cabin attendants perform stretch exercises before flight duty disabilities, operates at the Group’s Haneda and Narita offices and has the JAL Group implements the We will continue working to compact’s Ten Principles for human recently expanded its activities to include temporary operations at JAL deepen understanding of LGBT rights, labor, the environment and Head Office in the Tennozu Building during the summer period when anti-corruption. issues in the JAL Group through Business Outline early morning work is encouraged. such activities as training courses to In addition, in fiscal year 2017, JAL was contracted by the Ministry raise staff awareness and of Health, Labour and Welfare to conduct a program for comprehensive participating in external events. support of teleworking by people with disabilities, which is one of the Ministry’s model programs for developing expertise on teleworking. For the program, JAL increased employment and teleworking opportunities for people with disabilities on a trial basis. Further, as a part of the model program, “inclusive design training” was held for staff members at group companies involved in employment of people with disabilities, Financial / Data Section employees responsible for training staff who frequently interact with customers and other related employees. Going forward, we intend to increase work opportunities for people with disabilities and further establish a workplace environment defined by mutual respect and cooperation regardless of ability or disability. 58 59 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Supply Chain Initiatives Building Strong Partnerships with Suppliers and Building a sustainable supply chain Coexist with the Earth Business Partner Day* Promoting Sustainable Procurement Activities To verify compliance with the JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct, Aviation fuel is one of the key products purchased by our The JAL Group holds annual communication meeting “Business we utilize Sedex Information Exchange Limited (Sedex*1), which we procurement division and many countries are now developing Partner Day” with suppliers, primarily companies that indirectly About the JAL Group With our suppliers joined in 2015. biofuel as a highly effective way of achieving large reductions in provide materials to the Group. The meeting is used as a forum to The JAL Group needs the cooperation and support of many JAL actively utilizes the CSR information platform provided by CO2 emissions. Utilizing biofuel manufactured from city garbage ensure suppliers understand the Group’s basic stance on suppliers to operate its flights and provide products and services to Sedex. Initially, we requested suppliers that provide products used and other waste products, JAL will continue to actively work to procurement and to share information and ideas. In January 2018, customers on a daily basis. As explained below, we are working to directly by our customers, such as inflight meals and merchandise, substantially reduce CO2 emitted by its aircraft and help establish a a total of 48 companies participated in this meeting. build strong partnerships with suppliers based on mutual trust by to become Sedex members, and now in 2018 we are further more recycling-based society. During Business Partner Day, we explain the JAL Group’s basic ensuring fair and transparent procurement activities. Showing our expanding activities and asking a total of 603 suppliers—selected approach to procurement, the JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct appreciation for the work carried out by suppliers is also a key part based on transaction volume regardless of product type or For details on biofuel, refer to P.56, “Utilization of biofuel.” and criteria that have to be met to secure orders. We also of our business relationships. domestic/overseas location—to become a member of Sedex and encourage suppliers to become members of Sedex and talk about Management Strategies Designed to Create Value respond to a self-assessment questionnaire. Procurement Division’s Personnel Training and ways of working with them to optimize the management and Going forward, we intend to conduct supply chain risk Development increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain. Suppliers 1. Fair and transparent procurement assessments based on the results of the self-assessment The JAL Group annually conducts training on the basics of are also invited to join JAL maintenance factory tours to give them a When selecting suppliers, we assess a broad range of questionnaire using Sedex and request improvements as needed of procurement for new members of the Procurement Division with a deeper understanding of the JAL Group. factors, such as the company’s reputation and its suppliers for which it is determined there is a high likelihood of risks focus on transaction ethics and supply chain sustainability, * “Business ‌ Partner Day” are held every year and are organized by the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, in Procurement Division. Similar meetings are also run by the Airport materializing. recurrent training for all members of the Procurement Division and addition to the quality and cost of its products and Operations Division, IT Planning Division and other departments based on By coordinating with suppliers through Sedex, we hope to training on international procurement standards with outside their areas of specialization. services and delivery performance. We also work to ensure fair and transparent procurement activities by contribute to the attainment of the SDGs and help resolve other instructors in order to further educate and develop our procurement offering numerous opportunities for many suppliers in issues facing society. In addition, as an Official Airline Partner of the professionals. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Japan and overseas to do business with the JAL Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, we also intend to In addition, JAL’s Procurement Division is taking the lead in Group. actively promote initiatives based on the Sustainable Sourcing workstyle innovation and creating a workplace that allows diverse 2. To provide safe and reliable services to customers Code*2. personnel to excel. JAL was selected from among a number of To ensure sense of security to customers when they *1 ‌Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a non-profit organization escompanies for The GEP Procurement Team Award at the World board our flights, we are cultivating a culture with our tablished in the U.K. in 2004 that provides a platform for managing and Procurement Awards 18 held by Procurement Leaders,* a global suppliers to put top priority on safety and conduct sharing corporate ethical information with the aim of ensuring responsible business practices on supply chains. procurement network. rigorous quality management to offer the finest *2 ‌A set of guidelines established by the The Tokyo Organising Committee of * ‌One of the world’s largest procurement networks with over 700 global corhospitality. the Olympic and Paralympic Games to ensure that services truly necessary porations participating 3. Promoting procurement based on CSR for the Olympics Games are procured while considering not only economic rationality but fairness, transparency and other ethical principles as well and We are working with suppliers to promote procurealso to ensure procurement takes adequate account of sustainability issues. ment activities in line with the JAL Group CSR Policy. A communication meeting for suppliers Specific initiatives are aimed at legal compliance, protecting the global environment, respecting human Supplier Satisfaction Survey View supplier data rights, appropriate labor practices, fair business and monitor improveThe JAL Group administered a supplier satisfaction survey to 48 Business Outline practices and responding to consumer issues. Build mutual ments understanding companies in February 2018 in order to confirm that procurement and trust Provide CSR data activities are being conducted fairly and transparently. The survey based on internaJAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct tional standards* found that suppliers both understand and support the JAL Group’s We established the JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct in April fair and transparent practices. Some suppliers also indicated a desire 2016. The code, which is available in Japanese, English, and for improved communication with Procurement Division members. Chinese, is based on the principles of the United Nations Global Suppliers Ceremony for the Procurement Team Award 18 Based on these findings, we will continue to carry out training and Provide CSR data, Compact and covers four key areas: (1) human rights, (2) health submit reports on other programs for Procurement Division staff. improvements and safety, (3) business management, and (4) the environment. We ask all our suppliers to understand and comply with the Supplier Financial / Data Section Evaluate CSR activities, Code of Conduct. advise improvements, monitor progress JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct * ‌International standards: ISO 14001, SA 8000, OHSAS 18001, Ethical Trading W EB www.jal.com/en/outline/client/ Initiative (ETI) Base Code, etc. 60 61 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 Regional Contribution Activities JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT Support for Disaster Relief and Recovery Efforts TOPICS JAL is assisting regions across Japan to discover, commercialize and Developing the Next Generation About the JAL Group market hidden tourist spots and distinctive regional products. JAL will continue to fulfill its role as a company responsible for Specifically, we not only promote popular local delicacies through our Japan’s air transport infrastructure by providing support to affected through Sports inflight magazine, website and inflight meals, but also promote flows areas in the relief and recovery phases after a large-scale disaster. JAL is conducting various projects under the theme “Developing Sports Ability Evaluation Workshops of goods and people to the relevant regions through tourism the Next Generation through Sports.” The projects are By measuring six different sports abilities with the latest special promotion and the Sixth-Sector Industrialization of agricultural, forest Post-disaster phase – Relief phase conducted nationwide to support children, who will be the measurement devices, each participant is told which of the 64 and fishery products*. Our ultimate aim is to realize sustainable JAL cooperates in the transport of relief supplies and volunteers to leaders of the future, in making their dreams come true and sports best suits his or her strength and in which sport that regional development and create new demand for air travel. affected areas in the event of a large-scale disaster as a member of promoting discovery and learning. strength can be applied effectively. JAL plans to hold workshops the Joint Committee for Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Management Strategies Designed to Create Value at all 47 prefectures by 2020 to enable children from across Disaster Relief. We aim to support flows of people and goods such “Asuchalle” School Japan to discover their potential and have goals or dreams to as emergency relief supplies and contribute to a swift recovery of JAL has been providing all-round support to the Challenge For work towards the affected areas. Tomorrow School visiting program “Asuchalle” sponsored by the Nippon Foundation Paralympic Support Center since April Discovering the Next Generation of Paralympic Recovery phase 2017. This program was launched by the Center in April 2016 Athletes In addition to providing economic support to affected areas such as (Iwate Prefecture x Johoji lacquerware x Inflight magazine SKYWARD and provides elementary, junior and high school students with By contacting our special e-mail address, we send staff to hold JAL Joint Development): Japanese sake promoting industrial development and tourism demand, we feel pitcher and cup set hands-on para-sport experiences with Paralympic athletes and a Sports Ability Evaluation Workshop using the special that providing emotional support to the residents in affected areas * To ‌ comprehensively and integrally promote agriculture, forestry and opportunities to listen to their experiences. It is a forum where measurement devices mentioned above. We have made steady fisheries (primary industry 1), the manufacturing industry (secondary is also our important duty. Based on this idea, we assist with children learn the value of having dreams and goals, and the progress in this activity, as we have been contacted by 73 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation industry 2) and the retail business (tertiary industry 3) and create new added-value by using regional resources. 1+2+3=6 th sector industry. publicity of regional products in collaboration with prefectural importance of removing barriers in society and respecting people, evaluated some of them and referred to the relevant governments and conduct staff study tours in affected areas to diversity. With JAL’s sponsorship, the wheelchairs and staff paralympic sports association. JAL will continue to work for support recovery. involved in the forums are transported by air. In fiscal year Japan’s growth into a caring society. 2017, forums were held for 42,741 children at 263 schools and tour goal is 200,000 children at 1,000 schools by the year 2020. Nurturing the Next Generation JAL Next Athlete Project Launched in April 2017, the JAL Next Athlete Project is built on two pillars; Sports Ability Evaluation Workshops and Discovering the Next Generation of Paralympic Athletes. JAL SORAIKU ® JAL Factory Tour – SKY MUSEUM Business Outline JAL Factory Tour – SKY MUSEUM is run at the JAL Maintenance JAL SORAIKU® is a program which features hands-on programs Center adjacent to Haneda Airport. The tours are free and give unique to JAL. It aims at nurturing the next generation by giving visitors the opportunity to learn about the various types of jobs in an children insight into the wonders of the sky and encouraging them airline and observe aircraft maintenance services at close distance. to think about their future. We target a total of one million The SKY MUSEUM attracted over 130,000 visitors in fiscal year 2017. participants by the end of fiscal year 2020. JAL Paper Plane Classes JAL Paper Plane Classes are held by approximately 1,300 JAL Group staff Content of JAL SORAIKU® volunteers, who are certified instructors by the Japan Origami Airplane ● JAL Factory Tour – SKY MUSEUM Financial / Data Section Association. In fiscal year 2017, a total of 33,121 people attended these ● JAL Paper Plane Classes ● JAL Sky Eco Classes classes. The JAL Origami Plane World Competition will be held in 2020. ● JAL Career Talk for Students ● JAL Safety Demonstrations by Cabin Attendants ● JAL Job Interview Simulation for Students Scenes from Challenge For Scenes from Sports Ability Evaluation The disabled can also participate in a Sports Ability Evaluation Workshop. ● JAL STEAM SCHOOL Tomorrow School Workshops 62 63 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OF FICERS Directors Yoshiharu Ueki Yuji Akasaka Tadashi Fujita Norikazu Saito About the JAL Group Representative Director, Representative Director, President Representative Director, Executive Director, Senior Managing Chairman Chairman of the Management Committee, Vice President Executive Officer Chairman of the Council for Group Safety Aide to the President, General Manager of the Enhancement, Chief Wellness Officer, Finance & Accounting Chairman of the Corporate Brand Promotion Chairman of the JAL Wellness Division Council, Promotion Committee Chairman of the JAL Philosophy Committee Masatoshi Ito Eizo Kobayashi Sonoko Hacchoji Hideki Kikuyama Toshinori Shin Shinichiro Shimizu External Director External Director External Director Director, Senior Managing Director, Senior Managing Director, Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer, General Manager of the General Manager of the General Manager, Managing Division Route Flight Operations Division, Secretary’s Office Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Marketing Safety General Manager A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Business Outline Financial / Data Section 64 65 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of July 1, 2018) (As of July 1, 2018) Yoshiharu Ueki From his start as a pilot, Chairman Ueki has accumulated extremely high levels of frontline experience and knowledge on flight safety. As Representative Director and President since 2012, he oversaw the Hisao Taguchi Mr. Taguchi has served in various departments, including sales, personnel affairs and About the JAL Group Representative Director, Chairman preparation of the Medium Term Management Plan and accomplished the Plan through .his strong flight operations. He was appointed Executive Officer and CEO for the Americas Audit & Supervisory Board leadership and decision-making capabilities. He brings his experience and expertise to the Board in Office in April 2007 and Executive Vice President in February 2010. He has been a Member strengthening its supervisory function as a member of the Nominating Committee, Compensation member of the Audit & Supervisory Board since February 2012. Committee and other committees. Junko Okawa Ms. Okawa acquired first-hand experience and insight as a cabin attendant, and from 2010, as General Manager, Cabin Attendants Division, she accomplished various divisional tasks and goals drawing on her Vice Chairman strong managerial perspective and high performance ability. Currently, as Vice Chairman overseeing JAL Oversees JAL SDGs SDGs, she contributes significantly to promoting business in harmony with the environment and society in order to help bring about a sustainable society. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Yuji Akasaka President Akasaka served mainly in Engineering & Maintenance Division and acquired very high levels of frontline experience and insight into flight safety. He also gained extensive knowledge and a network of Representative Director, President connections in the airline maintenance industry. He brought his strong leadership and decision-making Yasushi Suzuka During his career at JAL, Mr. Suzuka has engaged primarily in maintenance Chairman of the Management Committees, operations such as maintenance planning and engineering. He has made a capabilities to JAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD. as President since 2014 and strengthened the basis for flight Audit & Supervisory Board Chairman of the Council for Group Safety Enhancement, substantial contribution to the Board with his extensive insight into production. A safety. Member Chairman of the Corporate Brand Promotion Council, member of JAL’s Audit and Supervisory Board since July 2012, he is also chairperson Chairman of the JAL Philosophy Committee of the Japan SAP Users’ Group. Tadashi Fujita Executive Vice President Fujita worked in sales departments at Head Office and branch offices in Osaka, Okinawa, Paris and other regions. As Executive Officer of the Managing Division Passenger Sales, he had Representative Director, Executive Vice President overall responsibility for all Profit Centers and achieved strong results. Currently, while performing the Aide to the President, duties of Representative Director and Executive Vice President, he also serves as Aide to the President. He Chief Wellness Officer, brings his experience and expertise to the Board in further reinforcing and enhancing management. Chairman of the JAL Wellness Promotion Committee A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Norikazu Saito Director Saito has specialized for many years primarily in finance and accounting, constantly deepening his Shinji Hatta Professor Hatta is an authority on financial auditing theory and corporate internal knowledge of finance, accounting, IR, and other fields. In his current position as Director, Senior Managing control and has served as an External Auditor for JAL since July 2012. He also serves Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer and General Manager of the Finance and Accounting Division, he brings his prowess and Audit & Supervisory Board General Manager of the Finance & Accounting as Professor at Ohara Graduate School of Accounting, Professor Emeritus at Aoyama competencies to the Board to assure highly transparent information disclosure that is comprehensible to Member Division (Independent External Gakuin University, external auditor for the Development Bank of Japan Inc. and a shareholders and investors and precise management decisions that support shareholders’ interests. Auditor) council member on the Japanese government’s Financial Services Agency Business Accounting Council, among other positions. Hideki Kikuyama Director Kikuyama engaged in work ranging from IT systems, passenger reservations, and human resources and industrial affairs to corporate planning at Head Office and branch offices in Osaka, the U.S. and other Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer regions. Currently as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of the Managing General Manager of the Managing Division Division Route Marketing, he brings his experience and expertise to the Board in improving and stabilizing Route Marketing route profitability in a precise and effective manner. Toshinori Shin Director Shin acquired high levels of frontline experience and expertise on safe operations, etc. as a pilot. Today, as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, General Manager of the Flight Operations Division Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer and Safety General Manager, he brings his know-how and capabilities to the Board to strengthen Osamu Kamo Since his certification as an attorney in April 1973, Mr. Kamo has accumulated General Manager of the Flight Operations Division, management of the Group’s safety initiatives and reach appropriate decisions on important safety measures extensive experience and expertise in compliance and corporate governance. He has Safety General Manager Audit & Supervisory Board and investments at Board meetings and other meetings. served as an External Auditor for JAL since June 2016. He also serves as an attorney Member for the Ginza Sogo Law Firm, committee chairperson for CHANS (Office for Business Outline (Independent External Shinichiro Shimizu Director Shimizu successively engaged in personnel and industrial affairs related to cockpit crew, Auditor) Government Procurement Challenge System, under the jurisdiction of the Japanese cabin attendants and other divisions and exercised strong leadership and planning and Cabinet Office), and External Auditor for Azearth Corporation, among other Director, Managing Executive Officer, positions. coordination capabilities. As General Manager of Human Resources since 2013 and the General Manager, Secretary’s Office Secretary’s Office since 2016, he is making considerable contributions to improving and stabilizing JAL’s presence through precise evaluation of JAL’s position from a high perspective. Eizo Kobayashi External Director Kobayashi provides the Board with sound direction and advice based on his experience and expertise as top management of a general trading company. He also serves as Senior Representative Independent External Director for Business Community Relations of ITOCHU Corporation, External Director of OMRON Corporation and External Director of Japan Exchange Group, Inc., among other capacities. Shinsuke Kubo After joining Sanwa & Co. Tokyo Marunouchi Office (current Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC), Mr. Kubo cultivated extensive experience and achievements and Audit & Supervisory Board Masatoshi Ito External Director Ito has rich experience and deep insight acquired as top management of global gained deep insight into accounting through his involvement in many corporate Member audits, share listings, corporate reorganization proceedings, M&A deals and other Financial / Data Section enterprises engaged in marketing from the customers’ perspectives, offering the Board appropriate (Independent External Independent External Director supervision and advice from practical and multilateral perspectives. He also serves as Representative projects. He has served as an External Auditor for JAL since June 2018, as well as Auditor) Director and Chairman of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., President of the Japan Advertisers Association Inc. and Managing Partner of Kyoei Accounting Office and Representative Director of Japan External Director of Yamaha Corporation, among other capacities. Enterprise Sustainable Transformation Advisory Co., Ltd., among other positions. Sonoko Hacchoji External Director Hacchoji draws on extensive experience in financial product development, loans and risk management at banks, customer-centric marketing and management strategy in hotel management and Independent External Director education reforms at universities to oversee and provide advice to the Board from diverse perspectives. She also serves as External Director of Nisshin Steel Co., Ltd. and Special Advisor to the President and Chief Strategy Officer of Tsuda University. 66 67 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EXTERNAL DIRECTORS I hope to use my experience at a trading company to support JAL in implementing its growth strategies. It was very clear to me during discussions at Board meetings concerning the Rolling Plan for the Medium Term Management Plan that JAL is serious about tackling management issues guided by the JAL Philosophy. About the JAL Group During our review of the Medium Term Management Plan, various problems were placed on the table without exception and we held frank and open discussions. As we are allowed to share problems from an external perspective with the Board members, we offer Eizo Kobayashi candid views from the perspectives of common sense and different industries. I believe this External Director contributes to engaging and meaningful discussions of a higher level than I have seen at April 1972 Joined ITOCHU Corporation June 2004 President and Chief Executive Officer of other companies. Taking into account the unpredictable operating environment of the JAL ITOCHU Corporation April 2010 Chairman of the Board of ITOCHU Group, I feel that it is highly recommendable to hold substantial discussions such as those Corporation at JAL Board meetings. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value July External Audit & Supervisory Board Corporate governance that actively draws on external perspectives Member of Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Company JAL tends to take a somewhat cautious approach when tackling management issues, which might reflect the very painful period it went through in the past. The business June 2011 Director Chairman of ITOCHU The JAL Group has three External Directors, who supervise Group management from an Corporation environment is currently buoyant due to the steep rise in inbound visitors to Japan. The June 2013 External Director of OMRON Corporaexternal perspective and provide appropriate advice. In this section, the External Directors tion (to date) biggest issue currently facing JAL is how to change the thinking of every staff, from top June 2015 External Director of Japan Airlines Co., present their views and recommendations such as their evaluation or expectations towards the Ltd. (to date) June 2016 Chairman of ITOCHU Corporation management right down to frontline staff, and implement the next growth strategies. Technology, human resources and other business resources will be needed, but what is JAL Group. External Director of Japan Exchange Group, Inc. (to date) necessary at this stage is to forge partnerships domestically and internationally in areas April 2018 Senior Representative for Business Community Relations of ITOCHU where resources are not immediately available and collaborate in order to seek “the best Corporation (to date) for all” with partners, instead of “the best for one” company alone. Building these I will use my frontline experience in other industries and user partnerships will be challenging, but as I have extensive experience in forming domestic A Business Base that Supports Value Creation perspective to contribute to increasing corporate value of the and international partnerships, I would like to provide advice through the Board of JAL Group. Directors based on my knowledge. I assumed the position of External Director in June 2018. Since starting work after graduation, I built a career in the financial sector for over 30 years and the hotel sector for I have confidence in JAL’s Board effectiveness as seen in open, nearly 10 years. In both sectors, I dealt with new business launches such as financial in-depth discussions and execution of the succession plan. product development and business development, that is, wildcat businesses rather than cash cows. I gained experience in controlling, so to say, the accelerator and brake in an JAL has a corporate culture which allows open discussion, facilitates information-sharing Sonoko Hacchoji unknown world. But the upside was that I had opportunities to interact with various and encourages frank opinions. I think this comes from its history of overcoming difficulties External Director business partners, take notice of different corporate cultures and listen to the views and and a forward-looking attitude to create a new company. During discussions by the Board April 1972 Joined The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited decisions of management and staff. Although learned a little bit of everything, I realized about the Medium Term Management Plan, I also felt a culture of meticulousness. The November1993 Director, Vice President of IBJ International plc, a U.K. securities subsidiary of that although Japanese companies appear to be the same on the surface, many different members first exchanged views and then held repeated discussions, while going back to Business Outline The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited values, perspectives and ways of thinking existed within. any concerns for verification. Furthermore, at Board meetings, the directors do not merely June 1997 Deputy Manager and Associate Director, Market Risk Management Office of The I hope my knowledge would be useful to the JAL Group, which upholds the slogan Masatoshi Ito listen to explanations but also hold dialogs with the External Directors. In addition to the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited External Director March 2002 Executive Officer, General Manager of “Challenge, Leading to Growth” in its new Medium Term Management Plan towards directors, External Auditors actively present their views, resulting in highly effective Board. Information Equipment Business DepartApril 1971 Joined Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ment of IBJ Leasing Company, Limited, realizing the JAL Vision. One of JAL’s management issues is the importance of possessing a long-term April 2003 Representative Director, President of a domestic subsidiary of The Industrial Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. Bank of Japan, Limited Working on the frontline in other industries was rewarding at times and exhausting perspective. The Medium Term Management Plan is a rolling three-year plan, but given the June 2009 Representative Director, President & April 2004 Senior Consultant of The Kyoritsu Risk at other times. But it was always clear to me that the thoughts and efforts that frontline Chief Executive Officer of Ajinomoto large amount of investment required in the airline industry, three years is too short a time Management Co., Ltd. Co., Inc. January 2006 Director and General Manager, Adminisworkers including myself put into products and services had a major impact on corporate June 2015 Representative Director & Chairman of to verify the results. We need to have a 10-year perspective. Another issue is stakeholder tration Div. of Yuki Management & the Board of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (to Research Co., Ltd. value. Most importantly, I learned that when frontline workers and management aligned engagement with your shareholders, customers, partner airlines and other stakeholders. Up present) April 2008 Non-executive Internal Auditor of Aetos mental vectors, corporate value could be maximized. February 2016 Chairman of the JAA Council, Japan till now, JAL has been focused on revitalizing the company. Going forward, I feel that the Japan, LLC Advertisers Association Inc. (to present) Financial / Data Section April 2009 Executive Officer of Fujita Kanko Inc. JAL works faithfully to penetrate the JAL Philosophy into frontlines each day. It acts as June External Director of Japan Airlines Co., Group needs to deepen stakeholder engagement to adapt to the rapidly changing March 2010 Director and Executive Officer of Fujita ltd. (to date) Kanko Inc. the source of energy for every staff in his or her performance of job duties. I have high operating environment. The consumer goods company where I previously worked for faced June External Director of Yamaha CorporaMarch 2011 Managing Director and Managing hopes that the JAL Philosophy will contribute significantly to aligning the mental vectors of tion (to date) similar issues. Therefore, I feel my experience will be useful in this area. Executive Officer of Fujita Kanko Inc. March 2015 Advisor to Fujita Kanko Inc. frontlines and management. JAL’s new President was appointed through the execution of the succession plan by June 2016 External Director of Nisshin Steel Co., Ltd. (to date) I still have much to learn about the airline industry, but I will keep in mind my the Nominating Committee, which I chaired, including other External Directors and April 2017 Special Advisor to the President and experiences as an aircraft user at different stages of my life and use the experience gained directors. The Committee organized the requirements of the succession plan, interviewed Chief Strategy Officer of Tsuda University (to date) by shifting industries to fulfill my role as External Director and help increase JAL’s corporate the candidates and checked their views as President and other points. This process took June 2018 External Director of Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (to date) value as it pursues its growth strategies. some time, but functioned effectively. 68 69 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic Stance on Corporate Governance for the positions of Director, Corporate Auditor, and Executive Officer, External Directors are appointed from among persons with vast standpoint, with the cooperation of internal audit departments and decides their remuneration, and makes important decisions. knowledge and experience in various fields in order to ensure diversity. accounting auditors. The JAL Group aims to contribute to society through its business In order to separate the management oversight function and Those who do not qualify as highly independent as defined by the About the JAL Group operations. As the leading company for safety in Japan’s transport business executive functions, the Board appoints a Director who does “Standards for Independence of External Directors” (described below) Establishment of Various Committees sector, we work to ensure safe operations – the cornerstone of our not serve concurrently as an Executive Officer as Chairperson, and an established by the Company are not appointed. Furthermore, one Corporate Governance Committee (Chairperson: Eizo business – while offering the highest level of service to customers. We appropriate number of three or more External Directors who qualify as External Director among the External Directors is appointed Lead Kobayashi, Lead Independent External Director) also endeavor to fulfill our economic responsibility to all stakeholders by highly independent to provide appropriate advice. Independent External Director to improve coordination with the The Corporate Governance Committee inspects initiatives under the JAL generating an adequate level of profits through the provision of In order to carry out efficient decision-making, the board may Corporate Auditors and internal divisions. Group Fundamental Policies at least once a year, conducts analyses and high-quality products and services based on fair competition, while also delegate decision-making concerning matters set forth in the evaluations to verify whether they contribute to sustainable growth and meeting our wider responsibilities to society. Administrative Authority Criteria Table to the President pursuant to Board of Corporate Auditors enhancement of corporate value in the medium to long term, and provides In line with this thinking, we have established the JAL Philosophy Regulations for Kessai (written approval) and Administrative Authority The Board of Corporate Auditors makes appropriate judgments from an necessary recommendations and reports to the Board of Directors. The Management Strategies Designed to Create Value in accordance with the JAL Group Corporate Policy, “The JAL Group will approved by the board. The Management Committee has been established independent, objective perspective, based on their fiduciary committee comprises three External Directors (Eizo Kobayashi, Masatoshi pursue the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, deliver for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and flexible decision-making responsibilities to the shareholders, when fulfilling their roles and Ito and Sonoko Hacchoji) in addition to Chairperson Yoshiharu Ueki. unparalleled service to our customers, and increase corporate value and concerning management issues by the Board of Directors and the President. responsibilities, such as auditing the execution of Directors’ duties, contribute to the betterment of society.” We will strive to enhance The Board of Directors has established the Corporate Governance appointing or dismissing accounting auditors and executing rights Nominating Committee corporate value and achieve accountability by establishing a corporate Committee, which comprises the Chairperson of the Board and External concerning auditors’ remuneration. (Chairperson: Masatoshi Ito, External Director) governance system that results in a high level of management Directors, to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors with When submitting a proposal to the General Meeting of Shareholders transparency and strong management oversight, while at the same time reference to self-evaluations by each Director once a year, review the Corporate Auditors concerning the appointment of candidates to the positions of Director and engaging in speedy and appropriate management decision-making. operation, and so forth, of the board appropriately, and disclose a The Corporate Auditors monitor important matters concerning corporate Corporate Auditor, the Nominating Committee makes a comprehensive The Board of Directors has established corporate governance that summary of its findings. management, business operations and the execution of duties by reviewing judgment of the personality, knowledge, ability, experience and A Business Base that Supports Value Creation adheres to the Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance as a key set important Kessai (written approval) documents, as well as participating in performance of the candidate in response to inquiries from the Board of of rules subsequent to the Companies Act, relevant laws and regulations, Directors board meetings and other important meetings. Furthermore, the Corporate Directors and reports back to the board. The Nominating Committee also and the Articles of Incorporation, and reviews it at least once a year. Legal considerations are explained to the Directors to ensure that they Auditors, together with staff members of the Corporate Auditors Office, continually discusses potential successors to the president and other are aware of their responsibilities, including the “fiduciary duty of conduct an annual audit of each business site, subsidiary and affiliated company leaders responsible for reforming the Group and driving growth Corporate Governance System loyalty” and the “duty of ensuring prudent management.” The term of company and report the results to the Representative Directors. They also in order to ensure the Corporate Policy and management strategies are office is set at one year in order to confirm their accountability each share information with the internal audit departments and accounting maintained, and reports on these discussions to Directors. The committee Board of Directors fiscal year. The Company has also introduced a remuneration system for auditors and hold regular meetings with Corporate Auditors of subsidiaries comprises three External Directors (Eizo Kobayashi, Masatoshi Ito and The Board of Directors ensures a high level of management transparency Directors (excluding External Directors) based on sound financial to improve and strengthen auditing of the JAL Group. Sonoko Hacchoji), Chairperson Yoshiharu Ueki and President Yuji Akasaka. and strong management oversight through the election of candidates incentives designed to promote sustained growth. The Corporate Auditors are provided with the means to acquire a sufficient understanding of their required roles and responsibilities Compensation Committee through the provision of corporate information and opportunities for (Chairperson: Eizo Kobayashi, External Director) Corporate Governance System regular participation in external training and external associations, and The Compensation Committee discusses matters concerning the so forth, for which the Company bears the necessary expenses. amounts of compensation paid to Directors, Executive Officers and Business Outline General Meeting of Shareholders Eternal Corporate Auditors are appointed from among persons Corporate Auditors based on requests from the Board of Directors and Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/ Appointment/ with vast knowledge and experience in various fields, and those who do reports back to the board. The Compensation Committee members are Dismissal Dismissal not qualify as highly independent as defined by the “Standards for the same as the Nominating Committee members. Auditing Board of Audit & Board of Directors Supervisory Board Members Independence of External Directors” (described below) established by Appointment/Dismissal/ Appointment/Dismissal/ Report Corporate Governance Committee the Company are not appointed. Eternal Corporate Auditors ensure Personnel Committee (Chairperson: Yuji Akasaka, President) Instruction/Command Instruction/Delegation of Authority Recommendation Nominating Committee Advisory CollaboReport sound management by conducting audits from a neutral and objective When appointing or dismissing an Executive Officer, the Board of Directors President Management Committee Compensation Committee ration Recommendation Personnel Committee Officers Disciplinary Committee Composition of Voluntary Committees Accounting Auditor Financial Audit Representative Financial / Data Section Group Earnings JAL Group Council for Corporate Brand Management The Chairperson◎ Director, Chairperson External Director External Director External Director Announcement Philosophy Safety Enhancement Promotion Liaison Audit Collaboration Director, President Collaboration Session Council General Meeting Council Committee Board Member○ Yoshiharu Ueki Yuji Akasaka Eizo Kobayashi Masatoshi Ito Sonoko Hacchoji Report Significant Instruction/ Group Operational Tokyo 2020 Risk Management Committee Corporate Governance Committee ○ ◎ ○ ○ Delegation of Authority Safety Promotion Olympic and CSR Committee Financial Risk Committee Issues Legal Advisors Committee Paralympic Promotion Investment Monitoring Committee Guidance/Advice Nominating Committee ○* ○ ○ ◎ ○ Committee JAL Wellness Promotion Committee Compensation Committee ○* ○ ◎ ○ ○ Executive Officers Board Personnel Committee ○* ◎ ○ ○ ○ Departments and Subsidiaries Officers Disciplinary Committee ○* ○ ◎ ○ ○ *As a Director 70 71 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE consults the Personnel Committee and takes the Personnel Committee’s during the Company’s next stage under a new president and new Training Policy for Directors and Corporate * ‌This amount excludes allowances in cases where an Executive Officer serves response into account before making a decision. The Personnel Committee management team, it was found that the board needs to increase its Auditors concurrently as a Director or where an Executive Officer has representative authority. members are the same as the Nominating Committee members. discussions on the Company’s long-term vision, growth strategies and About the JAL Group risk management, further instill a shareholder’s perspective within the Legal considerations are explained to the Directors to ensure that they Framework for Incentive Remuneration Officers Disciplinary Committee Group as whole, including the Board of Directors, enhance training for are aware of their responsibilities, including the “fiduciary duty of 1. Annual incentives (performance-linked bonuses) (Chairperson: Eizo Kobayashi, External Director) Directors, and create a training and development program for the next loyalty” and the “duty of ensuring prudent management.” The The amount to be paid every fiscal year as an annual incentive will Any disciplinary action imposed on Directors or Executive Officers is generation of Directors. The Company intends to steadily carry out these Company provides opportunities for Corporate Auditors to sufficiently vary from approximately 0 to 200 depending on the degree of determined by the Officers Disciplinary Committee. The Officers and other related initiatives going forward. understand their roles and responsibilities by providing corporate achievement, with 100 representing the amount to be paid when Disciplinary Committee members are the same as the Nominating information and opportunities for participation in external training achievement is in line with performance targets. The indices for Committee members. Standards for Independence of External Directors programs and associations, the cost of which is covered by the Company. evaluating performance will include net profit attributable to owners To give External Directors and Corporate Auditors a deeper Management Strategies Designed to Create Value of parent, indicators related to safe flight operations and individual Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of We have set out the following standards to determine whether External understanding of the Company’s operations, they are encouraged to evaluation indices for each director. These indicators will be reviewed Directors Directors qualify as independent (in principle, a person to whom none participate in internal meetings and opportunities are created for as necessary in accordance with changes in business conditions, the of the following apply shall be judged to be independent). workplace inspection tours and discussions on key issues. roles of directors and other factors. Under its Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance, every year the 2. ‌Long-term incentives (performance-linked shareJAL Group assesses the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and 1. ‌A person who executes or has executed business in the Company or Remuneration Policy for Directors (excluding based remuneration) appropriately reviews its functioning while making reference to a consolidated subsidiary during the past 10 years. External Directors) and Executive Officers The number of shares to be granted every fiscal year as a long-term evaluations of individual Directors and other resources. The effectiveness 2. ‌A person who could be described by any of items a~f during the past incentive will vary from approximately 0 to 220 depending on the of the Board of Directors was assessed this year for the third time; three years. Basic Policy degree of achievement, with 100 representing the number to be details are as follows. a. A ‌ business counterpart or a person executing business for a 1. To ‌ support the sustainable and steady growth of the Company and the granted when achievement is in line with performance targets. The A Business Base that Supports Value Creation business counterpart whose transactions with the Company for one JAL Group and to increase corporate value over the medium and long performance evaluation period will be three years, with performance Assessment Process business year exceeded 1% of the consolidated revenue of the term, the Company will encourage the performance of duties consistent for three consecutive fiscal years evaluated every year. The indices for The prior two assessments consisted only of questionnaires, but for the Company or the business counterpart. with its Corporate Policy and management strategies and provide strong evaluating performance will be items prioritized in the Medium Term most recent assessment, the third conducted thus far, a questionnaire b. ‌A major shareholder of the Company or a person executing business for incentives for the achievement of specific management targets. Management Plan, including consolidated operating profit margin, was combined with an interview in order to review initiatives to enhance a shareholder holding an equity ratio of 5% or more in the Company. 2. To ‌ encourage a healthy entrepreneurial spirit, the Company will establish consolidated ROIC and customer satisfaction. These items will be governance that came out of the previous effectiveness assessments c. ‌A major lender to the Company or a person executing business for appropriate proportions for annual incentives (performancelinked considered for review in every medium term management plan period. and to make further improvements to governance. In addition, the such a lender. bonuses) linked to fiscal year performance and for long-term incentives With respect to common stock granted to eligible Directors and interviews were performed by an independent organization in order to d. ‌A person who receives over 10 million yen in donations annually from the (performance-linked share-based remuneration) linked to corporate value Executive Officers through the share-based remuneration plan, the maintain anonymity. Company, or a person belonging to an entity receiving such donations. in accordance with mediumto long-term performance, designed to Company will establish a target number of held shares for each The primary items for assessment on the questionnaire were the e. ‌A person receiving remuneration of over 10 million yen, excluding promote alignment of interests with its shareholders. position and impose limits on share sales in order to further promote composition, operation, culture, supervision and discussion about Director’s remuneration, from the Company or a person belonging to an 3. The ‌ Company will reward the management team appropriately based on the aligning of interests with shareholders. management strategies by the board. Additionally, the interview organization receiving remuneration exceeding 1% of the consolidated the Company’s business performance. focused on questionnaire responses and awareness of problems with revenue of the Company. Procedures for Determining Remuneration Business Outline the board. f. ‌A person executing business for the Company who also executes Remuneration Levels and Composition Matters related to remuneration for Directors and Executive Officers will The independent organization reported to the Board of Directors business for another company as External Director. 1. The ‌ Company will set appropriate remuneration levels based on the be decided by the Board of Directors following a deliberation and on the results of the assessment, and the board then discussed response 3. ‌The spouse or a relative within the second degree of kinship of an Company’s operating environment and with reference to objective data recommendation process by the Company’s voluntarily established measures and its future format. Based on these discussions, the individual described in 1 or 2. on remuneration in the marketplace. Compensation Committee. A majority of the members of the Corporate Governance Committee formulated recommendations that (Note) ‌“A person executing business” refers to an executive director or execu2. Taking ‌ into account factors including the position of the Company’s Compensation Committee will be External Directors and the were then further discussed by the board. As a result of this process, the tive officer. business and the effectiveness of incentive remuneration, the Company Chairperson will be appointed from among the External Directors. board decided on the following initiatives for the future. sets proportions for (1) the amount of fixed basic remuneration*, (2) the Reason for Election of External Directors amount of annual incentives (performance-linked bonuses) to be paid Succession Planning for CEO and Summary of Assessment Results and Initiatives Going Forward according to the degree of achievement against targets, and (3) the Other Senior Management Positions Financial / Data Section It was confirmed that the Board of Directors conducts discussions with During the election process for External Directors, the Company amount of long-term incentives (performancelinked share-based the opinions of External Directors respected by internal Directors, who consistently strives to ensure comprehensive diversity while nominating remuneration) to be issued according to the degree of achievement The Nominating Committee holds continuing discussions on potential have been appointed in a good balance from frontline divisions given candidates with a wealth of experience in various fields who are also against targets, as follows: successors to the president and other company leaders responsible for the importance of flight safety. In addition, External Directors have been equipped with insight, specialized knowledge and other strengths. Guideline in the case of 100% achievement against targets: reforming the Group and driving growth in order to ensure the highly accessible to information as requested, and the roles of External Election of nominees is also based on the Standards for Independence (1) : (2) : (3) = 50% : 30 % : 20% Corporate Policy and management strategies are maintained, and Directors are being appropriately fulfilled through efforts centering on of External Directors presented above. The above ratio is for guidance only and adjustments can be made to reports on these discussions to Directors. the Lead Independent External Director. reflect changes in the price of the Company’s shares or other factors. For the reasons for selection of External Directors, please refer to P.66For key corporate governance data, please refer to P.102-103: ESG Data. At the same time, in order to further increase corporate value 67: Board of Directors and Officers. 72 73 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 COMPLIANCE/RISK MANAGEMENT Promoting Compliance Risk Management 5. Financial Risk Committee Business Continuity Plan (BCP) The Financial Risk Committee is chaired by the Executive Officer To respond to specific risks that threaten our ability to fulfill our To promote compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and The JAL Group manages risks by dividing them into three of Finance and Accounting and includes the President, Executive responsibilities as a public transport operator such as pandemic About the JAL Group rules governing our corporate activities, we have designated the categories: (1) corporate risks associated with management in Vice President and leaders of relevant departments and divisions. influenza, unidentified infectious diseases or earthquakes, we have General Affairs Department of Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. to oversee all general, excluding risks related to air transportation; (2) operational The Committee identifies financial risks as appropriate and strives established a business continuity plan (BCP) that enables us to compliance matters and are focusing on elevating staff awareness risks associated with aviation safety, aviation security and other to facilitate improvements in corporate management. More continue business effectively in emergency situations based on through various measures. issues related to air transportation; and (3) strategic risks associated specifically, it conducts regular simulations of financial conditions guidelines established in collaboration with regulatory bodies and Every JAL Group staff is encouraged to practice the JAL with business management that may have a material impact on and reviews the results. In the event of a major financial crisis, other relevant institutions. The BCP covers basic matters such as Philosophy in their day-to-day work and can view regulations and corporate revenues and expenditures. large-scale disaster or other major risk-generating event that the policies and procedures necessary to ensure the safety of JAL Group handbooks related to compliance on the Group’s Intranet such as We have established the following five committees in order to Committee expects to exert a large, quantifiable impact on the staff and their families and maintain air transport operations JAL Group Regulations on Preventing Insider Trading, the JAL Group identify, analyze and assess existing risks and implement appropriate Group, it calculates the estimated financial impact and, if Management Strategies Designed to Create Value essential to the JAL Group, including reservations, information Handbook on Protecting Personal Information, Information Security measures to mitigate those risks. necessary, pursues collaborative responses with the Risk provision, payments and settlements. It is reviewed regularly and Action Handbook, Guide to the Antimonopoly Act and Group 1. Risk Management Committee Management Committee. revised as required to improve its application. Hotline Regulations. The Risk Management Committee is headed by the Executive During the outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever in West We have also set up a Group Hotline with contact points in Office of General Affairs, and primarily comprises general Information Security Measures Africa in 2014, we activated our BCP regarding responses to the Company and a law firm, which can be used by any person managers of divisions responsible for managing frontline The JAL Group fell victim to a data security breach in September pandemic influenza or unidentified infectious diseases. We working for the JAL Group. This enables us to promptly identify and departments. The Committee takes responsibility for overall risk 2014. Hackers attacked the JAL Mileage Bank’s systems and gained coordinated our actions with relevant government bodies, remedy cases of misconduct, power harassment and other issues management encompassing corporate risks, operational risks, illegal access to the customer information management system. We developed necessary systems and added the Policy for Handling the and reinforce compliance management. and strategic risks to stabilize Group-wide management deeply regret the inconvenience and concern caused to customers Ebola Virus Disease (International Flights) to our BCP. Furthermore, we are implementing a wide range of initiatives activities. It has also established the JAL Group Basic Policies on and all those affected by this incident. In response, we are To facilitate speedy confirmation of the safety of all JAL Group A Business Base that Supports Value Creation to support this framework. For example, we hold classroom Risk Management. When existing risks are identified, it reports strengthening information security as a top priority issue and taking staff and their families in the event of a large-scale disaster, we compliance training courses for every JAL Group staff at every on the progress of responses and shares information with Group steps to prevent recurrence. introduced a safety confirmation system in 2007. The Group-wide business office, publish quarterly compliance newsletters, arrange management via the Management Liaison Committee. Specifically, information security measures were moved up system was upgraded in 2014 to make safety-related information seminars about laws and regulations organized by the Legal Affairs 2. Information Security Committee ahead of schedule to build a robust system to detect and monitor more readily available. Communication exercises and other drills are Department, conduct practical exercises on how to deal with The Information Security Committee is headed by the Executive increasingly sophisticated and complex cyber-attacks, while conducted regularly throughout the JAL Group to foster staff targeted email attacks and other threats and provide e-learning on Officer of General Affairs and the Executive Officer of IT preventive measures are being continuously upgraded to the awareness of risk management and reinforce preparedness for information security biannually. Through these initiatives, we aim to Planning, and comprises the leaders of relevant departments. highest level. unexpected situations. foster a culture of compliance across the entire JAL Group, ensure The Committee conducts activities specific to information business activities are in tune with accepted social standards and management, upgrades information security measures, and Risk Management System reduce legal risk. strives to reduce corporate risk. In addition, an executive from each JAL Group company is 3. ‌Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting Board of Directors given overall responsibility for compliance at their respective The Corporate Safety and Security Department promotes safety company. These executives comprise the JAL Group Compliance rigorously under the direct control of the President. The Group 執 行役員 President Business Outline Promotion of Safety and Security Network, which is responsible for swiftly sharing relevant Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, with the Council for Safety Enhancement information and strengthening the compliance framework at each Corporate Safety and Security Department serving as Secretariat, Management Liaison Committee General Meeting Group company. This includes sending quarterly email newsletters shares information on safety in daily operations, decides Risk Management Committee containing useful information, such as news about compliance countermeasures, considers important measures related to safety Promotion of Aviation Safety Administration: General Affairs Department (Overall Supervision of Risk management) Financial Risk Committee developments inside and outside the Group and compliance case and checks policies. Safety Management Information Security Committee studies. 4. ‌Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee Security Management Organized as a committee under the Group Council for Safety Corporate Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic Risk Enhancement General Meeting, the Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee maintains and strengthens collaborative, Financial / Data Section safety-related measures among departments, divisions and Group airlines with the aim of enhancing the safety of Group air transport operations as a whole. The Committee comprises the Executive Officer (who serves as Chairperson) of the JAL Operational Safety Promotion Committee, leaders of departments responsible for JAL safety management appointed by the Chairperson and Executive Officers responsible for safety at Group airlines. 74 75 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER OPERATIONS Business Environment for International roll out a service using the messaging app LINE to provide Activities in Fiscal 2018 Products and services Passenger Operations passengers with real-time flight information. This will form part of a We will further promote the introduction of JAL SKY SUITErange of measures to allow all customers to use our services with Route network configured aircraft. In addition, to ensure that we satisfy overseas About the JAL Group With the Japanese economy of recent years showing a long-term trend sense of security. In addition to flexible increases in flight schedules in response to customers, we are introducing multilingual options in our inflight toward moderate recovery, the number of outbound passengers from customer trends—for instance on the Kansai = Honolulu, Narita = entertainment systems and reviewing catering menus in our lounge Japan has also seen a positive development. Internationally, economic Review of Fiscal 2017 Guam and Narita = Bangkok routes— we are also successively facilities. These and other measures in pursuit of comfort and development and population growth in Asia have led to surging rolling out codesharing with Hawaiian Airlines and other new convenience are designed to offer services that will be actively demand for inbound travel to Japan, and passenger numbers are Updating of passenger service system partners. chosen by customers worldwide. expected to show further growth in the future. In November 2017, we updated our passenger service system to The Japanese government has set a target of attracting 40 provide a platform for future growth. This update, which includes million overseas visitors to Japan in 2020, and a range of initiatives an improved website interface for overseas customers, will Management Strategies Designed to Create Value are under way in preparation for this expansion in inbound travel. contribute to increased customer convenience. Additionally, by Meanwhile, a large number of events with an international introducing a world standard system, we will position ourselves to TOPICS audience are due to be held in Japan, including the Rugby World further strengthen collaboration with partner airlines, such as Cup and the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. expanding codesharing. JAL and Hawaiian Airlines Apply for Antitrust Law Immunity Additionally, an expansion of capacity at Tokyo’s metropolitan In June 2018, Hawaiian Airlines and JAL filed applications with In September 2017, JAL and Hawaiian Airlines reached airports is scheduled to take place by 2020, offering an opportunity Route network the U.S. Department of Transportation and Japan’s Ministry of agreement on a comprehensive business partnership and began for major growth in international passenger operations. On the We added a new Narita = Melbourne route and a Narita = Kona Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism seeking immunity operation of codeshare flight in March 2018. Once antitrust other hand, the growth in low-cost carriers serving the Japanese route in September 2017 and increased flights on the Haneda = from the antitrust law. immunity has been granted, the two sides will enter a closer market has continued, which is expected to result in intensifying London route in October 2017 with an additional late-night JAL and Hawaiian Airlines will begin the joint business on collaboration which will allow rapid enhancement of their route A Business Base that Supports Value Creation competition. departure. By expanding our network in this way, we increased Japan = Hawaii routes once the relevant antitrust immunity has networks, product and service quality, and other areas. Going convenience for customers worldwide by offering more options. been granted. Currently, the two sides are preparing for the forward, we will continue to offer customers services of high Growth Strategy Toward further expansion of our network, we have reached start of the joint business by holding discussions on a wide convenience and quality. agreements with Vietjet, Vistara, Hawaiian Airlines, Aeromexico and range of issues, including sales, airport operations, IT and (1) L‌ everaging our hub airports at Narita and Haneda Aeroflot Russian Airlines, which will lead to the launch of concrete customer service. Hawaiian Airlines and collaboration with worldwide partners, we will alliances. Now in its 89th year of continuous service, Hawaiian Airlines build a network contributing to global exchange. is Hawaii’s biggest and longest-serving airline. Hawaiian We aim to increase customer convenience by improving our route Products and services Airlines offers non-stop service to Hawaii from 11 U.S. network, including addressing an expected increase in demand for Toward expansion of the number of routes operated with JAL SKY gateway cities, along with direct services to and from Japan, connections for flights originating in North America and Southeast SUITE-configured aircraft—whose concept is to offer all passengers South Korea, China, Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa Asia. By working with joint business partners, the oneworld alliance a “one-class quality upgrade”— we introduced the JAL SKY SUITE and Tahiti. members, and other codeshare partners to expand our global 787 configuration, featuring fully-flat business class seats and a Hawaiian Airlines has led all U.S. carriers in on-time network, our target is to achieve a network of 500 major city New Spacious Economy seats with expansive legroom. Among performance for each of the past 14 years (2004-2017) as Business Outline destinations worldwide within the next ten years. other initiatives to enhance service were continuous improvements reported by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Meanwhile, to inflight meals and lounge facilities. consumer surveys by Condé Nast Traveler and Travel + Leisure (2) ‌We will leverage JAL’s strengths to attract more As a result of these initiatives, the Japan Customer have placed it among the top domestic airlines serving Hawaii. overseas customers Satisfaction Index (JCSI) survey, which is conducted by an external We aim to encourage more overseas customers to discover JAL’s service evaluation body, ranked JAL number one in the International high-quality services through ongoing sales promotions in overseas Airlines category for the Reuse Intention Rate for the fifth regions. At the same time, by reinforcing overseas marketing consecutive year and the Repeat Intention Rate. In TripAdvisor’s activities through a range of partnerships, we aim to increase the 2018 Travelers’ Choice™ Awards for the world’s favorite airline, overseas sales ratio of our international passenger operations to overseas customers named JAL as Japan’s best airline, while the Financial / Data Section 50% within ten years. 2017 World Airline Awards operated by SKYTRAX presented JAL the award for the Best Economy Class Airline Seat. (3) ‌We offer customers worldwide a comfortable travel In fiscal year 2017, our initiatives allowed us to post 2.3% environment combined with personal and timely service. year-over-year increase in passengers traffic, while our load factor Among other measures, we will step up the introduction of JAL SKY reached a record level of 81.0% and international passenger SUITE-configured aircraft, increase multilingual services, and revenue saw a large year over year increase to 462.9 billion yen. improve menus to meet diverse dietary needs. We will additionally 76 77 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 DOMESTIC PASSENGER OPERA TIONS Business Environment for Domestic Passenger websites. In addition, we plan to partner with other sectors of the Activities in Fiscal 2018 Products and services Operations tourism industry to give the travelers the motivation and intention For the inflight Wi-Fi service on JAL SKY NEXT-configured aircraft, to visit Japan’s various regions. High-value tourism experiences and Route Network we plan to enhance free video programs and will also work to About the JAL Group With Japan’s working-age population on the decline, major changes accommodations will be provided in each region to increase We plan to increase flight frequency on the Haneda = New Chitose further raise comfort and convenience levels by launching inflight are taking place in the macro environment. At the same time, there nonresident populations. route and other routes during the summer season and on certain satellite television and other services. In addition, for “Dokokani are also expectations for new growth as the economy is expected to weekends when a high demand is anticipated. In addition, we Mile,” our innovative mileage award service that has been highly steadily expand ahead of the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2020 Review of Fiscal 2017 established a new Tokunoshima = Okinoerabu = Naha route in July popular with customers and was honored recently at the 2017 Tokyo with a continued increase in inbound tourists. The market 2018 operated by Japan Air Commuter. We will also expand our Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards, we are adding climate will also likely intensify due to price competition and Route network network in the Amami Islands to help increase the nonresident outlying island routes from Okinawa (Naha) and Kagoshima to the competitors launching new routes. Along with increasing routes operated with Embraer 190 aircraft, population in the area. scope of the service, which already covers Tokyo (Haneda Airport) primary through Itami Airport, we introduced the advanced ATR42Management Strategies Designed to Create Value and Osaka (Itami and Kansai Airports) routes, in order to generate Growth Strategies 600 turboprop on routes to outlying islands in Kagoshima new tourist activity through an increase in the nonresident Prefecture, operated by Japan Air Commuter, in an effort to further population. (1) Serving Customers with New Aircraft increase convenience and comfort on regional routes. JAL intends to progressively introduce new aircraft with higher levels of comfort as a part of our efforts to refine our full-service Products and services carrier business. J-AIR, which primarily operates routes out of Osaka We now offer complimentary inflight Wi-Fi on JAL SKY NEXTInternational Airport (Itami), has been adding new Embraer 170 and configured aircraft, which has been very popular with customers. 190 aircraft to its fleet with complimentary inflight video For JAL First Class service on domestic flights, which was introduced programming and leather seats and plans to complete the process a decade ago in 2007, we ran special commemorative programs A Business Base that Supports Value Creation during fiscal year 2018. Japan Transocean Air is also upgrading its that included a special inflight menu and worked to further improve fleet to Boeing 737-800 aircraft and will finish introducing JAL SKY service quality to create an even higher value air travel experience. Dualski experience NEXT-configured aircraft during fiscal year 2018. From fiscal year 2019, we plan to introduce Airbus A350-900 and Boeing 787-8 Marketing and promotions aircraft with advanced inflight amenities and exceptional quietness For JAL Japan Explorer Pass, which has been marketed since 2015, and comfort to bolster our aircraft competitiveness and further we revised prices for various destinations and set fares to make air differentiate ourselves from other carriers. travel highly attractive and convenient for inbound travelers. In TOPICS collaboration with TripAdvisor, we established a new promotional (2) Providing More Convenient, Comfortable Services site, “Untold Stories of Japan,” to further stimulate inbound travel Strengthening Overseas Market Initiatives to Capture New Demand We intend to expand our fleet of JAL SKY NEXT-configured aircraft demand. The site provides information focused on lesser known JAL entered a capital and business alliance with populations. With the partnership, we are enhancing products and further increase routes and flights with inflight Wi-Fi. From cities and tourist attractions in regional Japan, and not just the Hyakusenrenma, Inc., which operates on airbnb service, in order offered through Dynamic Package, which combines airline fiscal year 2018, inflight satellite television will be available and in Tokyo and Osaka metro areas. to increase inbound travel demand and nonresident tickets with private lodging experiences that draw on the fiscal year 2019, a portion of our fleet will be equipped with unique tourism resources of individual regions. Coordinating in Business Outline seatback screens and personal power outlets to further enhance the Expanding Our Base this way with other sectors of the travel industry and also inflight experience. The new enhancements include not only A new tour was organized with allergy-friendly meals to allow regional governments, we are providing new travel value in an technologies but also services to provide a more advanced customer customers with food allergies to confidently enjoy their travel effort to promote regional revitalization and further interchange experience from reservations to boarding with products and services experience. Collaborating with Club Tourism International Inc. and among regions. In fiscal year 2018, along with creating the that are constantly a step ahead. ata Alliance, we also jointly conducted tour programs for people motivation and intention to visit regional Japan, we plan to using wheelchairs or crutches to allow them to enjoy accessible provide high-value travel and lodging experiences in Japan’s (3) ‌Contributing to Regional Revitalization by winter sports in Hokkaido. In addition, partnering with Aeonpet regions in partnership with other travel sectors and work to Promoting Tourism to Regional Japan Co., Ltd., we developed the JAL “Wan-Wan” Jet Tour, which uses create further opportunities for even more inbound tourists to A private lodging experience in Nara Prefecture visit regional Japan. With Japan’s population declining, substantial growth in domestic charter flights to allow participants to bring their pet dogs on Financial / Data Section route demand is unlikely, so new demand must be actively created. board. Through such initiatives, we worked to further vitalize The JAL Group will expand its market overseas and create domestic air travel by providing new forms of travel value. opportunities for even more inbound tourists, already increasing in number, to visit regional Japan. We have established systems for Through these initiatives, in fiscal year 2017, the number of passengers buying tickets for domestic flights from overseas locations such as carried increased 4.5% year over year, the load factor was a recordJAL Japan Explorer Pass and offer inbound travel promotions to high 71.8% and domestic passenger revenue increased substantially communicate the appeal of regional Japan through JAL’s overseas over the previous year to 518.2 billion yen. 78 79 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CARGO AND MAIL BUSINESS/OTHER BUSINESSES DOMESTIC PASSENGER OPERATIONS JAL GROUP AIRLINES Cargo and Mail Business Other Businesses Maintaining Vital Air Links to Revitalize J-AIR Co., Ltd. (J-AIR) Fiscal 2017 Results JALPAK Co., Ltd. Regional Economies The JAL Group’s principal member airline covering regional routes, In fiscal year 2017, JALPAK Co., Ltd. worked to boost sales by About the JAL Group Our regional network provides vital transport links to residents in J-AIR is based at Osaka International Airport (Itami) and operates offering an enhanced range of exclusive products to JAL Mileage regional cities and outlying islands. JAL Group airlines are 226 daily flights on 36 routes in a network connecting various Bank members and by expanding its offer of high value-added progressively switching to new-generation aircraft, and we will regions . Over the past few years the company has introduced the products. Despite the success of package products, which rested continue to contribute to regional communities and revitalization new Embraer 190 with a Class J cabin and has been expanding its largely on an increase in hotel rooms available, tourist demand to projects through our highly convenient network and high-quality regional network. In addition, the airline plans to add Japan-made destinations in the U.S. mainland and Guam remained stagnant due services. MRJ jets to its fleet starting in 2021 and achieve further growth as a to the situation in North Korea and concerns over terrorism. This Freight service using chartered cargo aircraft competitive regional airline. Communicating both the appeal of resulted in a 4.2% year-over-year decline to 231,000 in the number regional Japan and the Japan brand, the airline will continue In fiscal year 2017, air cargo demand reached high levels of overseas travelers handled. The number of domestic travelers Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. (JTA) moving forward together with worldwide. Among the main reasons for this was the demand for handled remained buoyant on the other hand, increasing by 1.4% the people of the regions it semiconductors originating from the automotive sector and the to 2,545,000 year over year. The rise was due to the expansion of Established as Southwest Air Lines in 1967 before the return of serves. spread of the Internet of Things. During peak busy periods, when sightseeing plan offerings, the promotion of early booking plans Okinawa to Japan, JTA has been providing vital air links to Okinawa capacity was insufficient, active use was made of the JAL CARGO and other successful package product initiatives. In the inbound residents for 51 years. In addition to connecting Okinawa’s main Charter Service. This is a service which transports cargo by tourism market, JALPAK launched a Visit Japan Package in January island and outlying islands, JTA operates 70 scheduled flights each Hokkaido Air System Co., Ltd. (HAC) chartering freighters from other airlines, offering the combined 2017 and rolled out related marketing campaigns in Thailand. day on 12 routes between Okinawa and Haneda, Chubu, Kansai, network capacity of this and JAL’s own fleet. Operating revenue for fiscal year 2017 (prior to intercompany Komatsu, Okayama and Fukuoka airports with a fleet of 12 Boeing Established in September 1997 to provide convenient air links to With the aim of supporting regional revitalization and transactions elimination) increased by 1.5% from the previous fiscal 737 aircraft. JTA offers high-quality service with a hint of Okinawa destinations across Hokkaido Prefecture, HAC celebrated its 20th increased exports of agricultural products, we entered into year to 175.1 billion yen. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation culture in the JAL Group. The airline is also doing its part to support anniversary in 2017. The airline currently has a fleet of three SAAB 340B partnership with three companies that have sales and distribution In fiscal year 2018, as well as enhancing the range of valuethe regional economy by widely aircraft, which operate 26 daily flights linking Hakodate, Kushiro, Rishiri networks in Japan and overseas: Nousouken Corporation, Global added products to contribute to improving JAL brand value and promoting Okinawa as an Island and Misawa with Okadama Airport in Sapporo and Okushiri with Ichiba Corporation and Agriculture Corporation Mizuho Co., Ltd. promoting sales of package products, JALPAK will also seek to appealing destination for Hakodate Airport. The airline will continue to focus on flight safety to respond to diverse customer values in a determined effort to create tourists. maintain support from Hokkaido residents while working to attract We also renewed the JAL value that exceeds customer expectations. more individual and group customers, in addition to business travelers. CARGO homepage, HAC will also do its part to adding a wealth of new JALCARD, Inc. support the development of the functions and accessible Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (JAC) regional economy and content to create a more In fiscal year 2017, to attract new members, JALCARD, Inc. ran communities in Hokkaido. user-friendly website. active membership campaigns, placed effective online advertising, JAC was established to initially operate flights on four routes linking upgraded infrastructure to allow enrollment via smartphone and New homepage design the Amami Islands. The airline, which marks its 35th anniversary in other improvements, and launched new services such as additional 2018, operates flights on 18 routes, mainly serving outlying islands Ryukyu Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (RAC) Growth Strategy family card enrollment and online bank transfer. As a result, the Business Outline in Kagoshima Prefecture. The advanced ATR42-600 turboprop was number of members increased by 4.7% year over year to introduced to routes in 2017, and the new “Amami Islands A regional airline celebrating its 33nd anniversary in 2018, RAC provides By reinforcing collaboration with other companies to combine 3,426,000. JALCARD also focused on one-to-one communication Hopping Route” was established in July 2018 to further support the convenient connections to outlying islands in the Okinawa region. Based capacity with our own fleet, we aim to provide a network service via the MyJALCARD members-only online service available after regional network as the “wings” of the region. In addition, JAC is at Naha Airport on the main island of Okinawa, the airline operates with a higher level of convenience. enrollment and the JALCARD app, and worked to improve customer expanding a cooperative project to share aviation technologies with between 41 and 43 daily flights on 12 routes, with connections to nine On the domestic cargo front, we established a dedicated service, for instance, through the launch of a new option allowing other companies. Going beyond the JAL Group, since June the islands. RAC began introducing the DHC8-Q400 Cargo-Combi aircraft portal site for reservations as a way of increasing customer the annual membership fee to be paid in air miles. Operating airline has lent ATR aircraft to Amakusa Airlines for joint operations. (Q400CC) in April 2016 and completed the process in February 2018, convenience. This offers a one-stop site where customers can revenue for fiscal year 2017 (prior to intercompany transactions With the aim of being a trusted presence in the region, JAC will adding a total of five to its fleet. Along with a jet-equivalent cruising complete all procedures relating to reservation, such as looking up elimination) decreased by 10.4% from the previous fiscal year to continue to grow and develop speed, the aircraft offers a high level of passenger comfort along with space availability and tracking cargo movements. 18.3 billion yen. Financial / Data Section alongside it. approximately twice the cargo space of a standard model. Making In fiscal year 2018, JALCARD will continue working to maximum use of the Q400CC, RAC is improving convenience for improve customer satisfaction and realize a stress-free customer outlying island residents and tourists and using the expanded cargo experience by actively offering new services and enhancing the capacity to transport fresh seafood and agricultural products from the appeal of our mileage award program. islands at higher speeds and in larger volumes to thereby promote local industries and contribute further to the region. 80 81 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL DATA — SEVEN-YEAR SUMMARY Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars*1 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2017 Years ended March 31 About the JAL Group Operating revenue 1,204.8 1,238.8 1,309.3 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,288.9 1,383.2 13,020,114 Operating expenses 999.8 1,043.5 1,142.5 1,165.0 1,127.4 1,118.6 1,208.6 11,376,986 Operating income 204.9 195.2 166.7 179.6 209.1 170.3 174.5 1,643,119 Ordinary income 197.6 185.8 157.6 175.2 209.2 165.0 163.1 1,535,956 Profit attributable to owners of parent 186.6 171.6 166.2 149.0 174.4 164.1 135.4 1,274,529 *1 US dollar amounts are provided for Cash flow from operating activities 256.6 264.8 247.9 261.1 312.3 253.1 281.5 2,650,056 convenience only, based on the exchange rate of ¥106.24/USD on Cash flow from investing activities*2 △62.4 △129.0 △166.7 △199.2 △207.2 △215.5 △180.1 △1,695,641 March 31, 2018. Cash flow from financing activities △274.4 △60.6 △61.9 △67.3 △49.6 △53.5 △55.8 △526,007 *2 Excluding deposits and withdrawals Free cash flow*3 194.1 135.8 81.2 61.8 105.1 37.5 101.3 954,414 from deposit accounts Depreciation and amortization 81.2 81.0 82.7 85.8 88.5 95.7 110.8 1,043,486 *3 Free cash flow = Cash flow from EBITDA*4 286.1 276.2 249.5 265.5 297.7 266.1 285.4 2,686,370 operating activities + Cash flow Management Strategies Designed to Create Value EBITDAR 318.4 307.1 281.0 292.7 321.1 286.2 305.4 2,874,623 from investing activities Capital investment (Purchase of non-current assets) 98.6 121.8 164.5 198.6 210.6 233.1 210.8 1,984,224 *4 EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation expense *5 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. conducted a As of fiscal year-end 2-for-1 stock split on October 1, Total assets 1,087.6 1,216.6 1,340.1 1,473.3 1,578.9 1,728.7 1,854.2 17,453,190 2014. Figures for profit per share, Net assets 413.8 583.1 711.0 800.7 870.5 1,003.3 1,094.1 10,298,635 net assets per share and dividend Interest-bearing debt 208.4 160.1 134.2 100.5 92.6 116.0 125.7 1,183,170 per share have been calculated Shareholders’ equity 388.5 565.0 690.2 776.4 843.0 972.0 1,060.3 9,980,562 assuming the stock split was conducted at the start of fiscal Per share data (yen, U.S. dollars)*5 2011. *6 EBITDA margin = EBITDA / Profit attributable to owners of parent 514.52 473.36 458.45 411.06 481.29 456.56 383.23 3.60 Operating revenue Net assets 1,071.19 1,558.15 1,903.53 2,142.00 2,325.79 2,749.71 3,019.52 28.42 *7 EBITDAR margin = EBITDAR / Dividends — 95.00 80.00 104.00 120.00 94.00 110.00 1.03 Operating revenue A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Average number of shares during the fiscal year (thousands of shares) 362,704 362,671 362,639 362,584 362,500 359,594 353,334 — EBITDAR = Operating income + Depreciation expense + Aircraft Key Performance Indices lease Operating margin (%) 17.0 15.8 12.7 13.4 15.7 13.2 12.6 — *8 Unit cost = Consolidated air transport cost (excluding fuel costs ROE (%) 63.6 36.0 26.5 20.3 21.5 18.1 13.3 — and fuel costs for resale to a ROA (%) 17.9 16.9 13.0 12.8 13.7 10.3 9.7 — related company) / ASK Equity ratio (%) 35.7 46.4 51.5 52.7 53.4 56.2 57.2 — *9 The method used to calculate the D/E ratio (Times) 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 — number of employees was changed EBITDA margin (%)*6 23.8 22.3 19.1 19.8 22.3 20.6 20.6 — as follows as of fiscal 2017. Figures EBITDAR margin (%)*7 26.4 24.8 21.5 21.8 24.0 22.2 22.1 — for fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2016 have Unit cost (yen)*8 8.3 8.4 8.6 8.7 9.1 9.4 10.1 — also been changed based on the Unit cost (yen) (Including fuel cost) 11.3 11.5 12.2 12.3 11.7 11.7 12.5 — new method. Previously, the number of employees scheduled to Dividend payout ratio (%) — 20.1 17.5 25.3 24.9 20.6 28.7 — retire at the end of March of the Number of employees 30,648 30,636 31,020 30,978 31,331 32,047 33,038 — fiscal year were excluded and the number of temporary employees Business data (employees dispatched from International passenger operations temporary employment agencies) Business Outline Passenger revenues 385.2 406.6 437.5 454.8 448.7 415.2 462.9 4,357,294 as of the end of the reporting Available seat kms (million seat kms)*10, 12 43,036 44,745 46,235 47,696 50,563 50,621 51,836 — period were included. With the new method, employees scheduled Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*11, 12 30,313 34,036 35,390 36,109 40,305 40,633 42,013 — to retire at the end of March of the Revenue passengers carried (1,000)*12 6,844 7,525 7,723 7,793 8,460 8,394 8,585 — fiscal year are included and Revenue passenger load factor (%)*12 70.4 76.1 76.5 75.7 79.7 80.3 81.0 — temporary employees (employees Yield (yen)*11,12 12.7 11.9 12.4 12.6 11.1 10.2 11.0 — dispatched from employment Unit revenue (yen)*12 9.0 9.1 9.5 9.5 8.9 8.2 8.9 — agencies) are excluded. Domestic passenger operations *10 ASK (available seat kilometers). A Passenger revenues 481.1 485.2 487.4 487.5 501.2 498.6 518.2 4,878,002 unit of passenger transport Available seat kms (million seat kms)*10 35,523 36,443 37,084 36,306 35,869 35,423 35,714 — capacity: Total number of seats x Distance flown (kms) Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*11 22,264 23,012 23,745 23,993 24,341 24,550 25,643 — *11 RPK (revenue passenger kilomeRevenue passengers carried (1,000) 28,965 30,020 31,218 31,644 32,114 32,570 34,033 — ters). Total flight distance covered Financial / Data Section Revenue passenger load factor (%) 62.7 63.1 64.0 66.1 67.9 69.3 71.8 — by revenue passengers: Number of Yield (yen) 21.6 21.1 20.5 20.3 20.6 20.3 20.2 — revenue passengers x Distance Unit revenue (yen) 13.5 13.3 13.1 13.4 14.0 14.1 14.5 — flown (kms). International cargo operations *12 From fiscal 2015, revenue Cargo revenue 53.7 50.4 54.2 60.3 54.2 43.3 56.0 527,447 passengers carried, revenue passenger kilometers, available seat Revenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 1,314 1,378 1,512 1,754 1,724 1,887 2,233 — kilometers and load factor include Domestic cargo operations codeshare tickets sold by other Cargo revenue 25.0 25.0 25.4 24.2 23.3 22.2 22.4 211,257 companies for JAL-operated Revenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 355 360 366 356 363 357 364 — flights. 82 83 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Economic Conditions Analysis of Consolidated Operating Results In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, total air travel demand remained strong, mainly for domestic travel and inbound travel to Number of visitors to Japan (Millions of visitors) 1. Earnings Summary Operating revenue ¥ 1,383.2 billion Operating profit ¥ 174.5 billion Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 135.4 billion About the JAL Group Japan, due to continuing moderate economic recovery trends in 45 40 both Japan and overseas. 35 In fiscal year 2017, consolidated operating revenues increased by by 17.0 billion yen due to an increase in headcount amid business Crude oil prices, which affect the JAL Group’s fuel purchasing 30 7.3% year on year to 1,383.2 billion yen. International passenger expansion and growth in earnings-linked bonus payments. The costs, international passenger revenues and international cargo 25 revenues rose by 47.7 billion yen, reflecting the revenue Group also increased amortization costs related to the new revenues, increased as OPEC and other oil leaders agreed to extend 20 production cuts and geopolitical emerged. The exchange rate of the management measures that led to firm high yield demand for both passenger service system, which was revamped in November 2017, 15 Japanese yen against the US dollar has been in the range of 105 to outbound and inbound, together with an increase in fuel surcharge and various other expenses associated with passenger number 10 115 yen. revenues and forex factors. Domestic passenger revenues also growth. However, the Group continued its cost reduction efforts 5 increased by 19.6 billion yen because of a rebound in demand from using its amoeba management system and other approaches. 0 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value 1999 (Year) the slump after the Kumamoto earthquakes in 2016, a steep rise in As a result, consolidated operating profit rose by 2.5% year 2020 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 personal travel demand, and the launch of complimentary inflight on year to 174.5 billion yen. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Air Passenger Traffic Forecast 億人 Wi-Fi services ahead of competitors, which helped to attract more Ordinary income declined by 1.1% year on year to 163.1 Source: Japan National Tourism Organization Compound Annual Growth Rate 2018-2037 Global passenger traffic customers. billion yen, reflecting a rise in non-operating expenses, mainly due RPK in billions (Millions of passengers) Operating expenses increased by 8.1% year on year to to an increase in loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment. 2017 2037 4,000 1,208.6 billion yen. Fuel costs increased by 16.4 billion yen due to Profit attributable to owners of parent fell by 17.5% to 135.4 billion 3,500 higher fuel prices, maintenance costs rose by 13.1 billion yen mainly yen, partly reflecting a decline in income taxes – deferred from 31.6 1,782 3,325 3,000 due to a rise in engine maintenance costs, and personnel costs rose billion yen booked in the previous fiscal year. North America 2,500 1,910 4,004 2,474 6,996 3.2% 2,000 Europe Asia-Pacific 3.8% 5.3% 1,500 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation 1,000 736 2,371 7,737 18,587 408 1,051 500 171 361 Middle East Latin America World 6.0% 0 Africa 4.8% 4.5% Fiscal 2017 Changes in operating profit (Billions of yen) 1995 1996 3.8% (Year) 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Japan Aircraft Development Corporation Source: International Civil Aviation Organization (scheduled flights) ASK +1.7% YoY +¥4.2 billion PRK +3.8% YoY (+2.5%) + stands for profit increase (revenue increase, cost reduction) Other stands for profit decrease (revenue decrease, cost increase) revenues Fuel Cargo and mail ＋13.1 △ 16.4 Maintenance Domestic ＋13.8 JAL Group passenger ＋4.4% △8.3% △ 13.1 Aircraft ＋17.6% △ 6.7 Personnel International ＋19.6 “other revenues” △26.8% Passenger passenger include △6.7% Service System △ 17.0 • ‌Travel service (Depreciation costs) Other ＋3.9% sales, etc. △ 7.0 expenses The JAL Group comprises Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (JAL), 77 As a result, consolidated operating revenue increased by “Aircraft” includes △6.2% Business Outline ＋47.7 • Aircraft Depreciation — subsidiaries and 57 affiliated companies. 7.3% year on year to 1,383.2 billion yen and the operating • Aircraft Leases △ 29.6 • Aircraft Insurance Premium, etc. On April 28, 2017, the JAL Group released the JAL Group expenses increased by 8.1% year on year to 1,208.6 billion yen, Service costs △4.2 Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020. To while the operating profit increased by 2.5% year on year to 174.5 ＋11.5% Expense of travel agency △2.2 △6.0% achieve the goals in the plan, the Group focused on instilling billion yen and the ordinary profit declined by 1.1% from the Landing and navigation fees △2.4 greater focus on profits among its staff through the JAL Philosophy previous year to 163.1 billion yen. The profit attributable to owners and amoeba management system and worked to improve of parent was 135.4 billion yen, down 17.5% from the previous FSC* ＋14.7 FSC* ＋3.1 FSC* — Total FSC* +17.8 Sales commissions △1.9 170.3 174.5 management efficiency to provide the highest level of service to year due to the income tax deferred in the previous fiscal year. Forex ＋4.6 Forex ＋2.0 Forex ＋0.3 Total forex +7.0 Other than those above △18.7 customers, backed by a firm commitment to operational safety. Total ＋19.3 Total ＋5.1 Total ＋0.3 Total +24.8 Total △29.6 Financial / Data Section Fiscal 2016 Revenues +¥94.2 billion Costs -¥90.0 billion Fiscal 2017 *FSC = Fuel Surcharge 84 85 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Revenues of international routes by geographic segment 2. Segment Earnings 1,257.2 161.2 · Passenger revenues （%） ・ASK (Million seat kilometers) Operating revenue ¥ billion Operating profit ¥ billion Component Ratio Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY (%) (1) Air transportation segment Fiscal 2017 About the JAL Group YoY Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 America 14,322 14,971 ＋4.5 America ＋13.7 26 26 Europe 7,490 7,962 ＋6.3 In the air transportation segment, operating revenue increased by Air transportation segment sales by business (Millions of yen) Europe ＋22.2 15 16 Asia / Oceania 17,836 18,042 ＋1.2 8.4% year on year to 1,257.2 billion yen and operating profit Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY change (%) ＋9.1 Asia / Oceania 34 33 China 3,506 3,292 △6.1 increased by 5.3% to 161.2 billion yen. International passenger 468,017 529,563 +13.2 China ＋12.3 10 11 Hawaii / Guam 7,465 7,569 ＋1.4 operations * ‌Figures for operating revenue and operating profit are before elimination of intra-segment Passenger revenues 415,218 462,919 +11.5 Hawaii / Guam ＋2.1 15 14 Total 50,621 51,836 ＋2.4 transactions. Cargo revenues 43,334 56,036 +29.3 Total ＋11.5 100 100 Mail service revenues 8,699 9,858 +13.3 ・RPK (Million passenger kilometers) Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Luggage revenues 764 749 △2.0 International passenger revenues Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY (%) Domestic passenger operations 525,150 544,706 +3.7 (Billions of yen) America 11,335 11,735 ＋3.5 Passenger revenues 498,628 518,239 +3.9 +¥47.7 billion Europe 5,976 6,571 ＋9.9 (+11.5%) Cargo revenues 22,260 22,444 +0.8 Asia / Oceania 14,371 14,936 ＋3.9 ＋9.7 462.9 Mail service revenues 3,959 3,718 △6.1 ＋38.0 China 2,577 2,610 ＋1.3 Luggage revenues 301 304 +1.0 Hawaii / Guam 6,372 6,158 △3.4 Passenger operations total 993,168 1,074,269 +8.2 415.2 Total 40,633 42,013 ＋3.4 Other revenues 166,224 182,995 +10.1 Total 1,159,392 1,257,265 +8.4 ·Net unit price (+) · Revenue passengers carried (1,000) · Fuel surcharge (+), etc. Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY (%) A Business Base that Supports Value Creation America 1,194 1,230 ＋3.0 ① International passenger operations ① International passenger operations Europe 660 733 ＋11.0 In international passenger operations, passenger traffic increased Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY change (%) Asia / Oceania 4,047 4,146 ＋2.4 2.3% year on year and the revenue passenger load factor reached Passenger revenues (billion yen) 415.2 462.9 ＋11.5 to a record high of 81.0%, attributed to strong outbound demand China 1,381 1,409 ＋2.0 Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 8,394 8,585 ＋2.3 Fiscal 2016 Revenue per Number of Fiscal 2017 passenger passengers Hawaii / Guam 1,109 1,066 △3.9 and robust inbound demand. ASK (million seat kilometers) 50,621 51,836 ＋2.4 Factors of changes in Revenue per Passenger (estimate) 8,585 ＋2.3 With regard to the route operations, JAL launched new Total 8,394 RPK (million passenger kilometers) 40,633 42,013 ＋3.4 services between Tokyo(Narita) and Melbourne and between ＋4% Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) 80.3% 81.0% ＋0.8pt Tokyo(Narita) and Kona in September 2017, and increased flight Revenue per passenger*1 (yen) 49,461 53,919 ＋9.0 · Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) （%） frequency on the late-night service to Europe, the Tokyo(Haneda) = Yield*2 (yen) 10.2 11.0 ＋7.8 Demand Mix Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY (pt) London route, in October 2017 in order to capture corporate and Unit revenue*3 (yen) 8.2 8.9 ＋8.9 ＋1% America 79.1 78.4 △0.8 leisure outbound demand and a wide range of inbound demand. Route Effect JAL also made partnership agreements with Vietjet, Vistara, ＋4% Europe 79.8 82.5 ＋2.7 *1 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers ＋9% Hawaiian Airlines, Aeromexico and Aeroflot, and will work jointly *2 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK Asia / Oceania 80.6 82.8 ＋2.2 *3 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK Business Outline with these partner airlines to further improve its network. China 73.5 79.3 ＋5.8 Regarding its products, JAL newly introduced JAL SKY SUITE Hawaii / Guam 85.4 81.4 △4.0 787. International passengers Total 80.3 81.0 ＋0.8 On the service front, JAL won top honors for “Loyalty (Repeat RPK (million passenger kilometers) (left hand scale) Fuel Forex, etc. Net unit Total surcharge price Intention Rate)” for the fifth consecutive year and “Customer ASK (million seat kilometers) (left hand scale) Satisfaction” in the International Airlines category of the Japanese Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) (right hand scale) Customer Satisfaction Index (JCSI) Survey. This survey is conducted ② Domestic passenger operations 60,000 90.0 ② Domestic passenger operations annually by an external service evaluation organization in Japan. For 51,836 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY (%) 50,000 85.0 In domestic passenger operations, although the revenue per inflight meals, JAL introduced menus created by young chefs, who Passenger revenues (billion yen) 498.6 518.2 ＋3.9 42,013 passenger declined from the previous year primarily due to were finalists from RED U-35 including the FY2016 Grand Prix 40,000 80.0 competition with other airlines, passenger traffic increased 4.5% Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 32,570 34,033 ＋4.5 winner, for Premium Economy and Economy Class on mediumand Financial / Data Section 30,000 75.0 year over year. This was attributed to the recovery in demand, which ASK (million seat kilometers) 35,423 35,714 ＋0.8 long-haul routes from Japan. RED U-35 is the Japan’s largest 20,000 70.0 dropped in the aftermath of the Kumamoto Earthquakes in April RPK (million passenger kilometers) 24,550 25,643 ＋4.5 culinary competition for a new generation of chefs. 2016, and the success of various demand-boosting measures. As a Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) 69.3% 71.8% ＋2.5pt 10,000 65.0 result, the passenger revenue increased year over year. Revenue per passenger*1 (yen) 15,309 15,227 △0.5 0 60.0 In route operations, in order to improve the convenience and Yield*2 (yen) 20.3 20.2 △0.5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) comfort of the on regional network routes service, Embraer 190 was Unit revenue*3 (yen) 14.1 14.5 ＋3.1 introduced to more routes to/from Osaka (Itami) Airport, and the state-of-the-art ATR42-600 turboprop was introduced to the island *1 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers *2 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK routes in Kagoshima Prefecture operated by Japan Air Commuter. *3 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK 86 87 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Regarding products, JAL began to offer a complimentary inflight and activities and a special fare for overseas visitors “JAL Japan 1,208.6 Wi-Fi service on flights operated with JAL SKY NEXT aircraft and Explorer Pass” to boost and spread inbound tourism across Japan. received favorable feedback from many customers. In addition, Further, JAL made a capital and business partnership with Hyakusen 3. Analysis of Factors Affecting Operating Expenses Operating expenses ¥ billion About the JAL Group 737-800 aircraft operated by Japan Transocean Air were retrofitted Renma, an intermediary for Airbnb-style Japanese home-share with JAL SKY NEXT cabin interiors for greater convenience and accommodations. Not only Hyakusen Renma, we also collaborated comfort in air travel. with other leisure business-related industries to create new travel Major Operating Expense Items (Billions of yen) management system and the total operating expenses increased by On the sales and marketing front, JAL and Trip Advisor, Inc. products combining air travel and the “minpaku,” Airbnb-style Fiscal Fiscal YoY YoY 8.1% year on year to 1,208.6 billion yen. 2016 2017 (Billions of yen) (%) collaborated to open a travel information website to provide travel experience of staying at a local home and enjoying local tourism Fuel 198.7 215.2 ＋16.4 ＋8.3 content on lesser-known local sights and events to incoming resources to promote inter-regional travel by both domestic and (1) Fuel costs travelers to Japan. “Untold Stories of Japan”, the immersive portal overseas visitors. Landing and navigation fees 81.1 83.5 ＋2.4 ＋3.0 Fuel costs increased by 16.4 billion yen year on year due to higher prices, on Trip Advisor’s website provides information about tourist facilities Maintenance 48.9 62.0 ＋13.1 ＋26.8 foreign exchange rates and other factors. The Group’s fuel consumption is Sales commissions (Air Trasport) 15.9 17.9 ＋1.9 ＋12.4 rising due to capacity expansion, but it continues to take steps to limit the Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Aircraft *1 100.4 107.1 ＋6.7 ＋6.7 rise of fuel usage through actively introducing fuel-efficient aircraft and Domestic passengers Domestic passenger revenues Service *2 37.9 42.2 ＋4.2 ＋11.2 efficient operational practices. Personnel 273.3 290.3 ＋17.0 ＋6.2 RPK (million passenger kilometers) (left hand scale) (Billions of yen) +¥19.6 billion Expenses of travel agency 81.5 83.8 ＋2.2 ＋2.8 (2) Unit cost ASK (million seat kilometers) (left hand scale) (+3.9%) Revenue Passenger-Load factor (%) (right hand scale) Other 280.4 306.1 ＋25.7 ＋9.2 The Group’s unit costs have been rising since fiscal 2012 due to ＋22.3 518.2 Total operating expenses 1,118.6 1,208.6 ＋90.0 ＋8.1 enhanced services to customers. However, air transportation 40,000 80.0 revenue per ASK (unit revenue) is also increasing. The Group will 35,714 498.6 △ 2.7 *1 Aircraft = Depreciation + Leasing fees + Aviation Insurance Premiums, etc. 35,000 continue to focus on maximizing profits per ASK (unit profit). 75.0 *2 Service = Expenses regarding Inflight Services, Airport Lounges, Cargo Equipment, etc. 30,000 25,643 70.0 · ‌Competition with 25,000 Fuel costs increased by 16.4 billion yen due to higher fuel prices in the other airlines (–) · ‌Increase in individual 20,000 65.0 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation · ‌Increased demand passenger (+) market. Maintenance costs rose by 13.1 billion yen due to higher Unit cost Air transport revenue per ASK for promotional · ‌Recovery from a 14 Unit cost 14.0 15,000 fares (–) plunge in demand by engine maintenance costs. Personnel costs increased by 17.0 billion 12 60.0 the 2016 Kumamoto yen due to an increase in headcount in accordance with the capacity 10 10.1 10,000 Earthquakes (+) 8 55.0 growth and earnings-linked bonus payments. The depreciation costs 5,000 6 0 50.0 for the new passenger service system released in November 2017 and 4 2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) other costs related to business expansion also increased. However, the Fiscal 2016 Revenue Number of Fiscal 2017 0 per passenger passengers Group continued its cost reduction efforts using its amoeba 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) (2) Other Businesses 4. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 135.4 billion In other businesses, we worked to maximize the corporate value of Packages, which now offer a wider choice of special tourism plans Ordinary income declined by 1.1% year on year to 163.1 billion yen attributable to owners of parent fell by 17.5% to 135.4 billion yen, Business Outline the JAL Group by improving convenience for customers. Financial and early booking options. In inbound demand, JALPAK conducted because of an increase in non-operating expenses, mainly due to an mainly due to a decline in income taxes – deferred from 31.6 billion results for the two main companies in other businesses were as a marketing campaign in Thailand using the JAL Visit Japan increase in loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment. Profit yen booked in the previous fiscal year. follows. Dynamic Package, which was launched in January 2017. JALPAK Co., Ltd. worked to increase sales by strengthening its JAL CARD, Inc. stepped up efforts to attract new members, lineup of exclusive products for members of JAL’s Mileage Bank such as using effective online advertising and running signup program, and by offering more high value-added products and campaigns, which was supported by upgrades of infrastructure to rolling out marketing campaigns in a timely manner. The company enable customers to apply for credit cards via their smartphones also upgraded office environments and implemented other workstyle reforms to increase productivity. Despite strong demand and the launch of new services, including services that allow users to apply for a family credit card and make transfers to bank 5. Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities ¥ 281.5 billion 180.1 for Dynamic Packages, which use local companies in overseas accounts online. As a result, the number of cardholders increased Financial / Data Section markets to secure better hotel rooms, the number of passengers by 4.7% year on year to 3.42 million. In addition, JAL CARD, Inc. Cash used in investing activities*1 -¥ billion handled by JALPAK for travel to overseas destinations declined by focused on providing personalized information for members via 4.2% year on year to 231,000, reflecting the weak demand for travel to the US and Guam amid concerns about the situation in MyJALCARD, a dedicated online service that customers can access after signup, and the JAL Card app. Measures were also taken to Cash used in financing activities -¥ 55.8 billion North Korea and terrorism. The number of passengers handled by improve services for cardholders, such as giving them the option to JALPAK for travel to domestic destinations increased by 1.4% year pay annual card fees with miles. The JAL Group primarily uses cash flow for investments that accordance with strict investment criteria and aims to maximizing on year to 2.54 million, reflecting firm demand for Dynamic increase corporate value, shareholders return and maintenance of a free cash flow through securing an appropriate level of investment firm financial structure. The Group conducts capital investment in return. 88 89 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS (1) Cash flow from operating activities Cash flows (Billions of yen) 1,060.3 57.2 After adjusting profit before income taxes of 162.4 billion yen with Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 YoY non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, and Cash flow from operating activities 253.1 281.5 ＋28.3 7. Financial Position Shareholders’ equity ¥ billion Equity ratio % About the JAL Group reconciling operating accounts receivable and payable and other Depreciation and amortization 95.7 110.8 ＋15.0 items, operating activities provided net cash (inflow) of 281.5 billion Cash flow from investing activities*1 △215.5 △180.1 ＋35.4 yen, an increase of 28.3 billion yen year on year. Investments*2 △233.4 △211.9 ＋21.5 (1) Total Assets Consolidated financial position (Billions of yen) Free cash flow* 3 37.5 101.3 ＋63.8 As of March 31, 2018, total assets stood at 1,854.2 billion yen, End of fiscal End of fiscal YoY 2016 2017 (2) Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow from financing activities △53.5 △55.8 △2.3 with an increase of 125.4 billion from the end of the previous fiscal Total assets 1,728.7 1,854,2 ＋125.4 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from fixed deposit accounts, Total cash flow*4 △15.9 45.5 ＋61.4 year, primarily due to aircraft purchases and advance payments for Cash and deposits*1 404.0 448.8 ＋44.7 investing activities used net cash (outflow) of 180.1 billion yen, with EBITDA 266.1 285.4 ＋19.3 aircraft. Interest-bearing debt*2 116.0 125.7 ＋9.7 a decline of 35.4 billion yen year on year. The main use of cash was EBITDAR 286.2 305.4 ＋19.1 Future rental expenses under operating leases 76.4 67.4 △8.9 for the purchase of non-current assets. *1 Excluding ‌ deposits and withdrawals from fixed deposit accounts (2) Total Liabilities Management Strategies Designed to Create Value *2 Capital ‌ investments, investments in other companies, etc. Shareholders’ equity 972.0 1,060.3 ＋88.2 *3 Cash ‌ flow from operating activities + Cash flow from investing activities As of March 31, 2018, liabilities totaled 760.0 billion yen, with an Equity ratio (%) 56.2 57.2 ＋1.0pt (3) Cash flow from financing activities *4 ‌Cash flow from operating activities + Cash flow from investing activities + Cash flow increase of 34.7 billion yen from the end of the previous fiscal year, from financing activities D/E ratio (x)*3 0.1x 0.1x △0.0x Financing activities used net cash (outflow) of 55.8 billion yen, with mainly reflecting increases in operating accounts payable and loans *1 Certificate of Deposits etc. included an increase of 2.3 billion yen year on year, mainly reflecting cash payable. *2 Account Payable-installment Purchase included used for cash dividends paid and for share repurchase. *3 D/E ratio = On-balance sheet interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity (3) Total Net Assets As of March 31, 2018, net assets totaled 1,094.1 billion yen, with an increase of 90.7 billion yen from the end of the previous fiscal year, primarily due to profit attributable to owners of parent and an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income, in spite of 210.8 cash dividends paid and share repurchase. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation 6. Capital Investment and Aircraft Procurement Capital investment ¥ billion As a result, shareholders’ equity totaled 1060.3 billion yen as of March 31, 2018 and the shareholders’ equity ratio increased by 1.0 percentage point year on year to 57.2%. Capital investment during fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2017 Fleet totaled 210.8 billion yen (including As of end of fiscal 2016 As of end of fiscal 2017 expenditure for intangible fixed assets). (March 31, 2017) (March 31, 2018) Diff. In the air transportation segment, Owned Leased Total Owned Leased Total investment is made for aircraft to improve LargeBoeing 777-200 12 0 12 12 0 12 — operating efficiency. It also includes sized Boeing 777-200ER 11 0 11 11 0 11 — 8. Credit Ratings intangible fixed assets such as measures to Boeing 777-300 4 0 4 4 0 4 — improve the Group’s ability to respond to Boeing 777-300ER 13 0 13 13 0 13 — JAL’s current credit ratings are shown in the table on the right. Rating & Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Issuer rating A– (stable) diversifying customer needs and systems to Large-sized subtotal 40 0 40 40 0 40 — increase efficiency and enhance passenger MediumBoeing 787-8 25 0 25 25 0 25 — Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term issuer rating A (stable) convenience. In fiscal 2017, capital sized Boeing 787-9 8 0 8 10 1 11 ＋3 Business Outline investment totaled 209.5 billion yen. Capital Boeing 767-300 6 0 6 6 0 6 — investment was mainly used to purchase 18 Boeing 767-300ER 29 2 31 28 1 29 △2 new aircraft (three Boeing 787-9, four Medium-sized subtotal 68 2 70 69 2 71 ＋1 Boeing 787-800, seven Embraer 190, one SmallBoeing 737-400 11 0 11 8 0 8 △3 Bombardier DHC-8-Q400CC and three sized Boeing 737-800 26 27 53 34 23 57 ＋4 ATR42-600), purchase leased aircraft and Small-sized subtotal 37 27 64 42 23 65 ＋1 9. Retirement Benefit Obligations make advance payments for aircraft. Of the Regional EMBRAER 170 17 0 17 17 0 17 — three new Boeing 787-9, one was converted jet EMBRAER 190 5 0 5 12 0 12 ＋7 to an operating lease aircraft in fiscal 2017. The Company and its major consolidated subsidiaries have Pension Fund. Certain overseas subsidiaries have defined-benefit Bombardier CRJ-200 5 0 5 0 0 0 △5 established defined-benefit retirement plans such as corporate retirement plans. Bombardier DHC8-Q400 7 2 9 5 1 6 △3 Financial / Data Section pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans, as well as definedThe Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introduces an Bombardier DHC8-Q400CC 4 0 4 5 0 5 ＋1 contribution pension plans. When employees retire, and on other option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as other alternatives. SAAB 340B 12 0 12 10 0 10 △2 occasions, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries may also The JAL Group Pension Fund, which is used by some domestic Bombardier DHC8-Q300 1 0 1 1 0 1 — provide premium severance packages, which are not included in consolidated subsidiaries, uses a cash balance pension plan. Bombardier DHC8-Q100 2 0 2 0 0 0 △2 calculations of the actuarial difference for retirement benefit Simplified accounting methods are used to calculate ATR42-600 1 0 1 4 0 4 ＋3 obligations in retirement benefit accounting. retirement benefit liabilities, assets and expenses for defined-benefit Regional Total 54 2 56 54 1 55 △1 As of March 31, 2018, the Company and 39 consolidated corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans at some Total 199 31 230 205 26 231 ＋1 subsidiaries had lump-sum retirement plans. The Group also had consolidated subsidiaries. three corporate pension funds, including the Japan Airlines Welfare 90 91 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 10. Fuel and Exchange Rate Hedging 11. Distribution of Profits to Shareholders About the JAL Group (1) Hedging Policy Fuel cost hedging by fiscal year (as of end-fiscal 2017) The Company regards shareholder return as one of its most important The Company’s policy is to pay dividends from capital surplus On international routes, fuel surcharges allow the Company to (%) management matters. The Company’s fundamental policy is to actively twice a year through an interim dividend and a year-end dividend. The offset some of its fuel costs. As a result, the Company uses fuel 100 return profits to shareholders through continuous and stable dividends, Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders approves the year-end hedging for fuel used on domestic routes, which is equivalent to while ensuring sufficient internal reserves to invest in corporate growth, dividend and the Board of Directors approves the interim dividend. approximately 40% of all fuel consumed by the Group’s air 80 to adapt to changes in the operating environment and to build a strong The Articles of Incorporation state that the Company may pay an ■ Fuel transport operations. In addition, the Company’s foreign currency ■ Forex financial structure. The Company has adopted the dividend on equity interim dividend after approval by the Board of Directors, based on a revenues are roughly the same as its foreign currency expenses, 60 (DOE) as a reference for dividend payments, in addition to the payout record date of September 30. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value excluding fuel costs. Consequently, the Company uses fuel and ratio. In addition, the Company continuously examines the possibility of Approx. Approx. exchange rate hedging only for fuel costs. 40 40% 40% The Company is using as a reference a payout ratio of using share repurchase and other methods for additional shareholder approximately 30% of profit attributable to owners of parent, excluding returns and enhancing shareholder returns, based on conditions in the 1株当たり配当金額 income taxes – deferred. Also, the Company will work to achieve DOE economic environment and the Company’s financial position. 20 Approx. Approx. Hedging policy Approx. Approx. of 3% or higher, given the Group’s aim of maintaining ROE at 10% or · Fuel surcharge 10% 10% 5% 5% higher and the above payout ratio reference. Going forward, the Dividend per share (Yen) Fuel use 0 Company will improve capital efficiency further and realize stable 120 2018 2019 2020 (FY) ¥110 returns for shareholders. 100 International FSC* Based on this policy, the Company pays a year-end dividend of 80 routes revenue Profit Impact by Fuel and FX Markets in fiscal 2018 57.50 yen per share and an interim dividend of 52.50 yen per share, 60 60% received (including hedging and fuel surcharge) resulting in an annual dividend of 110 yen per share for fiscal 2017. For 40 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation (Billions of yen) fiscal 2018, the Company forecasts an annual dividend of 110 yen per 20 The Company is exposed to fuel cost Forex (US$/bbl) Domestic US$60 US$73 US$80 US$90 share, including an interim dividend of 55 yen per share. 0 risks on domestic routes, which do not (yen/US$) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) routes Hedged have the FSC* ¥115 3.5 Forecast 0.0 1.5 -3.0 40% ¥110 10.0 7.5 0.5 -3.0 ¥105 16.5 8.0 8.0 -5.5 · Forex hedging 12. Business Outlook and Issues to Be Addressed Foreign currency Foreign currency (2) Overcome Market Risks revenues expenses The impact of volatility in fuel prices is mitigated by hedging and Non-fuel costs fuel surcharges, however there is some time lag of their effects in The Company expects the airline market – the Group’s main business environment is likely to become tougher, including increased each year. However, over a medium-term timeframe, the Company field – to expand over the medium to long term, supported by competition with railway companies, amid sluggish growth in total The Company is exposed to forex risks has been largely successful in mitigating the risk of fluctuations in economic globalization. Asia is a particularly promising growth market transport demand due to Japan’s falling population and aging society. <International related to fuel costs, as foreign routes> currency expenses excluding fuel costs fuel prices. Based on cumulative changes in prices for the last three for the airline sector. The pace of change in the Group’s market and Against that backdrop, the Company will introduce new aircraft such are largely offset by foreign currency Fuel FSC* revenues fiscal years, the Company has offset the impact of those changes business climate and advances in technology are likely to accelerate. To as the Airbus 350-900, expand the number of routes with Business Outline revenues costs through hedging and fuel surcharges. generate sustained and stable growth in that environment, the complimentary inflight Wi-Fi services, provide multilingual services for <Domestic Company will implement initiatives during the four years of the JAL the growing number of overseas visitors to Japan and take other steps routes> Cumulative impact of price fluctuations in fiscal 2015 – 2017 Group Medium Term Management Plan (fiscal 2017 – 2020). Based on to boost competitiveness by making its services more convenient and hedging the theme, “Challenge, Leading to Growth,” the Company will comfortable. The Company will also work to increase the number of continue to refine its full-service carrier business and steadily expand its travelers by encouraging more people, including overseas visitors, to Fuel prices / forex business domains by creating and developing new sources of earnings. experience Japan’s regions, helping to revitalize local economies. In international passenger operations, the Company anticipates The Group faces the risk of significant short-term fluctuations in further growth in demand from overseas customers due to the demand in the airline market due to various factors, including natural FSC* / hedging upcoming 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo and an disasters, wars, terrorist incidents and outbreaks of disease. To mitigate expected increase in the number of take-off and landing slots at Tokyo the impact of those risks, the Company will leverage its strengths in Financial / Data Section metropolitan airports. However, the competitive environment is likely to areas outside its full-service carrier business to create and develop new Impact become more challenging as domestic and international airlines, sources of earnings that can support stable growth in the future. including low-cost carriers (LCC), increase the supply of available seats. Under the JAL Group Corporate Policy, “the JAL Group aims to Against that backdrop, the Company will reinforce its network, pursue the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, including through joint businesses on Pacific and European routes and deliver unparalleled service to our customers and increase corporate alliances with other airlines, and introduce new aircraft with highly value and contribute to the betterment of society.” To achieve those competitive cabin configurations, aiming to raise the Group’s presence goals, all Group employees will work as one to increase corporate value *FSC = fuel surcharge in overseas markets, as well as in Japan, to become a highly regarded by reinforcing the Group’s businesses and financial position and global airline. In domestic passenger operations, the competitive addressing society’s needs and issues. 92 93 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Principal Business Risks The JAL Group has identified a number of risks that could have a manufacturers, which could force adjustments to fleet plans that prolonged outage of the Group’s information systems and ② Litigation risk material impact on investment decisions. The list is not exhaustive affect the Group’s operations over the medium and long term. operational capabilities, which would have a severe impact on the The JAL Group’s business activities are exposed to the risk of various About the JAL Group and the JAL Group may be affected by unforeseen risks not Group’s operations. To mitigate the risk of a shutdown at the types of litigation, which could affect the Group’s operations and described below. This report also contains forward-looking (3) Market risk Operation Control Center in Tokyo, the Group transferred some operating performance. In the event that litigation is filed against statements based on information available to the Company as of ① Fuel price volatility risk functions to the Operation Control Center at Osaka International the Group, developments in the subsequent legal case may require March 31, 2018. The JAL Group is exposed to the following Fluctuations in fuel prices have a significant impact on the JAL Airport in April 2018 and started 24-hour operations. additional costs and the booking of provisions, which could also principal risks due to the nature of its business activities, centered Group’s operating performance. The Group charges a fuel affect the Group’s operating performance. on the scheduled air transportation business and unscheduled air surcharge to partly cover the impact of higher fuel prices. However, (5) Flight safety risk transportation business. changes in fuel prices are not immediately reflected in the fuel The JAL Group implements a wide range of measures on a daily (7) IT system and customer data handling risk surcharge and it is inappropriate to ask customers to cover the basis to ensure the safe operation of its flights. However, a single The JAL Group’s operations are dependent on a large number of IT (1) ‌Risks related to the operating environment, entire increase in fuel prices. The Group also uses crude oil hedging fatal accident has the potential to undermine customer trust in the systems. Failures in these IT systems caused by flaws in computer Management Strategies Designed to Create Value including the international climate and economic transactions to mitigate the risk of fuel price volatility. However, a Group’s flight safety and lead to a loss of public support. The Group programs, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks may lead to trends sudden and steep drop in oil prices may not contribute to an must also provide compensation for any passenger fatalities or the loss of critical data, as well as issues in flight operations, which ① Operating environment improvement in the Group’s operating performance, as the benefits injuries in the event of an accident, which could have a severe could affect the Group’s operations. Large-scale failures in power The JAL Group’s air transportation business operates in Japan and of the decline would not be reflected in business results impact on the Group’s operating performance. In addition, safety systems, communication networks, and other infrastructure that markets worldwide. Demand for air travel may be affected by immediately due to hedge contract positions and other factors. issues related to the same aircraft type operated by the Group or support IT systems could also result in significant disruption to the trends in the global economy, natural disasters and adverse weather safety issues on codeshare flights could undermine customer trust Group’s operations. conditions, terrorist attacks, regional conflicts, war, the outbreak ② Exchange rate volatility risk in the Group’s flight safety and lead to a loss of public support, In addition, inadequate handling of customers’ personal and spread of infectious diseases, and other events. The JAL Group operates in countries other than Japan. As a result, which could affect the Group’s operating performance. To limit the information by the Group or unauthorized access that results in the In addition, the JAL Group’s services are partly dependent on some of its revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign impact of legal damages related to air accidents and to ensure disclosure of such information could damage public trust in the maintenance companies, airport personnel, sky marshals, fuel currencies. In particular, the price of aviation fuel, one of the those affected by any accident receive sufficient compensation, the Group’s business, systems and corporate brand and undermine suppliers, luggage handling companies, security companies, and Group’s main costs, is largely linked to the US dollar. Fluctuations in Group has purchased liability insurance that provides an customer and market trust in the JAL Group, which could affect the A Business Base that Supports Value Creation other third parties, which could affect the Group’s business US dollar exchange rates therefore have a greater impact on the internationally recognized level of compensation and coverage. Group’s financial position and operating performance. operations. Group’s expenses than on its revenues. To mitigate the impact of exchange rate volatility on profits, the JAL Group uses foreign (6) Regulatory and litigation risk (8) Personnel and labor relations risk ② Competitive environment currency revenues to offset foreign currency expenses and foreign The Group’s operations are subject to various international legal The JAL Group’s business is dependent on securing personnel who The Group faces severe competition in Japan and overseas in areas currency hedging transactions. The price of new aircraft is also restrictions and national and local government laws and regulations. have national certificates and other legally required qualifications such as routes, services, and pricing. On domestic routes, the Group closely linked to the US dollar, which means the Group is also Revisions to these laws and regulations may result in even tighter related to the operation of aircraft. However, due to the competes with other major Japanese airlines, new low-cost airlines, exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations when recording restrictions on the Group’s operations, which could lead to a considerable amount of time required by employees to acquire and bullet train services. On international routes, the Group the value of assets and depreciation costs related to aircraft. To significant increase in costs. these qualifications and skills during the course of their duties, the competes with major domestic and international airlines, and mitigate this risk, the Group uses hedging transactions to diversify JAL Group may not be able to secure sufficient personnel when competition is intensifying on both domestic and international opportunities for foreign currency exchange. ① Regulatory risk required, which could affect the Group’s business operations. routes. Alliances, codeshare agreements, and reciprocal air frequent The JAL Group conducts its operations in accordance with various In addition, many of the Group’s employees are members of flyer programs between overseas and Japanese airlines are ③ Capital and financial market risk rules and regulations, such as Japan’s Civil Aeronautics Act and labor unions. A collective strike by Group employees or other labor contributing to the challenging environment on international The JAL Group needs to make significant capital investments, such other regulations governing airline businesses, bilateral aviation disputes could affect the Group’s aircraft operations. routes. Significant deterioration in this competitive climate and as procuring new aircraft. To meet funding needs for these agreements and other international arrangements, Japan’s Business Outline operating environment could affect the Group’s operations. investments, the Group may procure funds from financial Antimonopoly Act and other similar antitrust laws overseas, and The JAL Group is a member of the oneworld alliance, which institutions or capital markets. The Group’s ability to secure funds rules on taxes and public dues such as landing fees. Revisions to includes a number of other airlines. The Group has also formed and its funding costs are affected by trends in capital and financial these rules and regulations or notifications of legally enforceable joint businesses with airline partners. The joint businesses extend markets, and by changes in its credit rating, which may limit the airworthiness directives could have an impact on the Group’s across international borders and have received antitrust immunity Group’s access to funds and lead to higher funding costs. operating performance. Moreover, the allocation of flight slots at (ATI) approval. However, the JAL Group’s alliance strategy may be Haneda and Narita airports and the timing of the launch of new affected by changes in operating conditions at other partner airlines (4) Disaster risk routes could also affect the Group’s operating performance. including oneworld members or joint business partners, and by The majority of the JAL Group’s passengers use aircraft departing In addition, amid growing pressure on companies in recent changes in the oneworld alliance membership or major from or arriving at Haneda and Narita airports. Consequently, these years to fulfill their corporate social responsibility to the developments in the Group’s alliance relationships. airports play a vital role in the JAL Group’s air transportation environment, such as preventing global warming, the JAL Group is Financial / Data Section business. In addition, the Group’s Information System Center, which facing tighter restrictions on CO2 emissions, noise pollution, harmful (2) Aircraft risk plays an important role in managing the Group’s flights, reservations substances, and other environment issues. A further tightening of In the air transportation business, the JAL Group places orders for and other services, and the Operation Control Center, which is environmental regulations that leads to a higher cost burden aircraft with the Boeing Company, Airbus SAS, Embraer SA, ATR, tasked with controlling the operation and scheduling of the Group’s through emission charging mechanisms or other schemes, such as a and Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation to increase efficiency by fleet worldwide, are both located in the Tokyo area. Consequently, a new greenhouse gas trading system to be implemented from fiscal switching to more fuel-efficient aircraft and reducing aircraft types major earthquake or volcanic eruption in the Tokyo area could lead 2020 at earliest, could have an impact on the Group’s operating in the fleet. However, the delivery of new aircraft may be delayed to the protracted closure of Haneda or Narita airports, while a fire, performance. due to technical, financial, and other reasons at aircraft terrorist attack or other incident at these key facilities could lead to a 94 95 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS Consolidated Balance Sheets Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) About the JAL Group As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 ASSETS LIABILITIES Current assets: Current liabilities: Operating accounts payable (Note 7) ¥ 177,937 ¥ 159,218 $ 1,674,858 Cash and deposits (Notes 5, 7 and 10) ¥ 417,842 ¥ 392,075 $ 3,933,000 Short-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 3,150 5,372 29,649 Notes and operating accounts receivable (Note 7) 151,262 142,745 1,423,776 Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 14,555 13,037 137,001 Securities (Notes 5, 7 and 8) 30,999 12,000 291,782 Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 2,389 5,712 22,486 Flight equipment spare parts and supplies 21,996 21,118 207,040 Accounts payable—installment purchase (Notes 7 and 10) 185 181 1,741 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Income taxes payable 14,074 10,829 132,473 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 5,576 7,436 52,484 Advances received 107,506 96,453 1,011,916 Other 58,924 51,450 554,631 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) — 173 — Allowance for doubtful accounts (533) (493) (5,016) Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) 393 249 3,699 Other 76,653 73,372 721,507 Total current assets 686,069 626,332 6,457,727 Total current liabilities 396,846 364,601 3,735,372 Non-current liabilities: Bonds payable (Notes 7 and 10) 20,000 20,000 188,253 Long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 80,696 65,802 759,563 Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 4,319 5,300 40,653 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Long-term accounts payable—installment purchase Non-current assets: (Notes 7 and 10) 480 666 4,518 Investment securities (Notes 6, 7, 8 and 10) 90,757 82,680 854,263 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 458 353 4,310 Reserve for loss on antitrust litigation 5,931 5,965 55,826 Net defined benefit liability (Note 11) 230,084 238,481 2,165,700 Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) 3,595 3,538 33,838 Other 17,687 20,676 166,481 Total non-current liabilities 363,253 360,783 3,419,173 Total liabilities 760,099 725,384 7,154,546 Tangible fixed assets, net: Flight equipment (Notes 10 and 16) 704,134 671,387 6,627,767 Contingent liabilities (Note 17) Ground property and equipment (Notes 10 and 16) 52,728 51,708 496,310 NET ASSETS (Note 13) Advances on flight equipment and other purchases 123,902 101,832 1,166,246 Business Outline Shareholders’ equity: Total tangible fixed assets 880,765 824,928 8,290,333 Common stock: Authorized: 700,000,000 shares in 2018 and 2017 Issued: 353,715,800 shares in 2018 and 2017 181,352 181,352 1,707,003 Capital surplus 183,049 183,047 1,722,976 Retained earnings 731,106 647,701 6,881,645 Treasury shares, at cost: 2,555,957 shares in 2018 and 199,873 shares in 2017 (10,535) (531) (99,162) Software 95,551 95,738 899,388 Total shareholders’ equity 1,084,972 1,011,569 10,212,462 Long-term loans receivable (Note 10) 7,715 7,303 72,618 Accumulated other comprehensive income Financial / Data Section Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (Note 8) 16,469 13,828 155,016 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 60,690 61,457 571,253 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges (Note 9) 6,360 (667) 59,864 Net defined benefit asset (Note 11) 2,119 1,240 19,945 Foreign currency translation adjustment (30) 232 (282) Other (Note 10) 30,891 29,359 290,766 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 11) (47,436) (52,898) (446,498) Allowance for doubtful accounts (334) (264) (3,143) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (24,637) (39,504) (231,899) Non-controlling interests 33,792 31,328 318,072 Total non-current assets 1,168,158 1,102,444 10,995,463 Total net assets 1,094,127 1,003,393 10,298,635 Total assets ¥1,854,227 ¥1,728,777 $17,453,190 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,854,227 ¥1,728,777 $17,453,190 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 96 97 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) Shareholders’ equity About the JAL Group Total Years ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares shareholders’ equity Operating revenue: Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥181,352 ¥183,042 ¥557,905 ¥(538) ¥921,761 Passenger: Changes of items during period Domestic ¥ 518,239 ¥ 498,628 $ 4,878,002 Dividends of surplus (43,500) (43,500) International 462,919 415,218 4,357,294 Profit attributable to owners of parent 164,174 164,174 Incidental and other revenue 402,099 375,120 3,784,817 Purchase of treasury shares (29,944) (29,944) Total operating revenue 1,383,257 1,288,967 13,020,114 Retirement of treasury shares (29,944) 29,944 — Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. 4 (934) 7 (922) Operating expenses: Net changes of items other than Wages, salaries and benefits 290,354 273,316 2,733,000 shareholders’ equity Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Aircraft fuel 215,270 198,794 2,026,261 Total changes of items during period — 4 89,795 7 89,808 Landing fees and other rent 83,552 81,140 786,445 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥181,352 ¥183,047 ¥647,701 ¥(531) ¥1,011,569 Aircraft maintenance 62,084 48,967 584,375 Aircraft rent 19,996 20,177 188,215 Accumulated other comprehensive income Depreciation and amortization 110,860 95,777 1,043,486 Total Other 426,571 400,461 4,015,163 Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Total operating expenses 1,208,691 1,118,634 11,376,986 difference on Deferred currency ments of other Nonavailable-for-sale gains (losses) translation defined comprehensive controlling Total Operating income 174,565 170,332 1,643,119 securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥14,767 ¥(24,777) ¥427 ¥(69,079) ¥(78,662) ¥27,457 ¥ 870,557 Non-operating income (expenses): Changes of items during period Interest income 816 874 7,680 Dividends of surplus (43,500) Dividend income 1,446 979 13,610 Profit attributable to owners of parent 164,174 Interest expenses (798) (843) (7,511) A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Purchase of treasury shares (29,944) Gain on sales of flight equipment 1,761 1,875 16,575 Retirement of treasury shares — Loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment (11,964) (8,458) (112,612) Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. (922) Loss on sales and disposal of supplies (1,737) (1,837) (16,349) Net changes of items other than Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 2,521 2,180 23,729 shareholders’ equity (938) 24,110 (195) 16,181 39,157 3,870 43,027 Foreign exchange gains (losses) (2,495) 203 (23,484) Total changes of items during period (938) 24,110 (195) 16,181 39,157 3,870 132,835 Gain on sales of investments in securities 829 — 7,803 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥13,828 ¥(667) ¥232 ¥(52,898) ¥(39,504) ¥31,328 ¥1,003,393 Compensation income 267 1,381 2,513 Compensation expenses — (1,285) — Subsidy income for aircraft purchase 5,477 6,692 51,553 Loss on reduction of aircraft (5,475) (6,959) (51,534) Impairment loss (Note 15) (1,209) (505) (11,379) Other (1,523) (1,853) (14,335) Total non-operating income (expenses) (12,084) (7,553) (113,742) Profit before income taxes 162,480 162,778 1,529,367 Income taxes—current (Note 12) 24,974 23,570 235,071 Business Outline Income taxes—deferred (Note 12) (3,488) (31,657) (32,831) Total income taxes 21,485 (8,087) 202,230 Profit 140,995 170,865 1,327,136 Profit attributable to Owners of parent 135,406 164,174 1,274,529 Non-controlling interests 5,588 6,690 52,597 Other comprehensive income (Note 14) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 2,590 (971) 24,378 Deferred gains on hedges 6,969 23,923 65,596 Foreign currency translation adjustment (296) (257) (2,786) Financial / Data Section Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 5,481 16,152 51,590 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method 70 308 658 Total other comprehensive income 14,814 39,155 139,439 Comprehensive income 155,809 210,021 1,466,575 Comprehensive income attributable to Owners of parent 150,274 203,331 1,414,476 Non-controlling interests ¥ 5,535 ¥ 6,689 $ 52,099 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 98 99 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen Thousands of Shareholders’ equity Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) About the JAL Group Total shareholders’ Years ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares equity Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥181,352 ¥183,047 ¥647,701 ¥(531) ¥1,011,569 Cash flows from operating activities Changes of items during period Profit before income taxes ¥ 162,480 ¥ 162,778 $ 1,529,367 Dividends of surplus (51,790) (51,790) Adjustments to reconcile profit before income taxes to Profit attributable to owners of parent 135,406 135,406 net cash provided by operating activities: Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) (9,999) Depreciation and amortization 110,860 95,777 1,043,486 Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. 2 (211) (3) (213) Loss on sales and disposal of non-current assets and Net changes of items other than impairment loss 9,882 6,459 93,015 shareholders’ equity Decrease in net defined benefit liability (1,422) (3,589) (13,384) Total changes of items during period — 2 83,405 (10,003) 73,403 Interest and dividend income (2,262) (1,854) (21,291) Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥181,352 ¥183,049 ¥731,106 ¥(10,535) ¥1,084,972 Interest expenses 798 843 7,511 Foreign exchange gains (81) (8) (762) Accumulated other comprehensive income Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method (2,521) (2,180) (23,729) Total Increase in notes and operating accounts receivable (8,621) (14,609) (81,146) Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated difference on Deferred currency ments of other NonIncrease in flight equipment spare parts and supplies (876) (801) (8,245) available-for-sale gains (losses) translation defined comprehensive controlling Total securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Increase in operating accounts payable 18,803 13,952 176,986 Balance at April 1, 2017 ¥13,828 ¥(667) ¥232 ¥(52,898) ¥(39,504) ¥31,328 ¥1,003,393 Other, net 13,780 27,974 129,706 Changes of items during period Subtotal 300,820 284,742 2,831,513 Dividends of surplus (51,790) Interest and dividend income received 2,895 2,312 27,249 Profit attributable to owners of parent 135,406 Interest expenses paid (802) (862) (7,548) Purchase of treasury shares (9,999) Income taxes paid (21,370) (33,039) (201,148) A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. (213) Net cash provided by operating activities 281,542 253,153 2,650,056 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity 2,640 7,027 (262) 5,461 14,867 2,463 17,331 Cash flows from investing activities Total changes of items during period 2,640 7,027 (262) 5,461 14,867 2,463 90,734 Payments into time deposits (408,263) (363,892) (3,842,836) Balance at March 31, 2018 ¥16,469 ¥6,360 ¥(30) ¥(47,436) ¥(24,637) ¥33,792 ¥1,094,127 Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 421,808 411,381 3,970,331 Purchase of non-current assets (208,002) (233,125) (1,957,850) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 4) Proceeds from sales of non-current assets 22,701 8,427 213,676 Shareholders’ equity Purchase of investment securities (2,941) (342) (27,682) Total Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares shareholders’ equity Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 1,578 1,134 14,853 Balance at April 1, 2017 $1,707,003 $1,722,957 $6,096,583 $(4,998) $9,521,545 Proceeds from purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting Changes of items during period in change in scope of consolidation 48 ­— 451 Dividends of surplus (487,481) (487,481) Proceeds from sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,274,529 1,274,529 in change in scope of consolidation 23 — 216 Purchase of treasury shares (94,117) (94,117) Payments of loans receivable (1,270) (386) (11,954) Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. 18 (1,986) (28) (2,004) Collection of loans receivable 954 1,485 8,979 Net changes of items other than Other, net 6,761 7,239 63,638 Business Outline shareholders’ equity Net cash used in investing activities (166,600) (168,077) (1,568,147) Total changes of items during period — 18 785,062 (94,154) 690,916 Cash flows from financing activities Balance at March 31, 2018 $1,707,003 $1,722,976 $6,881,645 $(99,162) $10,212,462 Net decrease in short-term loans payable (2,221) (360) (20,905) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 30,306 27,895 285,259 Accumulated other comprehensive income Repayments of long-term loans payable (13,468) (11,169) (126,769) Total Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Repayments for lease obligations (6,004) (13,491) (56,513) difference on Deferred currency ments of other Nonavailable-for-sale gains (losses) translation defined comprehensive controlling Total Proceeds from issuance of bonds — 19,875 — securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Purchase of treasury shares (10,004) (29,992) (94,164) Balance at April 1, 2017 $130,158 $(6,278) $2,183 $(497,910) $(371,837) $294,879 $9,444,587 Cash dividends paid (51,749) (43,481) (487,095) Changes of items during period Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (2,851) (2,807) (26,835) Dividends of surplus (487,481) Financial / Data Section Other, net 111 — 1,044 Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,274,529 Net cash used in financing activities (55,883) (53,531) (526,007) Purchase of treasury shares (94,117) Changes of scope of consolidation, etc. (2,004) Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (354) (292) (3,332) Net changes of items other than Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 58,704 31,251 552,560 shareholders’ equity 24,849 66,142 (2,466) 51,402 139,937 23,183 163,130 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 124,261 92,951 1,169,625 Total changes of items during period 24,849 66,142 (2,466) 51,402 139,937 23,183 854,047 Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger 122 58 1,148 Balance at March 31, 2018 $155,016 $59,864 $(282) $(446,498) $(231,899) $318,072 $10,298,635 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. of subsidiaries from consolidation (218) — (2,051) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 5) ¥ 182,870 ¥ 124,261 $ 1,721,291 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 100 101 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. BASIS OF PRESENTING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS straight-line method over a period of 5 years. f. Leased Assets ties, revenues, and expenses of foreign consolidated subsidJapan Airlines Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and its domestic All significant intercompany accounts and transactions Depreciation of leased assets is computed as follows: iaries and entities accounted for using the equity method About the JAL Group consolidated subsidiaries maintain their accounting records and unrealized gain or loss on intercompany accounts and Leased assets arising from finance lease transactions into yen at the applicable exchange rates at the year-end are and prepare their financial statements in accordance with transactions are eliminated in consolidation. that transfer the ownership of leased assets to the lessee are presented as foreign currency translation adjustments and accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, which are depreciated by the same method applied to assets arising non-controlling interests in a component of net assets. different in certain respects as to the application and disclob. Securities from purchase transactions. sure requirements of International Financial Reporting StanSecurities, except for investment securities of non-consoliLeased assets under finance lease transactions that do k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting dards. The accompanying consolidated financial statements dated subsidiaries and affiliates, are classified as trading not transfer the ownership to the lessee are depreciated to a Derivatives positions are stated at fair value. have been compiled from the consolidated financial statesecurities, held-to-maturity securities, or other securities. residual value of zero by the straight-line method using the Gains or losses on derivatives designated as hedging Management Strategies Designed to Create Value ments filed with the appropriate Local Finance Bureau of the Trading securities are carried at fair value. Held-to-maturity lease term as the useful life. instruments are deferred until the gains or losses on the Ministry of Finance as required by the Financial Instruments securities are carried at amortized cost. Marketable securiunderlying hedged items are recognized with any unrealized and Exchange Act of Japan and include certain additional ties classified as other securities are carried at fair value with g. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts gains or losses reported as a separate component of net financial information for the convenience of readers outside any unrealized gain or loss reported as a separate compoGeneral provision for doubtful accounts is provided by assets, net of taxes. Foreign currency receivables and payJapan. Some supplementary information included in the nent of net assets, net of taxes. Non-marketable securities applying a reserve percentage to receivables based on expeables are translated at the applicable forward foreign statutory Japanese language consolidated financial stateclassified as other securities are carried at cost or amortized rience from past transactions. When considered necessary, exchange rates if certain conditions are met. ments, but not required for fair presentation, is not presented cost. Cost of securities sold is determined principally by the specific reserves are made based on the assessment of indiin the accompanying consolidated financial statements. moving-average method. vidual accounts. l. Revenue Recognition As permitted by the Financial Instruments and Passenger and cargo revenues are recognized when the Exchange Act of Japan, amounts of less than one million c. Inventories h. Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits transportation services are rendered. A Business Base that Supports Value Creation yen have been omitted. As a result, the totals shown in the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable In calculating the retirement benefit obligation, the method accompanying consolidated financial statements (both in value with cost determined principally by the moving-averof attributing expected benefits to the accounting period is m. Income Taxes yen and U.S. dollars) do not necessarily agree with the sum age method. principally based on the benefit formula. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for of the individual amounts. Actuarial gain and loss are amortized by the straightexpected future tax consequences attributable to temporary Certain amounts previously reported have been reclasd. Tangible Fixed Assets (excluding leased assets) line method over a period ranging from 5 to 17 years, which differences between the financial statement carrying sified to conform to the current year’s classification. Tangible fixed assets, excluding leased assets, are stated at is less than the average remaining years of service of the amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective cost, net of accumulated depreciation, and accumulated active participants in the plans. Amortization is computed tax basis, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES impairment losses, if any, except as indicated in the followfrom the fiscal year subsequent to the year in which the Valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax a. Principles of Consolidation and Accounting for ing paragraph. difference was recorded. assets to their net realizable value if it is more likely than not Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Accumulated depreciation of tangible fixed assets on Past service cost is principally charged to income as that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not Affiliates March 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to ¥436,907 million incurred. However, at certain subsidiaries, past service cost is be realized. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include ($4,112,452 thousand) and ¥395,080 million, respectively. amortized by the straight-line method over a period which is The Company and certain domestic consolidated subBusiness Outline the accounts of the Company and all significant subsidiaries Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is computed less than the average remaining years of service of the active sidiaries file tax returns under the Japanese consolidated controlled directly or indirectly by the Company. Companies as follows: participants in the plans. corporate tax system. over which the Company exercises significant influence in ‌Flight equipment: the straight-line method based on terms of their operating and financial policies have been its estimated useful life i. Reserve for Loss on Antitrust Litigation n. Cash Equivalents included in the accompanying consolidated financial stateOther: principally the straight-line method based on Estimated future loss is accrued in order to provide for Cash equivalents are defined as highly liquid, short-term ments on the equity basis. the estimated useful lives of the respective assets penalties and compensation potentially arising from price investments with an original maturity of 3 months or less. The balance sheet date of 4 of the consolidated subsidThe estimated useful lives are principally as follows: cartels. iaries is December 31. Any significant differences in interFlight equipment: from 12 to 20 years 3. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY/CHANGES Financial / Data Section company accounts and transactions arising from intervening Other: from 2 to 65 years j. Foreign Currency Translation IN PRESENTATION intercompany transactions during the period between the Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies are translated For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 balance sheet date of each subsidiary and the consolidated e. Software (excluding leased assets) at the rates prevailing at the time of the transaction. Except (Changes in depreciation method) balance sheet date have been adjusted, if necessary. The Computer software intended for internal use is amortized by as noted in k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting, foreign Due to amendments to the Japanese Corporation Tax Act, differences between the acquisition and the fair value of the the straight-line method based on its estimated useful life currency receivables and payables are translated into yen at the Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries net assets at the respective dates of acquisition of the conwhich is principally 5 years. the applicable year-end foreign exchange rates and any gain adopted “Practical Solution on a change in depreciation solidated subsidiaries and companies accounted for by the or loss on translation is included in current earnings. method due to Tax Reform 2016” (Practical Issue Task Force equity method are recorded as goodwill amortized by the Differences arising from the translation of assets, liabiliNo. 32, June 17, 2016) from the current fiscal year. Accord102 103 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ing to this adoption, some consolidated domestic subsidiarfrom the fiscal year starting December 15, 2017, the ASBJ 6. INVESTMENT SECURITIES OF NON-CONSOLIDATED purchase payables. ies of the Company changed the depreciation method of developed comprehensive Accounting Standard for Revenue SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES The JAL Group also utilizes commodity derivatives in About the JAL Group facilities attached to buildings and structures acquired since Recognition and published them together with implementaInvestment securities of non-consolidated subsidiaries and order to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity April 1, 2016 from the declining-balance method to the tion guidance. affiliates which were included in “Investment securities” in prices of fuel and stabilize such fuel costs. straight-line method. The impact on the consolidated stateThe fundamental policy for developing Accounting the consolidated balance sheets on March 31, 2018 and There are internal policies for derivative transactions ments is immaterial. Standard for Revenue Recognition by the ASBJ was that the 2017 amounted to ¥37,477 million ($352,757 thousand) which set forth authorization levels and upper limits on accounting standards would incorporate the fundamental and ¥35,244 million, respectively. Bonds of affiliates which transaction volumes and the JAL Group enters into derivaFor the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 policy of IFRS No. 15 as the starting point from the perspecwere included in “Investment securities” in the consolidated tive transactions in accordance with such policies. Moreover, Information about changes in accounting policy/changes in tive of comparability of financial statements, which is one of balance sheets on March 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to monthly meetings are held with the attendance of board Management Strategies Designed to Create Value presentation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 is not the benefits of achieving consistency with IFRS No. 15. If ¥3,330 million ($31,344 thousand) and ¥3,330 million, members responsible for derivatives to determine methods applicable. there are matters to be taken into consideration in Japan in respectively. and ratios for minimizing risks as well as to report and conactual practice, etc., alternative handling will be added firm results of derivative transactions. Accounting Standards Issued but not yet Effective within a range that would not impair financial statement 7. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value of financial instruments is based on the The following standard and guidance were issued but not comparability. The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “JAL quoted market price, when it is available. When there is no yet adopted. (2) Effective date Group”) manage its financial instruments to raise funds, market price available, fair value is reasonably estimated. ‌“Implementation Guidance on Tax Effect Accounting” The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are principally for the purpose of flight equipment and facilities Since various assumptions and factors are reflected in esti(ASBJ Guidance No. 28, February 16, 2018 (hereinafter, currently considering the effective date. in accordance with management plans for air transportamating the fair value, different assumptions and factors “Guidance No. 28”)) (3) Effects of the application of the standards tion, utilizing loans from financial institutions, issuance of could result in a different fair value. ‌“Implementation Guidance on Recoverability of Deferred The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are bonds, finance lease transactions, and derivatives. Funds The book value of financial instruments in the consoliA Business Base that Supports Value Creation Tax Assets” (ASBJ Guidance No. 26 (revised 2018), Februcurrently in the process of determining the effects of these from short-term loans payable are utilized for ordinary operdated balance sheets, their fair value and the differences as ary 16, 2018 (hereinafter, “Guidance No. 26”)) new standards on the consolidated financial statements. ations. Funds from long-term loans payable and finance of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: (1) Overview lease transactions are utilized for flight equipment and faciliMillions of yen The above guidance was revised in regard to the treatments 4. U.S. DOLLAR AMOUNTS ties. Derivatives are utilized for the purpose of reducing the As of March 31, 2018 Book value Fair value Difference for taxable temporary differences for investments in subsidAmounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the converisk of fluctuations of interest rates and foreign currency Assets iaries within the context of non-consolidated financial statenience of the reader. A rate of JPY 106.24 = USD 1.00, the exchange rates, not for the purpose of speculation. (1) Cash and deposits ¥417,842 ¥417,842 ¥— ments, and to clarify the treatments in determining approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2018, With respect to operating accounts receivable, the JAL (2) Notes and operating accounts receivable 151,262 151,262 — recoverability of deferred tax assets in a company which was has been used in translation. The convenience translations Group exercises due date management and outstanding (3) Securities and investment categorized as ”Type 1” according to the guidance. should not be construed as representations that the Japabalance management in accordance with internal policies. securities (2) Effective date nese yen amounts have been, could have been, or could in The JAL Group makes its best efforts to identify and miti(i) Investment securities Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March the future be, converted into U.S. dollars at this or any other gate risks of bad debt from major customers with financial of non-consolidated 31, 2019. rate of exchange. difficulties by periodically monitoring their creditworthiness. subsidiaries and affiliates 16,433 20,629 4,196 Business Outline (ii) Other investment securities 69,632 69,632 — (3) Effects of the application of the standards Securities and investment securities are composed mainly of Total 655,170 659,366 4,196 The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are 5. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS shares of companies with which the JAL Group has business Liabilities currently in the process of determining the effects of these The components of cash and cash equivalents in the accomrelationships. The JAL Group reviews the fair values of such (1) Operating accounts payable 177,937 177,937 — new standards on the consolidated financial statements. panying consolidated statements of cash flows at March 31, financial instruments and the financial position of the issuers (2) Short-term loans payable 3,150 3,150 — 2018 and 2017 were as follows: periodically in order to identify and mitigate risks of impair(3) Bonds payable 20,000 20,065 65 ‌“Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ ment. Most operating accounts payable are due within one (4) Long-term loans payable 95,252 95,252 — Thousands of Statement No. 29, March 30, 2018) Millions of yen U.S. dollars year. As for derivatives, the JAL Group believes that the (5) Lease obligations 6,708 6,708 — ‌“Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 credit risks are extremely low, as it enters into derivative (6) Long-term accounts payable— Cash and deposits ¥417,842 ¥392,075 $3,933,000 installment purchase 666 666 — Financial / Data Section Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30, March 30, transactions only with reputable financial institutions with a Securities 30,999 12,000 291,782 Total 303,715 303,780 65 2018) sound credit profile. Time deposits with a maturity Derivatives* ¥8,312 ¥8,307 ¥(4) (1) Overview of more than three months (265,971) (279,813) (2,503,492) The Company utilizes derivatives in order to mitigate * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are IASB and FASB co-developed a new comprehensive revenue Cash and cash equivalents ¥182,870 ¥124,261 $1,721,291 the risks of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency enclosed in parentheses. recognition standard and published “Revenue from Conexchange rates on receivables and payables. The JAL Group tracts with Customers” in May 2014 (IFRS No. 15 in IASB, utilizes currency options to reduce the risk of foreign curTopic 606 in FASB). Considering IFRS No. 15 will be applied rency exchange rate fluctuations for specific foreign-currenfrom the fiscal year starting January 1, 2018 and Topic 606 cy-denominated receivables and payables, mainly for fuel 104 105 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Thousands of U.S. dollars (i) Methods of calculating the fair value of financial (iii) Redemption schedule for monetary claims and 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES As of March 31, 2018 Book value Fair value Difference instruments, including securities and derivatives securities with maturity date subsequent to the No trading securities were held on March 31, 2018 and About the JAL Group Assets transactions consolidated balance sheet date 2017. Securities classified as other securities are included in (1) Cash and deposits $3,933,000 $3,933,000 $— (2) Notes and operating Assets “Investment securities” in the accompanying consolidated Millions of yen accounts receivable 1,423,776 1,423,776 — (1) Cash ‌ and deposits and (2) Notes and operating accounts More than More than balance sheets. (3) Securities and investment receivable one year, five years, The components of unrealized gain or loss on marketWithin within within More than securities The fair value equates to the book value due to the As of March 31, 2018 one year five years ten years ten years able securities classified as other securities on March 31, (i) Investment securities Cash and deposits ¥417,842 ¥— ¥— ¥— short-term nature of these instruments. 2018 and 2017 were summarized as follows: of non-consolidated (3) Securities ‌ and investment securities Notes and operating subsidiaries and affiliates 154,678 194,173 39,495 accounts receivable 151,262 — — — Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Millions of yen (ii) Other investment securities 655,421 655,421 — The fair value of securities is determined mainly based on Acquisition Carrying Unrealized Investment securities Total 6,166,886 6,206,381 39,495 the market price. These investment securities are As of March 31, 2018 cost value gain (loss) Short-term investments 30,999 — — — Unrealized gain: Liabilities described further in “Note 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES.” Held-to-maturity Stocks ¥15,410 ¥38,157 ¥22,747 (1) Operating accounts payable 1,674,858 1,674,858 — securities — — — 3,330 (2) Short-term loans payable 29,649 29,649 — 15,410 38,157 22,747 Liabilities Other securities with (3) Bonds payable 188,253 188,864 611 Unrealized loss: (1) Operating ‌ accounts payable and (2) Short-term loans maturity date — 2,091 — — (4) Long-term loans payable 896,573 896,573 — Stocks 499 474 (25) payable Short-term investments 30,999 30,999 — (5) Lease obligations 63,140 63,140 — Thousands of U.S. dollars The fair value equates to the book value due to the More than More than 31,499 31,474 (25) (6) Long-term accounts payable— installment purchase 6,268 6,268 — short-term nature of these instruments. one year, five years, Total ¥46,910 ¥69,632 ¥22,721 Within within within More than (3) ‌Bonds payable A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Total 2,858,763 2,859,375 611 As of March 31, 2018 one year five years ten years ten years Derivatives* $78,237 $78,190 $(37) The fair value of bonds payable is determined based on Cash and deposits $3,933,000 $— $— $— Thousands of U.S. dollars Notes and operating Acquisition Carrying Unrealized * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are the market price. As of March 31, 2018 cost value gain (loss) enclosed in parentheses. accounts receivable 1,423,776 — — — (4) Long-term ‌ loans payable, (5) Lease obligations, and (6) Unrealized gain: Investment securities Millions of yen Long-term accounts payable—installment purchase Stocks $145,048 $359,158 $214,109 Short-term investments 291,782 — — — As of March 31, 2017 Book value Fair value Difference The fair value of long-term loans payable, lease obliga145,048 359,158 214,109 Held-to-maturity Assets Unrealized loss: tions, and long-term accounts payable—installment securities — — — 31,344 (1) Cash and deposits ¥392,075 ¥392,075 ¥— Stocks 4,696 4,461 (235) purchase with fixed interest rates is based on the present Other securities with (2) Notes and operating maturity date — 19,681 — — Short-term investments 291,782 291,782 — accounts receivable 142,745 142,745 — value of future cash flows discounted using the current 296,489 296,253 (235) (3) Securities and investment borrowing rate for similar debt of a comparable maturity. Millions of yen Total $441,547 $655,421 $213,864 securities More than More than (i) Investment securities Derivatives one year, five years, Within within within More than Millions of yen of non-consolidated Derivatives are described further in “Note 9. DERIVATIVES As of March 31, 2017 one year five years ten years ten years Acquisition Carrying Unrealized Business Outline subsidiaries and affiliates 15,735 17,009 1,273 As of March 31, 2017 cost value gain (loss) AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES.” Cash and deposits ¥392,075 ¥— ¥— ¥— (ii) Other investment securities 46,723 46,723 — Unrealized gain: Notes and operating Total 597,280 598,554 1,273 accounts receivable 142,745 — — — Stocks ¥15,410 ¥34,229 ¥18,819 Liabilities (ii) Financial instruments for which the fair value is 15,410 34,229 18,819 Investment securities (1) Operating accounts payable 159,218 159,218 — extremely difficult to measure Short-term investments 12,000 — — — Unrealized loss: (2) Short-term loans payable 5,372 5,372 — Held-to-maturity Stocks 499 493 (6) Thousands of (3) Bonds payable 20,000 20,013 13 Millions of yen U.S. dollars securities — — — 3,330 Short-term investments 12,000 12,000 — (4) Long-term loans payable 78,839 78,839 — As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 12,499 12,493 (6) (5) Lease obligations 11,012 11,012 — Investment securities of Total ¥27,910 ¥46,723 ¥18,813 non-consolidated subsidiaries The redemption schedule for short-term and long-term debt (6) Long-term accounts payable— Financial / Data Section installment purchase 847 847 — and affiliates ¥21,043 ¥19,509 $198,070 subsequent to the consolidated balance sheet date is Total 275,290 275,303 13 Held-to-maturity securities 3,330 3,330 31,344 described in “Note 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND Proceeds from sales of securities classified as other securities Derivatives* ¥(588) ¥(550) ¥ 37 Other securities 11,318 9,381 106,532 LONG-TERM DEBT.” for the year ended March 31, 2018 amounted to ¥1,496 * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are million ($14,081 thousand). For the year ended March 31, enclosed in parentheses. The above are not included in “(3) (ii) Other investment secu2018, the aggregate gain realized on those sales totaled rities” in the fair value of financial instruments because there ¥764 million ($7,191 thousand), and the aggregate loss realis no market value and it is difficult to measure the fair value. ized on those sales totaled ¥2 million ($18 thousand). Neither of them was applicable for the year ended March 31, 2017. 106 107 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES transactions are examined by other departments. Gains and losses 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT Assets pledged as collateral as of March 31, 2018 for longCertain consolidated subsidiaries utilize forward foreign exchange on hedging instruments and the assessment of hedge effectiveness, The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans term and short-term debt of ¥94,023 million ($885,005 About the JAL Group contracts and currency options on a consistent basis to hedge which are performed both at inception and on an ongoing basis, payable outstanding on March 31, 2018 was 1.0%. Longthousand) are flight equipment and others totaling certain foreign currency transactions related to foreign purchase are reported at meetings of the related department managers on a term debt on March 31, 2018 and 2017 consisted of the ¥170,397 million ($1,603,887 thousand). Assets pledged as commitments, principally for flight equipment and foreign timely basis. Other consolidated subsidiaries have adopted procefollowing: collateral as of March 31, 2017 for long-term and shortaccounts payable, and other items. The Company also enters into a dures for hedging transactions which are more simplified than term debt of ¥76,012 million are flight equipment and Weightedvariety of options in its management of risk exposure related to the those adopted by the Company. Thousands of average others totaling ¥155,401 million. Millions of yen U.S. dollars interest rate commodity prices of fuel. The contract amount and the estimated fair value of the Also included as part of pledged assets are certain As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 2018 The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries enter into open derivatives positions on March 31, 2018 and 2017, which Long-term loans: assets set aside for revolving pledges on obligations accomManagement Strategies Designed to Create Value these hedging transactions in accordance with the internal guidemet the criteria required for the application of hedge accounting, Current portion of panying syndicated loans taken out by an affiliate, Tokyo lines and strategies established by management. The routine operaare summarized as follows: long-term loans International Airport Terminal Corporation, for core business payable ¥ 14,555 ¥13,037 $137,001 0.7% tions of the department which is responsible for hedging purposes. As of March 31, 2017, the amounts include secuLong-term loans payable (excluding rity deposits paid to the banks regarding derivative transacAs of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract amount Contract amount current portion) due tions. Type of derivative Major hedged items Total Maturing after 1 year Estimated fair value Total Maturing after 1 year Estimated fair value 2019 to 2030 80,696 65,802 759,563 0.4% The Company entered into loan commitment agreeForward foreign currency exchange contracts: Lease obligations: Buy: ments amounting to ¥50,000 million ($470,632 thousand) USD Operating accounts payable ¥41,055 ¥ 2,476 ¥(1,450) $386,436 $ 23,305 $(13,648) Current portion of with three banks. There were no loan payables outstanding EUR Operating accounts payable 2,673 64 (27) 25,160 602 (254) lease obligations 2,389 5,712 22,486 0.9% Others Operating accounts payable 1,594 2 (62) 15,003 18 (583) Lease obligations under these loan commitment agreements. Currencies options: A Business Base that Supports Value Creation (excluding current Buy: portion) due 2019 Call option Operating accounts payable 69,659 17,343 449 655,675 163,243 4,226 11. RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS to 2032 4,319 5,300 40,653 2.2% Sell: Outline of Current Retirement Benefit System Put option Operating accounts payable 61,946 14,691 (1,299) 583,076 138,281 (12,227) Long-term accounts Commodity swap: payable—installment An employee whose employment is terminated is entitled, in Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 67,883 17,908 10,702 638,958 168,561 100,734 purchase: most cases, to pension annuity payments or to a lump-sum Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment (Note 2. k) Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Current portion of severance payment determined by reference to the employBuy: long-term accounts USD Operating accounts payable 761 — (17) 7,163 — (160) payable—installment ee’s basic rate of pay, length of service, and the conditions EUR Operating accounts payable 258 — 15 2,428 — 141 purchase 185 181 1,741 2.0% under which the termination occurs. Others Operating accounts payable 183 — (2) 1,722 — (18) Total ¥ 8,307 $ 78,190 Long-term accounts The Company and certain significant domestic consolipayable—installment dated subsidiaries have established contributory defined All derivative transactions were conducted as over-the-counter transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by purchase (excluding current portion) benefit pension plans such as corporate pension funds and financial institutions and others. due 2021 480 666 4,518 2.0% lump-sum severance indemnity plans. In certain cases, addiAs of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Bonds payable tional severance payments may be provided. Business Outline Contract amount Type of derivative Major hedged items Total Maturing after 1 year Estimated fair value Bonds payable due As of March 31, 2018, the Company and 38 consoliForward foreign currency exchange contracts: 2021 to 2026 20,000 20,000 188,253 0.3% Buy: dated subsidiaries had adopted a lump-sum severance Total ¥122,626 ¥110,699 $1,154,235 USD Operating accounts payable ¥36,805 ¥ 4,548 ¥1,197 indemnity plan. Additionally, there were 3 corporate pension EUR Operating accounts payable 2,020 — 44 Others Operating accounts payable 1,330 — 84 funds, including the Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund. Currencies options: The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt within Certain foreign subsidiaries have also established contribuBuy: 5 years subsequent to March 31, 2018 are summarized as tory defined benefit pension plans. Call option Operating accounts payable 67,232 17,318 1,918 Sell: follows: The Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introPut option Operating accounts payable 60,885 15,129 (1,268) Millions of Thousands of duced an option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as Commodity swap: Financial / Data Section Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 68,359 18,550 (2,565) Year ending March 31 yen U.S. dollars other alternatives. The JAL Group Pension Fund, which was 2018 ¥ 17,130 $161,238 Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment (Note 2. k) Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: established by certain consolidated subsidiaries, introduced Buy: 2019 16,165 152,155 a cash-balance plan option. USD Operating accounts payable 593 — 40 2020 11,644 109,600 EUR Operating accounts payable 305 — (7) Some of the consolidated subsidiaries adopt the simpli2021 20,525 193,194 Others Operating accounts payable 80 — 4 fied method for the calculation of retirement benefit obligaTotal ¥ (550) 2022 9,482 89,250 2023 and thereafter 47,677 448,766 tions. All derivative transactions were conducted as over-the-counter transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by Total ¥122,626 $1,154,235 financial institutions and others. 108 109 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (4) Reconciliation ‌ from retirement benefit obligations and (7) ‌Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in accumulated 12. INCOME TAX a. Defined benefit plans plan assets to net defined benefit liability (asset) other comprehensive income The significant components of deferred tax assets and About the JAL Group (1) ‌Balances of retirement benefit obligations, excluding liabilities and the related valuation allowances on March 31, Thousands of Thousands of plans adopting the simplified method Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 Thousands of Funded retirement benefit Past service costs that are yet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars obligations ¥380,893 ¥389,708 $3,585,212 to be recognized ¥(320) ¥(370) $(3,012) Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 Plan assets (248,801) (245,737) (2,341,876) Actuarial losses that are yet Balance at beginning of period ¥477,584 ¥473,346 $4,495,331 Deferred tax assets: 132,092 143,971 1,243,335 to be recognized 68,157 75,656 641,538 Service cost 12,946 12,736 121,856 Net defined benefit liability ¥69,633 ¥69,467 $655,431 Unfunded retirement benefit Total ¥67,837 ¥75,286 $638,525 Interest cost 3,527 3,497 33,198 Operating accounts payable 11,790 10,535 110,975 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value obligations 95,871 93,269 902,400 Actuarial loss 1,363 12,840 12,829 Non-recurring depreciation 4,826 3,918 45,425 Total net defined benefit Benefit paid (24,169) (26,125) (227,494) liability (asset) 227,964 237,240 2,145,745 (8) Plan assets Reserve for loss on antitrust Reclassification of retirement litigation 1,777 1,788 16,726 Net defined benefit liability 230,084 238,481 2,165,700 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 benefit obligations due to the Deferred liability on flight Net defined benefit asset (2,119) (1,240) (19,945) % % change from simplified method — 1,512 — equipment 1,625 2,080 15,295 Total net defined benefit General insurance fund 91 90 Other (3) (223) (28) Asset retirement obligations 1,194 1,133 11,238 liability (asset) ¥227,964 ¥237,240 $2,145,745 Balance at end of period ¥471,248 ¥477,584 $4,435,692 Bond 4 4 Deferred losses on hedges 675 1,919 6,353 Other 5 6 Lease obligations 269 1,343 2,532 (5) Retirement benefit costs Total 100 100 Tax loss carryforwards 152,047 176,161 1,431,165 (2) ‌Balances of plan assets, excluding plans adopting Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected Other 9,612 8,786 90,474 the simplified method Thousands of A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Millions of yen U.S. dollars returns on various categories of plan assets have been con253,453 277,134 2,385,664 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Valuation allowance (174,066) (197,685) (1,638,422) Thousands of sidered in determining the long-term expected rate of return. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Service cost ¥12,946 ¥12,736 $121,856 79,386 79,449 747,232 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Interest cost 3,527 3,497 33,198 Deferred tax liabilities: Balance at beginning of period ¥242,402 ¥240,874 $2,281,645 (9) Actuarial assumptions Expected return on plan assets (3,698) (3,669) (34,807) Valuation difference on Expected return on plan assets 3,698 3,669 34,807 Past service costs amortization (49) (28) (461) available-for-sale securities 6,854 5,722 64,514 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 Actuarial gain 1,091 1,126 10,269 Net actuarial loss amortization 7,771 6,442 73,145 % % Deferred gains on hedges 3,521 1,719 33,141 Contributions paid by the employer 17,817 16,338 167,705 Retirement benefit cost based Discount rate 0.4–1.2 0.4–1.2 Asset retirement obligations 336 415 3,162 Benefit paid (19,579) (19,666) (184,290) on the simplified method 343 781 3,228 Long-term expected rate of return 1.0–2.0 1.0–2.5 Leased assets 202 1,000 1,901 Reclassification of retirement Other (670) (676) (6,306) Other 2,662 2,223 25,056 benefit obligations due to the Subtotal 20,169 19,083 189,843 13,577 11,081 127,795 change from simplified method — 280 — Reclassification of retirement benefit b. Defined contribution plans Net deferred tax assets ¥65,808 ¥68,367 $619,427 Other — (221) — obligations due to the change from The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries contributed Balance at end of period ¥245,430 ¥242,402 $2,310,146 simplified method — 70 — a total of ¥1,614 million ($15,192 thousand) and ¥1,581 Business Outline Total ¥20,169 ¥19,153 $189,843 A reconciliation between the Japanese statutory income tax million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, (3) ‌Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and rate and the Company’s and the consolidated subsidiaries’ respectively. plan assets to net defined benefit liability (asset), applying (6) Remeasurements ‌ of defined benefit plans in other effective tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2018 and the simplified method comprehensive income 2017 were as follows: Thousands of Year ended March 31 2018 2017 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars % % Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Statutory rate 30.2 30.2 Balance at beginning of period ¥2,059 ¥2,748 $19,380 Past service costs ¥ (49) ¥ (28) $ (461) Share of loss of entities accounted for using Retirement benefit cost 343 781 3,228 Actuarial gains 7,499 (5,271) 70,585 equity method (0.5) (0.4) Financial / Data Section Contributions paid by the employer (106) (148) (997) Total ¥7,449 ¥(5,300) $70,114 Changes in valuation allowance (14.3) (36.6) Benefit paid (149) (172) (1,402) Other (2.2) 1.8 Reclassification of retirement benefit Effective tax rate 13.2 (5.0) obligations due to the change from simplified method — (1,161) — Other (0) 11 (0) Income taxes in Japan applicable to the Company and its Balance at end of period ¥2,146 ¥2,059 $20,199 domestic consolidated subsidiaries consist of corporation tax, inhabitants’ taxes, and enterprise tax. Income taxes of 110 111 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS foreign consolidated subsidiaries are based generally on the The number of shares of common stock in treasury 14. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 15. IMPAIRMENT LOSS ON NON-CURRENT ASSETS tax rates applicable in their countries of incorporation. increased by 2,356 thousand shares. Because the Company Reclassification adjustments for each component of other Assets are attributed or allocated to cash-generating units About the JAL Group purchased 2,354 thousand shares and 2 thousand shares comprehensive income including tax effect for the years which generated largely independent cash flows for calcu13. NET ASSETS increased with the influence that the entity accounted for ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: lating impairment loss. Assets to be sold and idle assets are The Companies Act of Japan (the “Act”) provides that an using the equity method which holds the shares of the written down to their respective recoverable amounts. Thousands of amount equal to at least 10% of the amount to be disparent company purchased its own treasury shares. Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries estibursed as distributions of capital surplus (except for distribuThe total number and changes in the total number of Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 mated recoverable amounts at the higher of fair value less Valuation difference on availabletions from additional paid-in capital) and retained earnings shares of stock authorized and in issue and common stock costs to sell and value in use. Fair value is based on reasonfor-sale securities, net of taxes: (except for distributions from the legal reserve) be appropriin treasury for the year ended March 31, 2017 were as folUnrealized holding gains arising able estimates made by the Company and its consolidated Management Strategies Designed to Create Value ated to additional paid-in capital and the legal reserve, lows: during the period ¥ 3,722 ¥(1,414) $ 35,033 subsidiaries in accordance with the contract amounts of respectively, until the sum of additional paid-in capital and Less: Reclassification adjustment sales for the periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, Thousands of shares included in profit — — — the legal reserve equals 25% of the capital stock account. On April On March respectively. Pre-tax amount 3,722 (1,414) 35,033 Such distributions can be made at any time by a resolution Year ended March 31, 2017 1, 2016 Increase Decrease 31, 2017 The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries Number of shares of Tax expense (benefit) (1,131) 443 (10,645) of the shareholders, or by the Board of Directors if certain have recognized impairment loss on the following groups of stock authorized: Valuation difference on availableconditions are met, but neither additional paid-in capital nor Common stock 700,000 — — 700,000 for-sale securities, net 2,590 (971) 24,378 assets in the accompanying consolidated statements of the legal reserve is available for distribution by resolution of Preferred stock 50,000 — — 50,000 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges, income and comprehensive income for the year ended the Board of Directors. Total 750,000 — — 750,000 net of taxes: March 31, 2018: A company may, by a resolution of its board of direcNumber of shares of stock Deferred gains (losses) arising in issue: during the period 12,595 18,053 118,552 Assets utilized in the Company’s and tors, designate an amount not exceeding half of the price of A Business Base that Supports Value Creation consolidated subsidiaries’ operations Groups of assets Locations Common stock 362,704 — 8,988 353,715 Less: Reclassification adjustment new shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in included in profit (2,702) 13,596 (25,432) Assets to be sold Flight equipment — Total 362,704 — 8,988 353,715 capital surplus. The maximum amount that a company can Pre-tax amount 9,892 31,650 93,109 Number of shares of common distribute as dividends is calculated based on its unconsolistock in treasury: Tax expense (benefit) (2,923) (7,726) (27,513) An impairment loss of ¥1,209 million ($11,379 thousand) dated financial statements in accordance with the Act. Common stock 203 8,988 8,991 199 Deferred gains (losses) on was recognized mainly on flight equipment as non-operatAt the annual shareholders’ meeting held on June 19, hedges, net of taxes 6,969 23,923 65,596 Total 203 8,988 8,991 199 ing expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements Foreign currency translation 2018, the shareholders approved dividends of surplus of income and comprehensive income for the year ended adjustment: amounting to ¥20,195 million ($190,088 thousand). Such Translation adjustment arising March 31, 2018. appropriations have not been accrued in the Consolidated during the period (308) (257) (2,899) The Company has recognized impairment loss on the Financial Statement as of March 31, 2018. Less: Reclassification adjustment following groups of assets in the accompanying consoliThe total number and changes in the total number of included in profit 11 — 103 dated statements of income and comprehensive income for Foreign currency translation shares of stock authorized and in issue and common stock the year ended March 31, 2017: adjustment (296) (257) (2,786) in treasury for the year ended March 31, 2018 were as folBusiness Outline Remeasurements of defined Assets utilized in the Company’s and lows: benefit plans: consolidated subsidiaries’ operations Groups of assets Locations Remeasurements of defined benefit Assets to be sold Flight equipment — Thousands of shares plans arising during the period (271) (11,713) (2,550) On April On March Year ended March 31, 2018 1, 2017 Increase Decrease 31, 2018 Less: Reclassification adjustment Number of shares of included in profit 7,721 6,413 72,675 An impairment loss of ¥505 million was recognized as stock authorized: Pre-tax amount 7,449 (5,300) 70,114 non-operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated Common stock 700,000 — — 700,000 Tax expense (benefit) (1,968) 21,453 (18,524) statements of income and comprehensive income for the Preferred stock 50,000 — — 50,000 Remeasurements of defined year ended March 31, 2017. Total 750,000 — — 750,000 benefit plans 5,481 16,152 51,590 Share of other comprehensive Financial / Data Section Number of shares of stock income of entities accounted for 16. LEASES in issue: by the equity method: As Lessee Common stock 353,715 — — 353,715 Share of other comprehensive Depreciation equivalent is calculated by the straight-line Total 353,715 — — 353,715 income of entities accounted Number of shares of common for by the equity method method on the assumption that the useful lives of the stock in treasury: arising during the period 70 308 658 related assets are the same as the lease term and the residCommon stock 199 2,356 — 2,555 Total other comprehensive income ¥14,814 ¥39,155 $139,439 ual value is zero. Total 199 2,356 — 2,555 Interest expenses equivalent is calculated on the 112 113 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assumption that the difference between aggregate lease issued that had a dilutive effect on earnings per share. 19. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 20. SEGMENT INFORMATION rentals and the acquisition cost of leased assets is deemed a. Asset retirement obligations recognized in the conThe reportable segments of the Company and its consoliAbout the JAL Group Yen U.S. dollars to be the interest portion and is apportioned over the term Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 solidated balance sheets on March 31, 2018 and 2017 dated subsidiaries are components for which discrete finanof the lease by the interest method. Earnings per share of common stock: The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, in conneccial information is available and whose operating results are No impairment loss has been recognized on leased Basic ¥383.23 ¥456.56 $3.60 tion with some buildings and land, have entered into real regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors to make deciproperty under finance leases accounted as operating leases estate lease contracts with terms ranging from 1 to 46 years sions about resource allocation and to assess performance. for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. The following table sets forth the computation of basic for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Asset retireAir transportation includes international and domestic pasFuture rental expenses under noncancelable operating earnings per share of common stock for the years ended ment obligations have been recognized in light of the oblisenger operations, cargo operations and other transportaleases outstanding on March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as March 31, 2018 and 2017: gation of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries to tion services. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value follows: the owners of the buildings and land to remove the facilities The accounting policies of the segments are substanThousands of from leased real estate at the end of those contracts. The tially the same as those described in the significant accountThousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 liabilities on March 31, 2018 and 2017 have been calculated ing policies in Note 2. Inter-group sales are recorded under As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 Earnings (allocable to) available for with expected useful lives ranging from 1 to 46 years and the same conditions used in transactions with third parties. Within 1 year ¥12,278 ¥15,468 $115,568 shareholders of common stock: discount rates ranging from 0.1% to 2.5%. Over 1 year 55,188 60,983 519,465 Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥135,406 ¥164,174 $ 1,274,529 The following table summarizes the changes in the Total ¥67,466 ¥76,451 $635,033 Appropriations for payment of aggregate carrying amount of asset retirement obligations preferred dividend — — — for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: 17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ¥135,406 ¥164,174 $ 1,274,529 On March 31, 2018 and 2017, contingent liabilities for Thousands of A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Millions of yen U.S. dollars guarantees for bank loans of employees amounted to ¥107 Thousands of shares Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 million ($1,007 thousand) and ¥150 million, respectively. Balance at beginning of period ¥ 3,788 ¥ 3,957 $ 35,655 Weighted-average number of shares of On March 31, 2018 and 2017, contingent liabilities for Increase due to purchases of tangible common stock outstanding 353,334 359,594 fixed assets 0 10 0 guarantees for lease obligations of Jetstar Japan Co., Ltd. Increase due to changes in estimated amounted to ¥4,042 million ($38,045 thousand) and obligations 143 — 1,346 Net assets per share are computed based on the net assets ¥4,400 million, respectively. Accretion due to the passage of time 56 55 527 available for distribution to the shareholders of common The Company guarantees for damage resulting from a Decrease due to settlement (0) (235) (0) stock and the number of shares of common stock outstandbreach of the obligation, assertion or guarantee on the Balance at end of period ¥3,988 ¥3,788 $37,537 ing on each balance sheet date. contract regarding stock transfer reservation concluded between Fukuoka Airport Holdings Co., Ltd. (transferor), in Yen U.S. dollars b. Asset retirement obligations not recognized in the As of March 31 2018 2017 2018 which the Company holds an investment, and the Ministry consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2018 Net assets per share of common stock ¥3,019.52 ¥2,749.71 $28.42 of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Civil Aviation and 2017 Business Outline Bureau (transferee), capped at ¥7,867 million ($74,049 The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have rented thousand) on March 31, 2018 and 2017. lots and buildings from domestic service airports based on permission for national property use and a real estate rental 18. AMOUNTS PER SHARE contract for national property, and have an obligation to Basic earnings per share is computed based on the earnings remove the facilities from leased real estate. The Company available for distribution to or allocable to the shareholders and its consolidated subsidiaries have an important role in of common stock and the weighted-average number of public traffic, and depend on the trends of the aviation shares of common stock outstanding during each year. administration of each country. For this reason, the time of Diluted earnings per share are computed based on earnings Financial / Data Section building removal and withdrawal cannot be determined at available for distribution to the shareholders and the the discretion of the Company and its consolidated subsidweighted-average number of shares of common stock outiaries alone in regard to rented airport-related facilities. standing during each year after giving effect to the potenMoreover, since there is also no schedule for building tially dilutive securities to be issued upon the conversion of removal and withdrawal at present, asset retirement obligaconvertible bonds. However, diluted earnings per share have tions cannot be reasonably estimated. Therefore, the asset not been presented for the years ended March 31, 2018 retirement obligations corresponding to the debt concerned and 2017 since the Company had no equity instruments have not been calculated. 114 115 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Millions of yen Information by Geographical Area 2. Details of repurchase Year ended March 31, 2018 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Operating revenue from overseas operations, which include (1) Type of shares to be purchased Common shares of the Company About the JAL Group Operating revenue international passenger and cargo services of domestic con(2) Total number of shares to be purchased 7million shares (maximum) External ¥1,140,333 ¥242,923 ¥1,383,257 ¥— ¥1,383,257 Intersegment 116,931 32,386 149,318 (149,318) — solidated airline subsidiaries rendered during the years (3) Total purchase price of shares 20 billion yen (maximum) Total 1,257,265 275,310 1,532,575 (149,318) 1,383,257 ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, export sales of domestic (4) Purchase period March 1, 2018 to April 27, 2018 Segment profit 161,261 13,401 174,662 (96) 174,565 consolidated subsidiaries, and sales of consolidated subsidAssets 1,800,326 173,029 1,973,356 (119,128) 1,854,227 iaries outside Japan, for the years ended March 31, 2018 3. Result of repurchase Depreciation and amortization 108,236 2,635 110,872 (11) 110,860 and 2017 were as follows: Content of shares repurchased before March 31, 2018 Impairment loss 1,184 25 1,209 — 1,209 (1) Type of shares to be purchased Common shares of the Company Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Thousands of Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 8,475 22,192 30,668 — 30,668 Millions of yen U.S. dollars (2) Total number of shares to be purchased 2,354,000 shares Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets ¥ 209,541 ¥ 1,263 ¥ 210,804 ¥— ¥ 210,804 Year ended March 31 2018 2017 2018 (3) Total purchase price of shares 9,999,955,400 yen Asia and Oceania ¥237,359 ¥214,298 $2,234,177 (4) Purchase period March 1, 2018 to March 31, 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars North America 209,263 186,398 1,969,719 Year ended March 31, 2018 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated (5) Purchase method Purchase on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Europe 89,247 72,586 840,050 Operating revenue Total ¥535,871 ¥473,283 $5,043,966 External $10,733,556 $2,286,549 $13,020,114 $— $13,020,114 Content of shares repurchased after April 1, 2018 Intersegment 1,100,630 304,838 1,405,478 (1,405,478) — (1) Type of shares to be purchased Common shares of the Company Total 11,834,196 2,591,396 14,425,592 (1,405,478) 13,020,114 Information about amortization and unamortized balances (2) Total number of shares to be purchased 2,333,100 shares Segment profit 1,517,893 126,138 1,644,032 (903) 1,643,119 of goodwill by segment for the year ended March 31, 2017 (3) Total purchase price of shares 9,999,983,483 yen Assets 16,945,839 1,628,661 18,574,510 (1,121,310) 17,453,190 were as follows: (4) Purchase period April 1, 2018 to April 13, 2018 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Depreciation and amortization 1,018,787 24,802 1,043,599 (103) 1,043,486 Millions of yen (5) Purchase method Purchase on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Impairment loss 11,144 235 11,379 — 11,379 Air Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 79,772 208,885 288,667 — 288,667 Year ended March 31, 2017 transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Amortization b. Retirement of treasury shares Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets $1,972,336 $ 11,888 $ 1,984,224 $— $ 1,984,224 during the year ¥— ¥455 ¥455 ¥— ¥455 The Company resolved to retire treasury shares at the meetMillions of yen Unamortized ing of the Board of Directors held on April 27, 2018, in Year ended March 31, 2017 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated balance — — — — — accordance with the Companies Article 178 of the CompaOperating revenue nies Act. External ¥1,044,915 ¥244,051 ¥1,288,967 ¥ — ¥1,288,967 Information about amortization and unamortized balances As a result, the following was implemented. Intersegment 114,476 29,440 143,917 (143,917) — of goodwill by segment for the year ended March 31, 2018 Total 1,159,392 273,491 1,432,884 (143,917) 1,288,967 was not applicable. 1. Details of the retirement Segment profit 153,191 17,400 170,591 (259) 170,332 (1) Type of shares to be retired Common shares of the Company Assets 1,673,011 167,188 1,840,199 (111,422) 1,728,777 21. RELATED PARTY INFORMATION (2) Total number of shares to be retired 4,687,100 shares Business Outline Depreciation and amortization 93,397 2,386 95,784 (7) 95,777 Impairment loss 505 — 505 — 505 There are no material transactions that need to be presented (The percentage compared to the total number of shares Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 7,820 20,510 28,331 — 28,331 for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. issued before the retirement : 1.33%) Increase in tangible fixed assets and intangible assets ¥ 231,562 ¥ 1,633 ¥ 233,196 ¥ — ¥ 233,196 (3) Scheduled date of retirement May 23, 2018 22. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS a. Share repurchase 2. ‌The total number of shares after the above retirement of The Company resolved to purchase treasury shares at the treasury shares meeting of the Board of Directors held on February 28, 349,028,700 shares. 2018, in accordance with the Companies Act Article 156, Financial / Data Section Paragraph1, applied by replacement under Article 165, paragraph 3 of the same Act. As a result, the following was implemented. 1. Reasons for share repurchase To improve capital efficiency and expand shareholders return 116 117 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES (As of March 31, 2018) Independent Auditor’s Report Ratio of Voting Rights Ratio of Voting Rights Paid-in Capital Paid-in Capital Corporate Name Direct Indirect Total Corporate Name Direct Indirect Total About the JAL Group (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Air Transport Business Segment Other Segments Air Transport Business Maintenance JAPAN TRANSOCEAN AIR CO., LTD. 4,537 72.8 — 72.8 JAL AIRTECH CO., LTD. 315 66.6 3.4 70.0 JAPAN AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 300 60.0 — 60.0 Cargo J-AIR CO., LTD. 200 100.0 — 100.0 HKD 1,000 JUPITER GLOBAL, LTD. 46.4 4.6 51.0 1,960 HOKKAIDO AIR SYSTEM CO., LTD. 490 57.3 — 57.3 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Passenger Sales RYUKYU AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 396 — 74.5 74.5 JALPAK CO., LTD.*1 80 96.4 1.2 97.7 Airport Passenger Handling JAL SALES CO., LTD. 460 100.0 — 100.0 JAL SKY CO., LTD. 100 100.0 — 100.0 JAL JTA SALES CO., LTD. 30 16.7 83.3 100.0 JAL SKY AIRPORT OKINAWA 33 66.7 33.3 100.0 USD 1,000 COMPANY., LTD. JALPAK INTERNATIONAL HAWAII, INC. — 100.0 100.0 1,000 JALSKY OSAKA CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (CHINA) CO., USD 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY KYUSHU CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 LTD. 600 JALSKY SAPPORO CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE) EUR 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 B.V. 1,600 JALSKY KANAZAWA CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 A Business Base that Supports Value Creation JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (FRANCE) EUR 1,000 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY SENDAI CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 S.A.S. 160 Ground Handling EURO-CREATIVE TOURS (U.K.) LTD. GBP 1,000 100 — 100.0 100.0 JAL GROUND SERVICE CO., LTD. 100 99.8 0.2 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL ASIA PTE. LTD. SGD 1,000 146 — 100.0 100.0 JAL GROUND SERVICE OSAKA CO., JAL SATELLITE TRAVEL CO., LTD. HKD 1,000 750 — 100.0 100.0 10 — 100.0 100.0 LTD. IDR 1,000 PT. TAURINA TRAVEL DJAYA*2 — 49.0 49.0 JAL GROUND SERVICE KYUSHU CO., 10 — 100.0 100.0 500,000 LTD. Airport-Related Business JAL GROUND SERVICE SAPPORO 10 — 97.7 97.7 CO., LTD. JAL ABC, INC. 100 51.0 — 51.0 Maintenance Others JAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 80 100.0 — 100.0 JAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 702 100.0 — 100.0 CO., LTD. JAL MAINTENANCE SERVICE CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 AXESS INTERNATIONAL NETWORK, 700 100.0 — 100.0 Cargo INC. Business Outline JAL KANSAI AIRCARGO SYSTEM 100 69.2 — 69.2 JAL CARD, INC. 360 50.6 — 50.6 CO., LTD. JAL FACILITIES CO., LTD. 180 85.0 — 85.0 JAL CARGO SERVICE CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 JAL PAYMENT PORT CO., LTD. 154 16.5 68.5 84.9 JAL CARGO HANDLING CO., LTD. 50 — 100.0 100.0 JAL BRAND COMMUNICATIONS CO., JAL CARGO SERVICE KYUSHU CO., 100 100.0 — 100.0 20 40.0 40.0 80.0 LTD. LTD. JTA INFORMATION & COMMUNICA50 — 100.0 100.0 TION CO., LTD. Passenger Sales JAL SBI FINTECH CO., LTD. 45 51.0 — 51.0 JAL NAVIA CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 JAL SUNLIGHT CO., LTD. 20 100.0 — 100.0 Financial / Data Section JAL MILEAGE BANK CO., LTD. 40 100.0 — 100.0 OFFICIAL FILING CO., LTD. 10 50.0 4.0 54.0 Airport-Related Business JPRO CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 JAL ROYAL CATERING CO., LTD. 2,700 51.0 — 51.0 USD 1,000 JLC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED 100.0 — 100.0 2,000 *1 Operating revenue (excluding operating revenue between consolidated subsidiaries) of JALPAK CO., LTD. accounts for over 10% of consolidated operating revenue. *2 Although JAL’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is a considered subsidiary because JAL has substantial control. 118 119 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 ESG DATA Environmental Data (E) Governance Data (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.) (G) (As of July 1, 2018) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Unit Corporate governance-related items Topics discussed About the JAL Group Environment Formulation of Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance Yes CO2 Emissions Organization Form Company with companies with Audit & Supervisory Board Scope 1 840 854 875 907 10,000 tons Directors Scope 2 7.88 7.60 7.15 6.70 10,000 tons Term of Office Stipulated 1 year CO2 Emissions/RTK Chairperson of the Board Chairman 86.6 85.1 84.6 82.2 % (Comparison with FY 2005) Number of Directors (of which, External Directors) 10 (of which, three External Directors) NOx (LTO cycle) 6.12 5.78 5.30 5.02 1,000 tons Number of Board of Directors meetings 21 (Fiscal year 2017) CO (LTO cycle) 4.38 4.43 4.24 3.87 1,000 tons External Director attendance at Board of Directors meetings 93% (Fiscal year 2017) HC (LTO cycle) 0.7 0.72 0.71 0.63 1,000 tons Audit & Supervisory Board Members Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (of which, External Members) Five (of which, three External Members) Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Electricity Use*1 125 120 113 110 Million kWh External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance at Board of Directors meetings 98%(Fiscal year 2017) Heat Use (crude oil equivalent)*1 48,494 46,770 44,936 43,512 1,000 liters Key meetings attended by Audit & Supervisory Board Members Management Committee, Group Earnings Announcement Session, Water Use 445 430 426 435 1,000 m3 Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, Management Liaison Committee, Risk Management Committee General Waste (Aircraft) 5,874 Tons Number of Audit & Supervisory Board meetings 13 (Fiscal year 2017) General Waste (Ground) 2,192 Tons External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance 100% (Fiscal year 2017) Industrial Waste 3,415 3,475 3,436 3,266 Tons at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Ratio of Final Disposal 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 % *1 Airports, Offices, Maintenance Centers (Japan) Appointment of independent External Directors and Six (three External Directors, three External Audit & Supervisory External Audit & Supervisory Board Members Board Members) Social Data (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and 51 Consolidated Subsidiaries) (S) Accounting Auditor KPMG AZSA LLC FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Unit Internal Auditing Audit A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Human Resources Consolidated Staff Headcount*2 31,534 31,986 32,753 33,038 Persons (FY 2017) Ground Staff 23,093 23,367 24,055 23,828 Persons Establishment of Committee The Chairperson Composition Number Cockpit Crew 2,446 2,519 2,570 2,629 Persons (number of members) of meetings Cabin Attendants 5,995 6,100 6,128 6,581 Persons Corporate Governance Committee Kimie Iwata (Lead Independent External Director) 4 2 Nominating Committee Masatoshi Ito (External Director) 5 13 Average age 38.3 37.4 38.2 38.6 Years old Compensation Committee Eizo Kobayashi (External Director) 5 7 Ground Staff 38.7 37.7 38.6 38.9 Years old Personnel Committee Yoshiharu Ueki (Representative Director, President) 5 6 Cockpit Crew 42.7 41.1 43.8 44.1 Years old Officers Disciplinary Committee Kimie Iwata (External Director) 5 1 Cabin Attendants 35.1 35.0 34.9 35.6 Years old (FY 2017) Ratio of Men 53.2 52.3 52.5 51.6 % Bodies directly controlled Number Topics discussed Composition Ratio of Women 46.8 47.7 47.5 48.4 % by the President of meetings Management The Management Committee is a body established by the Company A forum for discussion attended by the President, Vice President, 39 Committee for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and flexible decisionSenior Managing Executive Officers, Managing Executive Officers, Managerial Staff 15.9 16.0 15.9 15.8 % making by the Board of Directors and the President. The Committee Full-time Directors, other Directors, and Audit & Supervisory General Staff 84.1 84.0 84.1 84.2 % deliberates important issues requiring a resolution of the Board of Board Members. Ratio of Disabled Staff*3 2.04 2.28 2.56 2.69 % Directors and matters requiring approval by the President that must be Business Outline confirmed by the Management Committee before they are presented Ratio of Female Managers 15.1 15.6 16.3 16.3 % to the Board or to the President. Group Earnings The Group Earnings Announcement Session is attended by the Chairman, President, Directors, Executive Officers, Area Managers, 12 Training Period per Person*4 60.2 62.8 66.4 64.7 Hours/Person Announcement Session management teams of Japan Airlines and all its major subsidiaries to Presidents of major subsidiaries, Audit & Supervisory Board Members share the status of the JAL Group earnings and consider ways to Training Cost per Person*4 318,249 380,997 403,519 422,187 Yen/Person improve business performance. JAL Philosophy Council This body is tasked with promoting the JAL Philosophy. It is responsible Chairman, President, Vice President, General Manager of Managing 4 Childcare Leave Applicants*5 779 782 781 843 Persons for developing basic policies for initiatives, planning and implementing Division Route Marketing, General Manager of Managing Division related measures and evaluating the impact of those measures. Passenger Sales, General Manager of Cargo & Mail, General Manager Nursing Care Leave Applicants*5 51 42 65 89 Persons of Flight Operations, General Manager of Engineering & Maintenance, General Manager of Cabin Attendants, General Manager of Airport Operations, General Manager of General Affairs, General Manager of Ratio of Local Hires at Overseas Offices 90.8 90.4 89.9 88.4 % Human Resources, General Manager of Corporate Control, General Ratio of Locally Hired Managerial Staff at Manager of Communication Division 62.8 60.8 61.9 58.4 % Overseas Offices Group Council for This body is tasked with ensuring safe flight operations across the President of Japan Airlines, Safety General Manager for Japan 12 Safety Enhancement Group and promoting safety management, in line with the Group’s Airlines, Executives nominated by the chairperson, Presidents of Financial / Data Section General Meeting principles and policies. Group airlines Average Years of Continuous Service 14.4 13.9 14.2 15.4 Years • Determines key policies related to safety management • Clarifies the status of management systems and regularly overhauls those systems Community Contribution • Addresses day-to-day flight safety issues, etc. Participation in Voluntary Activities 1,044 909 1,506 2,701 Persons Corporate Brand The Corporate Brand Promotion Council establishes important policies President, Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officers, 12 Promotion Council on the corporate brand (corporate value) based on the JAL Group Managing Executive Officers, Executive Officers nominated by the Total Hours of Voluntary Activities 4,436 3,182 5,271 6,224 Hours Corporate Policy and strategies, clarifies the status of corporate chairperson, Presidents of Group airlines *2 ‌The number of employees until fiscal year 2016 excluded employees planning to retire as of the end of March that fiscal year, but since fiscal year 2017, the activities, and where necessary, overhauls related organizations, systems and policies to strengthen the corporate brand. number of employees has included these employees and excluded temporary employees (from temporary staffing companies). Management Liaison The Management Liaison Committee monitors the progress of President, Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officers, 20 *3 As of June 1 of the year following each fiscal year. Combined data for Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and its special subsidiary JAL Sunlight Co., Ltd. Committee management projects and shares information. Managing Executive Officers, Directors, Executive Officers, *4 Past data have been revised in accordance with improvements made in the accuracy of data collection. Audit & Supervisory Board Members *5 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. only 120 121 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 INTERNATIONAL ROUTE MAP (As of July 20, 2018) Flight destinations overseas: 290 cities (Including code-share flights) About the JAL Group Stockholm Reykjavik Hamburg Newcastle Copenhagen Kaliningrad Kittila Dublin Billund Gothenburg Manchester Dusseldorf Ivalo Belfast Amsterdam Oslo Rovaniemi Glasgow Brussels Oulu Tallinn Yellowknife Moscow Edinburgh St. Petersburg Helsinki Toledo Aberdeen Riga Cleveland Vilnius Anchorage Whitehorse Detroit Buffalo Toronto Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Khabarovsk Ottawa Nizhny Novgorod Rochester Minneapolis Montreal Tyumen Warsaw Grand Rapids Burlington Yekaterinburg Prince Edmonton Milwaukee Kalamazoo Berlin George Hannover Ufa Chelyabinsk Novosibirsk Terrace Madison London Prague Samara Perm Omsk Victoria Syracuse Paris Budapest Volgograd Irkutsk Shenyang Calgary Winnipeg Columbus Basel Nizhnekamsk Vladivostok Kelowna Portland Vienna Rostov Vancouver Lyon Kazan Portland Pittsburgh Frankfurt Dalian Seoul Seattle Boston Newark A Coruna Krasnodar Munich Sochi Hartford Santiago de Bucharest Yantai Jackson Hole New York Compostela Baku Beijing Chicago Philadelphia Vigo Istanbul Japan Boise Harrisburg Ankara Xi'an Tianjin Omaha Oviedo Stuttgart Chongqing Baltimore Qingdao Salt Lake City Peoria Dayton Lisbon Dubrovnik Busan Eugene Des Moines Chiang Rai Washington Jeju Bloomington Lexington Madrid Malta Reno Kansas City Louisville Richmond A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Athens Mandalay Kunming Nanjing St. Louis Norfolk Venice Amman Shanghai Sacramento Oklahoma City Knoxville Chengdu Wuhan Denver Nashville Indianapolis Tenerife Milan Rome Santa Rosa Memphis Nay Pyi Taw Nice Wichita Gran Canaria San Francisco Tulsa Cincinnati Geneva Zurich Guangzhou Evansville Huntsville Doha Dubai Delhi San Jose Raleigh Durham Taipei Las Vegas Jacksonville Sevilla Marseille Shenzhen Fresno Yangon Monterey Albuquerque Greensboro Barcelona Hanoi Tainan Dallas Sao Paulo Toulouse Mumbai Charlotte Kaohsiung Los Angeles El Paso Houston Orlando Greenville Malaga Tampa Hyderabad Long Beach Austin Columbia Bilbao Hong Kong West Palm Beach San Antonio Atlanta Bangalore Chennai Guam Fort Lauderdale Manila Santa Ana Monterrey Koh Samui Bangkok Miami Luang Prabang San Diego North Addis Ababa Colombo West Siem Reap Vientiane Honolulu Paris Phoenix Arkansas Cancun Nairobi Male Phnom Penh Lihue Kahului Tucson Puerto Langkawi Ho Chi Minh City Hilo Vallarta Fort Myers Frankfurt Penang Chihuahua Kona Kuantan Kota Kinabalu Little Rock San Juan Dar es Salaam Kuala Lumpur London Aguascalientes Fortaleza Singapore Jakarta Guadalajara New Orleans Leon Surabaya San Luis Potosi Pensacola Salvador Business Outline Denpasar Queretaro Birmingham Kuching Recife Johannesburg Mexico City Manaus Brasilia Cairns Durban Cape Town Brisbane Papeete Belo Horizonte Gold Coast Lima Campo Grande Perth Auckland Iguazu Sydney Santiago Melbourne Port Alegre Financial / Data Section Curitiba Sao Paulo Rio De Janeiro ● The routes above include code-share flights. ● The map has been altered to highlight the cities on JAL’s route network. 122 123 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 DOMESTIC ROUTE MAP (As of July 20, 2018) GLOSSARY Flight destinations in Japan: 59 cities (Including code-share flights) ● The routes below are operated as code-share flights Rishiri ASK Abbreviation for Available Seat Kilometer. A unit Serious incident An occurrence which did not result in an aircraft with Fuji Dream Airlines Co., Ltd. (FDA) using FDA About the JAL Group for passenger transport capacity. Total number of accident, but had the risk of causing an accident, aircraft and crew: Sapporo (New Chitose) = Yamagata, seats × distance travelled (in kilometers) as rated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Sapporo (New Chitose) = Matsumoto, Sapporo Transport and Tourism, such as deviation from a Asahikawa (Okadama) = Shizuoka, Yamagata = Nagoya (Komaki), Memanbetsu LCC Abbreviation for Low Cost Carrier. An airline runway, emergency evacuation, fire, smoke and Sendai = Izumo, Niigata = Nagoya (Komaki), Niigata = Sapporo (Okadama) Obihiro Kushiro (Tancho Kushiro) operating at reduced fares by cutting costs abnormal cabin decompression, and Fukuoka, Matsumoto = Fukuoka, Shizuoka = Izumo, Sapporo (New Chitose) (Tokachi Obihiro) through simplified services and limited baggage encountering abnormal weather conditions. allowance. LCCs have emerged in many Shizuoka = Fukuoka, Shizuoka = Kagoshima, Nagoya countries since airline deregulation. Diversity A management approach which provides equal (Komaki) = Izumo, Nagoya (Komaki) = Kochi, Nagoya Okushiri Hakodate opportunity in employment regardless of gender, (Komaki) = Fukuoka, Nagoya (Komaki) = Kitakyushu, ROA Abbreviation for Return on Assets. Calculated by age, race, nationality, belief, values or disability and Nagoya (Komaki) = Kumamoto. dividing operating income by total assets (net to enable everyone to reach his or her potential. Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Aomori assets + liabilities). Indicates how much profit is * Some flights on the Osaka (Itami) = Kumamoto Misawa earned from assets invested in the business. Normal line A proactive preventive program to identify latent route are also code-share flights with AMX. * Some routes are not operated in certain seasons. operation risks in daily operations and normal operations, ROE Abbreviation for Return on Equity. Calculated by monitoring and implement preventive measures. Akita Hanamaki (Iwate Hanamaki) dividing current net income by shareholders’ equity. Indicates the rate of return on Fleet A management approach to manage aircraft Yamagata shareholders’ investment. management flexibly according to demand trends in order to (Oishii Yamagata) maximize revenues and minimize expenses. Sendai RPK Abbreviation for Revenue Passenger Kilometers. Niigata The total distance flown by each revenue Full-service carrier An airline which has an extensive route network passenger. Number of revenue passengers × and provides conventional services. It offers distance flown (in kilometers). several classes of seats (First, Business, Economy, etc.), and includes services such as meals, drinks, Oki SMS (Safety A system to proactively prevent accidents by and entertainment in the fare. It is also called a A Business Base that Supports Value Creation (Oki Island Global Geopark) Komatsu Matsumoto Tokyo (Shinshu Matsumoto) Tokyo (Narita) Management identifying and managing accident risk factors in network carrier or legacy carrier. Izumo (Haneda) (IzumoEnmusubi) Tajima System) every sector of the airline. Activities should be Nagoya (Komaki) Shizuoka conducted organizationally based on mutual Marshaller A specialist who uses hand signals to guide (Mt. Fuji Shizuoka) Osaka (Itami) Nagoya trust, in which safety policies and safety aircraft on the ground to a specified position. (Chubu) Okayama Hiroshima Osaka (Kansai) information are shared by everyone from top management to frontline staff. Unit cost Consolidated air transport costs (excluding fuel Yamaguchi Ube Takamatsu Tokushima Kitakyushu Matsuyama (Tokushima Awaodori) costs and transactions with affiliated companies Fukuoka Kochi Oita (Kochi Ryoma) Nanki Shirahama Alliance Member airlines of an alliance promote business in which revenues and expenses are settled Nagasaki partnership by such means as operating codeinternally) / ASK. Kumamoto (Aso Kumamoto) share flights to their respective airports, Amakusa simplifying procedures at connecting airports, Unit revenue Revenue from passenger flights / ASK. Kagoshima Miyazaki participating in frequent-flyer programs of all (Miyazaki Bougainvillea) Revenue A method of forecasting changes in demand and members, and sharing airport lounge services for management controlling inventory to maximize revenues, for top-tier members. The three major airline system example, setting advance discount fares in alliances are the oneworld alliance, Star Alliance, Tanegashima phases to secure the optimum number of and Sky Team. revenue passengers. Business Outline Yakushima Irregular An occurrence in which the aircraft diverts due Load control To control aircraft weight. Cargo and passengers operation to aircraft system malfunction, etc., but with no are loaded taking into account the center of immediate effect on flight safety. Amami-Oshima gravity, loading weight limitations, and loading/ Kikaijima Incident An occurrence with risks of an aircraft accident unloading sequences. Tokunoshima (Tokunoshima Kodakara) according to the Civil Aeronautics Act, Article Load factor The usage rate of revenue passenger seats. 76-2. Sixteen items and equivalent situations It represents how many revenue passengers Okinoerabu (Erabuyurinoshima) such as engine damage and fire inside an aircraft Yoron boarded against the total number of seats are defined in the Ordinance for Enforcement of available. An indicator for measuring sales of the Civil Aeronautics Act. Kumejima Kita-Daito seats. Calculated by RPK (Revenue Passenger Okinawa (Naha) Minami-Daito Open Skies An agreement signed by countries or regions Kilometers) / ASK (Available Seat Kilometers). Financial / Data Section Agreement allowing the free movement of people and Different from seat occupancy rate, because Tarama goods. Airlines are given more freedom in nonrevenue passengers are excluded. Miyako selecting the number of flights, destinations and Yonaguni Ishigaki (Painushima Ishigaki) other conditions. Code-share To place the flight number of an airline on a flight operated by another airline, indicating that the flight number on reservations systems and timetables, and operating the flight as if it were its own flight. A flight undertaken jointly. 124 125 JAL REPORT 2018 JAL REPORT 2018 DATA ON INCIDENTS STOCK INFORMATION / CORPORATE INFORMATION (As of March 31, 2018) Safety issues occurring in fiscal year 2017 and Fiscal year 2017 management indicators and results Stock Information countermeasures Indicator Result Summary ● Stock Exchange The First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange ● Total number of shares to be issued 750 million The JAL Group undertakes active disclosure of safety data so Aircraft accidents 0 — ● Stock Code 9201 About the JAL Group (Common stock) (700 million) that customers can put their confidence in our services. Serious incidents 1 September 5, 2017 ● Number of Shares Per Unit 100 shares (Class 1 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) JAL flight 006 (Class 2 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) In fiscal year 2017, there were no aircraft accidents,*1 ● Account closing date March 31 Returning after takeoff due to (Class 3 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) but one serious incident*2 occurred. trouble in left engine ● Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders June each year (Class 4 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) ● Date of Finalizing Shareholders Eligible to March 31 We apologize once again for the inconvenience and ● Outstanding Issued Shares Exercise Voting Rights at the Ordinary Common stock 353,715,800 (Number of shares per unit: 100) concern caused. General Meeting of Shareholders Number of Shareholders 123,474 In response to the serious incident reported below, the ● Date of record for dividend September 30 and * ‌The total number of shares issued as of May 23, 2018 was 349,028,700 shares, a March 31 decline of 4,687,100 shares due to retirement of treasury stock as resolved at the JAL Group is committed to cooperating fully with the invesmeeting of the Board of Directors held on April 27, 2018. ● Shareholder Registry Administrator Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Management Strategies Designed to Create Value tigative body and implementing the necessary countermeaBanking Corporation ● Major Shareholders sures. ● Contact Stock Transfer Agency Department Percentage of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Shares Against Number of Serious incidents (1) 1-1, Nikko-cho, Fuchu-shi, Tokyo, Japan Shareholders Name shares Total Number Mailing address: ShinTokyo Post Office Post-office box no.29 of Issued JAL flight 006 returning due to trouble in left engine Phone: 0120-232-711(toll free (Only within Japan)) Shares (%) (September 5, 2017) Open: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm except Sat, Sun and public holidays The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Japan time) 18,870,400 5.33 On September 5, 2017, JAL flight 006 (Tokyo International (Trust account) Website: www.tr.mufg.jp/daikou/ Airport to JFK International Airport) experienced engine Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. ● Method of official announcement 15,465,100 4.37 (Trust account) trouble in its left engine during takeoff, so the engine was Electronic public notice at: URL www.jal.com/ja/corporate/publicnotices/ Kyocera Corporation 7,638,400 2.15 shut down, the fuel jettisoned and the flight returned to Provided, however, that if the electronic notice cannot be made due to A Business Base that Supports Value Creation Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Tokyo International Airport. In the inspection of the engine an accident or any unavoidable reason, the public notice shall be 7,476,300 2.11 (Trust account 9) published in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. after landing, damage to the low-pressure turbine in the Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. ● Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Countries and 6,714,700 1.89 (Trust account 5) rear of the engine and other components was found, so the Other Persons in Register of Shareholders and Register of Beneficial Shareholders Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 5,000,000 1.41 incident was classified as a serious incident by the Civil AviaThe Articles of Incorporation lay down the following provision concerning tion Bureau of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport the Civil Aeronautics Act, Article 120-2. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4,988,300 1.41 Article 12. Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Countries and Other Persons in Register of (Trust account 1) and Tourism (MLIT). Shareholders and Register of Beneficial Shareholders 12.1 If the Company receives from a person, who falls into one of the categories listed in the items below, Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4,890,100 1.38 The incident is being investigated by MLIT’s Japan a request for listing or recording his or her name and address in the register of shareholders (Trust account 2) (including the register of beneficial shareholders; hereinafter the same), and if the acceptance of Transport Safety Board to clarify the causes. JAL is fully such request causes the total voting rights owned by persons, who fall into one of the categories Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. listed in the items below, to represent one-third or more of the Company’s total voting rights, the 3,969,900 1.12 (Trust account 7) cooperating with the board’s investigation and will impleCompany shall refuse such listing or recording. (1) A person who does not have Japanese citizenship STATE STREET BANK AND ment necessary measures. (2) A foreign country, foreign public body or similar entity TRUST COMPANY (505001) 3,786,100 1.07 (3) A corporation or other organization established under foreign laws and regulations 2. When the Company intends to list or record all shares held by any of the shareholders listed in *1 ‌Aircraft accident: A situation arising from the operation of an aircraft and resulting in the items of the following paragraph, upon notification from a book-entry institution in fatal or serious injury, an aircraft crash, collision, or fire, damage to the aircraft during accordance with Article 151. Paragraph (1) or (8) of the Act on Book-Entry Transfer of Company Business Outline flight requiring major repair, or other situation classified as an aircraft accident by the Bonds, Shares, etc., and thereby the total number of voting rights held by such persons listed in Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. the items of the preceding paragraph will account for more than a third of the Company’s voting rights, the Company shall list or record such shareholders in the register of shareholders in Company Profile *2 ‌Serious incident: An incident not amounting to an aircraft accident, but where a accordance with measures provided for in the Ordinance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, recognized danger of an accident occurring was present, such as runway excursion, an Transport and Tourism to list or record only a part of the shares so that the total number of voting Corporate Name Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. rights held by such shareholders in the items of the preceding paragraph accounts for less than a emergency evacuation, fire or smoke on board, abnormal depressurization, encounter third of the Company’s voting rights. Headquarters Nomura Real Estate Bldg., 2-4-11 with abnormal weather conditions, or other situation classified as a serious incident by ● Transition of share price and trading volume Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. 140-8637, Japan Phone: +81 (0)3-5460-3121 (Yen) (Million shares) Website: www.jal.com/en 5,000 Share price (Left axis) Trading volume (Right axis) 100 Established August 1, 1951 4,000 80 Representative Yuji Akasaka Director, President Financial / Data Section JAL Group Safety Report (only in Japanese) 3,000 60 Capital 181,352 million yen Employees Consolidated Employees 33,038 people The JAL Group Safety Report is published yearly in accordance with the Civil Aeronautics Act (Article 111-6: Publication of Safety 2,000 40 Employees 12,127 people Reports by Domestic Air Carriers). The report presents safety initiatives and other relevant data from the six companies of the JAL Group in a readily accessible form. Capital and 355,845 million yen 1,000 20 Paid-in Capital (Amount is rounded down to the nearest million yen) Businesses 1. Scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services 0 0 2. Aerial work services April April April April April 3. Other related business 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 126 127 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Finance Department, Corporate Brand Promotion Department Nomura Real Estate Building, 2-4-11 Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8637, Japan Tel.: +81 (0)3-5460-3068 (Finance) +81 (0)3-5460-6837 (Corporate Brand Promotion Division) Corporate website www.jal.com/en/ Corporate information www.jal.com/en/outline/corporate/ CSR information www.jal.com/en/csr/ Investor Relations www.jal.com/en/investor/
