‫أس كي أي‬ António Guterres Secretary General United Nations New York NY 10017 USA 11th March 2018 Dear Sir, LETTER OF RECOMMITMENT It is with much regret that we failed to submit our updated Communication on Progress (COP) on time in September of last year. Within the department concerned there was a turnover of staff and the requirement to submit a COP was overlooked during the transition of responsibilities. This has now been corrected and the requirement now forms part of the handover procedure for staff incumbent in this post. It will not happen again. In no way does this oversight diminish SKA International Group’s commitment to the UN Global Compact. Since to outset, SKA International has made a firm commitment to the UN Global Compact, the ten associated principles and to improving the lives of the individuals who work for the company in some of the most difficult environments in the world; Iraq, Somalia and Yemen. In each of the principle areas of concern, human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, we have made and continue to make significant progress. Internally we have conducted a complete policy review and all relevant policies have been updated with recent best practice. We have also taken the bold step of joining TRACE International, in order to access their knowledge base and training tools, and have also been through their due diligence process for certification; we were successful. Specifically, for environmental considerations, and following an incident in Iraq, we have revised our HSE policy, procedures and training. We now monitor environmental performance against strict targets on a monthly basis. It is our firm intent to advance the principles of the Global Compact within our sphere of influence. We continue to be fully committed to making this part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. We support public accountability and transparency and therefore commit to report on progress annually. Yours sincerely, www.ska-arabia.com Mike Douglas President and CEO SKA International Group SKA International Group Limited Office No: GB 030901, P.O. Box: 50127, 50127 ‫ – صندوق بريد‬GB 030901 ‫رقم المكتب‬ JEBEL ALI Free Zone Authority (JAFZA), Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 8840 800 Fax: +971 4 8840 808 Email: info@ska-arabia.com ‫الرربةة المتحدة‬ ‫ دولة االمررا‬‫ دبي‬‫ سلطة المنطقة الحرة‬‫جبل علي‬ License No. 143833  Formed pursuant to law No. 9 of 1992 with limited liability 1992 ‫ لسنة‬9 ‫ – ذا مسؤولةة محدودة تأسس بموجب القرنون رقم‬143833 :‫رقم التسجةل‬
