Sustainability at Saga Furs 2017 sagafurs.com | @sagafurs | #onlychooseethicalfur Frontrunner in CEO review Sustainable Fur Our sustainability is about our people and their stories. It’s about the was developed by independent scientists at seven European universities. work they do and the choices they make. We’ve come a long way in our We were pleased to work with the fur and fashion industry on the devejourney to become the industry leader in ethical and sustainable busilopment of WelFur as one of the lead sponsors of the programme. For us ness, and we owe our success largely to the integrity of our people. it has become a very valuable tool that provides additional validity to our This year, the launch of our Code of Conduct has been a landmark existing Certification Farm Management System. project across the company. We have our values of Reliability, Profitability, and Sustainability to help keep us on track; and it’s from these values, DIGITALISATION TECHNOLOGY AND GREEN POWER as well as from international law and legally recognised principles, that We are moving forward proactively on digitalisation with big programmes we’ve created our own distinct Code of Conduct. in place, rolling out electronic channels across the business. In addition The new Code forms the framework for all company operations to the environmental benefits, digitalisation helps us provide better, faster and sets out standards of behavior for all employees including our Board and more transparent services to our supplier farmers, trade customers of Directors and Management team, who have all signed up to the code. and buyers, as well as among our own employees. We’re also experiInternal roll out of the code is ongoing and so far, more than half of our menting with online auctions for selling small quantities of warehouse personnel have been trained and signed up. products in between our larger on-site auctions, held four times a year. 2 We also continue to source all electricity for heat from renewable waste 3 CERTIFICATION PART OF OUR DNA to energy. 16/ Late in 2017 a disturbing issue arose, which could be seen as a defining 16/ 17 moment for our industry. It involved an enquiry into the unacceptable Our success is measured not only 17 practice in isolated cases of producers raising oversized Blue foxes. Saga Furs has strong processes and tools promoting sustainable and on results but on how we achieve them.” transparent fur farming, which we’ve been building up and taking actions Pertti Fallenius, CEO on for many years. These include our Farm Certification Programme which works like the DNA of the company, as well as product traceability as an assurance to our fashion customers. Since Saga Furs only sources foxes from certified farms, we were able to react immediately and decisively. We issued a new company directive that oversized fox skins will not be accepted, and would be sent back to the producers involved. ProFur, our parent association, added a new vet to their team, dedicated to monitoring farms and fox weight. We are also redoubling our efforts Contents Materiality in producer education to create a clear understanding that there are no benefits from raising oversized foxes and that in doing so their farms will CEO Review......................................................................... 3 of Sustainability not be eligible for Saga Certification by Finnish Standards. A NEW MILESTONE IN CERTIFIED MINK Value Creation...................................................................... 4 On a higher note, earlier this year, we led the industry with our new offeSustainability at Saga Furs Oyj (plc) is driven by company ring of 100% certified mink lots at our auction. Responding to demand Certification and Animal Welfare............................................ 6 strategy as well as a focused approach, based on assessment from global brands and the next generation of consumers on sustainaof those sustainability issues most relevant to our operations Traceability........................................................................... 8 bility and animal welfare, we’re continually developing our Certification and core stakeholders. In 2016, the reassessment and reProgramme to meet the highest standards that go well beyond what the Environment and Climate.................................................... 10 prioritising of the material aspects of the company’s operations law requires. Saga Furs sales of Fox and Finnraccoon have already been was done. The content of this publication is based on the People and Code of Conduct............................................. 13 100% certified for over five years, however, this new mink offering is the findings of that reassessment. first of this kind for Saga Furs and the industry and I see it as moving the Product Development......................................................... 15 You can find more information on Saga Furs’ sustainproducer community towards even higher standards. ability work at www.sagafurs.com/CSR, from the Financial Open Communications and Value Chain............................. 16 Statements for season 2016/2017 and Corporate Governance A company wide Code of Conduct launched in 2017 Short GRI Index.................................................................. 19 Statement. WELFUR IMPLEMENTATION further positions Saga Furs as the industry benchmark From this year, certification now incorporates a new industry-level profor ethical and sustainable business. tocol called WelFur, a science-based animal welfare assessment, which Value Creation Key figures 4 auctions per year Net turnover 52.7 MEUR 7.3 million Mink skins Total sales 437.1 MEUR 2.4 million Fox skins Operating result 5.8 MEUR 150,000 Finnraccoon skins Result before taxes 9.2 MEUR 320,000 Karakul sheep skins Local value Local value National value National value 351 Employees 1.2 MEUR on avg. 98% Interest 1.8 MEUR expenses Employee Paid retention rate 18.9 MEUR 3,650 dividends Salaries incl. social security Sharecontributions holders 15 International Work accident International frequency rate 1.9 MEUR value Paid taxes 4 value (LTA1) Job creation 5 991 in scarce 17,500 Customers employment Indirect trade with skins 16/ areas employees 5.8 MEUR Bonuses for sold 16/ in Finland, 17 direct 5,000 producers and 17 buyers 100% 74,250 Skin Skin packages traceability shipped 41 Financing of Countries producers where skins and buyers 34 99% Countries with sold Skins sold paid bonuses for for export producers and buyers INPUTS, ACTIVITIES OUTCOMES, IMPACTS Code of conduct taken into use and the personnel trained. Continuous reduction of energy use and CO2 emissions. Investments in digitalisation of business, product development and green dressing. Producers see the link between business and sustainability. Transparent value chain for fashion customers. As an auction house, Saga Furs is well positioned in the fur industry bringing sustainable employment to our workforce, or providing tax Further along the supply chain, the company’s industry-leading intelligence to local lawmakers, producers, and brokers; offering fashion to bring significant economic, social and environmental value that income and shareholder value to society. sustainable production practices, which range from sophisticated tools customers traceability information on farm origin and certification of our goes beyond financial returns to its shareholders to include a wider for developing fur pelt quality to design solutions for zero material waste in products; as well as educating designers, fashion brand customers, and group of participants with a ‘stake’ in our ongoing success. VALUE THROUGH BEST PRACTICES AND PROCESSES manufacturing, also bring value for upstream designers, fashion manufacconsumers on sustainable fur dressing standards. Saga Furs’ farm certification, implemented through its parent association, turers and consumers. By taking into account the interests of employees, suppliers, cusVALUE THROUGH DOING BUSINESS ProFur, guarantees that products sourced from Saga farms have high envitomers, partners and communities, we maximise our ability to create and Saga Furs value network partners all contribute to, and benefit from, ronmental management standards and animal wellbeing. Saga Furs provides VALUE THROUGH INTELLIGENCE SHARING capture value in a partnership network that extends locally, nationally and the value we create through our core auction consignment business; its producer suppliers and big brand customers with a high degree of added Saga Furs also promotes continuous and open communication networks globally. whether through providing income to rural producer communities; value, which can increasingly be described as their license to operate. throughout the fur industry. Examples include providing real-time business Meeting the Fur Producers We hold our suppliers up to the same level of integrity we expect from ourselves.” Certification and Animal Welfare was himself a fur producer and understands well how producers feel and what their main challenges are. routines the prouducers have fulfil the criteria Saga has set out for them. “And that they’re doing what we’re telling our customers Eriksson and his team are aware that they’re doing.” any violations of common ethical principles When on the field, Eriksson says he by producer suppliers still represents a threat doesn’t like to follow the farmer around, and to the reputation of his company. “This is go where they want him to be taken. He why we have such a strict certification and prefers to go off on his own and really look auditing programme.” In most cases the closely at the animals and their living condiproducers are very responsible and have tions and get his own feeling for the whole “Certification is really what gives us our license to operate,” says Many of our customers and excellent health and safety procedures on operation. Charles Ross, Saga Furs’ Head of Sustainability. “It’s an important Quality Manager Björn Eriksson manages farms or other supplier premises. Some are part of our strategy and requires a huge upfront investment. Based in increasingly more brokers want only quality issues in the company’s farmer-supply also pushing to close the loop on energy use New York, Ross works a lot with the company’s big brand fashion Saga certified furs from farms.” chain in Nordic countries and carries out and other high-tech farming practices. farm certification audits in Europe. Eriksson Eriksson visits farms to ensure that the customers, who increasingly see certification as their own license to Charles Ross, Head of Sustainability operate. Repeatedly he has seen that the fashion industry is willing to pay a certain premium for certified fur lots. THE GOOD OF THE INDUSTRY One of the reasons Saga Furs has been investing so heavily Industry competitors are talking a lot about certification, but Ross insists Developing Practices in certification has been in response to ongoing discussions with that Saga Furs is still the only auction house with a real boots on the the fashion industry. ground project. “We want the whole industry to come along with us, It’s unfortunate that the behaviour of some producers has affected “The big brands consider fur to be an important part of their colwhile at the same time keeping our competitive advantage.” lections but they want a transparent and risk-free supply chain,” Ross This year the industry has jointly launched a new scientific animal the vast majority, who act responsibly.” explains. Fur sourced from our certified farm suppliers is inspected by assessment process called WelFur, with Saga Furs as one of the lead over at multi-stakeholder levels. Commenting ensures them a state of balanced health.” independent inspectors then audited by third-party auditing companies, sponsors. on the practice, Marja Tiura, Managing ProFur plans to redouble its efforts, to6 making the whole process completely transparent. “Saga Furs welcomes this industry level initiative”, says Ross. 7 Director of ProFur says, “the consensus at gether with Saga Furs, to provide additional “It’s not a substitute for our certification, but a strong scientific support industry level is that it’s absolutely unacceptargeted education, counselling and super16/ to validate our overall farm management programme.” table.” vision for Finland’s certified Blue Fox skin 16/ 17 In response to the investigation and suppliers to ensure that cases like this do not 17 READ FULL multi-stakeholder discussion, Saga Furs happen in the future. “ REPORT announced its decision not to accept overFarms raising Blue fox for sale in Finland www.sagafurs.com/ sized fox skins and thereby ensuring that to Saga Furs are audited regularly as well as CSR there would be no value proposition for subject to third-party inspection. According farmers to raise such larger foxes. to Tiura, if a certified fox producer is found During 2017, an industry level inquiry arose “Producers need to ensure that animals to be breeding oversized foxes, they will lose into the practice in some cases of producers under their care reach an optimum size suitheir certification license and no longer be raising oversized foxes. The inquiry carried table to their frame and body weight which able to sell via Saga Furs. Interview with a Vet In my work, if I want to know something about animal welfare, I don’t make assumptions, I use evidence-based research.” treating animal sickness and preventative Korpela is also active in the scientific health to co-hosting open farm days, where research side, including applying the new communities are welcomed in to observe WelFur protocol to her work. An investigation and ask questions. into nesting boxes for female foxes is an Korpela recently joined an international example of a recent project with the Luova farm audit from a big global fashion brand Research Farm. “We wanted to see how as an onsite animal expert. In addition to nesting boxes could be made differently to providing language interpretation for the support better birthing conditions for female information and opinions of the Finnish fur foxes,” Korpela explains. producer, Korpela’s role was to answer The team are now assessing the results. questions arising from the animal welfare and Johanna Korpela is an expert veterinarian farm management perspective as well as just working with ProFur. She takes part in a generally help the delegation interpret what number of different types of farm visits, from they were seeing. FARM CERTIFICATION AT SAGA FURS In Finland, the law sets requirements on fur farming, but with its As the only fur seller in the industry with its own supplier farmer certicertification programme Saga Furs goes beyond these. In Finland the fication and auditing programmes on farm management, including the responsible implementing partner is ProFur and abroad Saga Furs. Saga environment and animal health and welfare, Saga Furs has been working Furs sources skins only from certified Fox and Finnraccoon suppliers. for over ten years to bring certification to the fur farming community. They As an additional guarantee, an independent auditor DNV GL conducts began in Finland and are now exporting to other European supplier farms random audits of Saga Furs certification processes in countries where the seeking to qualify their fur products to be sold by Saga Furs. company has suppliers. Key Farm Certification Criteria 1. Animal wellbeing and health 2. Conditions for rearing animals 3. Farm hygiene 4. Breeding 5. Environmental management 6. Feed management 7. Training and preparing for exceptional situations Production Director Sameli Mäkelä (left) and Development Manager Juha-Pekka Jaakkonen present RFID: a sticker 8 attached to the product's tag that can be read via a smart9 phone application. 16/ 16/ 17 17 create the right kind of software and hardware system that would be up to with a 1 mm by 1 mm chip, which would contain all the product data. Traceability the job. The team already has a system for tagging each skin with a specific ID to be carried on through the manufacturing process. However, the main sticking point is the fur dressing and dying phase. This involves high These would be embedded directly into hang tags. Mäkelä shows us how the thin copper wire inside acts as an antenna. Radio signals from a mobile phone induce electrical responses that activate the chip and send temperatures and a lot of twisting and pressing to soften the leather. the information back to the receiver. “We have to find a solution for the tag that is smaller and cheaper “We’ve been experimenting with certain tags that could stay through but resilient enough to withstand the rigours of the fur dressing but still the whole production process,” he says, “but we’re not there yet.” sufficiently cost-effective for our customers to be able to take it into use.” “We know what we’re looking for now in terms of materials,” adds JaakJuha-Pekka Jaakkonen, Development Manager of the project, is konen. “Now all we have to do is figure out with our partners how to tailor spreading samples across the table. One low-cost solution is a sticker our specifications into an affordable solution.” Fur fashion consumers are increasingly asking for more transparency on the fur supply chain including information about the Saga supplier RFID technology would provide farms. For several years now, Saga Furs has been the only one in the interested designers or retailers on the industry with its own traceability system, STS (Saga Traceability System). selling floor, whether they’re in New What Does Traceability Mean? Now Saga Furs is getting ready to take traceability to the next level with RFID tagging technology, which follows the skin all the way to the ready York, Madrid or London, with real time garment. information on country of origin.” 1. Traceability stands for the reliability of the product’s origins and chain of custody documentation. Sameli Mäkelä, Production Director OPEN SUPPLY CHAIN 2. Through precise documentation and traceability programme Saga Furs' Head of Sustainability, Charles Ross, describes RFID for international fashion houses can tell to its customers the origins a retail store as the simplest way of tracing a garment, or the skins in of the furs it uses, all the way to the farms. a garment, in a retail store back to their origin. Farmers support RFID development. They’ve come to understand 3. The requirement for detailed documentation steers fur breeders “The big brands want to address the question that consumers that product traceability across the value chain is important for their own towards even better and more sustainable production methods. increasingly ask: where did this product come from?” business continuation. “Many of them are excited when they hear that 4. Saga Furs steers development, through its operating policy, RFID technology would provide interested designers or retailers their products are being carried by the leading fashion brands too,” for example, by refraining from selling skins that haven't been on the selling floor, whether they’re in New York, Madrid or London, says Ross. produced, at a minimum, according to the conditions stated in with real time information on country of origin. the revised recommendations of the Council of Europe or other national regulations. “It is possible that, just holding a mobile phone up to the RFID RFID: BALANCING TECHNOLOGY WITH COST tag and scanning it will open up complete transparency on the supply At Saga Furs head office in Vantaa, Finland, a team of Saga Furs engichain,” Ross affirms. neers, led by Production Director Sameli Mäkelä, has been working to Environment and Climate As part of the company’s new Code of Conduct, Saga Furs employcorrelation to the volume of skins being stored in house and to the length ees are pledging to personally take every opportunity to decrease the of time they are there,” Mustonen explains. environmental impact of their own work and of their teams by reducing During the period between 2009 and 2012, Mustonen embarked waste, increasing energy efficiency, or preventing pollution. One of them is on a project to replace hall lighting and lighting controls, including halving Maintenance Manager Mika Mustonen. the number of fluorescent tube lights in the company. This has had a Over the nearly ten years since Mustonen joined Saga Furs, he’s pronounced effect on electricity use. Mustonen has also been looking into been committed to reducing energy and water use in the company’s the future possibility of converting the company’s warehouse lighting into overall operations. General electricity use has been cut by 25%; electricity long-life LED lights. The plan would potentially involve the installation of for heating is down by close to 14%; and water use by nearly 37%. 6,400 LED lights. The biggest reason for the fall in that water consumption has come “However, it’s not as clear cut as you would think,” says Mustonen. from the retrofit of the head office ventilation system from 2009 to 2012, “While the plan would reduce costs and energy use, Finland’s cold climate replacing so-called cell humidifiers with significantly more effective steam must also be factored into the decision.” It turns out that a lighting retrofit will Jyri Somersalo (left), Responsible for Transportation, and Mika Mustonen, Service Manager, try to reduce Saga Furs' humidifiers. bring down the amount of heat generated by lights, which would then have environmental burden through their own work. With regards energy use, in spring 2009, Mustonen began renewing to be offset by the heating spend. So that discussion is still on the table. 10 office automation and this is ongoing, ensuring that machines and equipBut for Mustonen cutting energy and water use at operational level 11 ment operate reliably and economically. Consumption of district heat has is only part of the story, “I’m working every day to motivate our employees 16/ been reduced by the renewal of building technology and the upgrading of to reduce their individual environmental footprint. And we’re seeing some 16/ 17 heat recovery equipment. Under Mustonen’s watchful eye, the company good effects thanks to the whole team.” 17 is also actively monitoring machine running times and making optimisation READ FULL adjustments. CUTTING CARBON IN TRANSPORTATION REPORT But there are challenges due to the nature of the business, which diJyri Somersalo, Responsible for Transportation, oversees the transportawww.sagafurs.com/ CSR rectly affects consumption levels. For example, if skins are left out of stock tion of skins from Saga Furs main warehouse to external storage facilities. for a long time, they must be stored in conditions as cool and moist as Somersalo says he’s committed to finding logistical savings wherever he possible. “This adds to our energy consumption in summer time in direct can. “In my job, I’m always looking for ways to lower environmental lease on a warehouse furthest away and begin renting new space close to impacts,” Somersalo affirms, “which usually also means saving time and of home. With the new warehouse taking effect in 2018, Somersalo has been course costs.” busy calculating the reduced number of truck journeys and estimates a What is Saga Furs Doing for In a space optimising measure, in packaging a system of com20% year-on-year reduction in transport costs and emissions. the Environment? pressing the skins to half their original size has already been developed. Somersalo’s colleagues are also recycling 98% of the packaging “This approach increases the load capacity per truck and lowers carbon cartons in which the delivered skins are received – an estimated 80 tonnes emissions and energy spend.” per year. The rest of the material is reused internally. 1. At the fur producer level, sustainability criteria within the Saga Up until recently, Somersalo has overseen a small fleet of trucks Even though in the overall picture of the company’s energy spend, Furs' certification process is pushing Finnish producers towards traveling back and forth to three external warehouses, located at various these savings are not overly large, Somersalo is motivated by the results, closed loop energy and low-carbon practices. distances from the main warehouse. However, when space opened up on saying: “It’s not a lot in the big picture view, but it’s all worth the effort.” 2. In Finland and abroad, the company continues to conduct a site next door to the Saga Furs Head Office, it was possible to end the inspections directly or through partner organisations on supplier farms and where possible only source from Saga Furs certified producers. Electricity Heating Water 3. As part of the company’s internal efforts to reduce its carbon Total % change 2008–2016: 24.7% Total % change 2008–2016: 13.8% Total % change 2008–2016: 36.8% footprint, Saga Furs has launched an initiative to go paperless, with focus on big digitalisation projects across the business. 5,000,000 4,716,408 5,000 12,000 4. 4,298 10,103 Company-wide Skype technology gives the opportunity to 4,000,000 3,550,804 4,000 3,707 10,000 Usage (kWh) Usage (MWh) Usage (m3) organize online meetings. This reduces unnecessary travelling. 3,000,000 3,000 8,000 6,383 5. 6,000 Company headquarters as of 2016 sources 100% renewable 2,000,000 2,000 4,000 energy for heating from its electricity supplier in Vantaa. 1,000,000 1,000 2,000 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Faster Data We continuously aspire towards better services and shared data that all our stakeholders can take advantage of for the betterment of their business.” In describing the company processes, Markku says “Digitalisation is changing our processes and way of working faster than ever.” At the want to make our online services so reliable, quick and easy and compelling for every partner and customer that they won’t every think People and Code of Conduct time of this interview she’s in the middle of of going back to pen and paper!” renewing manual processes and systems. With our production functions, Mark“We are aiming to have services to the ku says, software and solutions are being level that 100% of fur producers and cusdeveloped to open up faster, better data for tomers are eager to use digital services by producer suppliers and auction preparations. 2021.” According to Markku, currently most Digital technology with our high automated producers fluently use extranet and only a few skin sorting means the company can have As part of Saga Furs commitment to transparhave paper management. Many producers are product data available earlier and earlier. This ency throughout the value chain, Chief Digital keen to enter the digital world and be seen makes good business sense: “The earlier we Officer Anne Markku with her IT-team together as technology savvy, but they just need a bit have the product data and the possibility to with business units is opening the way for more help to get there. share it, the sooner we can get together with faster and more effective information sharing Anne’s team is therefore focusing on enour suppliers to ensure we’re developing the with stakeholders across the board. hanced usability and must-have services: “We right product for the right market.” More Open Data Customers using our digital system get easy and quick access to price valuations and comparisons from previous Saga Furs auctions.” 12 purchasing is being digitalised,” says Business Saga Furs auctions.” The company service 13 Manager Jyrki Sura. He’s just returned from is available in all time zones. “But as well as Hong Kong, where he trained brokerage firms getting information, the advantage comes in 16/ on how they can best maximise the use of being able share it!” 16/ 17 Saga Furs’ online services. Sura carries out Using the Saga Furs tool, customers, for 17 trainings regularly around the world to help example, sitting in China can share informacustomers with digitalisation challenges and to tion sourced through the Saga Furs system Human Resources Director Marjatta Paunonen encourages encourage the uptake of the company’s online directly with their brokers, who might be sitting every Saga Furs employee to respect each other regardless My Catalogue service. One of Sura’s favourite at the auction in Finland. of their background. stories is of the British broker who came to “This can be business critical for us,” Sura him the first year with a pencil, proclaiming it explains, because brokers in our auction the only tool he needed. But the next year he room, can then focus on making purchases, returned with an iPad. instead of doing their research on the phone, Saga Furs encourages a safe and healthy workplace, driven by a culture been creating common rules for open office working. “Feedback from the “It’s all about speed and transparenwhich means less errors and better momenof respect for everyone regardless of their background. It’s a place where experiences, taken in regular joint discussions, has been solely positive, Saga Furs is also actively promoting digitalisacy,” says Sura, “customers using our digital tum in the auction room.” tion with its brokers and customers. Everysystem get easy and quick access to price personal achievement and professional growth are nurtured and our busiwith staff noting that interaction among the team has been enhanced and thing that can be digitalised in our customer valuations and comparisons from previous ness can thrive as a result. strengthened following the move.” “Saga Furs’ greatest asset is its people,” affirms HR Director Marjatta Paunonen, “and we earn the respect of each other and our stakeholders by providing ourselves with a safe, healthy and fair working environment.” Work Capacity Coaching Cleaner Baltic Sea In the last two years, Saga Furs has invested in employees with coaching related to personal wellbeing. During the 2016–2017 Saga Furs works with its supplier farms and ProFur to reduce environmental We’re all partners in promoting a safe, period the coaching was offered for salaried and senior salaried impact. This has a direct positive impact on the state of the Baltic Sea.” open and inclusive workplace that inspires employees. The programme begins with an assessment of each personal growth and professional results.” participant’s work load and current state of health. This includes an This year, Saga Furs, through its parent as“Phosphorus is a finite resource,” says Many people are not aware that, in pracemployee’s daily rhythms such as whether they are getting suffiMarjatta Paunonen, HR Director cient exercise, nutritious and regular meals, and above all, recovery sociation ProFur, has made a formal commitJussi Peura, Research Director at ProFur. tice, by sourcing nutritious high phosphorus ment with the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) Phosphorus is currently mined and sold to raw fish feed, the fur industry contributes to a and sleep. Participants select areas they would like to develop and NEW MULTIPURPOSE OFFICE BUILDS TEAM WORK decide on personal goals often linked to special features influencto focus joint efforts on reducing the impacts industry with global supplies expected to cleaner sea. “Fishing by-products that go into In December 2016, all of the company’s office workers based at the Head ing their respective work. Within small coaching groups employees of fur farm manure on waterways. Working be depleted in the next couple of decades. healthy feed for fur animals are rich in phosOffice in Vantaa were offered the opportunity to move into a newly develcan find new ways to develop their jobs while setting their own together with industry, the commitment will However, Peura explains that at current prices phorus,” Peura explains. ProFur is working oped joint multipurpose office space. According to Paunonen, the project personal goals for coaching. Small groups met with their coaches involve conducting research projects to deal there is still no business value proposition for in partnership with BSAG and the industry to with waste more efficiently as well as finding producers to extract phosphorus from waste maximise future opportunities that make good attracted a lot of interest, with 18 employees electing to move. six times a year. Workers have also had a break-away programme alternative commercial solutions, particularly for sale. Instead, the association in partnership business and environmental sense. Prior to implementing new common workspace, employees involved that guides and reminds about the importance of breaks and related to reusing the phosphorus found in with the BSAG is looking at other shortand were able to influence the selection of materials, as well as the desk increases the variety of mobility for a business trip. animal manure. longer-term solutions. layout and many other details related to office ambience. They have also CODE OF CONDUCT The capstone for this year has been Saga Fur’s new Code of Conduct, launched in the second half of 2017. The Code forms the framework for all company operations and sets out standards of behaviour for all our employees, including our Board of Directors and Management Team members, who were the first to sign up to the Code. Product Development According to Paunonen, the Code of Conduct rollout is ongoing. It began with an internal briefing for managers followed by a companywide internal launch and open forum, lead by CEO Pertti Fallenius. “However, the Code has no value unless our people understand it and act accordingly,” Paunonen explains. To this end, the company has also developed a Code of Conduct online training package, which gives numerous examples and scenarios of the Code’s seven principles. In addition to training, Saga Furs employees have a written prospectus available, to help them understand and comply with the Code. The prospectus links the main ethical risks in their respective jobs as well as sets out clearly why the Code is important for them and the success of the company. It also Saga Furs has set the benchmark a good environmental story to tell,” Matthews affirms. “It has everything provides a quick reference to help employees know what to look for and for the rest of the industry on animal from environmental waste reduction through animal by-products to the who to turn to if they have concerns or are uncertain of the best course of sustainability and reusability of our end products.” behaviour in a situation. welfare, ethical sourcing and sustainable When it comes to production, Saga Furs annual Fur Vision event production practices.” is a gold mine of inspiration for designers looking for new techniques, DOCUMENTING WHAT WE ALREADY DO Tia Matthews, Fashion Business Director including the sustainable use of fur from the point of view of zero raw material waste. “Manufacturing customers are under increasing pressure from consumers With the code, we’re not building a new to communicate on how fur products are being made and whether the SUSTAINABLE DESIGN way of working but rather confirming and practice is sustainable,” says Fashion Business Director Tia Matthews. Artisans at the Saga Furs Design Centre in Denmark have developed documenting what we already do.” “And they’re looking to people like me to help them.” a highly skilled approach called Intarsia, which involves scraps of fur “As an auction house, you could say that our corporate responsibeing laid out together. “The result not only looks stunning but it promotes Juha Huttunen, Vice President and CFO bility startsat the warehouse door,” says Matthews, “when the products zero waste.” Another technique called Air Gallon Hole Punching, expands In response to changing regulations, our international expansion, and company’s business, but wherever possible we want to go beyond them. arrive from our fur producer customers and ends just after they’ve been the fur in the garment and makes it lighter with less material used. 14 increased stakeholder expectations, Saga Furs has resolved to increase “This is in keeping with our goal to lead the industry in ethical and sustainshipped.” However, the goal of Saga Furs is not just to be legally compliSaga Furs design experts also demonstrate innovative ways to 15 focus on transparency. In this context, Saga Furs has created a written able behaviour,” Huttunen affirms. ant, but through its sustainability programmes, to position the company layout patterns onto fur skins to optimise material use. For example, 16/ Code of Conduct to which every employee will be asked to sign up. as an industry leader in ethical and sustainable business. manufacturers can even receive skins, prior to cutting, with printed 16/ 17 During the first-quarter 2017, the Code was approved by the company’s patterns on the back that ensure the least amount of waste product. 17 Board of Directors and has just been launched internally. CIRCULAR ECONOMY “Saga Furs has always been committed to operating in compliance READ FULL While the supply chain in the fur trade is long and complex, often involving VINTAGE FUR with the rule of law as well as the highest ethical standards in all markets, REPORT local suppliers, dressers, and producers in a number of countries, Saga Matthews says high quality and personalised clothing with longevity are cultures, and geographical regions where we do business,” says Juha www.sagafurs.com/ Furs is committed to promoting ethical business principles with its parttrending in fashion at the moment. She cites a recent campaign called CSR Huttunen, Deputy Managing Director and CFO. Not only is Saga Furs ners wherever possible. Vintage Fur carried out in social media, print and the blogosphere. Unlike highly committed to following all laws and rules of behaviour related to the “The fashion value chain, as an example of circular economy, has oil-based artificial fur, vintage fur is a natural, warm and versatile material SICKNESS ABSENCES GENDER BREAKDOWN, 31 OCTOBER 2017 % of theoretical regular working hours Men Women Total Seasonal Permanent Saga Furs Oyj, permanent staff in Finland 66 53 Season 15/16 4.49 6.13 2.50 Saga Furs Oyj, seasonal staff 0 4 Season 16/17 4.05 5.44 2.33 Saga Congress Center, permanent staff 2 4 Saga Congress Center, seasonal staff 1 0 Furfix Oy, permanent staff 5 7 Furfix Oy, seasonal staff 2 2 EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE SCOPE OF COLLECTIVE Saga Furs Oyj, abroad 19 18 LABOUR AGREEMENTS, 31 OCTOBER 2017 Group total 95 88 Saga Furs Oyj: total 123 employees, of which 79 are within the scope Saga Congress Center: SEASONAL WORKFORCE DURING SEASON 7 permanent employees, of which 4 are within the scope Total seasonal employees 315, of which 76 were new contracts*. Furfix Oy: Seasonal employee turnover: 24.1% 16 permanent employees, of which 15 are within the scope Permanent employee turnover: 2.3% Charles Ross (left), Head of Sustainability, and Fashion Group total (Finland): 146 permanent employees, of which 98 are within the scope * Some of the new employees have worked in the company earlier, but not during Business Director Tia Matthews say Saga Furs wants to the previous period. be the industry leader in ethical and responsible business in the whole value chain. with a low ecological burden; and it can stay in use for decades – with the the runways. She sees demand for fur in the textile industry also growing option to revamp along the way. but not just demand for any kind of fur. Matthews stresses that: “Today’s Generally, Matthews sees a growing interest in fur in the fashion forconsumers want ethical fur. They want to know that the animals were ward social media, with people wanting to know how fur is being used on raised responsibly and that the environment has been taken care of.” Green Dressing understand and comply with the REACH guidelines. A new standard called Fur Mark is also gaining weight in China, which will involve “The fashion brands and multi-brand retailers are definitely asking for overseeing and eventually certifying the dressing processes within greener dressing from their suppliers!” says Charles Ross, Head of Chinese factories. Sustainability. “Fur dressing is a chemically intense process,” Ross While China’s wide-ranging compliance levels gradually evolve, explains, “first tanning the skin side then softening and cleaning the in Europe Ross is encouraged to see that leading companies in fur side to turn it into a skin to be shipped to the customer.” Europe are already investing in product testing to new high levels At industry level, the existing standard for chemical use that go beyond REACH. This is to pre-empt future protocol coming in dressing is called REACH. Ross notes that although most on stream in 2020. “That’s got to be where the future direction REACH-compliant dressing companies are still in Europe and North lies , says Ross, “because the big brands and retailers are going to America, he’s starting to see progress in Asia. The domestic Chinese demand safe and environmentally-friendly chemicals and processes market is not involved with REACH, however, dressing companies that go beyond REACH. in China that export products to Europe and the US are starting to Tytti Hämäläinen (left), Peter Busi and Rainer Busi talking in the Saga Furs canteen. “You never know who you eat your lunch or drink your coffee with,” they say. 16 lunch with. “There are approximately 350 of us, so it’s easy to get to know Saga Furs for 38 years, agrees about the diversity. He is the fox grading 17 the entire personnel,” says Hämäläinen. “I got to know my wife here,” says supervisor, but he’s also the trusted person in charge of the high-tech 16/ a man from across the table. coffee machine, among other important tasks. 16/ 17 Open Communication and Hämäläinen starts up a conversation with Peter Busi who works in fox grading. Busi has worked for Saga Furs for 26 years, and other members of his family are also and have been employed by the company. LOOKING FORWARD TO 2018 Saga Furs is committed to communicating more widely and regularly with 17 Value Chain Busi says that when he applied for a job at Saga Furs, he didn’t talk about this to his brother who was already with the company, so as to avoid any possible conflict of interest. That is also what his and his brother’s children individual consumers. The company is already very active on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube, sharing clips and fashion postings. According to Hämäläinen, social media campaigns are planned for the year to open did when they joined Saga Furs. “I gave the name of the contact person, up a more high-quality dialogue among the growing number of ethically but otherwise I didn’t want to meddle with the application process,” says minded millennials. “Consumeres care about ecology and many see real Busi. The job seems to be a good one, as up to six Busis from two generfur as the ecological choice, compared with the plastic-generated fake fur ations have earned their paychecks at Saga Furs. “I like the diversity of my that goes into landfill. Consumers also want to know more about animal duties. When the busy season in grading is over, I get to do renovations welfare standards. They want to know that the farm animals are raised From the farming community hall regularly travel to fur producing areas for direct information sharing and or shovel snow on-call.” Peter’s brother Rainer Busi, who has been with humanely and that the environment is being taken care of.” to the auction lunchroom; and from our pre-season training sessions. And when they can’t be in the same room, Hämäläinen says: “In addition to newsletters and extranet, we also send fashion Design Centre to our annual Fur SMSs and WhatsApps to producers for quick information exchanges.” Vision we’re engaged in one continuous Saga Furs Communicates Openly stakeholder dialogue.” FUR VISIONS AT FASHION CAPITALS In September 2017, Saga Furs hosted its annual Fur Vision events, drawTytti Hämäläinen, Senior Communications Manager ing together fashion designers, trade partners, design schools, media and 1. Financial Reporting: Saga Furs is the only industry member with retailers from around the world to Fur Visions in Milan, Paris, New York, a stock exchange listing requiring financial disclosure. The company also voluntarily engages in regular sustainability reporting. The company’s auctions, held four times a year, make for an optimal London, Beijing, Seoul and Shanghai. “We try to make it a very open and cross-sector gathering point for Saga Furs core stakeholders. Auction friendly event, with everyone sharing together,” says Hämäläinen. 2. Yammer: Saga Furs has re-launched Yammer, the company-inguests include Saga Furs executives and sales reps, Fur Association Despite the elevated haute couture of the designs on show, the ternal social media where open dialogue on a range of topics invites frank and open exchanges across the company. members, buyers, and fur producers, together with the media, governconversations are very down to earth. More and more, the company’s ment and local community members. “We come together for multiple fashion partners use the occasion to learn about Saga Furs as an ethical 3. Corporate Social Responsibility: During 2016, Saga Furs days, working and eating meals together in the same shared space,” and responsible partner. launched a Corporate Social Responsibility function with the goal of creating a uniform approach to information sharing, says Senior Communications Manager Tytti Hämäläinen. target setting, reporting on progress, training, and responding OPEN FORUM IN THE LUNCHROOM to challenges and opportunities related to sustainability across SHARING SESSIONS WITH PRODUCERS We are sitting in Saga Furs’ cafeteria where the entire personnel, from the value chain. The company also engages producers at home in their own communities. warehouse workers, graders and experts to top management, share inThe CEO and other management members, as well as industry experts, formation among themselves. You never know who you are going to have Short GRI Index This table specifies the most relevant links among Saga Furs’ material network. For the full GRI Content Index, please go to themes and GRI aspects. The aspects are based on Saga Furs’ materiality www.sagafurs.com/CSR analysis and focus on the most significant impacts in the Group’s value SAGA FURS’ MATERIAL DISCLOSURE GRI-DISCLOSURES SUSTAINABILITY THEMES TOPICS Samantha Vesala (2nd from left) and her team are responsible for the Asian market. Members of the team in the photo are Certification and animal welfare Certification and animal welfare • GRI 103-2 Management approach for certification Spark Fang, Kelvin Ding,and Kate Sori Mok. In Asia, environp. 6 • GRI 308-2 Supplier environmental assessment mental consciousness is increasing fast. • GRI 414-2 Supplier social assessment Traceability Traceability • GRI 103-2 Management approach for traceability 18 EXPANDING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT IN ASIA “The Chinese market is very important to Saga Furs, which was the p. 9 19 Business Director Samantha Vesala works a lot in Asia with customers, first international auction house to establish an office in China already 30 16/ fur dressers, manufacturers, retailers and local consumers. “More and years ago. And this new venture will be an important new platform for People and Fair employment • GRI 102-8 Information on employees 16/ 17 more the people I meet are embracing sustainability,” Vesala affirms. continuous engagement.” Code of Conduct p. 13 • GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 17 “They care where the fur product comes from, where it can be traced • GRI 403-2 Injuries and absences back to, how the product has been made, and the way the animal has • GRI 404-2 Skills development programs been treated.” • GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Vesala recently officiated at the launch of a new multi-stakeholder initiative in China called BIFTPARK-HN, which she says looks set to become Code of Conduct • GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Asia’s leading fur training and education academy. The new partnership is READ FULL p. 13 behavior among a leading Chinese design school, Beijing Institute of Fashion TechREPORT nology BIFT; Haining China Leather City; and Saga Furs. The cross sector • GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about www.sagafurs.com/ model will work closely with the industrial fur cluster of the surrounding area. CSR ethics Saga Furs’ know-how in fur craftsmanship draws from the company’s successful Denmark-based Design Centre, which since 1988 has Environment and climate Water, electricity and heating • GRI 302-1 Energy consumption been visited by over 30,000 guests from all over the world, including p. 10 • GRI 303-1 Water consumption Chinese designers and design students. Cutting carbon in transportation • GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 10 Commitment to cleaner seas • GRI 308-2 Supplier environmental assessment Main Memberships p. 12 in Organisations: Open communication and One continuous stakeholder • GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1. Fur Europe value-chain management dialogue • GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2. International Fur Federation (IFF) p. 17 3. Finnish Fur Trade Association Product development Sustainable production • GRI 103-2 Management approach for sustainable 4. Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) p. 16 production 5. Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) 100% SUSTAINABLE FURS Saga Furs Oyj P.O. Box 4, FI-01601 Vantaa, Finland Tel: +358 9 849 81, fax: +358 9 849 8319 info@sagafurs.com, sagafurs.com
