Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Workwear with a point of view Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a ABOUT OUR CSR REPORT family owned company. This means that people that The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a comhave a daily involvement in the company own us. This prehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR perhas a huge impact on the way we run our business and formance in 2016. Our CSR report form at the same implement our values. It is of utmost importance to time the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) us to value both responsibility and a solid bottom line report to UN Global Compact. equally. During 2015 Nybo Workwear A/S acquired a producWe work with corporate social responsibility because of tion facility in Asia with manufacturing in Laos and defour main reasons: sign and administration in Bangkok, Thailand (hereafter 1. We believe that we must behave decently in reNYBO Asia). lation to other people our own employees, our Activities under NYBO Asia is under Danish managesuppliers’ employees, our customers, their cusment and we are proud that we have BSCI with A-grade. tomers and others we meet on our way. As for all other NYBO facilities, CSR is important for 2. We believe that we must focus on our environNYBO Asia. A key focus is the wellbeing of the workforce ment and nature we have a responsibility to and therefore high standards in living conditions is availpass it on in good condition for future generaable as well as medical assistance and guidance is being tions. offered to the workforce on site. 3. We believe that decent behavior and sound bus ness are interdependent. The report covers our five locations: Headquarter in Vi4. We appreciate that many of our customers focus borg, Denmark, our two production facilities in Dobele on CSR and place high demands on us. These and Jelgava, Latvia and administration in Bangkok, Thairequirements we would like to meet. land and production facility in Vientiane, Laos. In order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasonaCONTINUED SUPPORT TO GLOBAL COMPACT ble presentation of our CSR performance, we are Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global inspired by general accepted reporting principles: GloCompact since 2010. Together with our core values, bal Reporting Initiative (www.gri.com). these 10 principles form the basis for our holistic approach to CSR. As we will continue our strategic and systematic work with CSR, any constructive comment for further imIn 2013, we have conducted a structured process aiming provements are highly appreciated. at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We have looked deeper into our potential risks and identiWe hope you will enjoy reading it! fied our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, we have conducted a self-assessment of process and materials in order to prioritize those CSR activities that create most value to both our business and the society around us. These priorities are reflected in our report. We are constantly setting new targets for improvement, and in 2018 we will further strengthen our partnership _____________________ with our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing reHelle Nybo Holmberg sponsibility in our supply chain. CEO, Nybo Workwear A/S 02 CSR REPORT 2017 Company values Dynamics Credibility In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and everything we do. efficient company that inspires customers and colleagues in our industry. Quality Durable products is a key demand from our cusPassion tomers. We must adapt the highest possible stanWith equal parts competence, persistence, and endards of quality within all our activties. thusiasm we wish to deliver profitable solutions for the mutual benefit of our customers and ourselves. CSR REPORT 2017 03 Purchase A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities re• We will work on to have a grade A-B in our BSCI lated to procurement and supplier management at member ship on our production facility in Laos. Nybo Workwear. In April 2017 we will have a second audit to follow up on the changes we have made since last Consequently, our own production facility in Laos is BSCI audit in September 2016. audited since 2016 and have in 2017 received the high• We will have zero tolerance when it comes to est A-rating and our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 corruption. certification and in 2013 – Fair Wear. Our key supplier in China holds a BSCI certification. Our focus is therefore still to cooperate with suppliers, WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2017 which are BSCI, SA8000 or similar audited. • All suppliers have conducted the Nybo Workwear self-assessment if they are not certified with SA 8000 or ISO 26000/DS49001 or BSCI. POLICIES AND STRATEGIES • Our existing suppliers all live up to our high Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who meet standards for quality and responsibility. the same high standards concerning quality, ethics, en• Our own production facility in Laos is a member vironment and security of supplies as we do ourselves. of BSCI and we are very proud to have received We only source from international recog¬nized supplithe highest A-rating in 2017. ers. • We have not had any situations where a suppliWe believe that we achieve the best results through er has failed in our cooperation and no corruptrustful partnerships striving for improvement in retion. gards to human right, labour rights and environmental issues. Therefore, we are convinced that it is through a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2018 achieve the best results. Regular visits in the places of • All European suppliers with a purchase of more production guarantee observance of the agreed condithan 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion tions. Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the Nybo Workwear is a member of the trade association contract with Nybo Workwear. “Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a re• Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than cognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their up to standards similar to FairFashion. contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear self-assessment. • We will work on improvements on grade A in WHAT WE SAID IN 2017 our BSCI member ship on our production facili• All European suppliers with a purchase of more ty in Laos. Our staff will get further information than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion Code about their union rights, fire and first aid pracof Conduct as an integrated part of the contract tice. In August 2018 we will have a yearly exterwith Nybo Workwear. nal audit to follow up on our certification. • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than • We will have zero tolerance when it comes to 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion corruption. Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear-selfassessment. CSR REPORT 2017 05 Product High quality in everything we do We understand “solutions” as our full assortment of • Our Tencel collections which has started up in products, processes, customer relations, and sales and 2011/12 is still of a very high interest as the cusmarketing activities. tomers ask for new and more sustainable products. As a textile company our main impact on society is re• Our collection Nature of organic cotton and lated to the quality and content of the products we sell. regenerated polyester is now available in 4 colors as It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally there is a big interest in these sustainable garments friendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. on the market. • Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. In POLICIES AND STRATEGIES contrast to the production of traditional polyester, Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear, we have no oil is used in the production of regenerated polstrived towards high quality in everything we do. We yester and therefore the consumption of energy believe that quality and responsibility are interrelated. and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. Organic We also believe that we have an obligation to develcotton protects the environment because no pesop innovative and environmentally friendly products, ticides are used in the production. A production which will be a benefit for all involved. without pesticides naturally also contributes to imNybo Workwear works only with experienced and interproved living and working conditions of the cotton national recognized sub-suppliers of raw material for infarmers. dustrial washable products. All specifications of fabrics • In 2017 our use of air freight have again been at an and accessories are determined and controlled accordunsatisfactory high level. We have chosen to use ing to international standards regarding quality, environairfreight as we have had many new bigger projects mental requirements and healthy working conditions. A with short delivery time compared to our capacity continuous follow-up takes place regarding the fulfiland we have focused to have articles on stock. ment of the agreed demands and arrangements. In our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate which WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2018 certificates relate to each product. It assists our • We will continue to live up to our customers’ decustomers in making a responsible choice. mands concerning environmental and social irresponsible products and processes. WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2017 • We will continue to contribute to new innovative • We will continue to live up to our customers’ demands and sustainable solutions within fabrics, accessoconcerning environmental and social irresponsible ries, and finished products and be a frontrunner in products and processes. the work wear business. We will make a concept of • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and a more sustainable collection in 2018. environmentally friendly solutions within fabrics, • We will focus on using fabric suppliers who are accessories, and finished products. certified with the STeP or bluesign environmental • We will still focus on our transport and follow our certification. carbon footprint within this activity our seaand air • We will still focus on our transport, follow our carfreight from Far East suppliers. bon footprint within this activity our seaand air freight from Far East suppliers. As we have made a WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2017 more strict planning system, we are sure that it will • 99% of the raw material in our standard products is be less in 2018. Oeko –Tex 100 certified. • 72% of our total standard products is certified with bluesign or STeP which is environmental certifications. 06 CSR REPORT 2017 Nybo Workwear’s garments meet the following standards ISO 15797 bluesign Standard As one of the first in our industry, we use the internaA number of our products are based on fabrics, tional test standard ISO 15797. A careful selection of which have achieved certification, by bluesign Stanraw material guarantee that Nybo products meet the dard. This ensures that production takes place with requirements of industrial washing. the utmost consideration for resource utilization, negative impact on air and water, health and conOeko-Tex Standard 100 sumer protection. If possible, we strive to buy fabrics and accessries that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The scheme is STeP the most common labelling for textiles in the world. This is the new environmental certification. It is a The system checks content of harmful substances in guarantee of an environmentally and sustainable textiles, and minimize the risk of user exposure product from start to end – the whole productions to hazardous substances. process and social working conditions. It is handled by the OEKO-TEX Association. Nybo frontrunner in sustainable work wear Nybo Workwear do not just want to be a manufacturer of light work wear. We also want to be an innovative frontrunner of sustainability and ecology. In end 2015 we have launched our very first sustainable collection: Nature. Nature is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Nature is now available in 4 colors, which indicate purity, freshness and healthiness thereby supporting the good qualities of the sustainable fabric. Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. In contrast to the production of traditional polyester, no oil is used in the production of regenerated polyester and therefore the consumption of energy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. Organic cotton protects the environment because no pesticides are used in the production. A production without pesticides naturally also contributes to improved living and working conditions of the cotton farmers. With Nature, the user does not only get a high quality product. He also gets a product produced under sustainable and resource-saving conditions and the user actively supports a production with a good conscience and takes responsibility for our common future. At Nybo Workwear, we believe that sustainability is imperative in the future production of work wear and we have now taken the first step. We will focus on having a total concept of sustainable collections to offer to our customers. CSR REPORT 2017 07 Process Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalized activities • We have invested in IT equipment with lower energy across our own company value chain, including producconsumption in beginning of 2015, which we hope tion, logistics, properties and utilities. will make an effect on the total use of energy. Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our admi• Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% nistration and stock. Our environmental challenges are mainly related to our production facilities in Dobele and Jelgava in Latvia and since 2015 our production facility WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2017 in Laos. As a textile, producing company our main task • We have invested in new IT equipment and now we is to produce high quality work wear, which means that can see that this have given reduction in energy. we have very limited environmental issues related to • In our facility in Latvia, we have used less energy hazardous waste and our water consumption. consumption in 2017. We have changed our pears to LED bulbs and this gives a reduction and furthermore we have had less overwork in 2017 and total POLICIES AND STRATEGIES energy consumption has been reduced 11% . We consider ourselves as an integrated part of our com• Our water consumption has been reduced with mon environment. In spite of our modest size and po3,2%. We are satisfied with this, as our goal was a sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined to reduction on 3%. demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservation • We brought 79,72 tons of material back to full recyof our environment and resources. cling in 2017. It is more than in 2016. We have recyIn 1980, we decided to set up a wind turbine at our facilcled more in all production sites and Denmark and ity in Denmark and thus become self-sufficient in elechave now measured our waste of fabric and paper/ tricity. Our wind turbine produces about 50.000 kWh carton in Nybo Asia, and now it gives the full view of annually. We consume the majority internally, and the our recycling. surplus we market to the local power plant. • In Denmark, we donated more than 900 kg of clothWe continue our recycling project of paper and plastic ing and shoes to the Danish Red Cross in their camin cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which a Latvian compaign. We have collected the clothing among empany is caring for a clean Latvia. We collect and sort all ployees and our sample department. In 2016, it was waste: fabric, paper, cartons and plastic for recycling. 1150 kg. Our systematic work with recycling has given us the Zala Josta certificate, which certifies that our production site “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2018 a special focus on the end-to-end handling of cardboard • We still want to continue reducing our energy conboxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All sumption in Denmark, Latvia and NYBO Asia with boxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. 3%. In Nybo Asia we have invested in LED bulbs and In Vientiane in Laos – all waste of fabric and paper/carthis will give a big deduction in energy. tons are given to a washing factory – our sub-contractor • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% for denim. This washing factory use the waste for heatotal. ting up their boiler for hot water for washing of denim. • We will continue to be active in “Smid tøjet” and In Viborg, we sort all waste: paper, cartons and plastic donate clothes to this organization. A big campaign and sell it for recycling. Carton boxes from suppliers are will be running in April 2018 and we have a goal to used for shipments to the customers. donate more or same amount of clothes and shoes than in 2017. • We will continue to recycle as much as possible in WHAT WE SAID IN 2017 Denmark, Latvia and Nybo Asia. • We want to continue reducing our energy consumption 08 CSR REPORT 2017 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Employees total 31 157 115 303 Blue collar 5 130 104 239 White collar 26 27 11 64 Sick leave 1.7 8.7 0.90 Injuries 0 2 2 4 Employee Development 31 27 8 66 Employees training 6 9 9 24 Employess on spec. training 2 0 0 2 Environmental figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Energy consumption CSR REPORT 2017 09 Electricity 68,162 191,000 101,841 361,003 Gas m3 23,267 12,777 0 36,044 People Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to • Continued systematic employee development managing and developing our employees. This includes dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all a safe and healthy working environment, managers in Latvia, Laos and Bangkok. leadership and compliance with Nybo Workwear‘s Code • Increased systematic documentation on health of Conduct. Nybo Workwear employs 303 persons 31 and safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. are working at the headquarter in Denmark and 115 In Viborg we had a very low sick-leave at 1,7% are working at our two production facilities in Latvia. In in Latvia 8,7% which are just a little higher than Thailand -7 persons and in Laos 108 persons. 2016 in Latvia and same for DK. In Nybo Asia we We are proud to have a very high length of employment had a sick-leave at 0,9% which is very low. both in Latvia, Denmark and Thailand and Laos. • Continued our cooperation with Viborg Municipality to include socially vulnerable citizens into POLICIES AND STRATEGIES our company. In 2016, we have 2 persons emWe want to offer a desirable, developing and ployed on special terms. challenging place of work that is able to attract and re• In Nybo Asia we has started up to work on the tain qualityminded, wellqualified and passionate emBSCI certification during 2016 and 2017. We are ployees. We believe that our employees are the most very pleased and proud to get a A-rating, which important key to success. is a very high level and secures that our workers We respect and live up to the national labor market laws have the right and secure conditions. It gives the in Denmark, Latvia and Nybo Asia including minimum workers admittance to a nurse during the week, wages, health and safety, working hours etc. All cona free yearly control at a doctor and training in ditions regarding employees are described in detail in first aid. our Handbook for personnel. This is handed out to all • Our staff has free internet in the morning before employees and kept updated with all new guidelines for work, in lunch break and then after work. the company. With this, we go further than the rather All salaries are now paid with cash card and the strict laws of labor and employee rights in Denmark, Latstaff are in training how to use this and bank via and Nybo Asia and we implement additional traiservice in general as they are not used to this.All ning, health insurance and personnel staff has got fire practice. celebrations. WHAT WE SAID IN 2015 WHAT’S NEXT FOR 2018 WHAT• WE We SAID IN 2017 want continuously to focus on improve• We continuously focus on improvements con• We continuously focus on ment concerning improvements health concerning and safety among our cerning health and safety among our employees. health and safety among our employees. Our ambition is to grow in aambition employees. Our responOur ambition is to have a stable workforce that is to have a stable sible workforce manner that cares with respect about for the each of well-being cares about each other and Nybo as an attractive other and Nybo as an attractive place our employees. The concern for our The to work. con employplace to work. The concern for our employees cern foreesourhas employees has always been at the always been at the heart of the Nybo heart of has always been at the heart of the the Nybo Workwear company Work¬wear company spirit. spirit. Nybo Workwear company spirit. • In Nybo • we will Asiahave We continue zero tolerance whenwith to work our BSCI it comes certo cor• In Nybo Asia we will continue to improve and tification. We ruption.want to improve so we can get a grade work with our BSCI certification. As we have a A-B.• It gives We will workers our offer very high standard theaemployees in Denmarkand secua folgrade A and on a very high level we will make rity at the production facility. low-up course in first aid and use of defibrillator. small improvements for our workers. It will be • We still want to improve our data management on CSR purchase of pillows for our workers in the proto cover both language English Latvia for Denmark,training and7 people. Laos with same duction, so everybody has the correct working monthly • KPI structure. Establish continues improvements through diaposition. We will give our workers information • Establish continues improvements through dialog with on the rights they have at work. the•employees regarding sickness and physical work enIt gives our workers a very high standard and vironment. security at the production facility. • We still want to improve our data management WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2017 on CSR to cover both Denmark, Latvia and Laos • We continued our English language training in Latvia with same monthly KPI structure. for 9 people. In DK 6, people had different courses. In • Establish continues improvements through diaNybo Asia we also had 7 people on first aid course, 115 log with the employees regarding sickness and people on fire course and 2 people on special course physical work environment. in “Training of the occupational safety and health committee at workplace” to secure which is a demand from the authorities. 010 CSR REPORT 2017 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Employees total 31 157 115 303 Blue collar 5 130 104 239 White collar 26 27 11 64 Sick leave 1.7 8.7 0.90 Injuries 0 2 2 4 Employee Development 31 27 8 66 Employees training 6 9 9 24 Employess on spec. training 2 0 0 2 Environmental figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Energy consumption Electricity 68,162 191,000 101,841 361,003 Gas m3 23,267 12,777 0 36,044 Wind turbine sold kWh 15,837 0 0 15,837 Water consumption m3 146 825 0 971 Recycling tons 9.32 68 2.4 79.72 CSR REPORT 2017 011 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Objective Result Global Compact GRI Page Purchase Implementing Supplier All suppliers of fabrics Completed All principles General 4,5,7 Code of Conduct and sweing sign supplier Code of Conduct Number of suppliers that All suppliers has to Completed All principles All General 4,6,7 has undergone screening document that they live principles 4,6,7 REACH-Directive up to REACH-Directive Product Development of Our collection of environmental 9 5 and environmental friendly friendly Tencel products is still customers products of very much interest from our customers and more collections in different blends has been launched in 2017. We have 4 colours in collection Nature which is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. We can see that customers have a big focus on these products now compared to earlier. Product and customers 95% of ours products is 99% Oeko Tex 100 9 PR3 5 Development of Oeko-Tex 100 certificed 72% bluesign/STeP environmental friendly 70% of our products is products Certifications: certified with Oeko-Tex Standard 100, bluesign/STeP bluesign, STeP, ISO 15797 Process Electricity consumption 361.003 kWh See notes on page 8 7 EN3 8 7 EN5 8 Initiatives to reduce 15.837 kWh less than 2016 electricity Efficient use of windmill operate stop in November 2017 Total water consumption Reduce by 3% 971 m3 3,2% reduction 7 Gas Reduce by 3% 36.044 m3 5,4% increase Recycling Maintain 2016 level 79,72 tons 28,3 increase EN2 8 People and Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 239 1, 2, 6 LA1 9 society White collar: 64 Employee training Access to English LV 9 empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 language training in LVNybo Asia: 9 employees Nybo Asia -fireand first DK: 6 employees aid individual Courses DK Employee development LV 27 empolyees 1.2 LA10 9 Nybo Asia: 8 employees DK: 31 employees Access to labour unions All employees 100% 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 Collective bargaining 100% 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 Wage level 100% 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 Staff compensation Pensions, health insurance, 1, 2 LA3 9 compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. Health and safety: 1. Zero injuries Pensions, health insurance, 1.2 LA7 9 1. Rates of injury 2. Improve health compensation on sick leave, 2. Health programs programs pregnancy etc. 3. Sick leave 4. 3. Reduction of sick 1. 2 incidents during 2017 National laws on OHS leaves 2. Health insurance, canteen, 4. Observe and respect massage, nurse, doctor national labour marked 3. DK:1,7%; Latvia 8,7%; laws on OHS Nybo Asia 0,9% 4. 100% Number of employees on Contribute to an inclusive 2 employees on special terms 1, 2, 6 LA13 9 special terms labour marked Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear's Conduct companies in Denmark and Latvia must sign our Code of Conduct. Nybo Asia is a member of BSCI. 012 CSR REPORT 2017 Nybo Workwear A/S in brief Company name Nybo Workwear A/S Address Industrivej 24-26 8800 Viborg DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000 E-mail: info@nybo.com CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two production facilities in Latvia and Nybo Asia in Thailand and Laos. The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Number of employees 2017 303 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg +45 87273006 hnh@nybo.com About Nybo Workwear A/S Margit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Workwear A/S in 1962. The company is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo family. Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear for users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Our solutions are available through industrial laundries and dealers throughout Northern Europe. We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Queen of Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark. Awards and certifications S TØ T GEN IL D AN S TOP M A DSP V E NDE L SE REFOOD CERTIFICERET SIDEN 2015 www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
