Contents. INTRODUCTION About us. 1 This is Ellevio. 2 ELLEVIO 2017 Review of 2017. 5 CEO’S STATEMENT Accelerated investments to enable 6 the energy transition. MARKET AND DRIVERS Current and future electricity networks. 8 Drivers. 11 VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Value creation – from the little things 16 to the big things. Seven strategic focus areas. 19 Employees. 20 Health and safety. 22 Responsible purchasing. 25 Environment. 26 INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING Investments. 28 Financing. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68 Ellevio AB (publ) Box 242 07 SE-104 51 Stockholm www.ellevio.se All values are expressed in SEK. Figures within parentheses refer to 2016, unless specified otherwise. The data concerning markets and the competitive situation are Ellevio’s own estimates unless a specific source is indicated. These estimates are based on the best and latest available facts from published sources. About us. Take a moment to consider how electricity affects our lives. When you woke up this morning, you turned off the alarm on your mobile phone and switched the bedside light on. At the same time but in another place, a plane was coming in to land, directed by powerful runway lights. A school class turned its attention to the classroom’s illuminated smartboard. A newborn baby was placed in an electronically powered incubator. Electricity is used everywhere to facilitate or simply enable our lives; from the little things to the big things, from the typical to the unexpected. Reliable and stable distribution of electricity is a prerequisite for the functioning of our daily lives as well as the ability to develop new solutions and innovations, both today and in the future. By investing in, developing and maintaining our electricity networks, we can guarantee a reliable supply of electricity to our ­customers and thus improve the quality of life of 939,000 households and companies in Sweden and for the wider society. Step-by-step, this brings us closer to our vision of using our commitment and expertise to contribute to a bright and sustainable future. Welcome to Ellevio. Ellevio is building the ­electricity networks of the future. Our mission We are a regulated business subject to the provisions Ellevio is one of Sweden’s largest distribution system of the Electricity Act. The government-run Swedish operators, which ensures that electricity is supplied to Energy Markets Inspectorate implements legislation homes and workplaces. An important part of this and regulations and monitors the extent to which we responsibility consists of weather-proofing the elecfulfil our mission. tricity network in rural areas and strengthening and Ellevio has a long history, but the company only regenerating the electricity network in cities. We took the name Ellevio in 2015 when Fortum sold its safeguard the quality of life of our customers by Swedish electricity network operations to the current ensuring that the electricity networks in our areas owners. In 2017, Ellevio had net sales of SEK 6.9 are sustainable in the long term and contribute to billion (6.5). The company is owned by a consortium the transition towards a climate-smart energy system. consisting of the Swedish Third National Pension Fund, Folksam and the First National Pension Fund, A few facts about us as well as OMERS Infrastructure (previously Borealis We own, operate and develop regional and local Infrastructure Management), which invests in infraelectricity networks and distribute electricity with structure on behalf of OMERS, one of Canada’s 99.98 percent reliability to 939,000 customers in largest pension funds. The owners all share a longSweden. Our grid is 73,000 km long, correspondterm approach and want to invest in businesses that ing to almost two trips around the Earth. Our customcontribute to sustainable development. ers are spread across the West coast, mid-Sweden, and Stockholm. The largest proportion of our grids is Sustainable value creation located in rural areas, but most of our customers are Ensuring a reliable supply of electricity is one of in Stockholm. We have a clear objective; Ellevio’s ­society’s most vital assignments. We view this great customers are to have an uninterrupted supply of responsibility with humility and a strong desire to electricity, regardless of whether they live in the counkeep contributing to sustainable societal development. try or in an urban area. Ellevio will be investing close Consideration for people and the environment is an to SEK 10 billion between 2016 and 2019 to modintegral part of our business. We play a part in the ernise and future-proof our electricity networks. So construction of Sweden’s future climate-smart energy far, we have invested around SEK 4.5 billion, fully in system. line with our plan. Mission. Strategy. We improve the quality of life by guaranOur overall strategy is to deliver value to teeing a long-term sustainable power our customers and investors by ensuring ­network. a reliable power network, efficient operations, committed employees and growth through acquisitions. Vision. With commitment and expertise, we contribute to a bright and sustainable future. 2 ELLEVIO 2017 • This is Ellevio Our values. Ellevio’s business operates as a monopoly, which is a profound responsibility for the entire organisation. It is important that we live up to the demands and expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and earn their trust. Our three values – ­reliability, commitment and development – guide our day-today work, in every interaction and every conversation, in both simple and complex situations. Reliability Our customers should be able to rely on our power grid and the people who work at Ellevio. We are available around the clock to provide the technology and expertise required to ­supply electricity all the way to customers’ homes. Commitment It should be evident that we care about our customers and community and that we listen. We are driven and take sustainable action in terms of the safety of all who work for us, our impact on the environment and our responsibility as an employer, business and supplier. Development We think innovatively in matters both large and small. We ­continuously develop and improve our services and look for new expertise while sharing our own, with the aim of ensuring that Sweden’s power grids are developed in a long-term and sustainable manner. Our power grid should be constructed in a way that meets society’s existing and future energy needs. We are building the power grids of tomorrow, today. Investment plan 2016–2019 Net Sales 2017 SEK 6,894 m SEK million 4,000 3,000 Investments in tangible and 2,000 intangible assets in 2017 1,000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 SEK 2,386 m Result Forecast Investments in 2016–2017 implemented according to plan. ELLEVIO 2017 • This is Ellevio 3 Our networks. Västra Svealand-Västergötland 133,000 customers 25,000 km of electricity network 188 metres of electricity network per customer Dalarna-Södra Norrland 102,000 customers 14,400 km of electricity network 141 metres of electricity network per customer Västkusten Stockholm 125,000 customers 579,000 customers 13,500 km of electricity network 14,100 km of electricity network 108 metres of electricity network 24 metres of electricity network per customer per customer Our objective. Our electricity network is divided into four local grid areas based on Ellevio’s customers should have an geographical location. These areas also ­uninterrupted electricity supply – form our tariff zones. In addition to the today, tomorrow and in 50 years. four local electricity grids, we also own regional grids in Stockholm and rural areas. In total, this represents about 67,000 km of local grids and 6,400 km of regional grids. From 1 January 2018, the four local grid areas will be merged into two: Mid-Sweden and West Coast. 4 ELLEVIO 2017 • This is Ellevio Review of 2017. Quarter 1. Quarter 3. Stockholm Data Parks is launched. Together with Stockholm’s grid map is redrawn as Ellevio the City of Stockholm, Fortum Värme, Stokab and and Svenska kraftnät purchase electricity net­Stockholm Business Region, Ellevio launches ­Stockholm works. Ellevio and Svenska kraftnät enter into an Data Parks, thus placing Stockholm on the map as a agreement whereby Ellevio is to acquire parts of S ­ venska new centre of the next generation of data centres. kraftnät’s power lines in the Stockholm region as The aim is to attract large-scale data-park invest­Svenska kraftnät purchases a line from Ellevio. The ments and turn Stockholm into the future centre of a transaction enables efforts to strengthen the supply sustainable data-park industry, where the surplus of electricity to a growing Stockholm to continue. heat from parks is recycled for use in the district Launches partnerships within e-sport, music ­heating network. and football. Ellevio launches partnerships with Guaranteed financing for the electricity netthree organisations – Female Legends, Popkollo and works of the future. The European Investment Stockholm’s football association – that aim to create Bank (EIB) grants Ellevio a loan of EUR 250 million. the right conditions for young girls in the areas of The EIB offers long-term financing for sound and suse-sport, music and football. The aim of the partnertainable investment projects that help further the EU’s ships is to promote insight and a shift in attitudes that objectives. The loan to Ellevio is to be used during lead to a more equal society and industry. the period 2017–2019 for investments that futureLaunches strategy for a safe workplace. To supproof the electricity networks. port Ellevio’s efforts to create a safe workplace, a new strategy is drawn up that will guide in terms of the Quarter 2. conduct expected at Ellevio. The programme aims to Procurement of the next generation of smart improve the safety culture throughout Ellevio and for electricity meters begins. Ellevio begins the proall those who work on behalf of the company, so that curement process for over 900,000 new smart eleceveryone comes home safely after a day’s work. tricity meters, thus taking a major step forward towards securing the electricity system we will need Quarter 4. to have in the future. The new meters will be used for Green light for price harmonisation. The Swedpurposes such as giving customers greater opportuish Energy Markets Inspectorate gives the green light nities to connect to new energy services and control for price harmonisation among Ellevio’s customers. their electricity consumption. The first meters will be For several years, Ellevio has been working to level installed at customers’ homes early 2020, representing out the major difference in price paid by customers in an important part of the development of smart grids. rural areas and cities. The decision means that elecSigns the Global Compact. Ellevio signs up to the tricity prices can be reduced by 5 percent for our cusUN Global Compact, thus becoming the first Swedish tomers in Värmland, Skaraborg and Närke. electricity network company to do so. The UNGC was The Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate formed in 1999 at the request of the UN’s then-Secrereleases a report on the revenue regulation. At tary General Kofi Annan. His aim was to establish interthe request of the Minister for Policy Coordination national principles surrounding human rights, labour and Energy, Ei published a report on tightened regulaw issues, the environment and corruption. Today, lation of revenues . over 13,000 companies and organisations across the New focal point. In one of Sweden’s largest projglobe have signed up and more will do so over time. ect linked to wind power – the Grönviken project – Puts forward a recommended offer to shareEllevio will build an entirely new transmission substaholders in Vallentuna. Ellevio takes another step tion in the electricity network together with Svenska forward in its strategy to grow in the Swedish electrickraftnät. The Grönviken substation opens up new ity network market as Ellevio Holding 1 AB makes an opportunities to expand wind power in Hälsingland offer on Elverket Valletuna AB. This acquisition further and Gästrikland. Annual production in the two parks reinforces Ellevio’s presence in the Stockholm region. that will be connected is equivalent to the electricity The integration of Nynäsham Energi AB is also comconsumption of 200,000 apartments. pleted during the quarter. ELLEVIO 2017 • Review of 2017 5 Accelerated investments to enable the energy transition. Ellevio’s planning horizon stretches further than most other companies. We need to have a vision of what the wider world will look like half a century in advance and then make sustainable investments in line with that vision today. The energy agreement’s vision of a robust electricity ensure an efficient and sustainable energy society system featuring a high level of reliability, limited envibecomes reality. We have now reached the halfway ronmental impact and electricity at competitive prices point via our first investment programme of about serves as our guide. SEK 10 billion during the period 2016–2019; an investment programme that will be followed by othInvestments today for the electricity networks ers over the years to come. So far, we have invested of tomorrow around SEK 4.5 billion. 2018 will also see intensive What will Sweden look like in 50 years? How do investments being made across our electricity netwe want it to look? Will there be over a million elecworks. tric cars driving on our roads? Will there be solar panels on the roof of each and every house? Will An electricity network that protects people large-scale wind and solar electricity production and safety have replaced some of the other types of energy? We are there for our customers. They should always These are all questions that we at Ellevio put to ourbe able to rely on our services functioning and on us selves on a daily basis as we plan for and construct doing all we can to ensure a high quality of delivery the electricity networks of today and the future. As in both the long and short term. The people who electricity production becomes increasingly decentralmake this possible are our knowledgeable and ised, urbanisation is leading to consumption becoming ­committed employees and business partners, who more concentrated in major cities. The society we are develop and work on our electricity network to creating will not look the same in the future as it does ensure secure access to electricity around the block, now. Many exciting challenges are involved. 365 days a year and all across Sweden. At a time The largest transition of the energy system in modwhen we have doubled our investments, this obviously ern times is currently under way. The cross-party also entails many more contractors in the field, which energy agreement achieved in 2016 contains great renders our safety initiatives more vital than ever. ambitions for the Swedish energy supply and places Safety must always come first – in every situation. strict requirements on all those who operate within It is the very cornerstone of a sustainable electricity the energy industry. For Ellevio and other distribution network and a prerequisite of our entire business. system operators, this involves intense efforts to The fact that safety is on the agenda of every Board achieve a sustainable, reliable and flexible electricmeeting also sends a signal that we will never comity network that will enable the society of the future. promise on our commitments in this area. Everyone The electricity network is at the core of the energy should come home safe and sound after a day at transition and major investments are required to work. 6 ELLEVIO 2017 • CEO’S STATEMENT A journey comprising many interim objectives The long planning horizon notwithstanding, it is important to always keep our eyes focused on the way forward. Both initiated and completed projects in various operational areas should be given attention over the course of this journey. This year we signed agreements to build an entirely new transmission substation in the electricity network as part of Sweden’s largest project linked to wind power, the Grönviken station in the municipalities of Bollnäs and Ockelbo. The project will be implemented in collaboration with Svenska kraftnät. A total of 85 wind turbines will be constructed and connected to our electricity network, 58 of which will be located in the Åmot-Lingbo wind farm and 27 in the Tönsen wind farm. The estimated average production of 1.1 TWh A sustainable organisation is an equal per year corresponds to the electricity c­ onsumption organisation of 200,000 apartments. This represents a major projEquality is an important long-term issue for Ellevio ect that will create jobs in the area and introduce and the entire energy industry. For us, it is a question more renewable electricity ­production to the energy of creating the best workplace for everybody, of system. being able to take the best decisions and develop the services customers and society want to have in The entire country should be equal the future. In order to succeed in this, we need to One vital issue that was resolved during the year ensure our company is equal. was the issue of price harmonisation. Until now, there The work with equality requires real efforts and has been a significant difference in electricity netchanges on multiple levels. At Ellevio, we are workwork prices between urban and rural areas. Our ing intensively both at our own organisation and in view is that it should cost the same amount to be concollaboration with other companies in the industry to nected to the electricity network regardless of where ensure that both men and women become interested a customer happens to live in Sweden. Previously, in and feel welcome to apply for a professional role this type of price structure has not been possible, but with us. We also entered into a collaboration this after pursuing this issue for several years we finally year with three organisations that we believe could obtained approval from the Swedish Energy Marprovide us with new insights. Female Legends, Popkets Inspectorate in October last year. This means kollo and Stockholm’s football association all work we are now able to level out the prices and, once to improve the conditions for young girls in the areas we have done so, our electricity network prices will of e-sport, music and football. This collaboration is be at an average for the entire country. intended to reinforce the organisations’ work while As we begin this harmonisation process that is also broadening our knowledge of equality. due to proceed until 2020, we do it with support from the public. In a newly conducted survey, 77 perA greater focus on sustainability cent agree that it should cost the same amount to be During the year, we signed up to the UN Global connected to the electricity network regardless of Compact (UNGC) and thus further emphasised our where a person lives in Sweden. extensive sustainability ambitions. We want to focus on the aspects where we can truly make a differA sustainable network industry ence, and although we were already working in line Investments in the future represent a considerable with the UNGC’s principles before, we are now subcommitment even for a large operator like Ellevio ject to requirements governing detailed follow-up and our strong owners. It can be difficult for a numwork and more structured efforts, which is a positive ber of small, municipally-owned electricity network development in terms of sustainability efforts. companies to maintain and develop their grids in the Sustainable business involves many aspects and manner required according to current legislation. creates value for customers, society, employees and We are convinced that a consolidation of the indusowners. As an electricity network company, we are try is the best thing for customers, society and the also a key player in the transition towards a sustainenergy transition process as a whole. In 2017, we able planet. We are a part of the efforts to create a integrated Nynäshamn Energi AB that we acquired bright and sustainable future. in 2016. We also acquired Elverket Vallentuna AB through Ellevio Holding 1 AB, which will be integrated during the coming year. Our experience of previous acquisitions and integrations is very good, we believe that consolidation in the industry will pick up and we Johan Lindehag actively search for new business opportunities. CEO Ellevio AB (publ) ELLEVIO 2017 • CEO’S STATEMENT 7 The current and future electricity network. The largest transition of the energy system in modern times is currently under way. The electricity network is at the core of this transition and major investments are required to ensure an efficient and sustainable energy society becomes reality. Striking a balance between reliability, the Electricity networks then and now environment and competitiveness In the early 19th century, it was not yet possible to By way of common targets in the areas of climate and speak of a Swedish electricity network. Both producenergy, the EU aims to set the course of future global tion and distribution of electricity was handled climate partnerships and establish the internal market locally in cities that had undergone electrification. for the energy sector. Climate initiatives are based on It had generally not been possible to connect the agreements within the UN – Agenda 2030, the grids as decisions about technical standards – such global sustainable development goals adopted in as voltage levels – were taken locally. September 2015. Swedish energy policy is based on When hydropower was expanded in northern the same three cornerstones as the energy partnership Sweden at the end of the 1930s, a highly significant in the EU, namely merging ecological sustainability, surplus was produced in the region of Norrland. competitiveness and security of supply. Sweden is at Efforts to create a connected Swedish electricity the forefront of developing climate initiatives, in part ­network that could transport the surplus in the north because our natural resources already provide us with to satisfy the rapidly increasing demand in the south a large share of renewable electricity production, but continued right through to the 1950s. also because of an efficient market system prompting The next major change occurred during the timely political decisions, such as the installation of 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, as nuclear power and smart electricity meters. combined heat and power (CHP) were introduced The Swedish Energy Commission submitted its to the Swedish electricity market. Major sections of report Mobilising for the future of energy in January the electricity networks we use today were con2017, which contained proposals including: structed during this time. • 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040 (though without a final date for the end of For the electricity networks of the future nuclear power). The next major technological change is under way. • 50 percent more efficient energy consumption Lines and components put in place between thirty and in 2030 than in 2005. forty years ago now need to be replaced and To live up to these proposals, Ellevio is now impleupgraded. New industries will be electrified and the menting its largest investment since the 1960s and proportion of green electricity will increase. Further1970s. We are building reliable, flexible and smart more, the grids will need to become both digital and electricity networks that enable our customers to more flexible, while security of supply when distributing actively manage both their consumption and proelectricity will also require improvement. duction based on their own habits and needs. 8 ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers Electricity production Power Electricity trading Electricity exchange companies consumers Grid companies National grid Local grids Regional grids Electricity producers trading companies and so customers can choose Electricity can be produced for example as hydrowhich company to buy electricity from. electric power, nuclear power, wind power, bio power, coal power, gas power, wave power and National grid solar power. In Sweden, more than 80 percent of “The trunk of the electricity tree” – the lines that transelectricity production is hydroelectric and nuclear. port electricity from the major power stations to the regional grids. The national grid is owned and manaElectricity network companies ged by the state via Svenska kraftnät. The companies that own, manage and develop the national, regional and local grids and transports the Regional grids electricity from the production point to the customers. “The branches of the electricity tree” – the lines that Electricity networks are natural monopolies, as it is not hold the national grid and local grids together and possible to justify parallel grids from a socioeconomic ensure that electricity in Sweden is transported safely perspective. Customers are thus not able to choose and efficiently between producers and consumers. which network companies they use. For this reason, The regional grids are owned by electricity network network companies are regulated by the Swedish ­companies such as Ellevio. Energy Markets Inspectorate. Local grids Electricity sales companies “The leaves of the electricity tree” – the lines that distriThe companies that purchases electricity via the elecbute electricity at the very last stage to end customers, tricity market and sells it to the end-customers. In i.e. companies and households, etc. The local grids ­Sweden, there is free competition between electricity may be owned by either public or private players. ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers 9 1980s In the early 1970s, nuclear power was ­commissioned and has, along with hydropower, dominated electricity production in Sweden ever since. In the 1980s and 1990s, these power sources accounted for up to 96 percent of all electricity production. The production was large-scale. 2010s Sweden’s electricity production still consists largely of hydropower and nuclear power. However, the proportion has declined to 81 percent (2015) as renewable electricity production has expanded. Wind power and CHP are the primary new sources that have increased. Electricity has also started to be produced locally by what are known as prosumers. 2030s By 2030 at the latest, Sweden is to have a vehicle fleet that is independent of fossil fuels. This is a prioritised interim target that forms part of the vision to have a sustainable and resource-efficient energy supply by 2045, without net emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. The assessment of the 2030 secretariat is that this will be achieved by the equal impact of more fuel-efficient vehicles, the transition to renewable fuels and amended behaviour. 100 % 2040s renewable The Energy Commission has proposed that 100 percent of Swedish electricity production is to be renewable by 2040. In the future, production will also be both largescale and small-scale, and the electricity system will be able to handle electricity in both directions. 10 ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers We develop our grids and make them more flexible Driving forces in the electricity network to enable our electricity consumers who also want to market produce electricity, known as prosumers, to both Technological development has an impact on the receive and input electricity. The opportunity for electricity network market in many ways. Digitisation ­customers to be more flexible in how and when they and new IT solutions will create opportunities moving use their electricity will increase in the future, and we forward, including the conditions for storing and anacan enable and facilitate this by increasing our lysing metering data that can be used for product range of digital services and preparing for hourly development and new service for customers, but metering for all. also management of electricity networks that creates an efficient electricity system that secures supply. Revenue regulation Electricity networks are known as natural monopolies, Production – increasingly local and and electricity network companies are regulated renewable and monitored by the Swedish Energy Markets Electricity can be produced as hydroelectric power, Inspectorate (Ei), a government authority. The reason nuclear power, wind power, bio power, coal power, that electricity network companies have a monopoly gas power, wave power and solar power, for examin their geographical areas is that it is very expensive ple. In Sweden, hydro and nuclear power account to build and maintain such grids, and it would not be for more than 80 percent of electricity production. socioeconomically feasible to build parallel grids. A major increase in the proportion of renewable The regulation should ensure that the grids mainenergy sources is currently under way in the form of tain good quality and provide long-term security of solar and wind power. Electricity is also produced supply. It gives the network companies compensalocally to an increasing extent. In some cases, contion for reasonable costs linked to managing their sumers are also prosumers, since they connect sysbusiness and a reasonable yield on investments tems such as solar panels or small wind turbines to made. According to the Electricity Act, the prices that the grid, into which they can feed their surplus eleccustomers pay should be fair, objective and non-districity. Meanwhile, several of the major nuclear criminatory. The current revenue regulation applicapower owners have presented forthcoming investble to the period 2016–2019 provides an incentive ments in lifespan-lengthening measures for nuclear for investments in the electricity network – a positive power, for example independent core cooling, and necessary change compared to the past. which will mean several reactors could remain operThe Energy Markets Inspectorate’s proposal for ational until the 2040s. We can therefore expect to revenue regulation for the period 2020–2023, presee a large proportion of plannable electricity prosented in October 2017, contains proposals for a duction in parallel to the growing amount of weatherreduced and shorter-term reference interest rate. dependent production for a long time to come. A decision on the forthcoming revenue regulation The new production places new demands on the will be taken in late 2018. Ellevio monitors the decielectricity network, which needs to become more sion-making process and continue to advocate a flexible and able to function in both directions. On reasonable cost of capital based on the long-term specific days and at specific times, the grid needs to investment horizon in the industry, which is needed receive locally produced surplus electricity, while on to stimulate required investments. other days it needs to distribute supplementary electricity from power stations far away. Solar and wind are examples of weather-dependent energy sources that make it harder to plan production. Electricity ­networks must be able to manage an irregular inflow from these sources, with rapid fluctuations in electricity production. At certain times, more electricity will be produced than is used and, in these cases, the networks must “know” how much electricity can be distributed to other parts of the country or exported, as well as how much needs to be stored for use later in the day or week. ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers 11 An urbanised and digitised society Electrification of the transport industry – an The way we use electricity is also changing. Society eagerly awaited development is becoming increasingly urbanised, digitised, electriThe significance of electric vehicles in terms of envified and dependent on a secure electricity supply. ronment and health means electrification of the transThese days, electricity is essential for everything port industry is an urgent and prioritised issue for the from daily tasks at home and work, many leisure future. Today, transportation by road accounts for activities, contact with friends and family to life-saving almost 30 percent of Swedish carbon dioxide emispublic services. This digitised society is placing very sions. Luckily, the transport sector is in the process of high demands on reliability in every part of the counbeing rapidly electrified. Ellevio supports a Swedish try, and the electricity network must therefore be vision for one million electric cars by 2030, and modern, flexible and smart to meet these needs. there are many signs indicating there is a good Thanks to smart grids, the energy system and electricchance that this vision can be fulfilled. A necessary ity consumption can be managed in a more efficient prerequisite for electric cars is that there are places way, either by customers themselves or automatically. to charge them, and it is here that the electricity netSmart grids also make it possible to identify, isolate work plays an important role. and even rectify faults before there is an outage. The electrification has so far mainly reached pasRedundancy in the electricity network will also senger cars in cities, and in 2017 there were approxbecome more important, meaning the grid is increasimately 45,000 electric cars in Sweden. Electric ingly built using alternative connections. If a fault buses are being tested mainly in public transportaoccurs in one location in the grid, it must be possible tion, while the electrification of road transportation for the electricity to be reconnected and rerouted so and ports is still at an early stage. Electric vehicles that as few customers as possible are affected by an present both an opportunity and a challenge for the outage. grid – they will lead to increased load and a need The urbanisation trend is progressing. For examfor more capacity and load control in the long term, but ple, Stockholm is expected to have 2.6 million inhabat the same time offer an opportunity for storage that itants in 2030, compared to the 1.3 million inhabitcould balance electricity consumption in the future. ants it had at the beginning of the 1960s. This will The environmental effects linked to the vehicle impose new requirements on capacity and power in fleet no longer running on fossil fuels will be very cities. The electricity networks need to be extended ­significant. In addition to a massive reduction in and redeveloped to enable new residential areas, ­carbon dioxide emissions, emissions of many other kindergartens, schools, public transportation, offices harmful chemical combinations will also fall. Furtherand shops. Greater cooperation between the elecmore, less oil will need to be transported, which will tricity network and CHP production could become represent a major environmental gain in itself. one way to meet the cities’ power demands. To ensure these transitions function effectively, the sites where electricity is produced must first and foremost be connected to the electricity network and vehicle charging stations must be expanded. This will require investments. Demand for electricity and proportion of renewable electricity in Sweden TWh % 155 100 150 90 145 80 140 70 135 60 130 50 125 40 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 2030 2040 Demand for electricity in Sweden, Proportion of renewable electricity in Sweden, results and forecast, TWh results and forecast, % Source: Swedish Energy Agency and Svenska kraftnät, 2017 12 ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers Smart electricity meters are paving the way for the electricity system of the future. Ellevio is preparing to update every customer’s of the new, smart grid that can communicate with electricity meter to the second generation smart ­different parts of the energy ­system, analyse data meters – a major project that will commence during and act on information. The smart meters, which the second half of 2019 and continue until 2022 will be able to show 8,760 different measurement before all of the roughly 900,000 meters have values per year in contrast to today’s 12, will make it been replaced. easier to connect to new energy services and manThe current electricity meters are nearing the age individual energy production and consumption. end of their technical lifespan, just as network develOn average, 1,500 new meters will be installed opments begin to impose new requirements. The each working day between the beginning of 2020 next generation of meters represents one aspect and end of 2022. ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers 13 Within smart electricity networks, each part of the grid continuously communicates with all of the other parts Green electricity A more efficient electricity network will enable a greater share of renewable ­electricity. Outages Outages are detected immediately and important data about them enables us to resolve them more quickly. Variable Smart homes production Homes obtain greater control over their own electricity Better information conconsumption and can remotely and/or automatically cerning demand allows control electrical ­appliances in the home. supply to be varied, leading to a more effiLocal shortages/storage cient use of resources. Surplus electricity can be stored in the grid and used to resolve temporary capacity shortages. New functions Existing components in the electricity network, such Safety as power stations, As all of the components of the electricity netwill be made work ­communicate with each other, security “smart” by connecefforts can be managed more efficiently. ting them to the smart grid. Smart meters Producers, network companies and consumers can all measure electricity production and consumption more precisely in real time. Small-scale production The electricity customers of the future may be both consumers and producers of electricity at different times of the year, or even different times of the day. 14 ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers Smart grids – a giant leap into the future Cyber security – new opportunities, but new Major investments are currently being made around threats the globe to modernise electricity networks and turn Although smarter electricity networks enable us to them into smart grids, which will become the hub of supply electricity in a more secure way, we also a sustainable energy system. need to manage new threats. Smart components Naturally, technological developments have procan be attacked by individuals, organisations or gressed since the electricity networks were first built ­foreign powers who aim to damage electricity netin the 1960s and 1970s. At that time, many people works. Just like banks, teleoperators and other suppliers could not even imagine the technology that we are of critical functions, we at Ellevio work to maximise beginning to take for granted today. Thanks to smart the opportunities afforded by digitisation while minicomponents, sophisticated software and other digimising the risks for society, the electricity networks tised improvements, we are able to obtain very preand our customers. We invest in cyber security, build cise data relating to electricity consumption. Electricthe most robust systems possible and collaborate ity distribution can be managed in real time, which with authorities and players involved in electricity provides greater security of supply. ­networks. By preparing our organisation and using Ellevio was involved in the creation of the smart the latest technology, we are able to manage the grid in Norra Djurgårdsstaden in Stockholm and will cyber security issue – one of the most important soon begin extensive work on the installation of the aspects when it comes to a future-proofed electricity next generation of smart electricity meters among network. our customers. In order to explain how a smart grid works, we Need for investment affecting industry can draw a comparison with how a road works. A players traditional road is simply an asphalt-covered surface The Swedish market for electricity distribution is that connects two points. Imagine that the road con­fragmented, with over 160 companies that have a stantly detects how many cars, bicycles and buses natural monopoly in their respective grid areas. The are driving on it, where the vehicles are heading and amount of companies is unique from a European what speed they are driving at. Furthermore, every ­perspective. Many of the companies are small and traffic light, petrol station and emergency vehicle limited to individual municipalities or cities. We believe along the road has access to this data. For the individthat a major need for investment to maintain security ual motorist, this makes it easier to determine when it of supply and develop the electricity networks ahead is appropriate to go out and drive and which roads of future requirements and stricter efficiency enhanceare most appropriate at that moment. ment requirements will contribute to change. It is often In the case of the electricity networks of the future, beneficial to consolidate smaller parts into larger units, we will install information technology that gathers, and we believe that a consolidation of the electricity relays, stores and analyses information from thounetwork market may be about to pick up momentum. sands of measurement points. This makes it possible The contractor market must also be developed to to ensure the right amount of electricity is produced correspond to increased investment levels. Contracts and shared where it is needed, also in the future, and awarded by contractors will be more numerous, that electricity is used more efficiently. Another major comprehensive and project-based and will run over advantage of better data is that future decisions surlonger periods. The contractors also need to be prerounding the construction, maintenance, safety and pared for formalised tendering processes. Ellevio is use of electricity networks will be facilitated by having engaging in ongoing dialogue with Swedish and access to much higher quality information than today. international contractors in this respect and arranges As electricity networks become smarter, it will contractor meetings along with other activities. also become easier to rectify outages. In part, the The long permit-approval processes for developgrids will be able to solve problems on their own by ing electricity infrastructure poses a challenge – not reconfiguring how the current is transported, while it just for electricity network companies but also for will also become possible to obtain information electricity producers. There is thus a need for change about an outage immediately as well as see that an and simplification in this area. Obtaining approval to outage is about to happen before it does, thus build a new power line often takes longer than enabling preventive measures to be taken. obtaining approval to expand a wind farm, for example, and therefore risks impeding developments. ELLEVIO 2017 • Market and drivers 15 Value creation – from the little things to the big things. Ellevio’s operations are significant to society as a whole. A stable and reliable supply of electricity is a prerequisite of ensuring our customers to live their lives and manage their businesses. Ellevio’s model for sustainable value creation Assets and resources Core operations Own and borrowed capital INVEST Financial capital from Invests with 40-year horizons SEK 10 billion 2016–2019 in long-term pension funds Owners who want to invest responsibly and contribute to the green transition ­existing grids, growth through ­acquisitions resulting in economies of scale benefits Facilities Operation and maintenance Responsible relationships Components with suppliers IT services DEVELOP Service developers Innovation, automation, data ­ analysis, smart grids, new Politicians and authorities electricity ­services Local communities Trust shown by customers Electricity traders and society Societal functions Companies & households MANAGE Monitoring, maintenance and Knowledgeable and committed employees repairs when necessary Skills and values Strong values: Reliability, Commitment and Development CUSTOMER SERVICE Cables, lines and poles Electricity meters, moving/­ Fixed assets Switching centres & secondary substations connection, advice and support IT infrastructure 16 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Our operations enable us to create value for customjointly lay electricity networks and other infrastrucers. Without electricity, people’s everyday lives canture, such as fibre grids, district heating systems and not function. Traffic and other vital societal functions charging infrastructure, wherever possible. would cease. Industries and other companies would The electricity network of the future will require lose revenue and, in the long term, also competitiveinvestments in capacity and automation in order to ness and innovative capability. We view this great maintain security of supply and support societal responsibility with humility and a strong desire to developments. Sweden is unique in terms of the numkeep contributing to sustainable societal developber of electricity network companies it has – some ment. The confidence our customers have in our 160 today. Further consolidation of the electricity ­ability to supply their electricity needs now and in the network market will bring advantages by enabling future is the most important measure of our success. even more efficient investments in the grid. Over the long term, this will mean day-to-day operations can Economic value creation be managed using a more cost-effective structure. Grid investments and ongoing work on operational These synergies will also benefit customers. enhancements create secure and long-term value growth for investors, customers and employees. We Security of supply also contribute to society by way of the jobs we creNothing is more important to us than ensuring our ate with our contractors and, indirectly, among our customers have a secure supply of electricity that is customers. We must guarantee a secure supply of free from outages. Good accessibility to electricity is electricity in an electricity-dependent society, both in vital if society is to function, and accessibility will urban and rural areas. become increasingly important as new industries We work to develop more efficient processes become electrified. Although we currently offer an and maintenance procedures, as well as to increase almost outage-free supply, the electricity network is the level of digitisation, all with the aim of maintaining occasionally hit by disruptions from time to time. substantial value creation. Most disruptions are either due to planned works, We are committed to using every invested krona damage to cables or severe weather conditions. as efficiently as possible. For example, we work to Creates value Opportunity to make a sustainable For owners investment with a long-term horizon Secure and long-term value growth Secure supply of electricity in both urban and rural areas Stable electricity supply to vital societal functions For society Secure supply of electricity to an electricity-dependent society Jobs RELIABLE, Secure and outage-free electricity supply at affordable cost FLEXIBLE AND High level of service SMART GRIDS For customers New services as part of a smarter grid TODAY, TOMORROW Opportunity to produce your own electricity Fair tariffs between cities/rural areas AND IN 50 YEARS Satisfying jobs For employees Safe workplace Knowledgeable and committed employees Competent and responsible contractors Adaptation of the electricity network to the fossil-free For the ­transport system of the future environment Transition to 100% renewable electricity Biodiversity along power lanes ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 17 The availability of our networks is 99.98 percent. by ensuring we provide an electricity network that is This is a very good level internationally speaking, but sustainable and offers a secure supply in the long obviously we will not be satisfied as long as outages term. The removal of overhead lines also makes keep occurring. There are also major differences way for more agriculture and housing in the areas between different parts of our electricity network. where they are needed. For example, together with While hundreds of thousands of our customers Vattenfall and Svenska kraftnät, Ellevio runs the experience no outages, there is sadly a number of Stockholms Ström project, which involves overhead customers who experience several per year. With lines that distribute electricity to Stockholm and its the aim of improving the security of supply, we are environs being buried or placed in tunnels, thus leadweather-proofing the electricity network by replacing ing to land being made available for developing overhead lines with cables in the ground, and we society. are maintaining and building new stations to increase An important aspect of our responsibility for the our capacity. Since 2005, we have in total weatherlocal community is that we prioritise cities and rural proofed 10,000 km. areas equally. To make it easier for our customers to Planned electricity outages are sometimes neceslive and support themselves in rural areas, we have sary. When maintaining or expanding our grids, we been arguing for many years for price harmonisation are sometimes forced to shut off the power. Around that levels the cost of investments and leads to fairer 15 percent of our outages are planned and we contributions between densely and sparsely popualways ensure that we inform our customers as to lated areas. In autumn 2017, we got the green light when they will be taking place. from Ei to carry out this kind of price harmonisation, A further 10 percent of outages are due to damwhich meant that we were able to take the first step age to cables, for example during excavation works towards lowering prices for customers in the areas carried out by a company other than Ellevio. To with the highest prices in December 2017. reduce this type of outages, we offer free guidance For us, it is important to invite local stakeholders for everyone carrying out works close to our cables. when initiating new projects to ensure that the project The rest of the outages are due to storms, snowis linked to the local area and to minimise potentially fall and other severe weather. Sweden is a sparsely negative effects on the environment, the local busipopulated country, meaning we have many metres ness community and the residents who live near our of cable per customer. Outside the major cities electricity networks and facilities. In the case of where there are many overhead lines, the risk is major local projects, we inform customers by way of higher that outages will occur. open houses, meetings in the town square, letters and other forms of direct communication. The aim is Value creation in local communities for our customers, stakeholders and local communiFor us, sustainability initiatives are not merely a questies to feel well-informed about what we are doing tion of complying with laws and regulations; they are and how they are affected. In the event of planned also an opportunity to fulfil our societal mission in the outages and disruptions, we attempt as far as possibest way possible by serving as an active and comble to consider those who will be affected, sensitive mitted partner to the communities affected by our industries, supermarkets, care homes, etc. Reliability, operations, either in that we have electricity networks commitment and development are key words in the ­distributed across the community or that we supply dialogue with local communities and our customers. electricity there. We take responsibility for local communities in which our customers live and work Ellevio’s value creation connected to the UN’s global development goals Ellevio analysed the UN’s 17 global development goals in 2017. Thanks to our skills and core operations, Ellevio has the opportunity to make an active contribution to Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy” and Goal 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”. In addition to this, the company decided to actively focus on Goal 5 “Gender equality” to develop the company and industry as well as offer support outside out sphere – read about our sponsorship activities on pages 20–21, for example. 18 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Seven strategic focus areas. Ellevio is responsible for critical infrastructure that fulfils a fundamental function in society. Our operations involve a very wide range of responsibilities. Our vision is to contribute to a bright and sustainable future through our commitment and expertise. Ellevio’s overall strategy to achieve this vision and create value for our customers and investors is to guarantee a reliable electricity network, efficient operations, committed employees and continued growth. We have seven strategic focus areas that aim to create value for our customers and investors. 1. Sustainability 5. Improved reliability For Ellevio, sustainability means striking the right through efficient investments balance between financial, social and environInvestments to maintain a robust security of supply mental sustainability. and to further improve that aspect in certain areas is an important part of Ellevio’s operations. 2. Customer experience The core of the customer experience is a reliable 6. Operational efficiency electricity network and an attractive range of Our strategy for operational efficiency includes ­services. reducing the costs of repairing faults and maintenance through the extensive investments planned 3. Committed employees for the electricity network. Ellevio should be an organisation where everyone takes responsibility for their own development, as 7. Growth through acquisitions well as that of their team and the company. Our According to the strategy for growth through conduct is guided by our values of reliability, acquisitions, Ellevio will identify, evaluate and, ­commitment and development. when the opportunity arises, carry out acquisitions of electricity network businesses. 4. Regulation and industry development The electricity network market is regulated, and it is important to Ellevio to be involved in developing those regulations and to contribute knowledge, experience and opinions to issues that are important in terms of ensuring the electricity functions and develops as best it can. ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 19 Employees. Health, safety, well-being and equal opportunities of our employees and other people are vital issues for our business. Ellevio is to be a safe and attractive workplace and ­contractor. Commitments to others Employer Branding Ellevio’s business operates as a monopoly, which is a In order to attract new employers, we need to take profound responsibility for the entire organisation. It is steps to strengthen our brand as an employer. We important that we live up to the demands and expecachieve this by collaborating with universities and tations of our customers and other stakeholders, as offering summer jobs and opportunities for students we want to earn their trust. Our values reliability, to do their master thesis with us. We are also helping commitment and development – are to serve as guidspread knowledge about Ellevio and our industry ing principles for every employee and permeate through involvement in industry initiatives and an everything we do.The way we should conduct ouractive social media presence. Our goal is for Ellevio selves is described in our Code of Conduct. Varied to be seen as an attractive company and a preferred training courses and workplace meetings ensure that option for both present and future employees. the Code of Conduct is followed. Sponsorship activities with new approaches. At Ellevio, we need to broaden our underEllevio’s sponsorship policy standing of equality issues in order to achieve We base our policy on the areas that engage our goal of an equal workplace. This is why the target group in question, as well as on the we have chosen to collaborate with several results we want to achieve through the sponorganisations that work to ensure girls and sorship. We choose activities that offer the boys have the same opportunities and condimaximum benefit possible. tions from the very beginning. These organisaSponsorship always involves active collabotions adopt very different approaches, which ration between us and the sponsored party, we hope will lead to exciting and dynamic and it should be beneficial for both parties in results for our partnerships. terms of their respective objectives. By participating in the events of our business Written agreements should always form the partners and being seen in their channels, we basis of a collaboration, and clearly defined look forward to reaching our target groups in target groups and objectives should be estabnew contexts. The next step will be to bring our lished to allow results to be measured. sponsorship partners together via joint activities and help establish a dialogue between them. 20 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Satisfied employees year containing overall goals for the business. These Our strength lies in our collective ability to utilise goals are then broken down into targets for each every employees’ skills in the right way. All new business unit/team and individual. employees undergo training relating to this collective All managers at Ellevio meet at least once per ability in order to adopt the approach that permeyear at Management Days that have different ates the entire company – that we are better when themes each time. The theme for this year was workwe work together. load and health & safety. Each year, Ellevio undertakes an employee survey that assesses the level of engagement: the Equality and diversity Employee Engagement Index, which is based on Ellevio considers diversity among employees to be four questions relating to job satisfaction, pride, joban asset and works actively to increase diversity at seeking and recommendation. Each business unit the company, both in terms of skills, gender and ethreviews the results and produces action plans for nicity. We work to gradually achieve a more equal improvement areas. The results show a stable trend. gender distribution across the company. Ellevio’s The two other dimensions of the employee survey equality targets are to: are workload and equality. By repeatedly measur• Maintain an equal distribution between men and ing and follow up such aspects, we strive to achieve women in the management team (55 percent a better balance, a healthy working environment women today). and an equal workplace. Two important aspects in • Increase the number of female managers at the this context include better resource planning and company (22 percent today). strong leadership from managers who are to set a • Increase the total number of women at the good example. ­company (27 percent today). Managers at Ellevio When it comes to ethnicity, we want to reflect wider The task of a manager is to guide his or her employsociety. Currently, 13 percent of our employees ees in the way that most effectively develops and have a non-Swedish cultural background. You can uses their potential, both through dialogue and feedread more about our employees in the Sustainability back and prioritising areas to ensure each employee Report on pages 68–79. is able to perform well. In order to provide clear expectations at all levels of the company, a business plan is produced every Our sponsorship collaborations should be around the country. The aim of the project is to long-term in nature, with fewer but deeper provide an introduction to the world of music commitments. Our sponsorship activities and to create a safe place in which they can should be clearly and logically linked to develop their identity as a musician or artists. our operations. In the long term, Popkollo wants to establish an equal music industry and contribute to an Female Legends equal society. Female Legends presents itself as a community for girls who partake in e-sport, that is, compete Stockholm football association in computer games. Their aim is for girls and nonThe Stockholm football association (Stockbinary people to be an obvious part of e-sport holms fotbollförbund) organises football assoand for the professional scene to be equal. ciations within Stockholm County. Together with them, Ellevio launches the 50/50 fund as Popkollo part of the S:t Erik’s cup, whose aim is to give Since 2003, Popkollo has brought together girls the same conditions as boys to invest in thousands of girls and transgender people sports they love. interested in music at different locations ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 21 Health and safety. Ellevio constantly aims to ensure a high level of safety for our employees, all those who we contract to work for us and employees of our suppliers. Our vision is to achieve an ­accident-free and safe workplace. To do this, we need to improve the safety culture and us. Ellevio lays the foundations for a safe workplace increase safety awareness among employees and externally among its contractors. The contractors we our business partners so that all work can be conengage must not only be experts in their fields, but ducted in a safe manner. The safety of those who they must also be trained in health and safety procework for us is our top priority, and greater efforts were dures and knowledgeable about safe working made during 2017 to enhance safety by way of the ­environments. From 2018, these requirements will be “Safe workplace” programme – the route to our intensified further. Contractors will need to have vision of zero accidents. The programme will extend ­sustainability plans for their whole agreement with over many years and aims to further improve proEllevio. cesses and working methods, as well as change Ellevio invests substantial resources in preventing behaviours and thereby make us even more proactive accidents through training and follow-up work. Safety in our efforts. This work can never be seen as finished; procedures among contractors are reviewed on-site rather it is a continuous effort. out in the field, with any shortcomings being reported The safety culture needs to be improved across and remedied immediately. In 2017, 313 unanthe industry as a whole to create accident-free and nounced visits were made to check compliance with safe workplaces for everyone – regardless of the Ellevio’s requirements governing safety, environment contractor. A chain is only as strong as its weakest and quality. These visits are an important tool in terms link, which is why Ellevio is working to create a safer of identifying potential areas of improvement. Our industry through collaborations with suppliers and presence out in the workplaces is important and industrial organisations. enables a continuous dialogue. It also clarifies that It is in the field, in the work with the electricity netthe requirements are important building blocks for work that accidents mainly occur. This work is conenhancing the safety culture and form part of our ducted by our business partners, and Ellevio looks to zero-accident vision. collaborate closely with the business partners in order You can read more about Ellevio’s health and safety to bring about change, although the work starts with efforts in the Sustainability Report on pages 68–79. 22 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Safe workplace. Our aim is to create an accident-free and safe workplace for everyone by reinforcing safe behaviors and safe working conditions. We will improve safety culture throughout Ellevio and for all those working on behalf of Ellevio. We work safely • We are open and honest in all occupational health and safety issues or not at all • We help each other to always work safely • We always reinforce safe behaviors and prevent risks • We always stop unsafe work Collective • We create a positive safety climate through continuous dialogue, communication and cooperation between all ­organizational ­understanding ­levels in the company and our contractors • Ambitions, priorities and targets for our safety performance should be the same at company level as at the individual level Commitment • Ellevio is characterized by a culture where everyone’s commitmentand consideration for each other creates an accident-free and consideration workplace • We take responsibility for our own and others’ safety with the common goal that everyone will get home safely everyday Leadership • Our leaders are fully committed to safety and have a continuous focus on work environment and safety issues • All leaders within Ellevio are fully responsible for the work ­environment and safety performance Own • I take personal responsibility for safety in my work, comply with safety precautions and determined working methods. This is responsibility achieved through clear descriptions of roles, responsibilities and expected results Nine areas assessed during site visits 1. Planning and organisation 2. Training and skills 3. Monitoring and intervention 4. Conduct and working methods 5. Safety relating to tools and equipment 6. Orderliness and waste management 7. Quality of work and caution 8. Safety issues and shortcomings 9. Reporting ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 23 24 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY Responsible purchasing. Ellevio has a centralised purchasing function responsible for all procurement of services, materials and contracts. Purchases mainly fall into five categories: contracEllevio’s suppliers must also confirm their compliance tors, IT, consultants, strategic materials and indirect with the Code and be able to show documentation materials and services. In 2017, Ellevio purchased of such compliance. To follow up on compliance of products and services for some SEK 3.4 billion, of the requirements established during the purchasing which 75 percent were contract services and materiprocess, Ellevio employs two types of checks: firstly, als for investments in our electricity network. unannounced visits to the site of the projects, and In its risk assessment, Ellevio has identified contractor secondly extensive and planned audits focusing on operations to be the greatest risk in terms of working environment, health & safety and the Code of Conenvironment issues, which is why we have placed major duct. In 2017, 313 unannounced site visits were carfocus on this area, partly via the Safe workplace proried out, along with 10 planned audits. A number of gramme that can be seen in more detail under Health deviations were identified and those of major signifiand Safety, and partly in the purchasing process. cance were remedied. To qualify as a contractor or major material supEllevio developed an evaluation tool for new conplier, we apply extensive sustainability requirements tractors in 2017, whereby we systematised and furthat we specify in a special Code of Conduct for ther developed the evaluation process of our sustain­suppliers available on Ellevio’s website. The Code ability requirements. We will extend this process in is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles 2018 by introducing a self-assessment tool that conand contains clear requirements relating to human tractors complete during the procurement and whose rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corrupanswers will form the basis of ongoing follow-up tion. The aim of the Code of Conduct for suppliers work. We will also continue in 2018 to develop sysis to minimise risks and protect Ellevio’s stakeholders. tems and working methods to manage risks throughThe Code of Conduct applies to all of Ellevio’s out the supplier chain. The focus here will continue to operations in every part of the world, as well as all be on suppliers who we assess to be strategically suppliers of services, materials and contracts. All important as well as on major investment projects. ­suppliers are obliged to implement the requirements You can read more about Ellevio’s work surroundthroughout their operations and ensure that their subing responsible purchasing in the Sustainability contractors adhere to the requirements in Ellevio’s Report on pages 68–79. Code of Conduct for suppliers. Managing sustainability from project start-up to implementation Completed project Ellevio conducts Ellevio sets Suppliers ­conduct Ellevio follows Ellevio sustainability ­sustainability ­sustainability up compliance carries out analysis of the requirements for/ plans in planned ­unannounced investment reviews suppliers audits site visits ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 25 Environment. Ellevio’s environmental initiatives support society’s efforts to become more sustainable. Environmental sustainability has two main dimensions for us. We should consume as few resources as possible. At the same time, we are an important player in the ­transition to a sustainable energy system. We should enable renewable electricity production, Significant environmental aspects locally produced electricity, more efficient use of As part of its environment initiatives, Ellevio has identielectricity and, over the long-term, new applications fied significant environment aspects in its operations; for electricity. An important future issue is the developmanagement of sensitive natural environments (biodiment of electricity storage methods for standardising versity), use of materials in power line poles that conthe distribution quality between periods of varying tain creosote, oil leakages from cables and capaciloads in the electricity networks. tators and energy losses from the network. We need to adhere to national and international Ellevio’s overall environmental goals are – apart regulations ahead of the global energy transition. from the transition to a sustainable energy system – Development of the electricity networks is a key issue to reduce the impact on the climate and natural in terms of being able to entirely use renewable resources and contribute to strong biodiversity. energy sources that will account for a constantly This is achieved by: growing share of Sweden’s energy production. • Establishing environmental requirements for purchases, taking account of environmental aspects We take responsibility for our environmental in the company’s business and operational activiimpact ties (in terms of the greenhouse gases SF6 and Ellevio works continuously to keep its environmental CO2, oil and energy losses, for example) and impact as limited as possible. An environmental manpromoting solutions that contribute to a reduced agement system has been implemented and certienvironmental impact. fied in line with ISO 14001:15. • Promoting the application of a lifecycle ­perspective in all of our activities. 26 ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY • Avoiding materials and substances that can be results of this work will lead to a growing database harmful to humans, animals and the environment as that could be useful for authorities and researchers far as possible. Applying the precautionary princiwho work in various ways to protect the environment ple in connection with investments and p­ urchasing. and varied species, as well as learn more about • Employing the principles of the waste hierarchy them. to minimise waste. Our biodiversity initiatives are one example of • Providing information about and raising how we work to promote a positive environmental ­awareness of how the company’s operations impact wherever our operations permit. can affect the environment. • Adopting a sustainability perspective when The transition to a sustainable energy society selecting venues for meetings and modes of Sweden already produces electricity almost without transport for travel. the use of carbon dioxide, and the share of renewEllevio uses wooden poles in its electricity networks, able electricity production is rising steadily. Our elecand these contain creosote as a preservative. Creotricity needs will increase in the future as the populasote is extracted from coal tar that is produced as a tion expands and we use electricity for more purwaste product when coking coals, and it contains subposes. To ensure we will be in a position to have stances such as phenols. The use of creosote is regueven greener electricity in the future, greater produclated by an EU directive and by the Swedish Chemition of renewable electricity will be required, which cals Agency. The use of creosote is currently permitwill entail modernisation of the electricity network. ted until 2023. Ellevio has drawn up a plan to phase About 98 percent of the electricity we transport out the use of creosote poles, partly by replacing via our grids at Ellevio is produced almost entirely overhead lines with underground cables and partly without carbon dioxide emissions. This mix of elecby assessing alternative solutions. tricity is unique from both a global and climate perWith regard to oil leakages from cables and spective, but it does not mean that we do not have capacitators, particularly in terms of oils containing any urgent areas for improvement. Carbon dioxidePCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls), Ellevio has a spefree electricity is a positive thing, but renewable eleccial policy to avoid leakages. There are 35 km of tricity is even better. In the future, the level of renew­oil-filled electricity cables under Stockholm, which able electricity will need to rise in order for Sweden are continuously monitored for any leakage. Furtherto achieve its ambitious politically-grounded environmore, a project is under way to gradually replace mental and climate ambitions. all of these lines by 2020. If the electricity we use today were produced in a renewable manner, in exactly the same locations Biodiversity and in the same quantities as before, it would not So-called power line corridors are created wherever place any greater requirements on the electricity netour power lines traverse forested areas. These corriworks. In the future, however, small-scale production dors play an important role in protecting our biodiis expected to increase dramatically. There is great versity. In a natural area of forest unaffected by interest among the Swedish population in producing human activity, trees blow over and forest fires ensure their own electricity, and technological progress in that large areas become deforested at regular interareas such as solar panels has made it possible for vals. Many species need such areas to live and thrive, more people to produce electricity at a reasonable and therefore such areas also need to be created in cost for their own use or for sale. areas of forest used by humans. As Ellevio keeps its Ellevio is investing about SEK 10 billion during ­corridors clear, environments are created that help the period 2016–2019 to make the electricity net­promote biodiversity. During 2017, Ellevio began to works of the future a reality. record the positive environmental impact supplied by You can read more about Ellevio’s environmental our power corridors in order to identify areas worth initiatives in the Sustainability Report on pages 68–79. protecting and establish management plans. The ELLEVIO 2017 • VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY 27 Investments and ­financing for the future. Ellevio’s major investments in the electricity networks of the future require a stable and ­long-term supply of financing. Investments Smaller-scale production of renewable electricity will Investments are needed to maintain an electricity netincrease dramatically in years to come, and will vary work of the same quality as today. The need for from biofuel-driven CHP plants that supply communiinvestment is coinciding with a period of rapid techties and factories with electricity to wind farms that nological development and a societal transition to supply a number of houses or solar panels that prorenewable electricity that entails major opportunities duce electricity during the day for one household. for synergies. In other words, as the electricity netTechnological progress in areas such as solar panels work industry enters its most intense investment phase has made it possible for more people to product elecsince the 1960s and 1970s, electricity networks tricity at a reasonable cost for their own use or for sale. need to be built to meet the needs and requirements To ensure this works effectively, the sites where with which society will be faced in 40–50 years, thus electricity is produced must first and foremost be conensuring a future-proofed and world-class Swedish nected to the electricity network, which will require electricity network. Political incentives are extremely investment in itself. In addition, the electricity network important as investments that fail to materialise risk will need to be adapted to offer more variable prohampering the energy transition. duction. If the wind is not blowing or the sun is not shining, neither wind farms nor solar panels will deliver Drivers behind the need for investment electricity, and in this case the electricity network will Sweden is at the forefront of the EU’s energy transineed to be able to remedy potential local shortages tion activities, in part because our natural resources of electricity. Conversely, at certain times, more elecalready provide us with a large share of renewable tricity will be produced than is used and, in these electricity production, but also because of an efficases, electricity networks must determine how much cient market system prompting timely political decielectricity can be distributed to other parts of the counsions. In 2015, the Government appointed the try or exported, as well as how much needs to be Energy Commission to draft a supporting document stored for use later in the day or week. for the long-term direction of Swedish energy policy, with a focus on 2025 and beyond. This work further Major investment programme for the develops the national objectives for the transition of electricity network of the future the energy system adopted by the Riksdag (Swedish In autumn 2015, we launched the biggest investment Parliament) in 2009. The Energy Commission submitprogramme in the history of our company. Ellevio will ted its Mobilising for the future of energy report in be investing almost SEK 10 billion between 2016 and ­January 2017. This contains a number of require2019 to modernise and strengthen the electricity netments relating to the Swedish mix of electricity in the work, thereby laying the foundations for the electricity future. By 2040, our electricity production should be network of the future. These improvements involve entirely renewable, and Sweden should also be a continuing to weather-proof rural areas – a task that net exporter of electricity in the future. we embarked on after Storm Gudrun twelve years 28 ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing ago and which is now being deployed at a signifiOur investments are distributed across all areas: cantly faster pace. It is also a question of increasing SEK 1.6 billion in Dalarna-Södra Norrland, around capacity in the growing city of Stockholm. ImproveSEK 2 billion in Västra Svealand-Västergötaland, ments that enable more renewable electricity to be SEK 1.3 billion on the west coast and SEK 5 billion used is another important investment area. Our goal in Stockholm. is for our customers to receive an uninterrupted supThe improvements will not only result in weatherply of electricity – now and in the future, and that the proofing, regeneration and increased capacity, but electricity network should support developments in will also contribute to lowering operating and mainsociety. Investing in a reliable electricity network is tenance costs over the long term. In addition, when one of our most important tasks. we replace overhead lines with underground cables, we make land available that can be used for new housing or parks, for example. Investment cycles in the Swedish electricity network SEK billion 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 0 19 6 1 19 2 1 19 8 2 19 4 3 19 0 3 19 6 4 19 2 4 19 8 5 19 4 6 19 0 6 19 6 7 19 2 7 19 8 19 8 19 4 9 19 0 9 20 6 0 20 2 0 20 8 1 20 4 2 20 0 2 20 6 3 20 2 3 20 8 4 20 4 5 20 0 56 The need for investment in the electricity network is cyclical in nature. At the current time the entire industry is in a period of heavy investment. Source: IVA, Vägval El, 2016 Ellevio is investing SEK 10 billion in the electricity network between 2016–2019 Revenue model stimulates Investments ­investments Security of supply Capacity to invest and pay Operational capacity interest expenses Operating costs Customer experience Profitability ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing 29 Dalarna Ellevio is currently • Around 34,000 customers Investments making its largest • In Älvdalen, SEK 45 million is being invested in eight ­different projects. The electricity network is being weainvestment in its electher-proofed by burying 150 km of cables underground. In addition, fibre is being jointly laid in several location tricity networks ever. during these works. • The regional grids in Dalarna are being upgraded. For Until 2019, the around SEK 70 million, 90 km of lines are being weatherproofed and the capacity of the electricity network is ­company will invest being expanded. This work began in autumn 2017 and will ­continue for three years. nearly SEK 10 billion in modernising the grids. Värmland • Around 105,000 customers Investments • Around 1,000 km of lines are being weather-proofed as part of the “Värmland package”. Some 11,000 households and companies will have a modern electricity network thanks to this investment, which will cost some SEK 270 million between 2018 and 2021. In addition, major areas of land will be cleared for forestry, for example. • In Grums, three new secondary substations are being built using the very latest technology. SEK 35 million is being invested in building substations with systems that are ­currently only available in a small number of locations across the country. The substations will also be easier to develop in the future as they are being constructed as modular houses. • The switching centre in Kil, which is a hub of the electricity network in Värmland, is being totally renovated and modernised – an investment of over SEK 100 million. West coast (Halland, Bohuslän) • Around 125,000 customers Investments • South of Gothenburg in Askim, Billdal and Hovås, the electricity network is being modernised by replacing 100 km of lines. Almost the entire length will be buried underground, thus leading to fewer power outages in the future. 9,000 customers will be affected by these investments, which will cost around SEK 100 million. • A major project is being planned in Gothenburg’s southern archipelago at Vrångö, Donsö, Styrsö, Brännö and a number of smaller islands. Around 100 km on land and in the sea will be replaced and weather-proofed. In total, approximately 3,200 households will then have a modern electricity network. • At the Onsala peninsula outside Kungsbacka, 15,000 customers will have a new and modern electricity network when Ellevio buries some 200 km of lines underground. • On the island of Orust, Ellevio is rebuilding the electricity network for 1,300 customers. 80 km of lines will be buried and made weather-proof against weather and wind. 30 ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing Skaraborg-Närke • Around 27,000 customers Investments • 2,800 households in Skövde, Mariestad and Karlsborg will have a more secure supply of electricity once the ­Skaraborg package is complete. Investments here amount to SEK 130 million, and 200 km of cables are being buried. • Major substations are being rebuilt in Svartå, Hova, Käckestad, Hjälstad and Kullåsen. Gävleborg (Hälsingland, Gästrikland) • Around 69,000 customers Investments • We are rebuilding the electricity network for some 6,500 customers as part of three major projects: Arbrå and the northern and western parts of Hudiksvall municipality. This involves some 600 km of lines being buried underground in order to provide customers with a weather-proofed electricity network. 315 secondary substations are also being replaced. In total, Ellevio is investing some SEK 230 million in the project. • Outside Ljusdal, where Högkölen’s wind farm is in the process of being extended, Ellevio will be responsible for connecting the farm to the grid. Once this work is complete, it will be possible for 244 GWh of wind power to supply almost 50,000 households with renewable electricity. • 70 km cables are being buried and 36 new measurement stations are being set up in Rengsjö. The project has a cost of SEK 20 million and will give residents an electricity network better able to withstand storms. Stockholm (City of Stockholm, Ekerö, Lidingö, Täby, Nynäshamn) • Around 579,000 customers Investments • Together with Vattenfall and Svenska kraftnät, Ellevio is managing the “Stockholms Ström” project which, when complete, will supply the capital with a future-proofed electricity network with a greater capacity. • In total, SEK 5 billion will be invested in Stockholm’s electricity network between 2016–2019. Each year, around 1,000 different investment projects of varying sizes are ­initiated in Stockholm. • During the winter of 2018, a major project will be launched in which Stora Essingen’s electricity network will be rebuilt and upgraded. • Many key hubs of Stockholm’s electricity network are being rebuilt, including Örby, Ulvsunda, Västberga, Read more about Ellevio’s planned, ­Högdalen, Bredäng and Sätra. ongoing and newly completed projects at ellevio.se/en/english/our-projects/ ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing 31 Financing Folksam is one of Sweden’s largest insurance and The electricity network we are currently building is pensions companies, with a major investment busidesigned to function in the long term, which entails ness and total managed capital of around SEK 400 major demands in terms of longevity from both ourbillion. selves and our owners. At the same time, our operaThe First National Pension Fund aims to invest in tions are regulated, and these regulatory periods a way that ensures the greatest benefit for the penspan a period of four years at a time. sion system. The fund is to strive for a high long-term return while ensuring the risk to current and future Our owners pensions remains low. The investments are being Our operations are stable and predictable and have made across the globe. Total managed capital a long-term investment horizon. At the same time, a amounts to approximately SEK 323 billion. shareholding in electricity network companies OMERS Infrastructure represents a branch of the requires extensive access to capital and long-term Canadian pension fund OMERS, which manages responsibility for critical infrastructure. pensions for the province of Ontario’s 470,000 Our owners – the Third National Pension Fund, active, previous and retired public-sector employees. Folksam, the First National Pension Fund and Total managed capital amounts to CAD 85 billion. OMERS Infrastructure, have a long-term perspective that is clearly aligned with the long-term investment Our model horizon required in the electricity network business. Ellevio’s owners have created a model whereby We are facing a major need for investment and our pension savings can be channelled into investments new owners are therefore enabling the investments in the transition to a sustainable energy system. necessary for us to continue offering our customers a Those who are currently in work can save into penreliable electricity network. sion funds that offer both financial security after penThe Third National Pension Fund is one of five sion age and enable investments in a sustainable national pension funds tasked with helping safeenergy system for future generations. guard the value of the Swedish state pension for This is structured so that the pensions funds which both current and future pensioners. The task of this manage the pension capital place long-term capital fund is to responsibly invest in and manage the penat Ellevio’s disposal, which we in turn invest in the sion system’s buffer capital. Total managed capital electricity networks of the future. In return, we offer amounts to approximately SEK 340 billion. the pension funds a long-term and stable return. Ellevio channels long-term pension savings into investments in the transition towards a sustainable energy system Long-term capital Long-term savings Responsible ownership Pension Pension savers funds Secure Stable, long-term pensions return 32 ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing As both Ellevio and the pension funds work based During the year we paid SEK 1.3 billion (1.1) in on a long-term horizon, the pension funds can be returns to the shareholders in Ellevio Holding 1 AB. considered appropriate and responsible owners. The fact that the loans are subordinate means their It is difficult to quantify the societal benefit of the interest is only paid once amortisations and interest investments Ellevio makes in the electricity network. on other loans have been paid, and thus entail a The electricity networks of the future will be a pre­ higher risk. requisite of our ability to electrify the transport industry, make the transition to 100 percent renewable Our financing and interest rates do not affect electricity and ensure a secure supply of electricity the prices paid by customers to the whole country. A large number of jobs will Electricity network companies operate as monopoalso be created, both directly at our company and lies, which are subject to state supervision and reguindirectly among the many contractors we engage. lation by the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). The business’s revenue is decided by the Energy Our loan structure Markets Inspectorate and the regulation should Our loans consist of secured loans (whereby the ensure that the grids are of good quality and provide company’s assets are collateral) and subordinated long-term security of supply. loans issued to holding companies in the Group and Electricity network companies receive compenthen lent to Ellevio AB. The subordinated loans comsation for reasonable costs linked to running the prise loans from external lenders and shareholder operations and a reasonable return on investments in loans from our owners. The average financing interthe development of the electricity networks. The est rate for Ellevio’s external loan financing, including allowed revenues, that is, how much we are paid by interest hedging derivates, amounted to around 3.5 our customers, is determined by regulations that are percent at year-end 2017, and the average remainidentical for all Swedish electricity network compaing term was around 8.5 years. nies. Allowed revenue is not affected by the owner Shareholder loans that have a term of 25 years of the operations (municipality, private or other) or and are subordinate to other loans have an interest how the operations are financed; no electricity netrate of 8.5 percent. This corresponds to around 6 work company can charge its customers more than percent of total shareholder capital, which consists the revenue regulation allows. This means that neiof shareholder loans and share capital. No dividend ther financing nor interest rates have any impact on has been paid to shareholders, with all return instead the prices paid by customers. being taken out as interest on the shareholder loans. Society • Secure supply of electricity in both urban and rural areas • Stable electricity supply to vital societal functions • Integrated European electricity market Reliable, flexible and • Secure supply of electricity to an smart electricity networks electricity-­dependent society today, tomorrow and in 50 years Employees • Jobs • Safe workplace • Knowledgeable and committed ­employees • Competent and responsible contractors Trust Environment • Adaptation of the electricity network to the fossil-free transport system of the future • Transition to 100% renewable electricity • Biodiversity along power lanes E llevio is given licence to run and manage electricity networks Customers from society • Secure and outage-free electricity supply • High level of service  evenue framework is R • New services as part of a smarter grid deter­mined by laws and • Opportunity to produce your own regulations ­electricity • Fair tariffs between cities/rural areas ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing 33 Revenue electricity from the production site to our electricity The allowed revenues resolved by Ei comprise four network, such as the national grid owner Svenska different components: compensation for capital kraftnät, and costs for purchasing electricity that is costs, controllable costs, non-controllable costs and lost in transmission (“grid losses”). Non-controllable finally a quality incentive. costs also include public authority fees that electricity network companies are required to charge customers. Compensation for capital costs is compensation for the actual electricity network assets, including sysControllable costs are costs that we can influence: tems for operating the electricity network and meathe costs of maintenance, customer service, grid suring the electricity consumption, and investments monitoring, etc. These costs are subject to efficiency made in these systems. The compensation is based requirements: we are required to incrementally on each company’s electricity network assets (a regimprove efficiency each year. If we are less efficient ulatory calculation that is the same for all grid comthan the industry average, we are penalised by a panies) and an interest rate, the cost of capital reduction in permitted revenue. (weighted average cost of capital, WACC) that is The quality incentive is based on power outages meant to cover interest on loans, taxes and returns. that last between three minutes and twelve hours. The cost of capital for the regulatory period 2016– Depending upon the reliability of our electricity net2019 is 5.85 percent. work, our permitted revenue may be increased or Non-controllable costs are costs that we cannot decreased. Compensation for power outages that influence and which instead pass “straight through” last for more than twelve hours falls outside the reveour operations. This refers mainly to costs for “neighnue regulation; electricity network companies pay bouring grids”, which are the grids that transmit the this compensation directly to their customers. The customer’s electricity bill comprises The grid component consists in turn of three components several parts Electricity network – the cost of having the electriThe grid component on the customer’s electricity city transmitted from the production source, such as bill is distributed as follows: a hydropower plant, wind farm or nuclear power Compensation for capital costs, 50% plant, through power lines, cables, substations, Non-controllable costs, 30% ­network stations to the home or workplace. Controllable costs, 19% Electricity – the cost of the actual electricity that the Quality incentive, 1% customer consumes, which the electricity supplier purchases via the electricity market and sells to the customer. Taxes and fees – about 40 percent of the electricity bill comprises government taxes and fees to ­authorities. 1% 19% Electricity Taxes and network fees 50% 30% Electricity Major information campaign In January 2018, responsibility for energy taxes was transferred from electricity traders to electricity ­network companies. The transfer of energy taxes of SEK 0.325/kWh excluding VAT for 2017 poses a challenge in terms of communication in order to avoid misunderstandings about an increase in electricity network costs. Ellevio is rolling out a major information campaign to offer customers clarity about what this change involves. 34 ELLEVIO 2017 • Investments and financing The Board and the CEO of Ellevio AB (publ) hereby Annual Report 2017. present their annual report for the 2017 financial year. This document is a translation of the original, published in Swedish. In case of any discrepancies between the Swedish and English versions, or in any other context, the Swedish original shall have precedence. Contents. Directors’ Report 37 Note 18 Intangible assets 56 Financial overview and definitions 40 Note 19 Tangible fixed assets 57 Financial statements 41 Note 20 Investments in associates 57 Income statement 41 Note 21 Trade receivables 58 Balance sheet 42 Note 22 Receivables from Group companies 58 Statement of changes in equity 44 Note 23 Other receivables 58 Cash flow statement 45 Note 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 58 Accounting policies and notes 46 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents 58 Note 1 General information about the company 46 Note 26 Untaxed reserves 58 Note 2 Significant accounting policies 46 Note 27 Non-current liabilities 58 Note 3 Significant estimates and judgements 49 Note 28 Liabilities to Group companies 58 Note 4 Financial risk management and 49 Note 29 Other current liabilities 58 financial instruments Note 30 Accrued expenses and deferred income 58 Note 5 Segment reporting 51 Note 31 Reconciliation of liabilities from financing 59 Note 6 Group internal purchases and sales 51 activities Note 7 Net sales by regulated entity 52 Note 32 Merger 59 Note 8 Other operating income 52 Note 33 Pledged assets 59 Note 9 Remuneration to auditors 52 Note 34 Related-party transactions 59 Note 10 Leases 52 Note 35 Group structure 59 Note 11 Employees and employee benefits 53 Note 36 Proposed allocation of retained earnings 59 Note 12 Pensions 54 Note 37 Significant events after the end of the period 59 Note 13 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 55 CEO’s and Board of Directors’ approval 60 of intangible assets and property, plant Auditor’s Report 61 and equipment Corporate Governance Report 63 Note 14 Interest income and similar items 55 Auditor’s statement on the 65 Note 15 Interest expense and similar items 55 Corporate Governance Report Note 16 Appropriations 55 Board of Directors and Management Team 66 Note 17 Tax 55 Directors’ Report. Business operations views of the Ei and the industry differ. The most important of these is the cost of Ellevio AB (publ) is one of Sweden’s largest distribution network operators. capital, where the industry argues that it should be based on a long-term view to Ellevio invest in, develop and maintain the company’s power grids in order to reflect the long-term nature of network investments (over 40 years). Inadequate ensure a reliable electricity supply to the 939,000 customers, 24 hours a day, capital compensation can counteract the important objectives of the new regueach day of the year. By investing in a long-term sustainable power grid Ellevio lation, i.e. to secure the renewal of the electricity networks. Unless investments works to improve the quality of life for its customers as well as to enable the are made on time, there is a risk of the security of supply suffering and of the ongoing energy transformation and the continued digitization of the society. electricity networks slowing the transformation of the energy system. ConseThe company conducts electricity distribution operations in concession areas on quently, Ellevio and a majority of the network industry appealed Ei’s decision on the West Coast, in Värmland, Skaraborg, Dalarna, Gävleborg and the Stocka capital cost in 2015. In December 2016, the Administrative Court decided holm region. on a capital cost of 5.85 percent. Ei appealed the decision to the Administrative Electricity distribution is essential to modern society and an uninterrupted Court of Appeal. In November 2017 it was announced that Ei would not electricity supply is becoming ever more important. Large parts of the Swedish receive leave of appeal. Ei did not appeal the decision. That means that the verelectricity distribution network were built during the 1960s and 70s and are thus dict from the Administrative Court in December 2016 on a cost of capital of becoming outdated and due for replacement. This means that the entire distribu5.85 percent is final for the regulatory period of 2016 to 2019. tion sector enters a period of large investments. For Ellevio, this meant launching An important issue that Ellevio has been pursuing for years is the possibility a major investment programme in 2015 totalling nearly SEK 10 billion between of harmonising prices between its network areas. Network prices currently differ 2016 and 2019 to renew the network, increase capacity and weatherproof substantially between rural and urban areas. Customer prices are much higher the networks. During 2017 the investments has amounted to about SEK 2.4 in rural areas with fewer customers to share the costs of the networks, and the ­billion, compared to SEK 2.1 billion in 2016. price difference will only increase as urbanisation continues. Ellevio wants to The efforts are aimed at maintaining the high security of supply of 99.98 perremove this difference. However, the legal framework in this area has not been cent that Ellevio’s customers have today, but also at preparing the networks for entirely clear. In October 2017, Ei announced that Ellevio could proceed with the future. A higher share of renewable electricity from largeand small-scale the price harmonisation. Ellevio could therefore initiate price decrease for customers solar and wind power facilities, the continued digitisation of society, the electrifiin Värmland, Skaraborg and Närke with 5 per cent as from December 1, 2017. cation of the transport network, and new services enabling users to control their electricity consumption impose new requirements on a smarter electricity Financial results ­network – one that is reliable yet also more automated and flexible. In 2017 net sales amounted to SEK 6,894 million (6,537). The increase in net Ellevio has the ambition to increase its market share both through organic sales was mainly due to the acquisition and merger of Nynäshamn Energi and investments and acquisitions. On May 19, 2017 the Ellevio Group announced a price increase in the Stockholm area in June. The volume of local and regional a recommended public bid to the shareholders of Elverket Vallentuna AB (publ). network transmissions during 2017 totalled 14.3 TWh (14.2) and 12.8 TWh The offer was closed on October 23 when 92.5 percent of the shares had (12.9), respectively. been acquired by Ellevio Holding 1 AB and the process of automatic redempEBITDA totalled SEK 4,207 million (3,946) and operating profit totalled tion of the outstanding share could be initiated. Ellevio Holding 1 AB owned SEK 2,161 million (1,929). 94.8 percent of the shares per 31 December 2017. Elverket Vallentuna, which Interest expense and similar items were SEK –2,912 million (–3,299), of is a well-managed and responsible company, is an attractive complement to which SEK –1,656 million (–1,652) were related to Group internal interest Ellevio’s operations given its size and proximity to Ellevio’s other network areas expenses and SEK –1,256 million (–1,647) external interest expenses. The in Stockholm. The distribution operations of Elverket Vallentuna will be inteexternal interest expenses include changes in the fair value of financial instrugrated into Ellevio AB (publ) during 2018. ments of SEK 127 million (–481) as well as SEK –154 million (–289) in transacYou could find information about Ellevio’s sustainability management and tion costs mainly related to the original acquisition financing. Excluding the items value creation on pages 16–27 in the Annual Report and in the Sustainability above the external interest expenses have increased with SEK 353 million comreport on pages 68–79. pared to 2016 due to the extended debt maturity profile and interest rate duration from re-financing activities conducted in late 2016 and early 2017. Loss Other significant circumstances after financial items amounted to SEK –750 million (–1,369). Electricity distribution is a natural monopoly and as such a regulated business. Profit for the year was SEK 288 million (–239). This means that Ellevio operates under a regulatory framework, and is supervised by a government agency, the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). Financial position and cash flow Ei decides how much distribution network operators like Ellevio are allowed to In 2017, cash flow from operating activities increased by SEK 654 million to charge its customers. These limits are known as the allowed revenue and the SEK 4,117 million (3,463), mainly due to SEK 261 million higher EBITDA, ­levels are determined in advance for four years at a time. The allowed revenue SEK 165 million lower income taxes paid and SEK 210 million higher contribushould cover reasonable costs for running the business and a fair return to the tion from changes in working capital. The cash flow from operations in 2016 network owners. According to the Swedish Electricity Act, the electricity network was negatively impacted by retroactive tax payment from 2015 of SEK 154 fees paid by customers must be fair, objective and non-discriminatory. ­million. Change in working capital 2017 contributed with SEK 86 million (–125). On 1 January 2016, a new four-year regulatory period started, which Paid capital expenditure increased by SEK –311 million to SEK –2,368 milentailed a few changes to the regulatory framework, above all a change in the lion (–2,057), as a result of a successful ramp-up of the network investment volmethod for calculating the asset base on the basis of the age of the network. umes. In addition, cash flow for 2017 includes an intra-Group acquisition of the Although the change substantially reduces the allowed revenue for distribution shares in Nynäshamn Energi AB from Ellevio Holding 1 AB in the amount of SEK network companies compared with the previous periods, the new framework –438 million. Free cash flow amounted to SEK 1,748 million (1,406) and cash also stimulates new investments in electricity networks, which promotes the flow before financing activities to SEK 1,314 million (1,406). renewal and weather-proofing needed. Paid interest amounted to SEK –2,094 million (–2,418), of which external It is important that the regulatory framework support the developments taking interest relating to senior debt accounted for SEK –1,082 million (–828) and place in society. Now that the industry is entering a period requiring substantial intra-Group interest for SEK –1,012 million (–1,590). The internal interest is indiinvestments in order to renew the electricity network, it is positive that the framerectly relating to the junior debt SEK –149 million (–152) and to shareholder work stimulates investments. However, there are certain parameters where the loans SEK –863 million (–1,438). ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 37 The external net debt increased by SEK 1,453 million to SEK 35,528 million Strategic risks refer primarily to risks that change the operating environment for (34,075), including SEK 650 million raised to finance the acquisition of Elverket the electricity distribution business. Various political decisions and changes to Vallentuna AB done by Ellevio Holding 1 AB. the regulatory framework may affect the company’s operations. Strategic risks also include legal compliance risks, as the business forms an important part of Financing the country’s infrastructure, and the company is therefore required to comply During 2017, Ellevio raised SEK 13 billion of new long term financing in a with many laws, directives and regulations. Along with other industry players, series of financing transactions, with the purpose to refinance existing bank Ellevio is actively involved in driving regulatory issues that are of importance for debt and to finance the company’s investment program. our business. In January, Ellevio issued a SEK 675 million 15-year fixed-rate bond. The The ownership and operation of electricity distribution facilities entails operatransaction was followed in February by a public transaction in the Swedish tional risks, primarily in the form of operational disruptions that result in interrupmarket, whereby Ellevio issued a 3-year bond in the amount of SEK 3,500 tions in the delivery of power to our customers. These risks are managed mainly ­million and a 7-year bond in the amount of 6,500 million. The transactions through the reinvestment and maintenance programmes run by the company, attracted strong investor demand and represents the largest corporate Swedish with a focus on reducing sensitivity to storms and improving the general reliabilKrona bond issue to this date. ity of our electricity network. The company also has an advanced organization In February, Ellevio signed a EUR 250 million loan facility from the European to address major disruptions and a fault repair process that is continuously being Investment Bank to finance part of the company’s investments during 2017– improved to ensure that power is restored to customers as soon as possible after 2019 in a reliable and sustainable power network. The full facility amount was an outage. drawn during the first half of 2017, whereby Ellevio raised a 15-year loan in Through its operations the company is exposed to various types of financial Swedish Krona amounting to approximately SEK 2,372 million. risks, such as market, liquidity and credit risks. Market risks consist mainly of curThe proceeds from the new financing were used to refinance a majority of rency, electricity price and interest rate risks. The company enters into derivative the bank loan raised in conjunction with the acquisition of Ellevio in 2015. instruments to reduce these risks. Also see Note 4 Financial risk management In the end of December 2017, the outstanding amount under the bank loan and financial instruments. was SEK 373 million (12,967). The amount drawn under the existing SEK 8,100 million Revolving Capex Employees Facility increased by SEK 1,050 million during the year and as per end of In 2017, Ellevio had an average of 433 employees, most of whom were based December 2017, SEK 2,700 million (1,650) was drawn under the Facility. at the head office in Stockholm and at the office in Karlstad. Since 2011, Ellevio Ellevio’s senior debt is rated “BBB” (stable outlook) by Standard and Poor’s. has been operating in accordance with a model in which the management and planning of electricity network projects are performed in-house, while field operOutlook ations are outsourced to external contractors. Ellevio works actively to shape the Swedish energy market, with a focus on elecOccupational health and safety issues are assigned high priority at Ellevio, tricity distribution operations. The company is driving a number of important regboth for our in-house staff and for contractors who are commissioned the comulatory matters through active involvement in industry trade groups, contacts with pany on assignments. The company takes a structured approach to these issues, regulators and collaborations with other operators, both nationally and internawhich are governed and coordinated by a central function for occupational tionally. health and safety, environment, quality, security and sustainability, and pursues During 2017, the work on establishing the regulations for the third regulatory continuous improvements, through measures including regular audits of our period, 2020–2023, has proceeded. In October Ei delivered a report to the operations and those of our contractors. Compliance is monitored through Ministry with suggested changes to the regulation. The proposed changes among others recurring audits of the operations and at our contractors. Progress included a decreased cost of capital, which would be a return to a more shortin the organisation is monitored by management and the Board of Directors, on term regulation. A decision regarding the coming regulation period will be an ongoing and monthly basis. Ellevio has also established a special committee taken in the end of 2018. Ellevio will continue to engage in a constructive dialinked to the Board that addresses health and safety issues as well as sustainlogue with all relevant stakeholders in order to work for a reasonable cost of ability issues. capital taking the industry’s long term investment horizons into consideration. During 2017, Ellevio has launched an increased safety program, Safe Further on, the preparatory work to reform the retail market has also pro­workplace, in order to further improve the work around occupational health ceeded. Ellevio has during the year been arguing for changes in the original and safety within Ellevio and among contractors. proposal, in which electricity suppliers will be the first contact for customers. Many of the challenges that existed when the proposal first was initiated are Environment now solved. Ellevio also sees a risk that a changed market model, where elecEllevio AB (publ) is ISO 14001 certified and the company operates under a tricity suppliers have a majority of the customers contact, would endanger the Board approved sustainability policy, where environmental responsibility comimplementation of the proposition regarding demand flexibility that the governprises one of three components. Environmental responsibility involves ensuring ment will put forward in 2018. that the company employs various activities to reduce its impact on the environment and biological diversity by: Information on risks and uncertainties • Setting environmental requirements on purchases, taking account of environRisk management is an integral element of operational planning, governance mental aspects in the company’s business activities and giving priority to and monitoring. Business risks are assessed through management’s and Board ­solutions that help reduce environmental impact of Directors’ strategy and planning work, and are documented in a business • Promoting the application of a lifecycle perspective in all activities plan adopted by the Board. • Employing the principles of the waste hierarchy to minimise waste The management of operational and financial risks is based on the compa• Providing information on and raising awareness of how the company’s ny’s adopted policies, which specify principles, frameworks and responsibilities ­operations can affect the environment with the aim of limiting the company’s risk exposure. The policies are reviewed • Avoiding materials and substances that can be harmful to humans, animals and submitted for adoption annually. Operational risks are identified, assessed and the environment and addressed as an integral part of the company’s day-to-day activities. • Employing a sustainability perspective when selecting venues for meetings and means of transport for travel 38 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Under the Swedish Electricity Act, a permit for the construction and use of an Proposed allocation of retained earnings (SEK) electricity line (“concession”) can be granted for a line covering a specified ­distance The following earnings are at the disposal or an electricity network in a certain area. As of 1 June 2013, the ­company’s of the Annual General Meeting: concession applies until further notice. The examination of the application for Retained earnings 5,893,471,906 a concession includes an assessment in accordance with the provisions of the Profit/loss for the year 287,790,529 Swedish Environmental Code. Electricity network operations are not regulated 6,181,262,435 by the provisions of the Environmental Code with regard to permit and notification requirements on environmentally hazardous operations. The Board of Directors proposes: Retained earnings to be carried forward 6,181,262,435 Sustainability report 6,181,262,435 In accordance with ÅRL, Ellevio AB has chosen to establish the statutory sustainability report as a separate report from the Annual Report. The sustainability For further information on the company’s performance and financial position, report is found on pages 68–79. see the following income statement, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the accounts. Unless otherwise Group contributions stated, amounts in tables refer to millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK). Due to The company has in 2017 received SEK 1,493,038,630 in group contributions rounding of amounts to the nearest million Swedish kronor, some totals may not and given SEK 187,504 in group contributions. Net group contributions be exactly equal to the sum of all line items. received amounted to SEK 1,492,851,126. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 39 Financial overview. MSEK 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net sales 6,894 6,537 6,014 5,870 6,025 EBITDA 4,207 3,946 3,275 3,194 2,933 Items affecting comparability —23 0 —5 —13 0 Comparable EBITDA 4,230 3,946 3,280 3,282 3,192 Operating profit 2,161 1,929 1,675 2,131 2,032 External financial items —1,255 —1,646 —432 —1 —1 Profit/loss after net financial income/expense —750 –1,369 285 2,073 2,343 Profit/loss for the year 288 —239 15,463 18 417 Cash flow from operating activities 4,117 3,463 3,443 3,192 3,307 Free cash flow 1,748 1,406 1,860 1,975 2,258 Capital expenditure 2,381 2,076 1,706 1,217 1,048 Total assets 80,048 76,968 75,235 25,534 26,689 Total equity 6,201 5,923 6,163 637 618 Adjusted equity 7,035 6,534 6,509 16,454 16,386 Equity/assets ratio 8,8% 8.5% 8.7% 64.0% 61.0% External net debt 35,528 34,075 32,864 — — Adjusted cash 1 46 114 — — Leverage ratio 8.4x 8.6x 10.6x — — Interest cover ratio 3.3x 4.1x — — — Delivered volume (TWh) 27.1 27.1 26.8 26.8 27.8 No. of customers (in thousands) 939 918 912 908 904 Average no. of employees 433 412 407 378 339 Definitions. Adjusted cash External net debt Cash and cash equivalents less customer deposits External interest-bearing liabilities less adjusted cash Adjusted equity Free cash flow Total equity plus 78 percent of the untaxed reserves Cash flow from operating activities less paid capital expenditure Comparable EBITDA Interest cover ratio EBITDA less items affecting comparability Adjusted EBITDA less income tax paid divided by external financial items EBITDA Items affecting comparability Operating profit plus depreciation, amortisation and impairments Gains/losses from sales of fixed assets, scrapping of fixed assets and restructuring costs Equity/assets ratio Adjusted equity divided by total assets multiplied with 100 Leverage ratio External net debt divided by comparable EBITDA External financial items Net financial income/expense less intra-Group interest, unrealised results from derivatives and transaction costs related to financing activities The company presents certain financial measures in the annual report that are not defined according to IFRS. The company considers that these measures provide valuable supplementary information for investors and company management, as they enable an assessment and benchmarking of the company’s performance. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, these are not always comparable to measures used by other ­companies. These financial measures should not therefore be regarded as substitutes for measures defined according to IFRS. The above key ratios are not defined according to IFRS, unless otherwise stated. 40 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Income statement. 1 Jan 2017 1 Jan 2016 MSEK Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Net sales 6, 7 6,894 6,537 Capitalised own work 70 70 Other operating income 8, 10 70 67 7,034 6,674 OPERATING EXPENSES Costs for purchase and transit of power —1,023 –1,089 Other external expenses 9, 10 —1,384 –1,259 Employee benefits expense 11, 12 –419 –381 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13 —2,046 –2,016 Operating profit 2,161 1,929 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Interest income and similar items 14 1 1 Interest expense and similar items 15 —2,912 –3,299 Profit/loss after net financial income/expense –750 –1,369 Appropriations 16 1,207 1,148 Profit/loss before tax 457 –221 Income tax expense 17 –169 –18 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 288 –239 Statement of comprehensive income. 1 Jan 2017 1 Jan 2016 MSEK 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Profit/loss for the year 288 –239 Other comprehensive income – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 288 –239 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 41 Balance sheet. MSEK Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 18 Goodwill 5,233 5,495 Concessions 39,298 39,598 IT systems 94 100 Utility easements 163 141 Projects in progress and advance payments 77 59 44,866 45,393 Property, plant and equipment 19, 33 Buildings and land 854 870 Machinery and other technical plant 26,352 25,830 Equipment, tools and facilities 36 17 Assets under construction and advance payments 2,476 1,680 29,718 28,398 Non-current financial assets Investments in associates 20 0 0 Receivables from Group companies 2,138 — Plan assets 11 0 0 2,138 0 Total non-current assets 76,721 73,791 Current assets Current receivables Trade receivables 21 632 556 Receivables from Group companies 22 1,493 1,496 Other receivables 23 155 80 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 1,307 990 3,317 3,122 Cash and cash equivalents 25, 33 10 55 Total current assets 3,327 3,177 TOTAL ASSETS 80,048 76,968 42 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Balance sheet, cont. MSEK Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 1 1 Statutory reserve 0 0 Development reserve 19 13 20 14 Non-restricted equity Retained earnings 5,893 6,149 Profit/loss for the year 288 –239 Total equity 6,201 5,923 Untaxed reserves 26 1,069 783 Provisions Deferred tax liability 17 14,005 13,961 Other provisions 0 — Non-current liabilities 27 Bond loans 29,749 19,099 Liabilities to credit institutions 5,005 14,513 Liabilities to Group companies 21,131 20,490 Derivatives 388 515 Other non-current liabilities 12 12 Total non-current liabilities 56,285 54,629 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 509 130 Trade payables 607 557 Liabilities to Group companies 28 38 37 Current tax liabilities 29 38 Other current liabilities 29 361 251 Accrued expenses and deferred income 30 944 658 2,487 1,672 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 80,048 76,968 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 43 Statement of changes in equity. R Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Statutory Development Retained earnings including MSEK Note ­capital1) reserve1) reserve2) profit for the year Total equity Balance at 1 January 2016 0 0 0 6,162 6,163 Bonus issue 0 –0 – Provisions for development reserve 13 –13 – Profit/loss for the year –239 –239 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income –239 –239 Balance at 31 December 2016 1 0 13 5,910 5,923 Balance at 1 January 2017 1 0 13 5,910 5,923 Provisions for development reserve 7 —7 — Profit/loss for the year 288 288 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income —281 288 Merger difference —10 —10 Balance at 31 December 2017 1 0 19 6,181 6,201 1) Share capital amounted to SEK 600,000 (600,000) and the statutory reserve amounted to SEK 82,300 (82,300). 2) Refers to investments in proprietarily produced IT programmes. The company has a total of 60 shares (60). The quotient value is SEK 10,000 (10,000) per share. 44 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Cash flow statement. 1 Jan 2017 1 Jan 2016 MSEK Note 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit 2,161 1,929 Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and amortisation 13 2,046 2,016 Disposals/retirements of non-current assets 23 0 Change in provision for for doubtful receivables 0 6 Income tax paid —199 –364 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 4,031 3,587 CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Decrease(+)/increase(–) in trade receivables —76 –178 Decrease(+)/increase(–) in other operating receivables —79 2 Decrease(–)/increase(+) in trade payables 25 –213 Decrease(–)/increase(+) in other opearating liabilities 215 264 Cash flow from operating activities 4,117 3,463 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Capital expenditure in intangible assets —64 –55 Capital expenditure in property, plant and equipment —2,305 –2,002 Acquisition of shares —438 — Proceeds from sales of tangible assets 4 — Cash flow from investing activities —2,802 –2,057 Cash flow before financing activities 1,314 1,406 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Borrowings 31 14,063 14,295 Repayment of borrowings —12,695 –13,348 Loans given —650 — Received interest 1 1 Paid interest 2,094 –2,418 Cash flow from financing activities —1,374 –1,471 Cash flow for the year —60 –66 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 55 121 Cash and cash equivalents in merged company 15 — Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 25 10 55 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 45 Accounting policies and notes. NOTE 1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued on 24 July 2014 and will replace IAS 39 GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard contains new requirements on the classification and m ­ easurement of financial instruments, on Ellevio AB (publ), corporate ID number 556037–7326, is a limited liability derecognition and impairment, and general rules for hedge accounting. The company registered in Sweden whose registered office is in Stockholm. The standard is applicable for periods beginning on 1 January 2018. The new stanaddress of the head office is Valhallavägen 203, SE-115 53 Stockholm, dard will be applied prospectively. ­Sweden. The company conducts electricity network operations. Ellevio AB (publ) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ellevio Holding 4 AB, corporate ID number 559005– Classification and measurement 2451. Consolidated financial statements are prepared by Ellevio Holding 1 AB, The new rules for classification and measurement entail – in the same way as in ­corporate ID number 559005–2444. The Group structure is presented in Note 35. IAS 39 – financial assets being classified into different categories, of which certain assets are measured at amortised cost and others at fair value. IFRS 9 introduces NOTE 2 other categories than those included in IAS 39. Classification under IFRS 9 is SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES based partly on the instruments’ contractual cash flows and partly on the compaThis annual report was prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual ny’s business model. In terms of financial liabilities, IFRS 9 largely corresponds to Accounts Act (1995:1554) and Recommendation RFR 2 Financial Reporting for IAS 39. The purpose of Ellevio’s holdings of financial assets is to obtain contracLegal Entities issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The application tual cash flows, and the company will report financial assets at amortised cost. of RFR 2 requires the company to apply, insofar as possible, all EU-adopted Derivative instruments are measured at fair value in the Ellevio Group, and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of IFRS changes in fair value are reported in the income statement in cases where hedges issued by the IFRS Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) subject to the provisions of do not fulfil hedge accounting requirements and in other total comprehensive the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting income where hedge accounting requirements are fulfilled, see also Financial Act and take account of the relationship between accounting and taxation. instruments. In practice, the model for classification in accordance with IFRS 9 Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless otherdoes not entail any changes for Ellevio. wise indicated. The cash flow statement was prepared using the indirect method. The comExpected credit losses pany is classified as a large company in accordance with Ch.1 section 3 of the The implementation of IFRS 9 means that Ellevio will apply a new model for Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554). Pursuant to Ch. 7 section 2 of the impairment of financial assets. The model is based on expected losses and not on Annual Accounts Act, consolidated financial statements are not prepared for losses that have already occurred, as is the case today. Impairment rules under Ellevio AB (publ). IFRS 9 are based on a three-step model, where the accounting should reflect changes in the credit risk and take into account losses at an earlier stage. Ellevio’s New and amended standards and interpretations that have not yet financial assets consist primarily of trade receivables, which are categorized as come into effect, as well as amendments to RFR 2 current receivables where the counterparty has a good credit rating, see Note 4 New and amended standards as well as interpretations of and changes to Credit and counterparty risk. Ellevio has implemented a model for calculating RFR 2 that have been issued but only become effective for reporting periods expected credit losses based on counterparty credit rating and payment history. beginning after1 January 2018 have not yet been applied by the company. The analysis that Ellevio conducted based on historical customer data shows that New and amended standards and interpretations that are deemed to have an the transition to the new model based on expected credit losses does not entail impact on the company’s financial statements in the period in which they are first any material impact on the company’s financial reports. applied are described below Hedge accounting IFRS 15 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued on 28 May Ellevio will apply hedge accounting according to IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018. 2014 and will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS IFRS 9 expands the potential risk components to also include non-financial items. 15 establishes a model for revenue recognition for nearly all types of revenue arisThe company is obliged to pay compensation for grid losses, and it hedges the ing from contracts with customers, with the exception of leases, financial instruelectricity price through electricity derivatives in order to reduce risk. The ments and insurance contracts. The basic principle for recognition of revenue new standard enables the company to apply hedge accounting to one or more under IFRS 15 is that a company should recognise revenue in the manner that risk components. The company considers that the product’s system price (SYS) reflects the transfer of the promised goods or service to the customer, in the amount and area price differential (EPAD) hedge the corresponding electricity price risk. that the company expects to receive in exchange for the goods or service. Revenue This change will reduce volatility in the P&L but is not expected to have any major is recognised when control of the good or service has passed to the customer. IFRS impact on the company’s financial reporting 15 is applicable for reporting periods beginning 1 January 2018 or later and earlier application is permitted. The new standard will be applied prospectively. IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and will replace IAS 17 Revenue from connection fees, except revenue from connection of wind Leases. IFRS 16 introduces a right-of-use model under which the lessee is farms in the regional grid, will have an impact on the company’s financial staterequired to recognise essentially all leases in the balance sheet. No classificaments due to the implementation of the new standard. The company’s assessment tion of operating and finance leases should therefore be made. The exceptions is that a connection to the grid consists of two promises: a promise to implement a are leases with a term of 12 months or less and low-value leases. Depreciation/ new connection to the grid and a promise to continuously connect and distribute amortisation of the asset and interest expenses on the liability are recognised in electricity to the connection points. These promises are not distinct, since a new the income statement. The standard contains more extensive disclosure requireconnection is only possible if there is a commitment to continuously connect and ments compared with the current standard. For lessors, IFRS 16 does not entail distribute electricity. The two promises should be considered to be one perforany real differences compared with IAS 17. IFRS 16 is applicable to reporting mance obligation as neither one of them fulfils the criteria to be distinct in IFRS15. periods on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier application is permitted provided The consequence of this for Ellevio is that connection fees will be periodised. The that IFRS 15 is applied simultaneously. The standard was adopted by the EU on peridisation period for standard connections is 40 years and 25 years for wind 31 October 2017. farms. The effect of the change is estimated at approximately SEK 200 million in Management has not yet performed a detailed analysis of the effects of lower revenues for the full year 2017. Other than the impact on the connection applying IFRS 16 and is therefore unable to quantify the effects. fees the transition to IFRS 15 is not expected to have any significant effects. Management considers that the other new and amended standards and inter46 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 2 cont. pretations – that have not yet become effective – will not have any material Employee benefits impact on the company’s financial statements when they are initially applied. Employee benefits in the form of salaries, bonuses, paid annual leave, paid sick leave, etc., as well as pensions are recognised as they are earned. Pensions Revenue and other post-employment benefits are classified as defined contribution penRevenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivsion plans and are charged to income statement. The company has both able after deducting VAT, discounts, returns and similar deductions. The comdefined-benefit and defined contribution pension plans. pany recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured, it is probUnder RFR 2, the provisions of IAS 19 concerning defined-benefit pension able that future economic benefits will flow to the company and specific criteria plans do not need to be applied in a legal entity. have been met for each of the company’s categories of revenue. The company’s revenue comes mainly from network services, connection Taxes ­services and other network-related services. The company’s revenue is covered The tax expense consists of the sum of current tax and deferred tax. by revenue regulation and any excess or deficit revenue is handled in the sub­ sequent regulation period for accounting purposes. Current tax Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable in respect of the taxable profit Network services for the period. The taxable profit differs from the profit recognised in income stateRevenue from the sale of network services is based on actual measured conment, as it has been adjusted for non-taxable income and other non-deductible sumption during the period (excluding VAT and duties) and revenue is recogexpenses and for income and expenses that are taxable or deductible in other nised upon completion of delivery. periods. The company’s current tax liability is calculated based on the tax rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. Connection services Revenue from the sale of connection services is recognised as revenue to the Deferred tax extent that it is not intended to cover future obligations. Revenue from the conDeferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that arise between the nection of wind farms in the regional network is allocated over 25 years in ­carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the tax base used in calculating the accordance with the contracted future tariff reduction. taxable profit. Deferred tax is recognised in accordance with the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for practically all taxable Other network related services temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognised for practically Revenue from the relocation of network facilities is recognised as revenue to the all temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that the amounts can extent that it is not intended to cover future obligations. Other recurring operatbe used to offset future taxable surpluses. Deferred tax liabilities and tax assets ing income such as income from reconnection services and other customer--­ are not recognised if the temporary difference is attributable to goodwill or if initiated activities are recognised in connection with the performance of the it arises from a transaction that constitutes the initial recognition of an asset or ­service. ­liability (that is not a business combination) and that at the time of the transaction does not affect recognised profit or taxable profit. Communication and rental income Untaxed reserves are recognised inclusive of deferred tax liability. Income from the lease of capacity in company-owned fibre-optic networks, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is tested for impairment at the end space in masts and poles and rent for premises is recognised in accordance of each reporting period and an impairment loss is recognised to the extent that with the rules for operating leases (lessor). it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset can be fully or partially offset. Leases Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates that are expected to apply for A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the economic risks and the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled, based on the rewards incidental to ownership of an asset to the lessee. Other leases are clastax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or announced by the end of sified as operating leases. All leases, both finance leases and operating leases, the reporting period. are recognised as operating leases. Lease payments are charged to income Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when they refer to income tax, statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another are paid to the same authority and when the company intends to settle the tax method systematically provides a better reflection of the user’s economic benefit by paying the net amount. over time. Future lease payments refer to operating leases. The company has no significant Current and deferred tax for the period finance leases. Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the income statement. Foreign currency Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated at the rate at Group contributions the end of the reporting period. Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses Group contributions paid and received are recognised as appropriations. are included in profit or loss. Foreign exchange gains (losses) on operating receivables and liabilities are recognised in the same item of income and Property, plant and equipment expense as that to which the income or expense refers. Foreign exchange Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less accumulated depre­differences related to financial assets and liabilities are recognised under ciation and any impairment losses. net financial income and expenses. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the site and into Borrowing costs working condition for its intended use. Subsequent costs are only included in the Borrowing costs are recognised on an ongoing basis in profit or loss in the asset or recognised as a separate asset when it is probable that future ecoperiod to which they refer. nomic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the company and the cost of the same can be reliably measured. All other subsequent costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 47 NOTE 2 cont. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged to income statement have been determined if the cash-generating unit had not been subject to so that the cost of the asset, less any residual profit the cost of the asset, less any impairment in previous years. A reversal of an impairment is recognised directly residual value at the end of its useful life, is depreciated on a straight-line basis in profit or loss. Any goodwill impairment is immediately recognised as an over the asset’s estimated useful life. An item of property, plant and equipment is expense and is not reversed. depreciated as of the date when it can be taken into use. The ­estimated useful lives for property, plant and equipment are: Non-current financial assets Buildings 10–50 years Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at cost less any impairment. Cost Land improvements 20 years includes acquisition-related costs and any additional consideration paid. Machinery and other technical plant 8–40 years When there is an indication that interests in a subsidiary have declined in value, Equipment, tools and facilities 3–20 years an estimate is made of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses Land has an indefinite useful life and is therefore not depreciated. are recognised in the item “Profit/loss from shares in Group companies.” Estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are Investments in associates are recognised at cost less any impairment. Cost reviewed at the end of each reporting period or more frequently and the effect includes acquisition-related costs and any additional consideration paid. When of any changes in assessments is recognised prospectively. there is an indication that interests in an associate are impaired, an estimate is The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is derecogmade of the recoverable amount. If the recoverable amount is less than the nised upon retirement or disposal or when no future economic benefits are ­carrying amount an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses are expected from the use or disposal/sale of the asset. The gain or loss on the ­recognised in the item “Profit/loss from shares in associates”. retirement or disposal of the asset consists of the difference between any net proceeds and the carrying amount of the item and is recognised in profit or loss Financial instruments in the period when the asset is derecognised. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the company becomes party to the contractual terms and conditions of the Intangible assets instrument. A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to the Internally generated intangible assets cash flow from the asset expires or is settled or when the company loses control Internally generated intangible assets resulting from the company’s developof it. A financial liability, or portion of a financial liability, is derecognised when ment of IT systems are recognised only when the following conditions are met: the contractual obligation is fulfilled or is otherwise concluded. • it is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset and use it, Current assets and current liabilities are measured at cost on initial recogni• the company intends to complete the intangible asset and use it, tion. Non-current receivables and non-current liabilities are measured at amor• it is possible to use the intangible asset, tised cost on initial recognition. Borrowing costs are allocated to accounting • the company can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate probaperiods as part of the interest expense of the loan. ble future economic benefits, Subsequent to initial recognition, current assets are measured using the lower of • adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete cost or market method, i.e. at the lower of cost and net realisable value at the end the development and to use or sell the intangible asset, and of the reporting period. Current liabilities are measured at their nominal amount. • the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development Subsequent to initial recognition, non-current receivables and non-current can be reliably measured. ­liabilities are measured at amortised cost. Separate acquisition of intangible assets Amortised cost Intangible assets with definite useful lives that have been acquired separately Amortised cost refers to the amount at which the asset or liability is measured are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated upon initial recognition minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative impairment. The assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated amortisation of the initial difference between the amount to be paid/received useful lives. and the amount payable/receivable upon maturity and less impairment losses. The estimated useful lives for intangible assets are: Loans and receivables Concessions 100 years Financial assets classified as “Loans and receivables” are financial assets that are Goodwill 20 years not derivatives, have fixed or determinable payments, and are not quoted on an IT systems 3–8 years active market. This includes trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Utility easements and intangible assets that are not yet available for use are not Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment. amortised. However, since the expected maturity of trade receivables is short, these are Estimated useful lives and amortisation methods are reviewed at least at recognised at the nominal amount on an undiscounted basis. A deduction is the end of each financial year and the effect of any changes in assessments made for doubtful receivables. Impairment of trade receivables is recognised in is ­recognised prospectively. operating expenses. As cash and cash equivalents are payable on demand, amortised cost is the Impairment of non-financial assets same as the nominal amount. Impairment testing for property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets including goodwill is done on an annual basis and on the indication of a need Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities for impairment. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount An asset’s recoverable amount is calculated in order to determine the value of in the statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to any impairment loss. With the aim of determining a need for impairment, the set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net assets are grouped together based on the minimal levels for which there are idenbasis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. tifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). If the recoverable amount of a cashgenerating unit is determined at a value that is lower than the carrying amount, Derivatives the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit is impaired to the recoverable The company enters into derivatives transactions for the purpose of managing amount. Impairment losses must immediately be expensed in profit or loss. currency, price and interest rate risks. See also Note 4 for further information on If an impairment is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the cashthe Group’s risks and hedging strategies. generating unit is increased to the remeasured recoverable amount, although Due to the connection between accounting and tax, the accounting standard the increased carrying amount may not exceed the carrying amount that would for financial derivatives, IAS39, is not applied. Derivatives are instead recognised using the lower of cost method. Derivatives with negative value are measured at 48 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 2 cont. the amount that is most favourable for the company if the obligation is settled or Useful life of goodwill transferred at the end of the reporting period. Goodwill arising from a merger has a useful life of 20 years. Goodwill has arisen from a merger of an electricity distribution business, which is a stable, Hedge accounting long-term business with long-term investments, as reflected in the amortisation Hedge accounting is applied for derivatives that are included in a documented period. The amortisation period and method are reviewed at the end of each hedge relationship. The use of hedge accounting requires an explicit link to exist financial year or more frequently. between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. It also requires the hedge to effectively protect against the risk that it is intended to hedge, that its effectiveUseful life of other intangible assets ness can be shown to be sufficiently high on an ongoing basis through effectiveThe useful life of a part of IT investments related to systems for monitoring the ness measurements and that hedge documentation has been established. The operation of the electricity network has been defined as 8 years based on the assessment of whether hedge accounting should be applied is made at the minimum expected life of the monitoring system. Utility easements (including inception of the hedge relationship. Valuation is based on cost and accounting land leases) refer to contracts that give the company access to land belonging of the change in value is not recognised in the income statement as long as the to third parties for an indefinite period for the establishment of electricity network hedge accounting is ongoing. facilities. The company therefore considers the asset equivalent to land and no amortisation is recognised. The value of u­ tility easements is tested for impairment Cash and cash equivalents annually or when there is an indication of impairment. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances as well as other short-term liquid investments that can be quickly converted into cash and are subUseful life of property, plant and equipment ject to insignificant risk of changes in value. To be classified as cash and cash The company has property, plant and equipment with a significant carrying equivalents, the maturity must not exceed three months from the date of purchase. amount, and assumptions about the useful lives of the assets involve the use of estimates and assessments. These estimates are based on the status and con­ Provisions dition of the assets and on historical knowledge of useful lives for equivalent Provisions are recognised when the company has an existing (legal or construcassets. Continuous inspections and monitoring activities are carried out to tive) obligation as a result of a past event, it is likely that an outflow of resources ensure that the company’s network assets are adequately maintained. will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount that is set aside is the best estimate of the amount that is required Deferred tax and current tax to settle the existing obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking account The company has deferred tax assets and liabilities that are expected to be of risks and uncertainties associated with the obligation. When a provision is calrealised in the income statement over extended future periods. When calculating culated by estimating the payments that are expected to be required to settle the deferred tax, the company is required to make certain assumptions and obligation, the carrying amount must equal the present value of these payments. ­estimates concerning the future tax consequences for temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. NOTE 3 SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Impairment of non-financial assets The company has property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, includIn preparing financial statements, management is required to make judgements, ing goodwill, with significant carrying amounts, that are tested for impairment estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies pursuant to the accounting policies listed in Note 2 Accounting policies. When and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These the cash-generating units are tested for impairment, the calculations are based judgements are based on previous experience as well as assumptions that are on estimated future cash flow, which requires management to make assumptions deemed to be reasonable under present circumstances and are continuously about future expectations. Impairment testing that has been conducted, and reviewed. The actual outcome and actual date may differ from the estimates if ­significant estimates and assumptions are detailed in Note 18. other assumptions are taken into account or other circumstances are present. Significant estimates and judgements for the company are described below: NOTE 4 Network income and network expenses FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Accrued network income and network expenses as well as the associated Through its operations the company is exposed to various types of financial receivable and liability are calculated mainly on the basis of measured volumes, risks, such as market, liquidity and credit risks. Market risks consist mainly of but a small portion refers to a share of estimated volume based on historical ­currency, electricity price and interest rate risks. The company enters into derivadata in combination with actual temperature data for the period. Income and tive transactions to mitigate these risks. Ultimate responsibility for defining the expenses are assessed and accrued on a monthly basis. Reconciliation of framework and regulations for managing and monitoring the company’s finan­previous periods and potential adjustments are also made on a monthly basis. cial risks rests with the Board of Directors. The framework and regulations are set forth in a financial policy adopted by the Board that is reviewed annually. Useful life of concessions Concession to operate a grid are granted to network companies, apply until MARKET RISKS ­further notice and can only be revoked in a potential bankruptcy situation or in Currency risk case of gross negligence. Under IAS 38, an intangible asset with an indefinite Currency risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows will fluctuate as useful life should not be amortised but reviewed in each period to determine a result of changes in exchange rates. The exposure to currency risk comes mainly whether events and circumstances continue to support the assessment of an from the company’s financing as well as payment flows in foreign currency. indefinite useful life for the asset. Under RFR 2, IAS 38 should not be applied in respect of the financial reporting of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Transaction exposure Instead, such assets should be amortised based on the same rules that apply Transaction exposure is the risk that earnings will be adversely affected by fluctufor other intangible assets. As concessions to operate the grid apply until further ations caused by changes in exchange rates for cash flows in foreign currency. notice and thus have an indefinite useful life, the company considers that an The company’s commercial transaction exposure is limited, as the company’s elected useful life of 100 years best reflects the company’s consumption of the inflows and outflows are mainly in SEK. asset. The amortisation period and method are reviewed at the end of each financial year or more frequently. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 49 NOTE 4 cont. Balance sheet exposure The tables below present fixed-rate terms for interest-bearing liabilities, including Balance sheet exposure is the risk that the value of balance sheet items in forintra-Group loans, and interest rate derivatives based on nominal amounts coneign currency will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. A signifverted into SEK. icant portion of the company’s financing is in foreign currency but there is no other significant exposure. Fixed-rate term 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 The company’s policy is to hedge all balance sheet exposures and conWithin 12 months 2,807 5,574 tracted cash flows in foreign currency. The company mainly uses cross-currency Within 1–5 years 3,273 3,273 interest rate swaps for this purpose. Within 5–10 years 20,387 13,340 At the end of the reporting period the nominal amount of loans in foreign Over 10 years 30,226 32,470 ­currency and corresponding outstanding cross-currency interest rate swaps Total 56,693 54,657 amounted to EUR 655 million (655) and USD 1,104.5 million (1,104.5). The following table shows outstanding cross-currency interest rate swaps at The company’s policy is to reduce the volatility of net financial income/ the end of the reporting period converted into SEK million: expenses by mainly financing operations at fixed, long-term interest rates. The financial policy states that at least 75 percent of the external interest-bearing 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 debt is to be financed or fixed at fixed interest rate. At the end of the reporting Nominal Fair Nominal Fair period, 95 percent of the company’s external debt was subject to fixed interest amount value amount value rates after taking account of interest rate derivatives. The weighted average EUR converted into MSEK interest rate on all borrowings, taking account of derivatives contracts, was 5.1 Maturity over 10 years 6,176 84 6,176 49 percent at the end of the reporting period. USD converted into MSEK The company applies hedge accounting. The hedge is a cash flow hedge. Maturity over 10 years 8,802 —1,304 8,802 –198 During the period, SEK 127 million (–481) was recognised in the income statement in respect of the market valuation of derivatives attributable to this hedge The cross-currency interest rate swaps refer to hedging of loan capital and future that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Derivatives recognised in interest payments. Interest payments are made every six months, at which time accordance with the lower of cost are measured on the basis of contractual the company settles the fixed interest amount in foreign currency and the fixed cash flows discounted at market interest rates at the end of the reporting period. interest amount in SEK with its counterparty. These derivatives have been identiThe following table shows outstanding interest rate swaps at the end of the fied as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge. Payments of interest and prinreporting period: cipal on the loan and derivatives are made at the same dates and the amount 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 for the hedged risk that has accumulated in equity is reclassified to the income Nominal Fair Nominal Fair statement when the payment affects the income statement. amount value amount value Maturity within 12 months — — – – Electricity price risk Maturity within 1–5 years 25,543 —429 25,543 –594 Electricity price risk refers to the risk that future cash flows will fluctuate as a result Maturity over 5 years 10,000 —564 10,000 –657 of changes in the electricity price. The company is exposed to electricity price Maturity over 10 years 955 —22 955 –24 risk through its consumption of electricity in the form of transmission losses that arise in connection with the distribution of electricity. The company’s policy is to Normally Ellevio enters into interest rate swaps agreements whereby the comhedge forecast costs for future network losses. The company uses forwards pany receives a cash flow based on short-term variable interest rate and pays ­contracts for this purpose. a cash flow based on a fixed interest rate. Payments of interest under the interest The following table shows outstanding electricity derivatives at the end of rate swaps are made mainly on a quarterly basis, at which time the company the reporting period: settles the variable interest amount and fixed-interest amount in SEK with the 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 counterparty. These derivatives have been identified as hedging instruments in Volume, Fair Volume, Fair a cash flow hedge. Payments of interest and principal on the loans and derivaGWh value GWh value tives are made at the same dates. Maturity within 12 months 665 4 658 4 Maturity within 1–5 years 668 15 655 –16 Sensitivity analysis Maturity after 5 years — — – – At 31 December 2017, around 5 percent of the debt portfolio, including intraGroup loans, was subject to variable interest rates. The effect of a 1 percent The hedged item consists of highly probable forecast transactions relating to change in the interest rate for the debt portfolio is SEK 21 million (44) for 2018. purchases of electricity. Cash flows are expected to be generated in the periods in which the futures mature, as specified above, at which time the cumulative Valuation of financial instruments to fair value change in value of the futures contract is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the balance sheet, or where information is provided about fair value, are classified in three levels Interest rate risk (1–3) based on the information which is used to determine the fair value. Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows will fluctuate as a result of changes in market interest rates. The company is mainly Derivatives exposed to interest rate risk through its debt financing. Some borrowings are at All derivatives are measured according to level 2. Interest rate swaps are meavariable interest rates, which means that the company’s future financial expense sured by discounting future cash flows based on actual market interest rates is affected by changes in market interest rates. The company manages the inter(observable curves) and interest rates according the derivative agreement, est rate risk in its financing by either borrowing at fixed interest rates or by using ­discounted with an interest that takes the credit risk of the counterparty into interest rate swaps to hedge at fixed-rate terms for variable-rate loans. account. For cross-currency interest rate swaps the currency at the end of the reporting period is also considered. Electricity derivatives are measured by ­discounting future cash flows which are based on electricity price (observable curves) and price according to the agreement, discounted with an interest that takes the credit risk of the counterparty into account. 50 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 4 cont. Financial liabilities The company’s credit risk in relation to external banks arising from cash and Measurement according to level 2 by discounting future cash flows based on cash equivalents is deemed to be low, as the majority of the company’s liquid actual market interest rates (observable curves) and interest rates according the assets are held in the Swedish banking system. derivative agreement, discounted with a relevant swap curve. The exposure to credit risk is offset by the carrying amounts of financial assets excluding derivatives and is presented in the table below. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCING RISK Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the company will struggle to meet its obligations 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 related to financial liabilities or other payment obligations. Financing risk refers to Trade receivables 632 556 the risk that the company will be unable to obtain sufficient financing at a reasonOther current receivables 988 902 able cost. To reduce its liquidity risk and financing risk, the financial policy states Cash and cash equivalents 1 46 that the company must at all times maintain a liquidity reserve consisting of cash Total 1,620 1,504 and cash equivalents and binding loan commitments of at least 1.1 times the sum of forecast liquidity uses for the coming 12-month period. At the end of the reportCAPITAL STRUCTURE ing period, the company had total external loan facilities of SEK 43.5 billion The company’s goal is to maintain an efficient capital structure that minimises the (43.1), of which SEK 7.8 billion (9.0) was unutilised, and cash equivalents cost of the sum of equity and debt while ensuring long-term access to debt excluding customer deposits of SEK 1 million (46). No more than 25 percent of financing. The company is primarily financed through external loans amounting the total outstanding loan v­ olume may be repayable in any single calendar year to about SEK 35.5 billion. The external debt consists of various types of debt and the average remaining maturity of the total volume of external loans must that are all managed through an established financing platform based on a exceed five years. Common Terms Agreement, where all lenders have common terms and condiThe maturity structure of contractual payment obligations related to the comtions and are equal from securitisation point of view (senior debt). In addition, pany’s financial liabilities excluding derivatives is presented in the following the company is financed through intra-Group loans from Ellevio Holding 4 AB. table. The amounts in the table are not discounted values and also include any These loans derive from external loans to Ellevio Holding 2 AB in the amount of interest payments and amortisations, which means that they cannot be reconabout SEK 3.0 billion (junior debt that from a security perspective is subordiciled to the amounts presented in the balance sheet. Amounts in foreign curnated to the senior debt) and loans from the Group’s shareholders to Ellevio rency have been converted into SEK at the fixed currency hedging rate or the Holding 1 AB of about SEK 18.2 billion. rates at the end of the reporting period. In 2016, Ellevio received a “BBB” (stable outlook) credit rating from StanWithin Over dard and Poor’s for its bond programme. During the year, the restructuring of 31 Dec 2017 12 months 1–5 years 5 years Total financing continued and external bonds amounting to SEK 10.7 billion were Interest-bearing liabilities 1,382 13,204 51,422 66,008 issued, and bank loans in a corresponding amount were amortised. Also refer Trade payables 607 — — 607 to the Financing section in the Directors’ Report. The company monitors its capital structure by calculating the leverage ratio Total 1,989 13,204 51,422 66,615 and the interest coverage ratio. The maturity structure of contractual payment obligations related to the company’s derivatives is presented in the table below. The amounts in the table are not Leverage ratio 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 discounted values. The table is based on net inflows and outflows for derivatives Interest-bearing liabilities 56,693 54.657 that are settled on a net basis and gross inflows and outflows for those derivaLess intra-Group interest-bearing liabilities —21,164 –20,537 tives that cannot be settled on a net basis. Less cash and cash equivalents excl. customer Interest payments and electricity prices have been determined on the basis deposits –1 –46 of the circumstances applying at the end of the reporting period. Amounts in forExternal net debt 35,528 34,075 eign currency have been converted into SEK at the rates at the end of the reportOperating profit 2,161 1,929 ing period. Plus depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,046 2,016 EBITDA 4,207 3,945 Within Over 31 Dec 2017 12 months 1–5 years 5 years Total Items affecting comparability 23 0 Comparable EBITDA 4,230 3,945 Electricity derivatives ­(net receivable) 4 15 — 19 Leverage ratio 8.4 8.6 Cross-currency interest rate swaps (liabilities) —529 —2,117 —3,583 —6,229 NOTE 5 Cross-currency interest rate swaps (receivables) 473 1,892 3,248 5,613 SEGMENT REPORTING Interest rate swaps (­ net debt) —415 —1,248 —624 —2,287 Operating segments are reported in compliance with the internal reporting subTotal —467 —1,458 —958 —2,883 mitted to the highest Executive Officer. The highest Executive Officer is the function responsible for allocating resources and assessing the operating segment results. In the company, this function has been identified as the CEO. The comCREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK pany reports its activities as one segment in the internal reporting. Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will cause a loss by failing to fulfil its contractual obligations. The company’s exposure to credit risk is primarily attributable to trade receivables and derivatives. The company’s NOTE 6 derivatives are transacted with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of GROUP INTERNAL PURCHASES AND SALES BBB+ (S&P, Fitch) or Baa1 (Moody’s). Trade receivables are spread across a 2017 2016 large number of customers and no individual customer accounts for a significant Purchases 0.0% 0.0% share of the company’s total trade receivables. Nor are the company’s trade Sales 0.0% 0.0% receivables concentrated to a specific geographic area. The total sales to the single biggest customer equals approximately 1.5 percent of the company’s net sales. The company therefore considers the concentration risks to be limited. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 51 NOTE 7 NET SALES BY REGULATED ENTITY 2017 Distribution revenue Connection fees Other network related services Total Local networks Stockholm 2,788 143 31 2,962 Local networks West Svealand 1,225 19 3 1,247 Local networks West Coast 989 37 1 1,027 Local networks South Norrland 724 16 0 740 Regional networks Rest of Sweden 803 8 10 821 Regional networks Stockholm 37 0 60 97 Total 6,566 223 105 6,894 2016 Distribution revenue Connection fees Other network related services Total Local networks Stockholm 2,537 111 38 2,686 Local networks West Svealand 1,185 18 1 1,204 Local networks West Coast 945 41 0 987 Local networks South Norrland 698 13 1 712 Regional networks Rest of Sweden 807 6 9 822 Regional networks Stockholm 41 9 76 126 Total 6,213 198 126 6,537 NOTE 8 NOTE 10 OTHER OPERATING INCOME LEASES 2017 2016 Operating leases – lessee 2017 2016 Communication income 7 11 Expense for the year, operating leases Rental income 7 6 Lease expenses —127 –124 Reconnection income 5 5 Total —127 –124 Network monitoring services 4 6 Reminder fees 26 25 Leases refer primarily to land leases and rents for stations. At the end of the Other operating income 20 14 reporting period the outstanding obligations in the form of minimum lease Total 70 67 expenses under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: 2017 2016 NOTE 9 Maturity: REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS Within 1 year 126 119 1–5 years 215 175 KSEK 2017 2016 Later than 5 years 452 477 Deloitte AB Total 793 771 Audit engagement —780 –675 Audit activities in addition to audit engagement —76 –168 Operating leases – lessor Tax advisory services —360 –131 Leases refer to the lease of premises, capacity in the fibre-optic network and Other services —467 –492 space in masts and poles. Lease income during the financial year totalled SEK 8 Total —1,683 –1,466 million (6). Future minimum lease expenses under non-cancellable ­operating leases fall due as follows: Audit engagements refer to the auditor’s remuneration for the statutory audit, which comprises the audit of the annual report and accounting records, and the 2017 2016 Board of Directors’ and CEO’s management as well as fees for audit advice Maturity: provided in connection with the audit engagement. Other services largely Within 1 year 7 7 ­comprise advice and assessment of the company’s refinancing. 1–5 years 10 8 Later than 5 years 5 3 Total 22 18 52 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 11 EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Average numbers of employees 2017 2016 Salaries and renumeration 2017 2016 Women 120 118 Salaries and other renumeration to Directors, Men 313 294 the CEO and other senior executives —25 –30 Total 433 412 Salaries and other renumeration to other employees —236 –212 Pension costs for Directors, CEO and other senior exectives —4 –5 Number of directors and senior executives 2017 2016 Pension costs for other employees —40 –35 Women: Social security contributions —94 –83 Board of Directors 3 3 Total —399 –366 Other senior executives 6 6 Men: Board of Directors 6 6 Other senior executives including the CEO 5 5 Total 20 20 Remuneration of the Board of Directors, CEO and senior executives The Board of Directors consist of seven Board members and two employee representatives. The table below shows total remuneration to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives, who are defined as the management team of the company. The table considers any changes made to both the Board of Directors and the management team during the year. Renumeration and other benefits 2017 Capital value of Base salary/ Variable remuOther Pension pension KSEK Board fees neration1) benefits2) costs3) TOTAL c­ ommitment Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board) —1,400 —1,400 Oskar Backman (Board member) — Ralph Berg (Board member) — Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd (Board member) –233 –233 Jens Henriksson (Board member) — Colin Hood (Board member) –535 —535 Nicola Shaw (Board member) —535 —535 Johan Lindehag (CEO) —2,253 —1,958 —30 —701 —4,942 —281 Other senior excecutives (10 persons) —11,335 —6,810 —207 —3,452 —21,804 —116 Total —16,291 —8,768 —237 —4,153 —29,449 —397 Renumeration and other benefits 2016 Capital value of Base salary/ Variable Other Pension pension KSEK Board fees ­remuneration1) benefits2) costs3) TOTAL c­ ommitment Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board) –1,400 —1,400 Oskar Backman (Board member) — Ralph Berg (Board member) — Anna Borg Saether (Board member from Sept to Nov) –67 —67 Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd (Board member from Sep) –67 —67 Bengt Hellström (Board member until Aug) — Jens Henriksson (Board member) — Colin Hood (Board member) –517 —517 Nicola Shaw (Board member) –517 —517 Johan Lindehag (CEO) –2,131 –3,008 –38 –809 —5,986 –71 Other senior excecutives (10 persons) –11,741 –10,299 –210 –4,398 —26,648 –21 Total —16,440 —13,307 —248 —5,207 —35,202 —92 1) The variable remuneration consists of both expensed bonuses (short-term incentives, STIs) that will be paid during following year, and expensed long-term incentives (LTIs) that will be paid out in during the three ­following years. For further information on variable remuneration, please see information below on STIs and LTIs. 2) Other benefits mainly consist of company cars. 3) Disclosures on pension costs refer to pension premiums expensed for the financial year. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 53 NOTE 11 cont. Ellevio’s principles for the remuneration of senior executives state that the comtreated as defined contribution plans and charged to income statement as prepany shall offer market-based terms of employment that enable the company miums are paid. A description of the company’s defined benefit pension plans to recruit, develop and retain senior executives. The total remuneration package and information on the fair values of pension obligations and plan assets in consists of a combination of a fixed monthly salary, variable remuneration, accordance with IAS 19 are provided in the following. ­pensions and other benefits. In 2017, the CEO received a fixed salary of SEK 2,253 thousands (2,131) Defined benefit pension plans and variable remuneration of SEK 1,958 thousands (3,008). Variable remunerThe company has undertaken to make predetermined payments to the ation consists of a short-term incentive corresponding to 0–100 percent of the employee on or after retirement. The company has the following defined benefit fixed annual salary, and a long-term incentive corresponding to 0–100 percent pension plans: PA-KL (including SPP), Birkaplanen and the ITP 2 Plan. PA-KL of the yearly fixed salary. Variable remuneration does not constitute pension(including SPP) is a plan for municipal employees in Sweden. There are curable salary, nor is it a basis for holiday pay. (For further information on variable rently no active employees in that plan. The plan is administered and valued by remuneration, please see information below on STIs and LTIs). SPP. Birkaplanen is an alternative ITP plan. The benefits are administered by and The CEO and all other senior executives in the management team are covered secured through an insurance policy with Skandia Liv. The ITP 2 Plan is partly by a defined contribution pension plan that is entirely based on premiums, under closed, which means that only new employees born before 1979 have the which premiums comprise 30 percent of the fixed annual salary (see Note 12). option of choosing the ITP 2 solution. The ITP 2 Plan is insured with Alecta. For 2017, pension premiums were expensed in accordance with the table According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR 10 above. The retirement age for the CEO and the management team is 65 years. Recognition of the ITP 2 Plan Funded through Insurance with Alecta, this is a The period of notice for the CEO’ is six months both for resignation and defined benefit plan covering several employers. For the 2017 financial year, when termination is initiated by the company. If the CEO is terminated by the the company has not had access to information that would enable it to account company, a compensation equivalent up to twelve months’ salary is payable for its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, assets and expenses. It has in addition to the salary during the notice period. Any income from any other therefore not been possible to recognise the plan as a defined benefit plan. The employment and/or any other proceeds from other business activity during ITP 2 pension plan secured through an insurance policy with Alecta is therefore the period for which the CEO receives severance pay shall be deducted from recognised as a defined contribution plan. The premium cost for the defined the severance pay. No other remuneration is paid if the CEO resigns. The benefit age and family pension plan is calculated on individual basis and employment terms of other senior executives are consistent with market employdepends on such factors as salary, previous pension earnings and expected ment terms and there are no agreements providing for termination salary in remaining worktime. Forecasted premium cost for the next reporting period for excess of six months or agreements on severance pay. the ITP-2 plan with Alecta is expected to be SEK 19 million (17). The company’s share of the combined fees to the plan, and the company’s total number of SHORT-TERM INCENTIVES (STI) active members in the plan is considered to be an insignificant share. . Ellevio’s STI programme is designed to support the achievement of the compaThe collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s ny’s financial and other relevant non-financial targets on an annual basis. All assets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated in line with Alecemployees are covered by the programme. The financial targets are the same ta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The for all employees including the CEO and the management team and constitute collective consolidation level is normally permitted to vary between 125 per80 percent of the performance evaluation. The non-financial targets are teamcent and 155 percent. If Alecta’s collective consolidation level falls below based targets and constitute 20 percent of the target evaluation. The award target 125 percent or exceeds 155 percent, measures must be taken to create the reqlevel is 5 percent of the annual salary for employees in general, with a maximum uisite conditions for the level of consolidation to return to normal. One possible award of 10 percent. For the CEO, other senior executives and key employees measure to address a low consolidation level is to raise the contractual price for as designated by management, the award target level is 10–25 percent of the new subscriptions and expantion of existing benefits. One possible measure to annual salary, with a maximum award of 20–50 percent. Awards from the STI address a high consolidation level is to introduce reduced premiums. At yearprogramme are paid in cash in April the year after the performance year. end 2017, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective consolidation level was 154 percent (149). LONG-TERM INCENTIVES (LTI) The company’s defined benefit obligations in the Group’s annual report that The CEO and members of the company’s management team are covered by a are presented below have been calculated based on the salary levels applying long-term incentive program. The purpose of the programme is to support the at each end of the reporting period and using a discount rate of 2.4 percent delivery of sustainable, long-term performance, and align the interests of man(2.8). Assumed annual returns are defined by the company. agement with those of the shareholders as well as assist in committing and retaining senior management. The LTI program is a cash-based supplement to Defined benefit pension plans in the consolidated balance sheet the fixed annual salary. The award target level is 20–50 percent of the annual 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 salary depending on responsibility area, with a maximum award of 40–100 Total present value of defined benefit obligations 149 181 percent. Fair value of plan assets 189 240 Each LTI plan consists of a three-year earnings period and is contingent on Net amount, defined benefit pension plans 38 59 the participant remaining employed by the company throughout the period of the programme. The outcome of the programme is calculated annually and accumulated over the three-year period and any payments are made in April Defined contribution pension plans the year after the programme ends. The first programme that was established in The company pays fixed premiums to a number of different insurance compa2016 is exceptional and has a two-year earnings period with payouts to be nies. Upon payment of the premiums, the company has fulfilled its obligation in made in April 2018. The reward is recognised as an expense during the earnrespect of pension payments. Defined contribution plans are charged to income ing period with a corresponding increase in liability, along with related accrual statement in the period in which the employee performs his or her services. for social security contributions. Total premiums paid during the year in respect of defined benefit NOTE 12 and defined contribution plans PENSIONS 2017 2016 All employees are covered by collective agreements and the company’s penCost in profit/loss for the year sion obligations comprise both defined-contribution and defined benefit penCosts relating to services during current period —44 –40 sion plans. The company has elected not to apply the provisions of IAS 19 in a Total —44 –40 legal entity, which means that the company’s defined-benefit pension plans are 54 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 13 NOTE 17 DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF TAX INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current tax Amortisation of intangible assets —740 –743 Current tax on profit for the year —189 –223 Depreciation of buildings and land improvements —30 –29 Current tax attributable to prior years —1 — Depreciation of machinery and other technical plant —1,266 –1,238 Deferred tax Depreciation of equipment, tools and facilities —10 –6 Deferred tax attributable to temporary differences 21 205 Total —2,046 –2,016 Deferred tax attributable to prior years 0 – Total —169 –18 NOTE 14 INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR ITEMS Reconciliation, tax expense for the year 2017 2016 Profit/loss before tax 457 –221 2017 2016 Tax calculated at Swedish rate (22%) —101 49 External interest income 1 1 Tax effect, permanent items: Total 1 1 Non-deductible depreciation on goodwill —66 –66 Non-deductible interest expense 0 0 NOTE 15 Other non-deductible expenses —2 –1 INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR ITEMS Non-taxable income 0 0 Current tax attributable to prior years —1 0 2017 2016 Tax effect, temporary items: External interest expense —1,340 –1,094 Non-deductible depreciation on consessions —89 –88 Intra-Group interest expense —1,656 –1,652 Change in market value unrealised derivatives 28 –106 Derivatives that do not meet the criteria Other non-deductible cost —5 –2 for hedge accounting 127 –481 Other taxable income —1 0 Other financial expenses —43 –72 Residual value depreciation, machinery and equipTotal —2,912 –3,299 ment 46 —9 Deferred tax attributable to previous years 0 – NOTE 16 Change in deferred tax 21 205 APPROPRIATIONS Total —169 –18 Recognised tax expense for the year —169 –18 2017 2016 Group contributions received 1,493 1,487 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Group contributions paid 0 –1 The company’s deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities refer to the Distribution to tax allocation reserve —286 –338 ­following items: Total 1,207 1,148 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Deferred tax assets Doubtful receivables 0 1 Unrealised losses on derivatives 85 113 Other 0 0 Deferred tax assets 86 114 Deferred tax liability Surplus value concessions 8,646 8,712 Buildings and land improvements 152 157 Residual value depreciation, machinery and ­equipment 5,293 5,206 Deferred tax liability 14,091 14,075 Net deferred tax liabilities 14,005 13,961 Deferred tax assets are measured at the highest amount that is likely to be recovered based on current and future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets and tax ­liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority and the taxes can be settled on a net basis. The tax rate for calculating deferred tax is 22 percent. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 55 NOTE 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Projects in progress Utility and advance 2017 Goodwill Concessions IT systems easements payments Total COST at 1 January 2017 5,967 40,235 421 141 59 46,823 Costs incurred during the year — — — — 49 49 Disposals/retirements — — — — — — Acquisition value through merger 38 104 — — — 142 Reclassifications — — — — 22 22 Classification of capitalised costs — — 31 22 —53 — Accumulated cost at 31 December 2017 6,005 40,339 452 163 77 47,035 Depreciation at 1 January 2017 —472 —637 —321 — — —1,430 Disposals/retirements — — — — — — Reclassifications — — — — — — Depreciation for the year —300 —403 —37 — — —740 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2017 —772 —1,040 —358 — — —2,170 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 5,233 39,298 94 163 77 44,865 At the end of the reporting period, there were commitments to acquire intangible fixed assets amounting to SEK 0 million (3). The useful life of a part of IT investments related to systems for monitoring the operation of the electricity network has been defined as 8 years based on the ­minimum expected life of the monitoring system. The cost amounts to SEK 32 million (32) and the residual value per 2017-12-31 amounted to SEK 23 million (26). Projects in progress Utility and advance 2016 Goodwill Concessions IT systems easements payments Total COST at 1 January 2016 5,967 40,235 411 129 35 46,776 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 55 55 Disposals/retirements – – –9 – – –9 Reclassifications – – – – – – Classification of capitalised costs – – 19 12 –31 – Accumulated cost at 31 December 2016 5,967 40,235 420 141 59 46,823 Depreciation at 1 January 2016 –174 –235 –288 – – –696 Disposals/retirements – – 9 – – 9 Reclassifications – – – – – – Depreciation for the year –298 –402 –42 – – –743 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2016 –472 –637 –320 – – –1,430 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 5,495 39,598 100 141 59 45,393 Impairment testing years are based on detailed business plans. The 40-year forecast period cor­ The company’s non-financial assets excl. goodwill are divided into six cash-­ responds with the regulatory lifetime of the electricity distribution assets, which generating units and equated with the regulated entities into which the company is also conforms well with the investment cycle. Determination of future cash flow divided pursuant to its reports to the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate. is made by calculating how allowed revenue is expected to evolve over time, Goodwill is based on synergies among the cash-generating units and are attribbased on an assumption that the current regulatory model will remain valid for utable to the company’s overall earnings capacity. Accordingly, goodwill is future regulatory periods. The calculations are based on the company’s longallocated to the company level when testing for impairment requirements. term investment plans, assumptions concerning the company’s evolution of costs for both investments and operating costs in relation to regulatory norm-/refer31 Dec 2017 Goodwill Concessions ence costs and regulatory rate of return (WACC). After the 40-year period, a growth rate of 2 percent is applied which corresponds to the company’s longLocal networks Stockholm 12,423 term assumption about inflation and long-term growth. Local networks West Svealand 9,509 The company’s future cash flow is discounted to its value of use with a discount Local networks West Coast 7,797 factor of 5.6 percent after tax. Assumptions of the discount rate are based on Local networks South Norrland 6,258 external observable market information for similar assets. The individual assets Regional networks Rest of Sweden 2,765 categories have a discount rate amounting to 5.0–9.5 percent before tax which Regional networks Stockholm 545 reflects the risks associated with each asset. The annual test for possible impairCommon 5,233 ment performed in the fourth quarter of 2017 shows that there is no need for Carrying amount 5,233 39,298 impairment. The company has evaluated the sensitivity in the assumptions on which the impairment test is based. The calculations mainly depend on assumpThe recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less selling tions related to the regulatory rate of return and discount rate. Since these two costs and its value in use. The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is parameters are strongly connected it does not provide a true or fair outcome to determined by calculating the value in use. In measuring value in use, the calcuadjust these parameters independently of each other. Sensitivity analysis howlation is based on estimated future cash flows based on financial forecasts ever shows that a 5 percent reduction in the long-term regulatory rate of return, approved by management covering a period of 40 years, of which the first five all other factors remaining equal, does not cause any need for impairment. 56 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 19 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Machinery and Assets under Buildings Land other technical Equipment, tools construction and 2017 and land ­improvements plant and facilities advance payments Total Cost at 1 January 2017 1,311 21 45,710 129 1,681 48,852 Costs incurred during the year — — — — 2,332 2,332 Disposals/retirements —3 — —240 —1 — —244 Acquisition value through merger 11 — 324 1 10 345 Reclassifications — — — — —22 —22 Classification of capitalised costs 4 — 1,491 29 —1,524 0 Accumulated cost at 31 December 2017 1,323 21 47,284 158 2,476 51,263 Depreciation at 1 January 2017 —443 —19 —19,880 —112 — —20,454 Disposals/retirements 0 — 216 0 — 216 Accumulated depreciations through merger 0 — —3 0 — —3 Reclassifications — — — — — — Depreciation for the year —29 —1 —1,266 —10 — —1,305 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2017 —472 —20 —20,932 —122 — —21,546 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 852 1 26,352 36 2,476 29,718 At the end of the reporting period, there were commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment amounting to SEK 2,821 million (1,457). Machinery and Assets under Buildings Land other technical Equipment, tools construction and 2016 and land ­improvements plant and facilities advance payments Total Cost at 1 January 2016 958 21 44,347 123 1,382 46,830 Costs incurred during the year – – – – 2,021 2,021 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Reclassification 350 – –350 – – – Classification of capitalised costs 3 – 1,713 6 –1,722 – Accumulated cost at 31 December 2016 1,311 21 45,710 129 1,680 48,851 Depreciation at 1 January 2016 –407 –18 –18,649 –106 – –19,180 Disposals/retirements – – – – – – Reclassification –7 – 7 – – – Depreciation for the year –29 –1 –1,238 –6 – –1,274 Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2016 –442 –19 –19,880 –112 – –20,453 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 868 2 25,830 17 1,680 28,398 NOTE 20 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Cost at 1 January 0 0 Carrying amount at 31 December1) 0 0 1) The carrying amount at 31 December 2016 was SEK 32,000 (32,000). Share of Share of Number Value Name equity2) votes of shares 31 Dec 2017 Triangelbolaget 25% 25% 525 0 Name Corp. ID no. Reg. office Triangelbolaget 556007–9799 Stockholm 2) The share of equity is the same as share of votes. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 57 NOTE 21 NOTE 25 TRADE RECEIVABLES CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Trade receivables, gross 641 566 Available balances with banks and other Provision for doubtful receivables —10 –9 credit institutions 1 46 Trade receivables, net after provisions for Customer deposits 9 9 doubtful receivables 632 556 Total 10 55 Management deems the carrying amount of trade receivables, net after ­provisions for doubtful receivables, to be the same as fair value. NOTE 26 UNTAXED RESERVES Changes in provisions for doubtful receivables 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Tax allocation reserve 1,069 783 Provisions for doubtful receivables at 1 January —9 Total 1,069 783 Provisions for doubtful receivables for the year —1 Reversal of unused amount 0 NOTE 27 Provisions at 31 December 2017 —10 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Provisions for 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 doubtful 31 Dec 2017 Gross receivables Net Maturity within 1–5 years 9,444 14,525 Not yet payable 622 622 Maturity over 5 years 46,842 40,104 30 days past due 2 2 Total carrying amount 56,285 54,629 31–60 days past due 3 3 The nominal amount of the loans at the end of the reporting period was 61–90 days past due 1 1 SEK 56,184 million (54,657). > 90 days past due 13 —10 3 The company’s utilised overdraft facilities totalled SEK 136 million (130) and Total 641 —10 632 are included in the item “Current liabilities to credit institutions.” The limit on the overdraft facility is SEK 300 million (300). The company’s assessment is that payment will be received for trade receivables that are due but have not yet been impaired, as the customers’ payment histories are favourable. NOTE 28 LIABILITIES TO GROUP COMPANIES NOTE 22 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES Accrued interest 38 37 Total 38 37 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Receivable, group contributions 1,493 1,487 Other receivables 0 9 NOTE 29 Total 1,493 1,496 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 NOTE 23 Restructuring reserve 0 1 OTHER RECEIVABLES Liability, VAT 111 89 Employer contributions and deduction 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 of withholding tax 13 11 Settlement account for taxes and fees 0 0 Repayments to customers 1 1 Settlement, billing agent 154 79 Advances received 226 143 Other current receivables 1 1 Disruption and damage compensation to customers 10 2 Total 155 80 Other liabilities 0 4 Total 361 251 NOTE 24 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME NOTE 30 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Accrued distribution revenue 826 808 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Accrued interest income 165 123 Accrued interest 441 252 Prepaid rents 25 23 Accrued salaries 55 48 Other items 21 36 Accrued social security contributions 21 14 Total 1,037 990 Deferred income 2 7 Accrued investment expenses 117 138 Accrued transmission costs 74 97 Accrued measurement value costs 10 5 Accrued rents 28 24 Accrued field services 131 21 Accrued customer service costs 9 10 Other items 56 41 Total 944 658 58 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 31 RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Non-cash items Capitalized Unrealised Periodised 31 Dec 2016 Cash flows interest contracts financing costs 31 Dec 2017 Liabilities to Group companies 20,490 —421 1,049 14 21,131 Current liabilities to credit institutions 130 378 509 Non-current liabailites to credit institutions 14,513 —9,645 138 5,005 Bonds 19,099 10,635 14 29,749 Derivatives 515 —122 —5 388 Total liabilities from financing activities 57,747 825 1,049 –5 166 56,782 NOTE 32 NOTE 35 MERGER GROUP STRUCTURE In 2017, Ellevio AB acquired the Group company Nynäshamns Energi AB, Company Corp. ID No. Share (%) corporate ID number 556069-0995, from Ellevio Holding 1 AB. As of June 12 Ellevio Holding 1 AB 559005—2444 100% 2017, Nynäshamn Energi AB was merged with Ellevio AB. The income stateElverket Vallentuna AB 556577—2141 94,8% ment for Ellevio AB for 2017 includes SEK 41 million in net profit, SEK 12 million Elverket Vallentuna El AB 556473—5107 100% in operating profit and SEK 0 million from financial items that relate to the Elverket Vallentuna Elnät AB 556907—2134 100% income statement from Nynäshamn Energi AB before the merger (taking Elverket Entreprenad AB 556910—6791 100% account of elimination of internal transactions between the companies). In the merger, goodwill on consolidation from intangible and tangible assets and the Laforsen Produktionsnät AB 556050—9191 60% related deferred tax and depreciations were taken over by Ellevio AB. The Ellevio Holding 2 AB 559001—1937 100% breakdown by balance sheet is as follows: Ellevio Holding 3 AB 559005—2436 100% Ellevio Holding 4 AB 559005—2451 100% Ellevio AB (publ) 556037—7326 100% Assets Goodwill 37 Surplus value concessions 103 NOTE 36 Surplus value buildings and land 8 PROPOSED ALLOCATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS Surplus value machinery, equipment The following earnings are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: and tools 331 Retained earnings 5,983 Current assets 37 Profit/loss for the year 288 Total assets 517 6,181 Equity and liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 64 The Board of Directors proposes: Current liabilities 169 Retained earnings to be carried forward 6,181 Total equity and liabilities 234 6,181 NOTE 33 NOTE 37 PLEDGED ASSETS SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE PERIOD 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 In the beginning of February 2018, Ellevio issued a 7-year fixed class B bond Floating charges 136 136 amounting to SEK 3 billion, in order to to further enhance the capital structure Property mortgages 462 462 and pay back existing junior debt in the Group. The transaction represents the first Class B debt ever issued in the Swedish market. Bank deposits 1 46 Total 599 644 NOTE 34 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS The company’s balances with Group companies mainly consist of interest-bearing liabilities and related interest expenses to the parent company, Ellevio Holding 4 AB. The company has not been involved in any significant transactions with board members or with members of the management team. No loans exists for any member of the board or management team as at 31 December 2017. Information on transactions with related parties is provided in Notes 4, 6, 15, 22 and 28. ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 59 CEO’s and Board of Directors’ approval. The annual accounts were approved for release by the Board of Directors and the CEO on 26 April 2018 and the income statements and balance sheets were adopted by the Annual General Meeting on the same date. Stockholm, 26 April 2018 Sören Mellstig Chairman of the Board Oskar Backman Ralph Berg Mattias Bylund Jens Henriksson Colin Hood Karin Jarl Månsson Mohammad Nazemi Pamela Sundin Johan Lindehag Chief Executive Officer We submitted our audit report on 26 April 2018 Deloitte AB Daniel Wassberg Authorised Public Accountant 60 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Auditor’s Report. TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ELLEVIO AB (PUBL) CORP. ID 556037–7326 Report on the annual accounts • We reviewed the disclosures related to valuation of intangible assets and Opinions assess whether the disclosures are in line with Annual Accounts Act and RFR2. We have audited the annual accounts of Ellevio AB (publ) for the financial year • We have had our valuation experts involved in performing the above audit 2017-01-01– 2017-12-31. The annual accounts of the company are included procedures. on pages 35–60 in this document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with Financing and financial instruments the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial Ellevio’s financial statements as of December 31, 2017 include liabilities to credit position of the company as of 31 December 2017 and its financial performance institutions and bonds amounting to 35,263 MSEK as well as related financial and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts instruments amounting to 388 MSEK. These items are significant in the entity´s Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the balance sheet and accounting for derivative contracts and other financial instruannual accounts. ments are highly complex and could have a significant impact on the reported We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopt the results of Ellevio AB (publ). These items are also subject to complex accounting income statement and balance sheet for the company. and disclosure rules. The liabilities to credit institutions also have covenant requireOur opinions in this report on the the annual accounts are consistent with the ments which Ellevio AB (publ) must comply with. content of the additional report that has been submitted to the company’s audit Please refer to note 2, note 4 and note 27 for more information. committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: • We obtained an understanding of treasury business process and controls and Basis for opinions tested those for assessing the internal controls over the financing structure and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing the valuation of financial instruments. (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities • We received external confirmations from credit institutes to verify that liabilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities secand financial instruments are correctly accounted for in the financial statements tion. We are independent of the company in accordance with professional ethics as of 31 December 2017. for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities • We reviewed the accounting policies related to valuation of financial instruin accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of ments and assessed whether the accounting of these items are in line with our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit RegulaAnnual Accounts Act and RFR2. tion (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, • We reviewed the disclosures related to valuation of financial instruments and where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. assessed whether the disclosures are in line with Annual Accounts Act and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approRFR2. priate to provide a basis for our opinions. • We have had our treasury and accounting experts involved in performing the above audit procedures. Key audit matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, Other information than the annual accounts were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts of the current period. This document also contains other information than the annual accounts is found These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our on pages 1–34 and 66–79. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director ­opinion thereon, the annual accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate are responsible for this other information. opinion on these matters. Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Impairment of intangible assets In connection with our audit of the annual accounts, our responsibility is to read Ellevio AB (publ)´s financial statements include intangible assets as of December the information identified above and consider whether the information is materially 31, 2017, amounts to 44,866 MSEK which includes concessions and goodwill. inconsistent with the annual accounts. In this procedure we also take into account These items are significant in the entity´s balance sheet and changes in the reguour knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information latory market environment Ellevio operates in or lower than expected perforotherwise appears to be materially misstated. mance may be indicators of possible impairment of the recoverable amount of If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that these assets and hence the net asset value of Ellevio AB (publ). there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report Please refer to note 2, note 3 and note 18 for more information. that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: • We obtained an understanding of management’s annual impairment testing Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director process and controls for assessing impairment triggers and tested relevant The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the prepa­controls. ration of the annual accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance • We reviewed the valuation and financial development of the entity and diswith the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director cussed historical performance with management. are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to • We analyzed the assumptions made in the impairment tests and compared enable the preparation of annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, to historical performance and external and other benchmark data. whether due to fraud or error. • We evaluated the sensitivity testing of key assumptions. In preparing the annual accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s ability to continue ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT 61 as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going conadministration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things contincern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis uous assessment of the company’s financial situation and ensuring that the comof accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managpany’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets ing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring realistic alternative but to do so. manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among ­responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accountfinancial reporting process. ing in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual Auditor’s responsibility accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinor error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable ion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conreasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors ducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in or the Managing Director in any material respect: Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the to liability to the company, or aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic deci• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the sions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts. Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the comaccounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: pany’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonwww.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the able degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Comauditor´s report. panies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee Report on other legal and regulatory requirements that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing stanOpinions dards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have also audited the ­liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s ­administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Ellevio profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. AB (publ) for the financial year 2017-01-01– 2017-12-31 and the proposed A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration auditor´s report. report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing ­Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of Ellevio AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2017-04-26 and has been the company’s auditor since Basis for opinions 2006-06-30. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the Stockholm, April 26 2018 company in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden Deloitte AB and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Daniel Wassberg Authorized Public Accountant Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the company’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the 62 ELLEVIO 2017 • ANNUAL REPORT Corporate Governance Report. Ellevio AB (publ),”Ellevio”, is a public Swedish limited liability company with its Annual general meeting head office in Stockholm. At Ellevio, authority, management and governance The annual general meeting is Ellevio’s highest decision-making body, through are allocated among the shareholders, Board of Directors, CEO and managewhich Ellevio’s shareholders are entitled to determine Ellevio’s affairs. The ment team. Ellevio’s corporate governance aims to ensure proper risk and interannual general meeting elects the Board of Directors and the auditors, decides nal control, a defined delegation of responsibilities, a healthy corporate culture, their fees, adopts the income statement and balance sheet, resolves on the alloeffective decision-making procedures and sound relations with the company’s cation of the company’s earnings, grants the Board and CEO discharge from stakeholders, and thus to contribute to long-term value creation for the ­company’s liability, and resolves on other matters pursuant to the law, Articles of Association shareholders. and shareholder agreement. The Board of Directors hereby submits its corporate governance report for The 2017 annual general meeting was held on 26 April at Ellevio’s head 2017. A statutory review of the corporate governance report has been carried office in Stockholm. All shareholders were represented and the auditors were out by company’s auditors whose opinion is on page 65. ­present. No decisions were taken beyond the ordinary decisions at the annual general meeting. Given the limited amount of owners, neither a notification of nor Principles of corporate governance minutes for the annual general meeting were published on the company’s website. Corporate governance at Ellevio is based on applicable laws and ordinances, The 2018 annual general meeting will be held on 26 April 2018 in Stockholm. Articles of Association, shareholder agreements, internal policies and instructions. The external regulatory policies primarily comprise the Swedish Companies Act, Board of Directors and its work Swedish Annual Accounts Act, as well as other relevant laws. As a natural monopThe overall task of the Board of Directors is to bear responsibility for the organoly, the business is regulated in accordance with the Electricity Act and supervised isation and management of operations as well as financial reporting and susby the Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (Ei). Ellevio also adheres to regulatainability reporting. The Board is also tasked with ensuring that Ellevio’s organtions applicable to companies with interest-bearing instruments registered on the isation is designed in a manner that assures satisfactory control of accounting, Irish Stock Exchange. Ellevio is not subject to the mandatory requirement for listed asset management and financial conditions in general. companies to comply with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The Board is also responsible for establishing effective and appropriate sysThe company’s most significant governing document is the shareholder agreetems for governance, internal control and risk management, as well as for estabment signed by the four shareholders of Ellevio Holding 1 AB. The shareholder lishing guidelines that aim to ensure long-term value creation. Furthermore, the agreement stipulates how the Parent Company and Group’s subsidiaries are to Board should work to ensure that the company displays exemplary sustainable be governed. Other key internal policies are the Articles of Association and the entrepreneurship in areas such as the environment, ethics, working conditions, Board’s rules of procedure and instructions for the CEO and on reporting to the human rights, equality and diversity. Board. In addition, there is a Code of Conduct along with internal policies and The Board is to establish written rules of procedure governing its own work, and instructions that are adopted by the Board or by the company and revised on an these should be revised and established on an annual basis. These include instrucannual basis. tions for the Board’s areas of responsibilities and the boundaries between the Committees and the CEO. Owners and ownership structure The Chairman of the Board is in charge of evaluating the work of the Board Ellevio AB (publ) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ellevio Holding 4 AB. and reporting to the owners. This is done on an annual basis and aims to provide The Ellevio Group’s Parent Company is Ellevio Holding 1 AB, which has an overview of the Directors’ opinions on how work is progressing, as well as what the ­following ownership structure: changes could be made to enhance efficiency. • The Third National Pension Fund, 20 percent • Folksam, 17.5 percent Composition of the Board • The First National Pension Fund, 12.5 percent According to the Articles of Association, the Board is to comprise no less than 3 • OMERS Infrastructure, 50 percent and no more than 10 Directors, and no more than 10 deputies. The shareholdThe Group also includes Ellevio Holding 2 AB, Ellevio Holding 3 AB, Elverket ers nominate Directors in accordance with the shareholder agreement, and the Vallentuna AB including subsidiary and Laforsen Produktionsnät AB. The Group annual general meeting takes the final decision. structure is presented in Note 35 on page 59. In 2017, the Board consisted of 7 Directors and 2 employee representatives. The Board comprised Sören Mellstig (Chairman of the Board), Nicola Shaw, Colin Hood, Ralph Berg, Jens Henriksson, Oskar Backman, Catharina ElmsäterSvärd, Pamela Sundin, (employee representative) and Patrik Widén (employee represenative). info info Shareholders Audit Committee appoint elected by Nomination and Remuneration Committee External Auditor info Board of Directors Finance Committee appoints Sustainability Committee CEO ELLEVIO 2017 • Corporate Governance Report 63 The Board’s deputies during the year were Alastair Hall, Sten Olsson, Mattias The auditor reported the findings of the review of the 2017 annual accounts to Bylund, Martin Källström, Tomas Bergquist (employee representative) and Leif Haag the Audit Committee at its meeting of 13 February 2018 as well as to the Board (employee representative) who was replaced by Fredrik Ullman in November. at the Board meeting of 26 April 2018. At the end of the year, Nicole Shaw and Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd resigned and were replaced by Karin Jarl Månsson and Mattias Bylund. The Board of CEO and management team Directors is presented on page 66. The Board of Directors appoints the CEO, who is responsible for the day-to-day management of Ellevio in accordance with the Board’s instructions. The allocaBoard meetings tion of responsibilities between the Board and the CEO is, in addition to the According to the Board’s rules of procedure, at least four ordinary meetings rules that apply to limited liability companies, specified in an instruction adopted must be held each year. In addition to the ordinary meetings, the Board may annually by the Board of Directors. be called to convene whenever necessary. In 2017, nine Board meetings were The CEO’s responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the operation of the busiheld at Ellevio, including the statutory meeting. Significant matters discussed ness, human resources, finances and accounting, and maintaining regular contact included: with Ellevio’s stakeholders, such as government agencies. The CEO is responsible • Ellevio’s strategic direction, business plan and goals (including sustainability for ensuring that the Board receives the information it requires to take decisions targets) and delivers monthly reports to the Board regarding financial circumstances, signif• Financing matters icant events and other important information. • Acquisition matters, such as the acquisition of Elverket Vallentuna AB and the The CEO has appointed a management team that is in charge of day-to-day agreement with Svenska kraftnät concerning future acquisitions of grid assets operations. The management team meets regularly to make decisions about and • Safety issues, particularly concerning the working environment and cyber security monitor the business, to discuss issues linked to the organisation and human resources, as well as current projects and other matters. Information about remuBoard Committees neration to the CEO and management team in 2017 can be found in Note 11 Four Board committees have been established to enhance efficiency and on pages 53–54. The management team, including the CEO, is presented on opportunities for expanding the work of the Board: the Audit Committee, the page 67. Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Finance Committee and the Sustainability Committee. The committees serve in an advisory capacity and their Operational management and internal control work primarily involves preparing matters for adoption by the Board. Meetings The Board and management team work in accordance with an annual cycle are minuted and committee chairs report on the progress of their work at every including a structured process for strategic business planning and operational Board meeting. Representatives of Ellevio’s executive management participate monitoring. All of the company’s activities are based on Ellevio’s values, which in committee meetings. are in turn based on the key words reliability, commitment and development. The The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting and company’s business is operated in accordance with Ellevio’s Code of Conduct. the audit process. The Audit Committee monitors compliance with the relevant Ellevio maintains policies, instructions and procedures that are intended to laws and the application of and compliance with corporate governance policies, establish rules and responsibilities for specific areas and to define mandates and including internal control and risk management. In 2017, the Audit Committee authority. In addition to the policies adopted by the Board, there are also policies comprised Nicola Shaw (Chair), Sören Mellstig and Mattias Bylund. determined by the CEO, as well as instructions and procedures determined by the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible for adopting head of each business function. In line with the operational management structure, policies for the appointment and dismissal of senior executives, establishing remuthe management has produced policies within the areas of sustainability, working neration policies and terms of employment for senior executives, as well as reviewenvironment, financing, management of insider information, information security, ing the performance of senior executives in relation to set objectives. In 2017, the whistleblowing and others. Committee comprised Sören Mellstig (Chair), Oskar Backman, Jens Henriksson These documents are available to all employees. They are revised on an and Leif Haag (employee representative). annual basis or when necessary to ensure compliance with the prevailing laws The Finance Committee is responsible for reviewing the company’s financial and provisions and so forth. The organisation is continuously updated and given strategy and the ongoing monitoring of the financial risk exposure. In 2017, the training in policies, instructions and procedures. Overall, this internal framework Finance Committee comprised Oskar Backman (Chair), Ralph Berg and Patrik covers all relevant operational areas in an appropriate manner. Widén (employee representative). Risk management is an integrated element in the planning, governance and The Sustainability Committee is responsible for assessing the Health, Safety monitoring of operations. Business risks are assessed through the strategy and and Environment (HSE) strategy, monitoring HSE performance in relation to set planning activities of the Board and management, and the underlying premise is ­targets, identifying key areas of improvement and encouraging greater awareness that risks are managed on a day-to-day basis in the operations in which they arise. of the importance of HSE. In 2017, the Sustainability Committee comprised Colin Ellevio conducts internal control efforts aimed at ensuring that operations are Hood (Chair) and Tomas Bergquist (employee representative). managed in a secure, appropriate and efficient manner. Internal control mechanisms for financial reporting aim to secure that the company prepare reliable finanBoard fees cial statements and reporting, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The shareholders have submitted a proposal for adoption by the annual general Ellevio has information and communication channels that aim to promote commeeting concerning Board fees. The 2017 annual general meeting adopted a pleteness and accuracy in its financial reporting. The annual report and half-yearly resolution on fees pursuant to the proposal submitted by shareholders. Informareports specify which parts are formal financial reports, the regulations on which tion on Board fees for 2017 can be found in Note 11 on pages 53–54. they are based and which parts have been audited by the company’s auditor. Ellevio publishes the half-yearly report, year-end report and annual report on the Auditor company’s website. The task of the auditor is to independently review the administration of the Board Ellevio’s operations are subject to supervision by the Swedish Energy Markets and CEO along with the company’s annual report and bookkeeping. The Inspectorate (Ei) and means that financial and operational reporting should be annual general meeting is responsible for electing an external auditor. Auditors conducted yearly. These reports can be found on Ei’s website. are elected for a term of one year, in accordance with the main rule of the Swedish Companies Act. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Ellevio must Sustainability have one or two auditors. An auditing firm can be elected as Ellevio’s auditor. Sustainability is an integrated part of Ellevio’s vision and the company is workAt Ellevio’s annual general meeting on 26 April 2017, Deloitte AB was ing systematically to integrate sustainability into the business plan and operaelected as the company’s auditor for the period until the end of the 2018 tional management. The Board of Directors is consistently involved in the annual general meeting. The principal auditor is authorised public accountant ­company’s sustainability initiatives and receives monthly progress reports. Daniel Wassberg. In 2017, Ellevio became the first stand-aloeelectricity distribution operator to join the UN Global Compact, which covers the areas of human rights, labour law, ­environment and anti-corruption. 64 ELLEVIO 2017 • Corporate Governance Report Auditor’s statement on the ­corporate governance report. TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS IN ELLEVIO AB (PUBL) CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556037–7326 Mission and responsibility Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The Board of Directors is responsible for the corporate governance report for We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our the financial year 20170101– 2017-12-31 on pages 63–64 and for opinions. ­ensuring it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinions The scope of the audit A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accorOur audit has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard: dance with chapter 6, section 6, second paragraph, points 2–6 of the Annual RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This Accounts Act and chapter 7, section 31, second paragraph of the same law means that our audit of the corporate governance statement is different and subare consistent with the annual accounts and are in accordance with the Annual stantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Accounts Act. Stockholm, 26 April 2018 Deloitte AB Daniel Wassberg Authorised Public Accountant ELLEVIO 2017 • Corporate Governance Report 65 Board of Directors. FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, SEATED: FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, STANDING: NOT IN THE PHOTO: Pamela Sundin Oskar Backman Ralph Berg Employee representative Year of birth: 1971, year of election: 2015 Year of birth: 1972, year of election: 2015 Year of birth: 1972, year of election: 2015 Nicola Shaw* Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd* Sören Mellstig Year of birth: 1969, year of election: 2015 Year of birth: 1965, year of election: 2016 Chairman Year of birth: 1951, year of election: 2015 Patrik Widén Karin Jarl Månsson* Employee representative Year of birth: 1964, year of election: 2018 Colin Hood Year of birth: 1979, year of election: 2015 Year of birth: 1955, year of election: 2015 Mattias Bylund* Year of birth: 1977, year of election: 2018 Jens Henriksson Year of birth: 1967, year of election: 2015 * Nicola Shaw and Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd resigned on 31 December, 2017. They have been replaced by Karin Jarl Månsson and Mattias Bylund. 66 ELLEVIO 2017 • Board of Directors Management Team. FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, SEATED: FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, STANDING: NOT IN THE PHOTO: Anna-Karin Käck Bengt Johansson Helena Karlsson Finance Network HR and sustainability (Acting) Year of birth: 1976, joined the business in: 1999 Year of birth: 1961, joined the business in: 1989 Year of birth: 1973, joined the business in: 2017 Thomas Saubach Lowina Lundström Operations Customer and market Year of birth: 1969, joined the business in: 2002 Year of birth: 1967, joined the business in: 2009 Johan Lindehag Jan Seveborg CEO Treasury Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2000 Year of birth: 1962, joined the business in: 2015 Anna Lidberg David Bjurhall Communications Regulation Year of birth: 1968, joined the business in: 2008 Year of birth: 1975, joined the business in: 2010 Anna-Carin Joelsson Erika Abrahamsson Projects and IT Legal Year of birth: 1972, joined the business in: 2007 Year of birth: 1965, joined the business in: 2011 ELLEVIO 2017 • Management Team 67 Sustainability report. Our sustainability initiatives an active contribution to Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy”, Goal 9 For Ellevio, sustainability is an important part of the business and is con“Industry, innovation and infrastructure” and Goal 5 “Gender Equality”. sidered in every decision we make. We view sustainability as a balance Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy” essentially represents our between financial, social and environmental responsibility and the basic mission in society and is the focus of our long-term investments. Between work involves ensuring that we comply with strict requirements and 2016 and 2019, Ellevio is investing around SEK 10 billion in the develexpectations in all of these areas. Financial sustainability refers to ongoopment and future-proofing of the electricity network. In cities, this is prining work to enhance operational efficiency and carry out investments in cipally a question of increasing capacity while greater security of supthe grid that create long-term value for customers, investors and employply by way of weather-proofing is the main focus outside the cities. ees, as well as establish a transparent price framework. Social responsiThese investments will provide us with an electricity network that can bility involves promoting the health, safety, well-being and equality of handle the challenges and opportunities we face in the future. Goal 7 employees and others. Ellevio should be a safe and attractive employer also contains guidelines for realising energy efficiency enhancements, and contractor. Environmental responsibility means our impact on the which is largely the focus of our work on the next generation of smart ­climate and our natural resources should be as minimal as possible, and electricity meters. The next generation of meters will allow producers, involves us contributing to the transition to a sustainable energy system. electricity network companies and consumers to all monitor their elecOur sustainability initiatives are not merely a question of complying tricity production and consumption in real time. That said, all customers with laws and regulations, but taking social responsibility by constantly in the Swedish electricity network market already have access to meters making improvements to prioritised significant sustainability issues. This that allow half-hourly measurements. In the case of the electricity netinvolves setting clear targets, measuring their progress and implementing works of the future, we will install information technology that gathers, regular follow-ups of results before taking corrective measures where necrelays, stores and analyses information from thousands of measurement essary. Below is a description of our efforts and achievements in 2017. points. This makes it possible to ensure the right amount of electricity is This year’s sustainability report has been produced in line with produced and distributed where it is needed. Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) standards ”core” level. As from 2017, Goal 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure” also forms part of our the Annual Accounts Act places increased demands on large compamission in society. Efficient infrastructure is currently dependent upon an nies to report on the company’s actions in a number of sustainability efficiently functioning electricity network; for instance, it allows people to issues. Ellevio has carried out the reconciliation of the sustainability report get to work or school in a smooth and reliable way. It also ensures in order to ensure that it complies with the requirements of the Annual everyone has access to information and communication technology Accounts Act. The full sustainability report consists of the following report and that companies can rely on robust transport systems and energy as well as the texts referred to in the GRI index on pages 77–79. services. Sustainable infrastructure is accessible, reliable, environmenDuring the year, Ellevio signed up to the UN Global Compact tally friendly and robust. (UNGC) and participated in the Swedish interim board of directors of In addition to this, Ellevio also actively focuses on Goal 5 “Gender UNGC Sweden in 2017. This report contains information about Equality” in order to develop the company, industry and offer support Ellevio’s work involving the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the outside our sphere by way of social responsibility initiatives and sponareas of human rights, labour law, environment and anti-corruption, and sorship. For Ellevio, equality is both a goal in itself and a prerequisite of fulfils our requirement to report the progress of our sustainability initiasustainable development. By working towards a more equal Ellevio, tives (Communication on Progress). The report also describes Ellevio’s our ambition is to contribute to a more equal industry and, in the end, activities linked to the UN’s global sustainable development goals. a more equal society. In addition to these initiatives, Ellevio has decided to affiliate itself with a number of voluntary industry organisations and initiatives in order to proManagement of sustainability initiatives mote long-term, sustainable industry development and regulation at local, A Code of Conduct which reflects the Global Compact’s (UNGC) ten national and international level. Examples of such affiliations include: principles and a sustainability policy form the basis of Ellevio’s sustain• Energiföretagen Sverige ability initiatives. Both the sustainability policy and the Code of Conduct • The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) have been adopted by Ellevio’s Board of Directors. Ellevio has an envi• Energiforsk ronmental management system certified in accordance with ISO • International Council on Large Electric Systems (Cigre) 14001:2015. In addition to these policies, there are further supporting • The 2030 Secretariat policies that govern Ellevio’s sustainability initiatives. • The Värmland Chamber of Commerce • Guidelines for governance of EHS • The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce • Fundamental safety policy • EFA – Energiföretagensarbetsgivareförening AB • Code of Conduct for suppliers • Risk policy The UN’s global sustainable development goals • Information security policy During the year, Ellevio analysed the UN’s 17 global development goals • Grid policy, which describes how Ellevio will plan and develop which are to be achieved before the end of 2030. These global goals its electricity network, including principles for redundancy have been ratified by 150 countries and Ellevio’s view is that the business • Whistleblowing policy community has an important role to play in terms of achieving the goals. • Equal opportunity policy Thanks to our skills and core operations, we have the opportunity to make • Sponsorship policy • SF6 policy 68 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report All major sustainability issues, such as joint improvement targets, activities • Interviews with stakeholders. Employees, representatives of owners, and measurements are prepared by one of the sustainability committees industry and stakeholder organisations, suppliers and customers appointed by the Board for decisions to be taken by the Board. Ellevio’s were all interviewed. There were no major differences in how these sustainability manager participates in the meetings of the sustainability stakeholders viewed Ellevio’s significant issues, which are described committee and is responsible for implementing decisions within the on the following pages. organisation. • The results of the desktop analysis and interviews along with 9 There are several sustainability aspects that must be considered for ­significant sustainability issues for Ellevio were established at the large infrastructure projects and investments in the grid, such as choice workshop, which involved executive management. of materials, construction method and whether the planned location involves any environmental or human impact. All projects over SEK 5 milSignificant sustainability issues lion and SEK 10 million respectively (local and regional grids) must Ellevio significant sustainability issues have been established and are therefore undergo a sustainability analysis before an investment decibased on the feedback we have received from our most important sion can be taken. The aim of the sustainability analysis is to ensure that stakeholders. Certain issues affect several areas and can have a finanevery sustainability aspect and risk relevant to us is taking into account in cial, environmental and social impact. Our social responsibility is also the investment proposal. By integrating and mapping such sustainability described on pages 16–18. aspects during the investment process, we are able to increase our understanding of sustainability. The analysis also ensures that our investFinancial impact Environmental impact Social impact ment proposals are in line with Ellevio’s environmental targets and the susTransition to a more Transition to a more Health and safety tainability policy. ­sustainable energy ­sustainable energy system Responsible purchasing/ system Responsible purchasing/ Supplier relationships Requirements are also placed on purchases in order to reduce the Security of supply Supplier relationships Responsibility for local environmental impact and safeguard human rights and good working Customer satisfaction Biodiversity ­communities conditions for employees of suppliers. These requirements can be found Equality in a special Code of Conduct for suppliers. Good working conditions Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis Ellevio pursues a continuous dialogue with its most important stakeholders. Sustainability risks This dialogue takes a different form for different groups. Risk management at Ellevio is an integral part of our operational planIn 2017, a materiality analysis was undertaken to identify the sustainning, governance and follow-up. Risk management is decentralised, ability issues that have the most significant financial, environmental and and the responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with each social impact on Ellevio and its stakeholders. The materiality analysis business unit. The finance department is responsible for coordinating risk comprised three parts: a desktop analysis, interviews and an internal management activities and for reporting on significant risks together with workshop with Ellevio employees. action plans for the Board of Directors. Ellevio’s Audit Committee, which • The desktop analysis mapped out Ellevio’s sustainability context and reports directly to the Board, bears overall responsibility for risk managewas based on internal information and a review of the sustainability ment. initiatives of industry colleagues. The precautionary principle is followed, which refers to the evaluation and management of sustainability risks linked to Ellevio’s operations. Important stakeholders The table below shows the significant sustainability-related risks that have been identified. Employees Risk areas Description of risk Potential impact Responsible purchasing/­ Risk of potential bribery Legal consequences Customers Society supplier relationships before and during procurements and during implementation phase Responsible purchasing/­ Suppliers and contractors Personal injury supplier relationships that do not comply with Damage to environment Owners/ Ellevio’s code of conduct NGOs Disruption to supply Investors Ellevio for suppliers 360 Choice of materials Products contain Injury/ill-health among staff ­forbidden substances when handling or conflict materials Legal consequences Leakage of oil in oil-filled Damage to environment Suppliers Media power lines Increased sanitisation costs Creosote poles used in a Harm to environment or way that is not in line with ­individuals Public Ellevio’s policy and Industry authorities/ ­guidelines Politicians ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report 69 Risk areas Description of risk Potential impact • Our employees will be very satisfied with Ellevio as an employer. Health and safety Unsafe working condiAccidents or fatalities Diversity will be a strength, with more and more women working at tions or lack of underWeakened productivity the organisation and occupying management positions and thus standing of risks among employees who work at Legal consequences contributing to greater equality. Our employees will enjoy a good or on behalf of Ellevio work-life balance thanks to correct resource allocation and planEnvironment We do not comply with Legal consequences ning, as well as support from aware managers who set a good applicable laws and ­regulations Increased costs, poorer example. Ellevio will be an attractive company, renowned in its results industry and a ­preferred option for people who have the skills and Security of supply Major, long-term disrupConsequences for society tions to electricity supply qualifications Ellevio needs to continue its success. Financial consequences IT and information security Major IT disruptions and/ Damage to property or loss of customer data Consequences for society Ellevio’s overall environmental goals are – apart from the transition to or other data a sustainable energy system – to reduce the impact on the climate and natural resources and contribute to strong biodiversity. Sustainability targets In 2017, Ellevio established a number of major, long-term sustainability The following detailed targets have been established: targets. By 2023, we are to have achieved the following: Significant • Safety and the environment will be taken into account in all of our ­sustainability Target work and decisions, which in turn will lead to better choices for a issues Description of target 2023 ­sustainable future. Ellevio safety culture will be well integrated into Health and safety Total proportion of fulfilled requirements in the field 90% ­during unannounced site visits (indexed) the organisation and extend right out to staff in the field who work Accident frequency (LWIF) of workers at contractors <2 on behalf of Ellevio, which in turn will reduce incidents and accidents. Our environmental footprint will be reduced and we will Biodiversity Total surveyed power lane corridors (km) including 900 enhance biodiversity along our power lane corridors by establishing updated management plans adapted maintenance plans. • Our customers will see us as reliable, committed and sustainable. Good working Percentage women at the company 33% In addition to a reliable supply of electricity, our customers will be ­conditions Employee engagement index (level of engagement) 75 offered a modern platform that enables efficiency enhancements. Our customers and other important stakeholders will view Ellevio as a responsible and reliable partner and consultant in our society. • We will ensure a dramatically reduced proportion of power outages, unplanned maintenance and actions to remedy faults thanks to effective investments in the grid and preventive maintenance. • We will have developed our sustainability initiatives to the extent that sustainability is a fully integrated part of our processes and organisation. 70 ELLEVIO 2017 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ellevio’s significant sustainability issues and our 1. Value: strategic business issues that create financial value for society achievements during the year. and the company To clarify why selected issues are considered significant for Ellevio, 2. Responsibility: relates to extra responsibility for securing future these issues have been categorised in a value pyramid. According to ­operations this model, there are different incentives for companies to work on sustain3. Regulatory compliance: risk management and compliance with ability issues and these can be divided up into three categories: regulations and laws. Transition to a more sustainable energy system On pages 6 and 8–15, there is a description of what is meant by a sustainable energy systems into the following significant issues; invest­sustainable energy system and its significance to society. In order to ments in infrastructure, choice of materials, smart electricity networks and ­better understand and measure the transition, we have chosen to divide electricity from renewable sources. Issue Target Outcome Transition to a more s­ ustainable energy system. Decommission pipelines with pressured cables to reduce During the year, 14 km was decommissioned and 33 km Choice of materials the risk of oil leaks. was cleaned. According to the plan, all oil cables in Stockholm will be decommissioned in 2018. Only use SF6 if there are no alternatives and reduce leakage. 1,040 kg (208) was newly installed and total leakage amounted to 29.6 kg (56.9). Reduce usage of creosote poles. During the period In 2017, around 13,600 creosote poles were removed. 2018–2019, 25–30,000 poles were removed. Transition to a more s­ ustainable energy system. Improved operational monitoring and metering infrastructure Procurement commenced in 2017. Smart electricity networks by replacing ­electricity meters for all customers. Transition to a more s­ ustainable energy system. Contribute to greater share of electricity produced by In 2017, the number of micro-producing solar panel ­customers Electricity from renewable sources ­renewable sources. rose by 56%. The total number of customers in 2017 was 1,493. In 2017, 26 new wind turbines were connected, ­providing 82 MW. Transition to a more s­ ustainable energy system. Ellevio is investing SEK 10 billion • During the year, Ellevio invested SEK 2.4 billion. Investment in infrastructure during the period 2016–2019. •Results for 2017 are described in more detail in the section Investments and financing for the future, p. 28–34. Security of supply (SAIDI) Minutes Transition to a more sustainable 400 energy system Security of supply Value 300 Customer satisfaction Responsibility for local 200 communities Responsibility Good working conditions 100 Equality, Biodiversity 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Health and safety Regulatory compliance Responsible purchasing Stockholm Rural areas ELLEVIO 2017 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Investments in infrastructure Descriptions of environmental aspects such as the use of creosote as a Ellevio’s electricity network should provide a high level of accessibility preservative for wooden poles and oils containing PCBs (polychloriand be safe for customers, society and employees. Investments are the nated biphenyls) in certain cables and capacitators can be found on most important activity in terms of adapting the electricity network to the pages 26–27. Ellevio is reducing the number of wooden poles by needs of the future. Ellevio carries out major investments to reduce outreplacing older low and medium-voltage overhead lines with cables in ages, improve security of supply and increase the electricity network’s the ground as far as possible, thus also weather-proofing the grids. The capacity. Investments are made to meet society’s heightened need for surrounding environment is taken into consideration when replacing energy and to enable a greater share of renewable energy. poles. Other pole materials are used in sensitive environments and Annual investments in Ellevio’s electricity network amount to between urban areas where people are often present, such as composite, steel SEK 2–3 billion. The cost of maintenance and fault repairs on the grid or concrete. Measures are taken to protect the ground from deposits of corresponds to some SEK 0.5 billion per year. preservatives in the case of temporarily erected poles. To ensure these chemicals are used in a controlled manner, there are Choice of materials clear requirements in agreements, policies and internal control proWith regard to the choice of materials, we consider it vital to minimise grammes. Work is under way to pinpoint more environmentally solutions. or, ideally, avoid the use of the gas sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) which has an almost 23,000 times greater impact on the climate than CO2. SF6 is Smart grids used as an insulator in instruments (breakers) and switching centres. There The description of why smart grids are a significant issue and how they is a risk of leakage into the surrounding environment in the event are managed can be found on pages 12–15. of major accidents, but also to a lesser extent in normal operations. There are not always ideal alternatives to the use of SF6 due to technical, Electricity from renewable sources space and cost reasons. In practice, this means that instruments that use The description of why electricity from renewable sources is a significant SF6 as an insulator should be avoided as far as possible, and in the issue can be found on pages 11–12 and 26–27. Ellevio is working case of switching centres, new facilities are only built at higher voltages actively to connect wind power by way of close collaborations with in densely populated areas, principally in Stockholm where we compete wind power developers. We also have specific processes to help with many other players for space. micro-producers who want to produce electricity using solar panels, for example. Security of supply One of the most significant sustainability issues for Ellevio is ensuring that by customers divided by the total number of customers. The index our customers receive a highly reliable supply of electricity. Good enables comparison with other companies. SAIDI is an important key accessibility to electricity is vital if society is to function, and accessibility ratio for Ellevio and is measured each month and analysed continuously. will become increasingly important as new industries become electriSAIDI can vary between years depending on whether there have fied. Ellevio currently has a security of supply of 99.98 percent. In order been any major storms during the autumn or winter of the year in questo ensure a robust security of supply, a specific organisation has been tion. Since Storm Gudrun in 2005, Ellevio has undertaken systematic established at Ellevio that monitors the electricity network around the work to weather-proof the electricity network, particularly in rural areas, clock, 7 days a week and 365 days a year. Read more about security which are affected more severely than Stockholm and other urban of ­supply on pages 17–18. areas. There are more customers in Stockholm, but a larger proportion The international standard SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duraof the grid is buried underground and there are extensive opportunities tion Index) is used to measure security of supply, which is calculated as for change-over switching. the sum of all outage periods (excluding planned works) experienced Issue Target Outcome Comments Security of supply Ellevio’s customers should have an uninThe outcome of SAIDI 2017 in the Stockholm area was The better result in the rural area is primarily due terrupted electricity supply – today, tomor44 minutes (34) and 96 minutes (115) in the rural area. to stabile weather at the same time as the result row and in 50 years. in Stockholm has decreased somewhat due to more sensitive operational conditions in our grid from redevelopments. 72 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report Customer satisfaction Electricity is a necessity if our modern lives are to function properly. s­ atisfaction is measured on a monthly basis by way of telephone surveys A reliable electricity supply is the basis of our offering to customers and among a selection of our customers. In total, some 10,000 customers a prerequisite for our customers feeling satisfied with us as a company. respond to our questions every year. The results of the customer surveys In addition to measuring security of supply, we have also chosen to are followed up at management level and reported to the Board of report customer satisfaction in some of the company’s most important Directors. customer processes – customer service and connection. Customer Issue Target Outcome Customer satisfaction 84% satisfied customers 85% satisfied customers Responsible purchasing Ellevio’s operations are dependent upon a large number of suppliers, The majority of these suppliers are from Sweden or Europe, with a small and we consider it a significant issue for all purchasing to be conducted number from other parts of the world. Around 100 suppliers account for in a responsible manner. This means we ensure the conditions at suppli95 percent of Ellevio’s purchasing volume. All of these ­suppliers were ers’ premises are acceptable from a sustainability perspective. Ellevio’s assessed during the tendering process to check whether they fulfilled the Code of Conduct for suppliers specifies environmental and social requirements in the Code of Conduct. requirements that the suppliers must fulfil. These requirements are identiEllevio is subject to the Act on procurement of water, energy, transcal to the ones we place on ourselves. port and postal services (LUF) and procurements are conducted in the Ellevio procures various goods and services which are divided up same manner as public procurements. More information about responsiinto five main categories: contractors, IT, consultants, strategic materials ble purchasing can be found on page 25. and indirect materials/services. Ellevio has around 1,100 different suppliers. In 2017, 74 percent of purchases were for contractor services and materials for investments in our electricity networks. Issue Target Outcome Comments Responsible purchasing/ All new supplier contracts are to include In 2017, all 19 new major suppliers were evaluated This evaluation was undertaken during the Supplier relationships Ellevio’s sustainability requirements. based on social and environmental criteria. ­tendering process. 250 unannounced site visits will be Furthermore, 313 unannounced site visits at contractors ­carried out along with 10 major audits. were carried out during the year, along with 10 audits focusing particularly on the Code of Conduct for suppliers. Biodiversity Biodiversity is a concept used to describe the variety of species of life These species are finding it increasingly hard to survive nowadays. We on Earth. There is a large number of different species, habitats and take responsibility by taking an inventory and then adapting our man­ecosystems that combine to provide us with the fundamental conditions agement of areas rich in different species, thus creating green infrastrucneeded for our climate and environment. ture that contributes to biodiversity and functioning ecosystems. Green For Ellevio, contributing to biodiversity is a significant issue. Ellevio keeps infrastructure is a matter of creating networks of habitats and distribution power lanes free from trees and bushes so that electricity can be transpathways so that plants and animals can live and move around the ported as safely as possible, thus minimising outages. At the same time, we landscape. See also pages 26–27. create environments for species connected to meadows and pastures. Issue Target Outcome Comments Biodiversity By 2023, 900 km of our power lanes that In 2017, GIS analyses were carried out in order to idenThe boundary is to focus on power lanes for have been shown to be “likely rich in tify the most likely power lanes to have grassland rich in overhead lines of 50 kV and over due to their ­species” in conducted GIS analyses will species (species that benefit pastural land and plains). width over the next 5 years. be inventoried in the field. Adapted mainDuring the coming years, field inventories will be protenance measures will be implemented in duced, after which the needs for adapted maintenance the species-rich areas where adjustments for species-rich areas will be identified. may benefit biodiversity. ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report 73 Health and safety The health and safety of our employees and business partners is a key comings, work-related injuries and proposals for improvements. When issue at the core of our operations. Ellevio is to be a safe and attractive a case has been registered, the information is automatically sent to an inciworkplace and contractor. The safety of the people who work at and dent manager who ensures an investigation is carried out, measures are for Ellevio is always our top priority and we have a zero vision in relation taken and a follow-up is conducted before the case can be closed. Investo accidents and work-related illnesses. tigations, measures and follow-up work are all vital aspects that contribute Ellevio has a deviation management system for reporting and followto the continuous improvement of our operations and help prevent serious ing up deviations relating to near-accidents, accidents, risks, safety shortnear-accidents, accidents and work-related illnesses. Issue Target Outcome Comments Health and safety Zero vision for the number In-house staff TRIF: ‘Total Reportable Incidents Frequency’, the of accidents In the last 2 years, none of our employees have been number of accidents per 1 million hours worked injured at work. for Ellevio’s employees. Includes accidents that TRIF:0 led to absence from work of more than one day, the need for restricted work, or medical treatment. Contractors LWIF: 0.9 LWIF: ‘Lost Workday Injury Frequency’ ­represents the number of lost workdays per 1 ­million hours During 2017, personal injuries for contractors have worked due to personal injury among Ellevio’s primarily been a result of current passages, falling and contractors. vehicle accidents. All injuries comprises men. 2017’s results are the lowest reported, in the history There has not been any fatal accidents among of the company. A result of 0.9 shows that we have Ellevio employees or contractors during 2017. 0.9 accidents per 1 million hours worked. Sick-leave Absence during 2017, measured in terms of total absence, was 2.56%. This includes all sick-leaves, of which 1.19% represents short sick-leaves up to 14 days. Responsibility for local communities Ellevio considers it important to invite local stakeholders when initiating Ellevio analyses the arguments and viewpoints that are submitted on new projects to ensure that the project is linked to the local area and to the basis of cost and benefit, with financial sustainability a major factor. minimise potentially negative effects on the environment and the residents At worst, customers will have to bear a potential increase in the cost of who live near our facilities. Our work could affect local communities investment, which is why there must be concrete advantages for customnegatively, for example by limiting accessibility, noise or related issues. ers if costs increase. Ellevio adheres to society’s recommendations and permit processes The clearing or logging of forests is timed carefully so that particular as a basis for its environmental impact descriptions and collaborations. attention can be paid to land with a poor level of bearing capacity. In addition, we communicate with the public about what we intend to Before logging takes place, cultural heritage sites, biotope protection, do and always invite consultation with stakeholders when we deem it Natura 2000 and other protective values should be checked and to be necessary, thus enabling viewpoints to be collected as early as demarcated on the land. possible. Issue Target Outcome Comments Responsibility for local Increase share of local activities, impact During the year, a total of 20 concessions were granted Before a concession application, a consultation ­communities assessments and/or development by Ei, of which 7 were for new lines and 13 for extensions must always be carried out. This can be done in ­programmes. of concessions. Furthermore, 21 new applications were several ways and to different extents depending submitted to Ei, of which 5 were for new lines and 2 for on the complexity and environmental impact of redevelopments of existing lines. the project. An open day was held for three projects during the year. 74 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report Equality These differences can largely be explained by differing levels of work The description of why equality is a significant issue can be found on experience. Ellevio operates in an industry where a relatively large propages 7 and 21. Ellevio monitors diversity developments by measuring portion of young women have recently entered the labour market and in the proportion of women and men in the management team, among which a large number of older men have been working for many years. managers across the company, the number of employees in different Receiving an equal salary is a prioritised equality issue for Ellevio. age groups and the proportion of employees with a foreign backIn addition to adjusting employees’ salaries that were at the wrong level, ground. we will also carry out management training that focuses on this important Equality is measured by comparing the average salaries of men and issue. women. In 2017, the company carried out a survey of salaries. This surA survey of the equality climate, potentially discriminatory behaviour vey showed that there are minor differences between men and womand related issues was also conducted in 2017. The results of this survey en’s average salaries and between different categories of employees. will form the basis of our future equality-related initiatives. Issue Target Outcome Equality Maintain an equal distribution between men and At year-end: women in the management team 55% women 64% between the ages of 30 and 50 36% over 50 years Increase the number of female At year-end: managers at the company 22% women Increase the total number of women At year-end: at the company 27% women Good working conditions M ­ anagement Days are held each year at which different themes are Creating good working conditions is a significant issue in terms of ­discussed, such as team development, workload, health & safety and Ellevio being able to attract, recruit, develop and retain employees with equality. diverse skills. Efforts to create good working conditions are followed up by way To create good working conditions, Ellevio focuses on collective of employee surveys, follow-ups of employee appraisals and reviewing ability and ensuring that employees are giving the right skills and opporemployee turnover and the number of people who took out parental tunities to develop. This is monitored continuously by way of training and leave, divided up by gender. In 2017, employee turnover was 6 perpersonal appraisals. Furthermore, Ellevio works actively to encourage cent. 81 new employees were recruited during the year, of which uptake of parental leave and a positive work-life balance. Managers 23 were women. 113 employees, of which 40 were women, took are another important factor relating to working conditions. To ensure out parental leave during the year. This personal data is based on they develop their employees and workplaces in a positive way, data ­collected by Ellevio’s HR system. Issue Target Outcome Comments Good working 100% of employees are to have During the year, 77% of employees underwent No major differences between men and women conditions an annual personal appraisal. ­appraisals which have been documented in the or between different positions. During the latter HR system. part of the year, a large number of new recruits were taken on. These employees have not yet had any appraisals documented in the system. Maintain a high level of satisfaction as The outcome for 2017 was 69%. Each year, Ellevio undertakes an employee surmeasured by the “Employee Engagement vey that assesses the level of engagement: the Index” survey. Employee Engagement Index. Each business function reviews the results and produces action plans for improvement areas. ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report 75 Key indicators Employee turnover Proportion of total employees, % Number of employees Under age Age Over age of 30 30–50 of 50 Total Under age Age Over age Women 0 2 1 2 of 30 30–50 of 50 Total Men 0 2 1 3 Permanent 41 273 136 450 ­employees Totalt 0 4 1 6 – of which women 11 84 29 124 Temporary 0 0 7 7 Diversity in management, managers and employees ­employees* Gender, proportion in % – of which women 0 0 1 1 Management Other Total 41 273 143 457 team managers Employees Total – of which women 11 84 30 125 Women 55 15 28 27 * Temporary employees refers to all once-permanent employees who are now retired Men 45 85 72 73 and working on an hourly basis. Ellevio does not have any part-time roles. However, employees do have the opportunity Age, proportion in % to work part-time for certain periods and under specific circumstances. Management Other team managers Employees Total New recruitments Under age of 30 0 0 11 9 Under age Age Over age Age 30–50 64 69 58 60 of 30 30–50 of 50 Total Over age of 50 36 31 31 31 Women 7 14 1 22 Men 15 29 11 55 Total 22 43 12 77 Proportion of total employees, % Under age Age Over age of 30 30–50 of 50 Total Women 2 3 0 5 Men 3 6 2 12 Total 5 9 3 17 76 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report GRI content index. All references to GRI standards refer to Standards from 2016. The following index shows which GRI data are reported and where the information is found. General Standard Disclosures GRI indicators Page Comments UN Global Compact GRI 101: Foundation 2016 This report was prepared in accordance with GRI guidelines Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the Organisation The inside of the cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2–4, 16–17 8–9: Environment 102-3 Location of headquarters The inside of the cover 102-4 Location of operations 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form 63 102-6 Markets served 2 102-7 Scale of the organization 2 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 20–21 6: Labour Standards 75–76 102-9 Supply chain 9, 25 73 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 5 No changes to report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 69 7: Environment 102-12 External initiatives 18, 20–21, 25–26, 68 102-13 Membership of associations 68 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 2–3 1-10: Human rights, Labour 68–69 Standards, ­Environment, ­Corruption Governance 102-18 Governance structure 68–69 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 69 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 100% of Ellevio’s employees are covered 3: Labour Standards by collective bargaining agreement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 69 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 69 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 69 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Ellevio AB (publ) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 69 102-47 List of material topics 69 102-48 Restatements of information The first sustainability report in compliance with GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting The first sustainability report in compliance with GRI 102-50 Reporting period 68 102-51 Date of most recent report The first sustainability report in compliance with GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 68 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report The inside of the cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 68 102-55 GRI content index 77–79 102-56 External assurance No external assurance applied ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report 77 Material topics Ellevio’s material UN Global GRI indicators Page Comments sustainability topics Compact ECONOMIC STANDARDS Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26 –27 Divided into the following significant issues; investTransition to a sustain8–9: Environment 69, 71–72 ments in infrastructure, choice of materials, smart able energy system ­electricity networks and electricity from renewable 103-2 The management approach and its components 26 –27 sources 69, 71–72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68–69 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 71–72 All of Ellevio’s investments are conducted on ­commercial terms – Own disclosure: Choice of materials 26–27 71 – Own disclosure: Smart electricity networks 12 –15 71–72 – Own disclosure: kWh from renewable sources 26 –27 71 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 11,15, 18 –19 Security of supply 69, 72 103-2 The management approach and its components 8, 11,15, 18 –19 69, 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8, 11,15, 18 –19 69, 72 – Own disclosure: Security of supply 71–72 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 73 Customer satisfaction 103-2 The management approach and its components 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68–69 – Own disclosure: Customer satisfaction 73 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 73 Responsible 7–8: Environment 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 ­purchasing/ Supplier relationships 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 68–69 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 25 ­environmental criteria 73 Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 73 Biodiversity 7–8: Environment 103-2 The management approach and its components 26–27 73 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26–27 68–69 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 26–27 Geographical location and biodiversity value are adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 73 not reported. Size of the area as well as the rights to ­biodiversity value outside protected areas the underground surface are not reported either when data is not available (and in the latter case is not relevant considering Ellevio’s activities). Ellevio will examine the possibility of developing the accounts during the year. 78 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report Ellevio’s material UN Global GRI indicators Page Comments sustainability topics Compact SOCIAL STANDARDS Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 74 Health and safety 1–2: Human 103-2 The management approach and its components 22 –23 rights 74 4–6: Labour ­Standards 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 –23 68 – 69 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational dis74 Ellevio does not report Type of Injury Rate (IR), eases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of Occupational Disease Rate (ODR), Lost Day Rate work-related fatalities (LDR), and Absentee Rate (AR), as these are not considered applicable. Ellevio has other own similar measurement numbers that are used and are well integrated into the business. Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 73 Responsible 1–2: Human 103-2 The management approach and its components 25 ­purchasing/ rights Supplier relationships 3–6: Labour 73 ­Standards 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 10: Corruption 68–69 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 25 73 Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 74 Responsibility for local 1–2: Human 103-2 The management approach and its components 74 communities rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68–69 8–9: Miljö 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 74 impact assessments and development programs Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 75 Equality 6: Labour Stan103-2 The management approach and its components 21 dards 75 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 21 68 –69 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 75 –76 Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 75 Good working 6: Labour Stan103-2 The management approach and its components 20 –21 ­conditions dards 77 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 –21 68 – 69 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 75 –76 Ellevio does not report staff divided up by region. The reason for this is that many of our employees work at a specific office while simultaneously carrying out duties that concern the entire business. Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 69, 75 Good working 6: Labour 103-2 The management approach and its components 75 ­conditions ­Standards 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68 – 69 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor75 mance and career development reviews ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report 79 Auditor’s report on the ­statutory sustainability report. To the general meeting of the shareholders in Ellevio AB (publ), corporate identity number 556037–7326. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the financial year 2017 on pages 68–79 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm 26th of April 2018 Deloitte AB Daniel Wassberg Authorized Public Accountant 80 ELLEVIO 2017 • Sustainability report Ellevio AB (publ) Box 242 07 SE-104 51 Stockholm www.ellevio.se Production: Ellevio in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, April 2018. Photo: Fredrik Karlsson, Jerker Norlander, Mikael Silkeberg and Unn Tiba. Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2018. We bring electricity to you. www.ellevio.se
