Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact 21 December 2018 Communication on Progress 2018 Statement of continued support At LTS we are committed to excellence in improving social and environmental issues for our clients, while we support the sustainable development of the society and balanced life for our employees. We consider the Global Compact a natural part of doing business. LTS works on some of the planet’s most important global challenges and we are a values-driven company, helping to design and run projects that make the world a better place. Our purpose is to leave a positive footprint on the world, helping to improve people’s lives and reduce inequalities on a sustainably healthy planet. Our values are implicit in everything we do and are applied at all stages throughout the project cycle, from selecting opportunities for which to bid to selecting our partners to building local project teams to our work in monitoring and evaluating projects. Dr Patrick Abbot, LTS has been a participant member of the UN Global compact since December Managing Director 2017 and by incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into our strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, we are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. During 2018, LTS became part of the NIRAS Gruppen A/S. NIRAS A/S have also integrated the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals in our forward strategy within all our services. Thus, in every sector, we ask ourselves how to introduce new services, where we together with our clients can contribute to the development goals. As part of our commitment to the four areas of the Global Compact covering human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption, we reviewed our internal policies and handbooks and now have a modern slavery and anti-trafficking statement published on our website and policy rolled out; we have refreshed our anti-corruption, fraud and bribery policy, our safe-guarding policy and ensured that staff have had training or refresher training on ethics and anti-corruption. Dr Patrick Abbot, Managing Director Tor Lundström, Director and Anne Vest Anderson, Deputy Director of NIRAS Development Consulting with Paddy Abbot, Managing Director and John Mayhew, Operations Director of LTS International Communication on Progress 2018 Table of Contents Statement of continued support ...........................................................................................................i 1 Human rights .............................................................................................................................. 1 2 Labour ........................................................................................................................................ 2 3 Environment ............................................................................................................................... 3 4 Anti-corruption ............................................................................................................................ 4 5 The Sustainable Development Goals......................................................................................... 5 Communication on Progress 2018 | 1 1 Human rights Principles. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our actions. We fully subscribe to charters and conventions on human rights and this is reflected internally through our company ethos and values as well as in the delivery of our external projects. We accept and agree to the principles outlined in the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2018 LTS carried out development projects in more than 20 countries. LTS promotes and encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all people regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, language and religion. In cooperation with our development partners we design our projects and programmes using a “human rights lens” and with it a set of intricate rightsbased tools. We ensure that we mainstream rights issues into the design and implementation of our programmes as a means to promote rights-based outcomes. In 2018, LTS developed and implemented a number of new policies and a refresh on others. This included a policy on modern slavery and human trafficking. Our statement on this is published on our website https://www.ltsi.co.uk/about-us/our-policies/modernslavery. This refers primarily to the following articles on the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights: Article 3: Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person; Article 4: No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms and; Article 5: No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. We have also implemented a safeguarding policy to ensure the protection of vulnerable adults and children and updated our core ethics and values statement. We believe that we have met our performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Our relevant policies. LTS fully subscribes to all charters and international conventions on Human Rights. We have a culture of openness and equal opportunities for all employees regardless of gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and family status. We commit to providing a working environment free of harassment, including discrimination. Specific policies that are in place that support our commitment to human rights and equality are: Equal opportunities policy Fair treatment policy Modern slavery and anti-trafficking policy Safeguarding policy Whistleblowing policy Communication on Progress 2018 | 2 2 Labour Principles. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our actions. Our staff have easy access to management support and information through representatives on the Executive Team. Company information is readily available through shared information and Board meeting minutes. In 2018, through our policy review work we implemented internal policies and guiding principles governing safeguarding including sexual harassment and bullying to strengthen our positive psychological working environment. LTS employees are free to enter into associations and collective bargaining with management. All employees have individual contracts, and the employment conditions comply with current national legislation and requirements. LTS does not employ children who are underage. We believe that we have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Our relevant policies. At LTS we take a collaborative approach and collectively redefined our values and ethics this year as part of our strategic planning process. We provide a safe and healthy workplace, where employees are satisfied with their jobs and can potentially develop, and where employees who travel abroad get comprehensive security assistance. We do not condone sexual harassment or bullying. Specific policies that relate to labour and protecting staff rights are: Employee handbook Modern slavery and anti-trafficking policy Safeguarding policy Whistleblowing policy Health and safety policy General data protection regulation policy Recruitment policy Communication on Progress 2018 | 3 3 Environment Principles. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our actions. LTS as a firm is built around the principles of sustainable development. We tackle the complex facets of climate change, forestry, water resources, ecosystems, landscapes, and institutional governance in our everyday work. We recognise that climate change is a serious long-term threat to our society and development. To neutralise the company’s environmental impact and adhere to its organisational values, LTS prepares an annual carbon footprint and offsetting proposal. In 2018, our carbon footprint was offset against Plan Vivo activities in Malawi and Uganda. In 2018 our Environmental and sustainability policy was refreshed and updated. We believe that we have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Our relevant policies. LTS respects the local and global environment and is committed to and responsible for the managing the environmental impact and performance of the company. LTS has a dedicated sustainability task team that is responsible for researching environmental policy and sustainability options for the company in order to continuously improve our environmental and sustainability performance, to influence behaviour of staff and project partners and to continue to communicate progress to LTS staff. Policies and documents relevant to our environmental and sustainability work include: Environmental and sustainability policy Core values and ethics statement Carbon offsetting 2018 report Communication on Progress 2018 | 4 4 Anti-corruption Principle. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our actions. In 2018, we have maintained our emphasis on raising awareness, staff and partner training with regards to our strict zero tolerance approach to corruption. In order to manage the business, LTS has a suite of policies and practices that together form the business integrity management system. The key elements of the business integrity management system are: Core Values and Ethics Quality Management System – ISO 9001 Investors in People (IIP) Accreditation Risk Management processes All staff undergo annual refresher training on anti-bribery and corruption. This has been reinforced recently with joining the NIRAS group who have robust online training now available for LTS staff giving them, and our partners a more profound knowledge, understanding and training in integrity and ethics policies. We believe that we have met the performance and targets for 2018 satisfactorily. Our relevant policies. LTS conducts all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. LTS takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. LTS is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all relationships and business dealings in all countries and to implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery and corruption. Policies and documents specifically relevant to this include: Core values and ethics statement Anti-bribery and corruption policy Communication on Progress 2018 | 5 5 The Sustainable Development Goals LTS has always been governed by core values. They shape the culture and define the character of the company and they guide how we behave and what decisions we take. LTS works on some of the planet’s most important global challenges and we are a values-driven company, helping to design and run projects that make the world a better place. Our purpose is to leave a positive footprint on the world, helping to improve people’s lives and reduce inequalities on a sustainably healthy planet. Our values are implicit in everything we do and are applied at all stages throughout the project cycle, from selecting opportunities for which to bid to selecting our partners to building local project teams to our work in monitoring and evaluating projects. Our three values, ‘do the right thing’, ‘achieve excellence’ and ‘take responsibility’ feed into each other and inform the way we work. With these values in mind we have integrated the SDG’s into our work within all our services. Some examples from 2018 of our projects that contribute to the SDGs are noted below: No Poverty. LTS manage the Technical Assistance Facility under the Rwandan Programme for Agriculture. The agricultural sector is the mainstay of Rwanda’s economy and aims to lift more people out of poverty. Zero Hunger. LTS led the evaluation of the World Bank’s Global Agriculture and Food Security Programme helping to shape the future of this global programme working to improve agriculture and markets in over 80 countries. Gender Equality. LTS is conducting research on DFIDs climate smart agriculture programme in Southern Africa to improve the evidence base about the impact of delivery mechanisms on women’s economic empowerment and reduced gender productivity gaps. Clean Water and Sanitation. In 2018 we completed a 5 year World Bank funded programme to improve land and water management and protect and enhance the Shire River ecosystem in Malawi. Affordable and Clean Energy. LTS led the mid-term evaluation of the UK funded Renewable Energy Platform Programme helping to shape the work of this Africa focused fund to stimulate investment in renewable energy in the future. Decent Work and Economic Growth. The DFID funded Green Economic Growth Programme for Papua Provinces works with small holder farmers and MSMEs to develop sustainable agribusiness enterprises and viable small businesses. Sustainable Cities and Communities. LTS has developed a Feedback and Grievance Redress Mechanism for the Liberian forestry sector to resolve conflict and disputes at all levels including community forestry, resource management and forest governance. Climate Action. Working with CARE Denmark on the multi-country climate change and resilience programme in East Africa we support the integration of effective climate change adaptation and resilience into development and disaster risk reduction programmes. Life on Land. African countries have pledged to restore 100 million hectares of degraded land (mostly with trees) by 2030 as part of the ‘AFR100 Initiative’. LTS is delivering the business plan for TreeFund Africa. Partnerships for the Goals. LTS works with a range of partners to support our quality delivery of work including, local communities and local companies at the point of delivery and universities, NGOs, not for profit organisations, governments and multi-laterals.
