Sustainability Report 2017 The report in brief Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2017 has been prepared in accordance with GRI G4, core level. The report has been subject to third-party assurance by PwC. The assurance statement can be found on page 46. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 is divided into two sections. In the ﬁrst section, pages 4–33, we tell our sustainability story. In the second section, the sustainability notes on pages 34–45, supplementary information is provided regarding disclosures in the front section, all data as well as information regarding the fulﬁlment of GRI G4 and the GRI Index. We also report here on limitations in scope and omission statements according to GRI, where relevant. If you have any questions about the Sustainability Report, you are welcome to address them to sustainability@nordea.com Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Contents 3 Contents 4 Nordea’s CEO on sustainability 6 This is Nordea 8 Nordea and sustainability 16 Our business 18 Personal Banking 20 Commercial and Business Banking 22 Wholesale Banking 24 Wealth Management 26 Governance 28 Risk and Compliance 30 People 34 Sustainability notes 42 GRI Index 45 Glossary 46 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Nordea’s Sustainability Report Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Statement from the CEO 4 Nordea’s CEO on sustainability Sustainability on the Board’s Agenda Over the last couple of years, we have implemented a new compliance governance structure at Nordea. The reforms have included a complete overhaul of compliance management and supervision, including a new committee on the Board of Directors, dedicated to ensuring and overseeing best-in-class performance in conduct, compliance, sustainability, operations/systems, and related frameworks and processes. I am confident that Nordea has now created a solid foundation that also enables further development and integration of sustainability into our business processes, both to manage risks and to create opportunities. Nordea’s President and Group CEO, Casper von Koskull (CvK), Björn Wahlroos and Nordea’s Head of Group Sustainability, Erik Feldt (EF), Chairman of the Board met to discuss sustainability one afternoon in November. EF: In recent years, sustainability has sustainability – something that lasts over be relevant for society which includes climbed the agenda of most companies, time. And, on the topic of resilience; what being safe and trusted. Nordea included. What does sustainabiliare the most important macro trends you EF: You mentioned two macro trends. I ty mean to you? see affecting Nordea in the short and long guess the second is regulation? CvK: To me, it means acting and behaving term? CvK: You are right, the second one is regresponsibly. Sustainability is multi-dimenCvK: We face two macro trends in particulation, and rightly so. Regulation prosional and is part of everything we do at ular. The ﬁrst is the fourth industrial revovides a safe and trusted ﬁnancial system Nordea. It is about mitigating risks, lution which is not only digitalisation, but to ensure that all participants move in the improving resilience and creating opporconsists of computing power, the internet right direction. We have to have rules, tunities. It is, quite simply, the right thing of things and mobility. It will fundamenlaws and regulations in place to show the to do. Nordea is a major player in the tally change banking as such, even if the way, but I don’t think that is enough. That tenth largest economy in the world. underlying customer needs that we satissets the outer boundary within which the We touch every part of society and need fy might be the same. That is the major company has to work, but a company to take responsibility for our actions and overriding trend as I see it. also must adhere to societal norms. behaviour. EF: In your view, how will customers benEF: That is a really good point. Once we EF: I agree. To me it is also about Nordea eﬁt from that change? are completely sustainable in everything being a long-term entity on the ﬁnancial CvK: We will have to focus even more on we do, that is the end of regulation. market. We make commitments to our our customer vision. Customers want to CvK: Exactly. I have said several times in customers that are 30–40 years out in have a bank that is easy to deal with, that the past that if we were to operate fully in time and, in order to be able to deliver on is relevant, competent and available anyline with our purpose and values, that is these commitments, we have to make where and anytime. Our customers also all that would be needed. That said, a sure that Nordea is still on the market at form part of society, and for us to be pergreat achievement this year is that we that time. To me, that is the essence of ceived as relevant for them, we need to have embarked on our cultural transforNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Statement from the CEO 5 mation journey, of which our new purthis case, working hard and learning step on the way to making the system pose and values form a part. We are takand then saying afterwards that this sustainable, fairer, sounder and more ing a major step to ensure that the bank was their best day at school ever resilient. It is about protecting our cuswe want to be in the future is not only – that is a really great feeling. tomers, our society and the global econoabout our business model, but also about EF: I can imagine that. Now we have talkmy as a whole. Preventing tax evasion is our culture. There is no business transfored about our achievements in 2017, what another aspect of this. The ﬁnancial secmation without a cultural and human have been – and what are – our tor has come a long way, but work is still transformation. challenges? in progress. Also during the year, we have CvK: The transformation, the change we EF: Our Business Ethics and Values Comstrengthened our sustainability goverare going through, is not only an opportumittee (BEVC) is a way of ensuring that nance and taken a position to combat nity and an achievement but also a chalwe not only fulﬁl our legal obligations but climate change by issuing a position lenge. Digitalisation comes with new also that we act ethically. It was initiated statement, and we issued our ﬁrst own ways of working; while this is exciting, it by you before the “Panama Papers” and green bond. The latter shows to our also means that we will need fewer peowas a strong statement of your conviction customers that sustainability is not only ple to do the job. Having to drive a of the importance of sustainability. the right thing to do; it also mitigates change in which we reduce our workCvK: Yes. It is a result of the major shift risk and is ﬁnancially smart. We have force is painful. We must ensure we do it within the ﬁnancial sector. Going from also approved our new community in a responsible, human and ethical way “can we do this?” to “should we do this?” engagement strategy and volunteering and take care of those affected. We are and asking ourselves if what we do, in policy, making the strategy more trying our best to help them ﬁnd new order to help solve an issue for a customfocused on our areas of expertise, positions within or outside the bank er, is the right thing to do. I see this shift ﬁnancial literacy and entrepreneurship, through our job mobility process. taking place now, but we are not fully where we can make most difference. EF: Another issue that is discussed from there yet. BEVC is our guiding beacon EF: Talking about the community time to time and that all customer-facing when it comes to what the answer should engagement strategy, we had a case staff spend a lot of time on is be in situations that are not always black competition about sustainability earlier “know-your-customer” – a procedure in or white. The committee has been estabthis year in which students had calculated place to prevent ﬁnancial crime by knowlished to provide guidance and to set a that our volunteering policy potentially ing who we are doing business with. Why framework for the organisation. releases close to 500,000 hours of volunis this so important? EF: Stakeholders not only expect Nordea tary work for Nordea’s employees per CvK: The banks are basically the only to behave ethically; they also expect the year. It’s a fantastic force that we can entities that can take an active role when ﬁnancial sector to take the lead when it release. Our challenge now is to ﬁnd iniit comes to preventing ﬁnancial crime and comes to helping fulﬁl the UN’s Sustaintiatives that we can contribute to. making the ﬁnancial system safer and able Development Goals (SDG). How CvK: I myself have been volunteering in securer, and ensuring it is not used for should we do that? one of the initiatives we support – Me & terrorist ﬁnancing, human trafficking, CvK: We embrace the SDGs and take a MyCity in Finland. It was a great experidistribution of drugs, and so on. Our holistic view to them. Being the company ence. Seeing the kids, sixth-graders in “know-your-customer” procedure is a we are – a ﬁnancial institution – there are of course areas to which we can contribute more than others. One is taking climate action by sustainable ﬁnancing, investment and advice. We have already taken the lead in responsible investment, even though the numbers are still small in relation to the total. Now, we need to take action on lending and advice. We have a possibility through dialogue to support and encourage our customers to build more robust and resilient business models. We need to do that to fulﬁl our customer vision to be relevant. Our customers expect us to be here in the future and we can only do so by continuing to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, embracing the SDGs, and ensuring we integrate sustainability into everything we do. Casper von Koskull President and Group CEO Erik Feldt Head of Group Sustainability Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 This is Nordea 6 This is Nordea Banks help businesses and economies grow on local, national and cross-border level, hence driving economic and social development forward. Without a functioning ﬁnancial system, society would grind to a halt. Everyone – individuals, large and small companies, and local and national government, depend on a functioning ﬁnancial system. A well-functioning bank contributes to the development of communities and employment and is fundamental to the ability for enterprises to start up and grow. It also provides products and services to households to enable them to save and borrow at all stages of life. As a bank, Nordea has three main tasks; to convert savings into ﬁnancing, to manage credit and other ﬁnancial risks and to enable payments and other ﬁnancial transactions efficiently and securely. Trust in the ﬁnancial sector and in the ﬁnancial system is crucial to ﬁnancial stability. This trust is mainly based on laws and regulations. Ensuring ﬁnancial stability forms part of Nordea’s social responsibility. Nordea is the largest ﬁnancial services group in the Nordic region and one of the biggest banks in Europe. We want to make a real difference – for our customers and for the communities in which we operate – by sharing our extensive expertise based on 200 years in the banking business. As a ﬁnancial EUR 9,469 m entity, we strive to ﬁnd the ﬁnancial EUR 548,296 m Total operating income Total liabilities solutions that best suit our customers’ needs so they can achieve their goals and realise their dreams. When our cusEUR 581,612 m EUR 33,316 m tomers succeed, so do we. Total assets Total equity Nordea Bank AB (publ) is legally registered in Sweden, with its headquarters in Stockholm. In 2017 the Board of Directors decided to re-domicile the headquarters to Finland. The ﬁnal decision will be made by the shareholders at the Annual Employees headcount: General Meeting in March 2018. We are present in 20 countries, including our four Nordic home markets – Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden 33,170 – together forming the tenth largest economy in the world. Our main business Breakdown of Nordea’s employees by country of operation areas, Personal Banking, Commercial and Business Banking, Wholesale Banking Sweden 24.6% Poland 7.6% and Wealth Management, are designed Denmark 30.0% Russia 1.6% to support the relationship strategy for each speciﬁc customer segment. Norway 10.0% International Finland 23.1% offices 2.6% The Nordea share is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchanges in Stockholm, Estonia 0.5% Helsinki and Copenhagen. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 This is Nordea 7 As at 31 December 2017 Main countries of operation Other locations where Nordea is present Household customers: Corporates & Institutions: ~9.6 million 580,000 SWEDEN DENMARK FINLAND NORWAY 4.2 million 1.7 million 2.8 million 900,000 Household customers Household customers Household customers Household customers 200,000 65,000 243,000 70,000 Corporates & Corporates & Corporates & Corporates & Institutions Institutions Institutions Institutions Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 8 Nordea and sustainability At Nordea, we are committed to acting sustainably in our everyday business. In our view, sustainability presents an opportunity to use our skills, expertise and relationships to make a positive difference to individuals, society and the environment. Building trust by being open, approachable, transparent and acting with integrity is vital to achieving this objective. We have set a number of sustainability documents apply to all employees and map taking mega trends such as clicommitments across the entire busieverybody working on behalf of Nordea, mate change and digitalisation as well ness, which will anchor sustainability and are supported by speciﬁc and conas the UN’s Sustainable Development more deeply into our operations, focus crete policies to ensure compliance in Goals (SDG) into account. management’s attention and help us everyday business. Examples are work We will create sustainable business by boost performance over time. This environment-related, the anti-corruption integrating sustainability into all our prodapproach aims to foster a culture and policies, and several investment and ucts and offerings. So far, we have inteencourage behaviour that is aligned credit policies. Employees are trained in grated environmental, social and goverwith society’s expectations of us, helpthese policies on a yearly basis to obtain nance issues (ESG) into our investment ing to ensure the continuing success of their “licence to work”. decisions and are on our way regarding our business. ﬁnancing, but lots of work remains to be In support of our commitment to conFocusing on material aspects done. We see the SDGs as the future tributing to sustainable development, we The materiality analysis we conducted direction and will link sustainability at follow the UN’s Universal Declaration of in 2016 shows that our greatest contriNordea to our selected SDGs. Human Rights, ILO Conventions and the bution to sustainable development will Based on our roadmap, we will renew OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterbe embedded in the services we proour materiality analysis in 2018. This will prises in our operations and business. vide to our customers. We have to take ensure that we continue to focus on the We have signed several voluntary interenvironmental issues, employee and sustainability aspects most relevant to our national agreements, such as UN Global social matters, human rights, anti-corbusiness, from an impact perspective as Compact (UNGC), UN Guiding Principles ruption and corporate governance into well as from a value creation perspective. on Business and Human Rights (UNGP), consideration when making business We will set long-term goals aimed at takUN Environmental Programme Finance decisions, whether they concern ﬁnancing us several steps further towards being Initiative (UNEP FI) and UN Principles ing, investment or advice. However, we the leading sustainable entity on the for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) cannot neglect that our direct operaﬁnancial market. which, together, provide a solid base for tions have a negative impact on the ethical business practices at Nordea. environment and that the key to conWorking to fulﬁl short-term Regarding employee-related matters, we tinuing success as a ﬁnancial institution sustainability goals follow local legislation and regulations consists of a diversiﬁed, competent and In 2016 we set nine short-term sustainand have a number of health and safety satisﬁed workforce that acts in accorability goals, all to be addressed in 2017. policies and practices in place, e.g. polidance with ethical standards. We must The goals are to be seen as activities cies for occupational healthcare, alcohol also take our responsibility as buyers of needed for us to reach a certain level of and drugs, work environment, work-reproducts and services, and ensure that preparedness to meet the sustainability lated stress, discrimination, and sexual our suppliers adhere to the same suschallenges ahead. By the end of 2017 we harassment. tainability standards as we do. had reached six of our nine goals. The For more information about external For details regarding our materiality others are yet to be fulﬁlled and will be charters and intiatives to which Nordea analysis, see note S1. on page 35-36. transferred to 2018. In the work to set adheres, please see note S10. on page 40. our sustainability roadmap, we also Setting the strategic identiﬁed three other short-term goals Policies leading the way direction for the future that need to be addressed promptly for Nordea’s Code of Conduct describes the Like many other organisations, we have us to stand prepared to take on longhigh-level ethical principles that guide realised that, in order to future-proof term goals. This means that for 2018, we our business, how we treat our customour business, we need to plan for and have in total six short-term sustainability ers, and the conduct we expect from our address the potential impact of global goals to focus on. employees. It includes aspects such as megatrends. To name a few, these care for the environment, labour rights, include technological breakthroughs Engaging in stakeholder dialogues how we treat our customers, commitand climate change and resource scarStrong stakeholder relations are importment to human rights, the right to privacity. We need to look beyond our own ant for moving towards being a sustaincy, and anti-bribery and corruption. The challenges, both direct and indirect, and able entity in society. We regularly conNordea Sustainability Policy sets forth consider the broader influences that are duct stakeholder analysis with the purthe Group’s values and commitments to fundamentally changing the way the pose of deﬁning and identifying which ethical business, and was updated in world works. In 2017, we upgraded our groups of stakeholders are key to 2017 with sections on sustainable sustainability approach and started to Nordea. ﬁnancing, investment and advice. Both develop a long-term sustainability roadNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 9 Fulﬁlled In progress New Short-term sustainability goals Goal Description Comment Status Anchor minimum sustainability goals Presented by CEO at the Annual General Meeting in April 2017. with GEM and Board of Directors (prerequisite for successful achievement of following goals). Map and assess sustainability Mapping and assessment presented to the Sustainability Committee in regulations’, international conventions’ November 2017. Identiﬁed gaps and suggested actions will be included in and standards’ relevance to and impact our sustainability roadmap. on Nordea. Clarify sustainability governance model A dedicated board committee established. Revised charter and membership and decide on internal processes. structure for the Sustainability Committee. Sustainability working groups covering seven different areas established. Systemise data collection and veriﬁcation Reporting responsibility per business area and group function has been process. clariﬁed and all indicators to be reported have been assigned to a speciﬁc unit. Launch position paper on climate change Position statement launched in November 2017. Science-based targets and establish science-based targets. calculated for Nordea’s direct operations’ emissions. Targets for indirect impact not possible to establish at present due to insufficient data. Align diversity policy for the Board of Group directive and standard operating procedure for composition of subsidiary Directors and implement as applicable, boards aligned with diversity policy for the Board of Directors have been according to the legislation. approved. Implementation of these will take place gradually as subsidiary board members are replaced. Enhance the ESG screening tools to Principles for sustainable ﬁnancing, investment and advice included in the improve the consolidation capabilities for Sustainability Policy. Implementation of the principles has started and will responsible investment, responsible continue in 2018. ﬁnancing and responsible procurement. Launch a risk management framework in First draft of “Instructions on management of Sustainability risks” was order to identify key risks in value chain presented in BEVC in December 2017. The instructions will be aligned with (focus on human rights, labour rights, Nordea’s overall risk framework implemented in 2018. anti-corruption measures and environment). Establish a KPI framework with Benchmark analysis to establish best practice has been conducted. KPI individual KPIs. framework will be based on the renewed materiality analysis and included in scorecards where relevant and appropriate. Continue implementation of the updated Sustainability Policy and the principles for sustainable ﬁnancing, investment and advice. Establish baseline for climate change and human rights-related risks throughout the value chain. Launch position statement and guidelines within relevant areas, e.g. defence and shipping. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 10 Employees, management and the identiﬁed a number of key areas in 2016 Board of Directors are identiﬁed as our in which we believed Nordea would SDG 3 Good health primary internal stakeholders and cushave the strongest impact. and well-being tomers, owners, suppliers, regulators, Given that we have been focusing It is important for us as employer NGOs and media as our key external our efforts during the year to reach a to enhance the well-being of our stakeholders. In 2017 we continued to certain level of sustainability readiness, employees. engage with our various stakeholders in we have deepened our initial analysis of different ways. The result from these which SDGs to focus on. We have taken SDG 8 Decent work and dialogues guides us strategically in a holistic approach to the SDGs, realiseconomic growth adjusting our business practices and ing that they are all relevant to us if we A relevant goal for us as a major adopting a more long-term risk manlook at our impact – deploying capital bank. We can have a signiﬁcant agement approach, taking complex susinto areas where improving standards impact on this through our tainability issues into consideration. of living and protecting the environoperations. For more details on speciﬁc issues ment will drive economic growth. Howraised by the different stakeholders in ever, we need to channel our resources SDG 13 Climate action 2017, see note S2. on page 36. into the SDGs where we have the greatThis goal is undisputable in imporest possibility of reducing negative tance due to the positive indirect Endorsing Sustainable impact and increasing positive impact. impact we can have in ﬁghting cliDevelopment Goals In our SDG analysis the focus is on mate change through channelling In 2015 UN member states signed the materiality. We have gathered input investment and ﬁnancing to greener Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) from group functions and business alternatives. applicable to all entities in all countries areas as well as from external sources worldwide. The 17 goals are all crucial including the country-speciﬁc analysis SDG 16 Peace, justice and for sustainable development to occur, performed for Denmark, Finland, Norstrong institutions and they come with a number of way and Sweden by their respective All companies need to play a part in cross-cutting effects. We acknowledge governments. The outcome of our analcreating a fair environment for busithat we have an important role in helpysis is that there are four SDGs that we ness by complying with laws and ing the governments in the four Nordic shall focus on. regulations, improving transparency, countries in which we operate to We will not succeed in achieving protecting whistle-blowers and setachieve the global goals. Based on these SDGs ourselves, so working in ting the highest standards of integinput from our stakeholder dialogues partnerships, as speciﬁed in SDG 17, is rity amongst their workforces. and global sustainability needs, we crucial for reaching the goals. The Nordea SDG Flower It illustrates how we have prioritised between the SDGs. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 11 Respecting human rights We are committed to addressing and integrating respect for human rights across our value chain. By continually improving our approach to human rights, we are better prepared to conCASE front new issues rising on the agenda and to manage risks. A company’s most prominent human rights issues are those rights that are at risk of the most severe negative impact Combating climate change through the company’s activities or business relationships. In 2018 we will with green bonds conduct a comprehensive analysis of our value chain to identify our salient If we are to achieve the stated goals of the Paris agreement, human rights issues. We are working to systematically massive amounts of green investments will have to be made embed human rights in all parts of the at all levels of society, from governments to corporates. organisation and to strengthen our due diligence processes. We have identiﬁed our most critical areas to be within investing, ﬁnancing and sourcing. We At Nordea, we encourage the transbonds in two different ways. Firstly, therefore focus on strengthening differformation of companies towards we issue our own green bonds to ent areas and processes each year. low-carbon and more resilient busiﬁnance loans to customers that have It is important to raise awareness ness models, and are focused on helpenvironmental beneﬁts and mitigate among our employees regarding human ing our customers ﬁnance such investclimate change. In June 2017 we rights issues and it is therefore included ments. One way of doing this is to proissued our ﬁrst green bond – a EUR in our Code of Conduct training that is vide relevant products such as green 500m ﬁve-year bond. Secondly, we mandatory for all employees as part of bonds. serve as the intermediary between our the Licence to Work training. Jacob Michaelsen is Head of customers as issuers and investors by Sustainable Bonds at Nordea. helping them to invest in or issue “Briefly, a green bond is like any green bonds via the capital markets. Task Force on Climateother bond except that the money is “In addition to providing cost-effirelated Financial Disclosures earmarked for green purposes such as cient funding, green bonds are a natuIn 2015, the Financial Stability Board renewable energy, green buildings ral step in manifesting Nordea’s (FSB) highlighted climate change and clean transportation. The biggest increased ambition level in the susas a risk to the stability of the global difference to a regular, non-green tainability area. They constitute a tanfinancial system and set up the Task bond is that an investment in green gible effort showing our commitment Force on Climate-related Finanbonds also achieves a green impact to delivering on our sustainability cial Disclosures (TCFD). TCFD has and investors can be transparent agenda and working towards a greatbrought together companies that about it,” says Jacob Michaelsen. er good in line with our purpose,” conprepare financial data and users At Nordea, we work with green cludes Jacob Michaelsen. of that data (investors, lenders and insurers) to recommend how companies should disclose the financial risks of climate change. These recommendations focus on the disclosure of physical risks from extreme weather such as storms and droughts, and commercial risks related to the global transition to a lower carbon economy. The recommendations were submitted to the G20 in July 2017. As a result, pressure is growing on companies to improve disclosure of climaterelated financial risk. Combating climate change The global environment is under great pressure and catastrophes due to climate change and scarcity of natural resources are part of life. The state of the environment affects both individuals and companies and poses a serious threat to global prosperity. Financial institutions have a considerable role to play in the transformation towards a sustainable society in general and in Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 12 combating climate change in particular. own activities, we must take steps to Investing responsibly Nordea is no exception. mitigate contribution to carbon emisWe believe companies that take enviAt Nordea we recognise that climate sions, and in our operations we have ronmental and social considerations change will pose risks as well as prescommitted to being a carbon-neutral seriously represent better long-term ent opportunities for our customers and company. This ambition is visible in investments. In our approach to asset our business, both directly three different ways. First, we management, Nordea applies internathrough the operations strive to reduce emissions tionally recognised principles for we run and indirectly generated from our responsible investment and active ownthrough our stakedirect operations. ership and is a signatory to UN PRI. holder activities. We will work directly with our 10 Second, we ensure that energy used in our Our Responsible Investment Policy commits us to screening our actively managed funds to ensure they do not stakeholders to mitigate these risks and haryears buildings is renewable. Third, for the include companies that have violated international norms on environmental protection, human rights, labour stanness the opporremaining dards or business ethics. We review the tunities. In an as a signatory unavoidable investments in our funds twice a year to increasingly carto the UN PRI emissions, in 2017 ensure they continue to meet our critebon-constrained we continued with ria for inclusion. world, we will listen the offsetting activiWe expect companies we invest in to to the needs of our ties we have carried observe internationally recognised stakeholders when providout since 2015. The combihuman rights principles and to prevent ing ﬁnancial services and opernation of measures ensures negative effects and manage their ating our facilities. We are in dialogue that Nordea has a programme for being impact on human rights. Poor managewith the industry and authorities on CarbonNeutral® certiﬁed in line with ment conflicts with the long-term interhow to implement the recommendaThe CarbonNeutral Protocol. est in promoting a responsible and sustions from the TCFD. For details on our carbon emissions, tainable development and may impact We apply the precautionary principle see note S3. on page 36-37. companies’ licence to operate. Human in our operations and have included rights-related issues include complicity environmental aspects including cliSustainable ﬁnancing in human rights abuses, modern slavery mate change in our principles for We aim to make sustainable ﬁnancing and child labour, occupational safety responsible investment and in our supdecisions, providing credit based on plier assessments. Taking a responsible sound banking practice. Our relationapproach to managing our environmenships with customers – households, corNordea joins the banking tal impacts is the right thing to do. It porates and institutions – are founded initative for Responsible Ship builds trust with our customers, on our deep familiarity with their Recycling Standards (RSRS) employees and other stakeholders, business. while also protecting the future health Besides following all guidelines and In November 2017 Nordea joined of the business. principles applying to the industry, we the initiative for RSRS together In 2017 we developed a Position have devised our own tools and prowith other leading ship-financing Statement on Climate Change in which cesses for promoting a holistic banks. The recycling, or scrapping, we recognise the importance of limiting approach in our credit decisions. Where of a ship at the end of its lifecycle the average global temperature rise to relevant we include environmental potentially poses substantial social below the 2 degrees Celsius target. Furissues, employee-related and social and environmental risks for the thermore, we commit to refraining from matters, human rights, anti-corruption shipping industry, especially if soproviding new ﬁnancing to energy proand corporate governance when we called beaching practices are used, duction or mining companies that are make the decisions. Nordea’s Code of whereby ships are driven directly primarily dependent on thermal coal. We Conduct is the key policy document for upon beaches and dismantled may continue to ﬁnance existing customour ﬁnancing together with the new under difficult working conditions ers and will encourage them to transprinciples on sustainable ﬁnancing, and with detrimental environmental form to less carbon-intensive production. investment and advice in our Sustainconsequences, as hazardous waste One of our short-term sustainability ability Policy that was approved by the is deposited directly into the sea. goals was to establish a science-based Board of Directors in June 2017. The RSRS are voluntary industry target that puts focus on climate action In addition, we have industry-speciﬁc principles that promote responsible in our entire value chain. In 2017 we guidelines and principles for ﬁnancing, ship recycling and aim to minitherefore evaluated this possibility. with the purpose of establishing a commise the dangers associated with However, there is a lack of established mon strategy for the distribution of our hazardous materials on board. The methods to create science-based tarcredit portfolio and improving risk manstandards form guiding principles gets for ﬁnancial institutions that also agement. Industry-speciﬁc guidelines in the dialogue on responsible ship include scope 3 emissions, i.e. emisare in place for the following sectors: recycling between the financial sions from downstream activities such Commercial real estate, Energy, Finansector and stakeholders in internaas investments and ﬁnancing. Since cial institutions, Leveraged Buy-Out tional shipping. Nordea is joining this is where we have our greatest (LBO), and Shipping, Offshore and Oil the banks participating in the RSRS impact, we are trying to ﬁnd a way to Services. to increase awareness of the enviinclude these in a science-based tarAs an example, in June, we issued ronmental and social risks associget, but have not yet succeeded. We our ﬁrst ever green bond. Since 2014 we ated with recycling of ships, and will continue with this task in 2018 to have also been active as an arranger of to promote the standards for the see where it might lead us. green bonds. sustainable recycling of ships. To reduce carbon footprint from our Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 13 and health, the rights of indigenous same approach. They gain a complete exposure. One opportunity, on the other people and displacement of local compicture of the company’s needs before hand, lies in the ability to emphasise to munities, freedom of association and working together to decide on the sersuppliers that a sustainable business collective bargaining and international vices that will support that customer’s model is not only the right thing to do, humanitarian law. Furthermore in 2017 long-term business success. but also presents a business opportuniNordea was one of the founders of the We are committed to ensuring that ty, providing them with a competitive Corporate Human Rights Benchmark our customers have all the information advantage in their area. (CHRB) which aims to drive better they need to make decisions about their Nordea’s Supplier Sustainability Polhuman rights performance through the ﬁnances. Whenever we develop a new icy is mandatory for all large contracted creation of a transparent, credible and product, we follow a stringent process suppliers, i.e. with a contracted value of publicly available benchmark. to ensure it is described fully and accuEUR 250,000 or more. It requires the rately and sold responsibly. Before supplier to adhere to the ten principles Advising customers wisely launching any new product, the responin the UN Global Compact which covers Every customer is unique. We must fully sible unit and legal counsel closely human rights, labour standards, enviunderstand our customers’ individual review external marketing materials ronment and anti-corruption. The policy needs and ambitions before offering and communications for legal is an integral part of Nordea’s contract them any service, advice or product. Our compliance. templates. Even if the contract with the advisors begin by sitting down with supplier is not signed on a Nordea concustomers to discuss their current ﬁnanEngaging with suppliers tract template, the policy is still mandacial situation and future plans. This Sustainable procurement is increasingly tory and needs to be part of the agreeallows us to offer the best possible on the agenda and this awareness presment. This applies irrespective of the advice and services, tailored to every ents both risks and opportunities. One products we are buying. Hence, interaccustomer’s particular circumstances. We risk is that Nordea is linked to suppliers tion with large suppliers regarding sushave a dedicated customer team for our with questionable business models, tainability is mandatory before contract corporate customers, who follow the potentially generating negative media signing, and when renegotiating. Nordea’s supply chain Percentage of annual spend 1,200 contracted suppliers 19,000 Sweden, 38% Finland, 23% Denmark, 20% suppliers in total Norway, 7% United Kingdom, 3% Poland, 2% United States, 2% Ireland, 1% Switzerland, 1% Other, 3% 90% of new contracted suppliers EUR were screened on environmental protection, labour practices, human 2,986m rights, and anti-corruption criteria paid to suppliers 15 Total number 0 Number of suppliers terminated due to breaches of suppliers subject to sustainability of the Nordea Supplier engagements Sustainability Policy Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 14 If, after the contract has been signed, tainability into our sustainable procureduct, Tax Policy on Customer Advice we learn that the supplier is in potential ment practices. and Sustainability Policy when advising breach of our Supplier Sustainability For details on scope for supplier-recustomers about the tax implications of Policy, initiatives are taken to clarify the lated data, see note S4. on page 37. different products. We also take care to issue, potentially preparing a corrective comply with external regulations action plan or ultimately terminating Paying tax responsibly regarding the provision of proper inforthe contract. No contracts were termiAt Nordea, we generate value for the mation and not mislead customers in nated in 2017 due to breach of our Supsocieties in which we operate both their decisions. plier Sustainability Policy. through the taxes we pay in relation to In 2017, we held dialogues with a few our business, and by withholding taxes Supporting inclusive societies suppliers regarding the signing of our on dividends and interest for customers Community engagement is a key funcSupplier Sustainability Policy. on behalf of the government. tion for building up and developing the The dialogues were conWe are committed to surrounding society and an integral part structive and relationmeeting the expectaof our business. We focus on our core ships maintained. tions on transparenexpertise in terms of building ﬁnancial In 2017 we engaged with 15 EUR cy with respect to our tax manageskills and supporting entrepreneurship in the communities in which we oper1,239m of our suppliers ment. The transate. We do this in own programmes and on the phone, in fer of the through partnerships and sponsorships, physical meetNordea headand we are gradually shifting to partings or as part of quarters to Finnerships that create a positive social a sustainability paid in corporate land will have impact. It is important to us not only to review. Five of the income taxes and bank no impact on offer ﬁnancial support for partnerships, 15 suppliers, e.g. levies in 2017 how we pay taxes but also to devote skills and time. This is an airline and a proor our commita way for us to work towards a sustainvider of IT solutions ment to transparenable society, in which citizens have the for portfolio managecy in how we manage skills they need to manage their personment, were subject to sustaxes. al ﬁnances and build successful tainability reviews. As a result Nordea’s policy is to pay businesses. of these reviews, we developed mitigattaxes in accordance with local regulaIn 2017 we made extra efforts to put ing action plans for three suppliers. Furtions in all countries in which we operour new direction into practice. To supthermore, efforts relating to engaging ate and, in so doing, to make an approport change management, we built a with high-risk suppliers were ongoing priate contribution to each society. We group-wide, cross-functional network throughout the year. manage tax costs and risks carefully, of community engagement professionIn 2017 we completed several initiaand by paying and reporting taxes in als. This enabled us to strengthen our tives to ensure a continuing focus on due time, we aim to maintain a good partnership portfolio in all countries. formalising our process and embedding local tax reputation. From 2016 we comA major step forward was taken resilience into our supply chain. The ply with the Country by Country reportwhen we launched common guidelines qualifying questionnaire, to which large ing regulation and in addition, we will for employee volunteering in Septemsuppliers must respond before entering openly disclose our tax payments by ber 2017. To encourage engagement, we the procurement process, has been country in this report, see note S5. on give all employees the opportunity to updated to ensure early involvement, as page 38. volunteer two days a year during workwell as to capture hidden risks. This At Nordea we strive to deliver great ing hours. In 2017 1,569 employees updated questionnaire will be rolled out customer experience, and to build trust seized the opportunity. For example, our in 2018. We have implemented a specifthrough acting with integrity. This employees teached essential ﬁnancial ic compliance catalyst tool with an includes upholding the ethical stanskills to youths and children, and they extensive database to screen large supdards outlined in Nordea’s Code of Conparticipated in several activities to suppliers before signing contracts. Furthermore, we have updated our strategic priorities and targets which have led to updated governance as well as mandate clariﬁcation. Part of this has been transferring the Sustainable Sourcing Board into a working group to promote better agility. Standard certiﬁcation of two Sustainable Procurement Managers has been completed and our engagement with industry peers is still developing, supporting the overall sustainable procurement focus. Next year, we will focus on developing our existing sustainable procurement framework, exploring the beneﬁts of engaging more with industry peers, and communicating more – both internally by facilitating awareness sessions, and externally by updating our supplier pages regarding sustainability on our website, nordea.com. All of this has the overall aim of further integrating susNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Nordea and sustainability 15 port the younger generation’s entrepreneurial skills, and mentored entrepreneurs. We also helped the elderly to learn digital ﬁnancial skills. Digitalisation as a driver CASE for sustainability Digitalisation is developing rapidly as the most important enabler for a more efficient and better society for all. With digitalisation as a basis, we can face Community engagement to many of the sustainability challenges that lie ahead. beneﬁt future generations Nordea has the ambition to be at the forefront of digitalisation within bankA prominent feature of Nordic society is sharing a mindset ing. Rapidly changing customer behaviour, new ﬁnancial services, develof creative entrepreneurship. This entrepreneurial spirit has opment of new technologies together been a force behind some of the world’s best music, games, with increasing regulatory demands create business opportunities and designs, businesses and innovations. require us to have a clear strategic digital vision with strong execution capabilities. The intention of these measures is to make ﬁnancial services accessible at affordable costs to all individuals and businesses, irrespective of net worth and size. This is what we call ﬁnancial inclusion. In this context, digitalisation offers a method to pursue and develop our business as efficiently as possible with a clear focus on sustainability, inclusion and responsibility. We will continue to drive this proactive approach forward with the intention of leading by example. We believe that modern technology and digitalisation form a key component in our ability to push for a rapid and effective sustainable transition, for society and for all. This requires a lot from people who work for a bank, and a great deal from customers. The challenges we face in this respect are affordability and the fact that At Nordea we consider it our privilege In October 2017, Me & MyCity for not everyone has the right equipment to to ensure everyone has the ﬁnancial ninth-graders was opened at the embrace digital services. We have skills they need to be successful. We offices of Nordea Vallila headquarters. attempted to address these challenges want to share our core expertise in The learning environment will host as to some extent by installing “digital corﬁnance and entrepreneurship, and to many as 5,000 annual visits for ners” at a number of branches in 2017. fully support a positive impact on the ninth-graders. It will make it easy for communities in which we operate. over 3,000 Nordea employees working Me & MyCity is a learning concept in the campus area to volunteer and aimed at sixthand ninth-graders, covengage with the next generation. ering different aspects of society, The importance to society of the Sustainability working life and entrepreneurship. It concept is remarkable. Each year, the Ambassadors Network teaches vital skills for being a responMe & MyCity learning concept reaches sible citizen. The Me & MyCity learning 70% of all sixthand ninth-graders in At the beginning of the summer environment simulates real-life situaFinland. The pragmatic learning of 2017, Nordea established the tions tailored to ﬁt the learning capaapproach has been scientiﬁcally provSustainability Ambassadors Forum. bilities of sixthor ninth-graders. en to be a successful method in teachIt is a forum for Nordea employees Anna Kosonen is Community ing ﬁnancial skills to children at a across the organisation. The ambasEngagement Manager at Nordea. young age, generating long-term sadors are about 50 employees from “Being a partner to the Finnish edubeneﬁts. nine countries working in various cation innovation initiative Me & MyCity “The learning concept is fantastic, positions across Nordea with a pasembodies Nordea’s strategy for combut more importantly, pupils say it’s sion for sustainability. The forum is munity engagement. Employee volunthe most amazing day they’ve ever an important part of integrating susteering is a key function in Nordea’s had at school. This makes me believe tainability across the organisation. collaboration with Me & MyCity. I am that our community engagement actuIt is a way of making sustainability proud that hundreds of Nordea ally is of beneﬁt for future generarelevant in the business and for our employees seized the opportunity to tions,” concludes Anna Kosonen. customers. volunteer at the learning environment days in 2017,” says Anna Kosonen. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Our business 16 Our business As a ﬁnancial institution, our business model is to create value for our customers, employees, shareholders and society in general. For a sustainable business model to succeed, value cannot only include monetary means, but must encompass environmental concern, social responsibility, employee-related matters, respect for human rights and anti-corruption. Responsible business is a means for remaining successful in a changing global environment. We build trusted relationships through in society and sustainable development not just in terms of results, but of impact our strong engagement with both cusby making it easier for people to realise we can also show how we create human, tomers and society and through our their dreams. We work for something social, environmental and intellectual broad expertise across the wide range greater than the bank and our customers, value alongside ﬁnancial value. of products, services and solutions we employees and shareholders – we work Our four main business areas are provide within banking, asset managefor a greater good, delivering value and designed to support the relationship ment and insurance. generating positive impact on society. By strategy for each speciﬁc customer segAs a bank, we contribute to progress measuring the output of our resources, ment. Having a single operating model Value Creation For details on assumptions, calculations, estimations and limitations for this value creation model, see note S6. on page 38. Purpose Financial Nordea is the leading bank Together we lead the in the Nordic countries and EUR 548,296m total liabilities way, enabling dreams a major European bank. and everyday EUR 33,316m total equity aspirations for a Values For a sustainable business greater good. model to succeed, value Collaboration cannot only include Passion monetary means, but must Courage consider ESG factors. Human Ownership 33,170 employees 47% men, 53% women Social and Relationship ~10 million customers 9.6 million household customers 580,000 Corporates & Institutions Stakeholders, suppliers, NGOs, other banks and Personal Banking Commercial and Wholesale Banking Wealth Business Banking Management decision-makers. Our brand and reputation. Our four business areas are designed to support the relationship strategy for each speciﬁc customer segment. Having one operating model and an end-to-end value chain ensures suitable and optimal delivery, enabling maximising the time spent with our customers. Intellectual • Integration of • Purpose and values sustainability within • IT systems and Our sustainable operations our core business processes • Risk and compliance • Know Your Customer (KYC) • ESG screening of customers • Sanctions screening and suppliers • ESG analysis • IT development Natural • Responsible investment • Business development and • Energy • Green bonds transformation • Paper • Water Resources Our business Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Our business 17 and an end-to-end value chain ensures Every corporate customer is unique. green bonds, which enable customers appropriate and optimal delivery in We must fully understand their current to demonstrate their climate changeterms of increasing time spent with ﬁnancial situation and future plans mitigating actions and sustainability customers. before offering them any service, advice approach in ﬁnancing. or product in order to support, in turn, Personal Banking serves Nordea’s their customers’ long-term business and Wealth Management provides investhousehold customers with everyday their possibility to be a sustainable conment, savings, life insurance and risk banking services as well as products tributor to society. management products. Customers are suited to customers’ needs and circumserved through various channels includstances, through approximately 600 Wholesale Banking provides services ing a pan-Nordic Private Banking platbranches and our 24/7 online and and ﬁnancial solutions to Nordea’s largform. The business area manages cusremote banking service. est corporate and institutional customtomers’ assets and provides ﬁnancial In the digital era, we engage in eduers. Customers are served through a advice to affluent and high net worth cating our customers, not only in conpan-Nordic platform supplemented by individuals as well as institutional ducting their banking business on their selected international branches. investors. smartphones or tablets, but in knowing The business area provides its cusWhile we screen our actively manhow to use them for other purposes, tomers with products and services in aged investments to ensure that the hence promoting inclusion in the digital corporate banking, cash management companies in which we invest act society. and trade ﬁnance services, investment responsibly, customers wishing to go banking and capital markets products. further can also choose funds with a Commercial and Business Banking We share knowledge on the relehigher level of responsible investment in serves Nordea’s small and mediumvance to transform towards low-carbon their portfolio management, including sized corporate customers with services and more resilient business models, and proprietary ESG analysis. such as ﬁnancial advisory and transstrive to provide relevant products to action banking services. our customers. One such product is As a bank, we contribute to the development of communities and employment and play a fundamental Total value contribution role for enterprises to start up and grow. We also EUR 22,603m provide products and services to households to enable them to save and borrow at all stages of life. We create wealth through our stakleholders by creating and distributing economic value. • Total operating income • Interest paid to bond holders EUR 9,469m EUR 2,583m • Interest paid to customers • Salaries and pensions EUR 3,212m EUR 367m • Payment to suppliers EUR 2,986m • Dividend to shareholders • Tax contribution EUR 1,239m Financing EUR 2,747m home buyers: Financing of 69,753 ﬁrst-time home buyers We want to have a creative and inspiring environment for our employees with continued learning and further development. • Internal hires 4,891 • 465,811 training hours • External hires 4,718 • 44% female graduate hires Saving for the future: Investing in our Emerging Stars fund reduces CO2 We are committed to combining ﬁnancial performance with emissions equal to 8,312 environmental and social responsibility as well as sound round trips Stockholmgovernance practices. Madrid by • Engaging 1,569 employees in • More than 70% of Nordea’s airplane community engagement risk exposure for our largest • Emissions from Global Climate corporate customers covered and Environment Fund: by ESG evaluation 254.88 tonnes CO2/per million USD in sales Total emission 22,738 CO2e Creating jobs: Financing 1,300 • From energy consumption • From air travel new start-ups 3,238 tonnes 19,500 tonnes Results Impact Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area 18 Personal Banking Our goal is for Personal Banking to be the market leader in delivering sustainable customer solutions. In 2017 we therefore continued to integrate sustainability into our core operations with the aim of making sustainability an inherent part of everything we do. To improve our sustainability perforfor households to ensure their ﬁnances areas such as budgeting, making ﬁnanmance we have identiﬁed four main could cope with higher interest rates, cial decisions and saving so as to give focus areas; Sustainable Products & and we also perform credit checks to young people a good knowledge base Advice, Financial Skills, Digitalisation ensure our customers have amortisation in personal ﬁnances. and Diversity & Inclusion. For each area, capacity and don’t assume excessive Money Week is an event arranged we will set speciﬁc goals from 2018 and debt, while at the same time minimising across Europe with the purpose of beyond. the risk for the bank. improving young people’s ﬁnancial A great deal of choice in responsible capabilities. Focus this year was on digiSustainable products and advice investment is available to our customtal security and how to behave online, Nordea aspires to take relevant ESG ers. Our Personal Banking advisors are with respect to shopping online, peraspects into consideration in terms of trained and can access e-learning modsonal data, etc. In Denmark, Money business opportunities related to savules on how we invest in general, and in Week is initiated by FinanceDenmark ings, ﬁnancing and advice. We proacour Stars funds in particular, so that and more than 900 schools and 31,000 tively raise the level of knowledge of they may offer relevant advice on our pupils participated in March 2017, markour advisors and customers through products. ing an increase of 50% on 2016. Nordea training and communication. We are played a major part by holding over a also legally obliged to present mandaFinancial skills third of the guest presentations. More tory information to our customers, to As a ﬁnancial services company, Nordea than 270 of the 750 guest lectures were ensure that we retain our licence and is highly knowledgeable and skilled in held by a Nordea employee. credibility. In terms of lending and promoting ﬁnancial literacy. We cooperIn Norway, we arranged our own granting mortgages, we use certain ate with non-proﬁt organisations in the event in September – Nordea in school. tools to make sustainable calculations Nordics and share our knowledge in 70 volunteers participated and were out Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Personal Banking 19 visiting secondary schools, teaching Diversity and inclusion Working to improve students ﬁnancial skills and discussing Diversity and inclusion is a part of our customer satisfaction possible career choices. In Finland heritage in the Nordics. We want to Customer satisfaction is a top priority at Nordea is one of more than 15 compareflect the society in which we operate. Nordea. Surveys for Personal Banking nies represented in the coordinated At the same time, several studies have show an unsatisfactory customer satisevent Me & MyCity. In Sweden one of shown that companies with a diverse faction development in Sweden, whereour initiatives regarding ﬁnancial workforce perform better. In Peras we see a positive development in skills is Ekonomipejl – sonal Banking, we have a Finland. Scores in Denmark and Norway “Finances in Focus”. We particular challenge in are at the same levels as 2016. visit students around terms of the gender Improving customer satisfaction both the country to teach balance. Among in absolute terms and versus competithem about their personal ﬁnanc50,000 non-managerial employees, there tion will be a key priority in 2018. Focus on the customer is vital, and listening coin bags es. Volunteers is a substantial more carefully to our customers is now visit schools and overbalance of the baseline for new initiatives. some have also women. A few #wecare and #weﬁx are two well-strucbeen to young accepted from customers steps up the tured processes that work towards conoffender prisons hierarchy it’s stant improvement based on customer to share their as part of the banknotes rather equal, but feedback. knowledge. and coin changeover in at the top of the Customer complaints are considered Sweden in 2017 pyramid, there is to be the most important source of Digitalisation instead a signiﬁcant information for increasing customer Digitalisation has been overbalance of men. We satisfaction in all areas, technical funca driver of sustainability for would also like to integrate tionality, enhanced efficiency and not some time. It continues to play minority groups into Nordea to a least in terms of being easy to deal an important role, both in terms of greater extent, enabling us to build colwith. Complaints are also used for reducing the carbon footprint and lective strength through better commulearning purposes in coaching employincreasing ﬁnancial inclusion and nity engagement, and internal and ees and training and feedback sesaccessibility to ﬁnancial services. In external projects. sions. 97% of complaints are solved Personal Banking we have continued to In 2017 we improved our engageimmediately for the customer in their extend our online branches, affording ment in diversity and inclusion by runﬁrst contact with the bank. us flexibility and giving our customers ning a pilot scheme in Sweden with a the opportunity to engage with us focus on building competence, and through remote meetings, anywhere speciﬁcally on awareness surrounding Lowering the entry barrier and anytime. The most digitally excludthese issues. Several workshops were ed people are often those who are also held with the heads of branch regions, to the ﬁnancial market the most socially and economically at which detailed discussions on diverAt Nordea, we are dedicated to enexcluded, who could beneﬁt a lot from sity and inclusion took place. Tools for suring access to the financial market making the online transition. As a bank recruitment, communication and work for everyone. We have customer with a signiﬁcant digital agenda, we environment were devised with the aim programmes tailored to different want to ensure that we bring digitalisaof making us more inclusive in our daily customer segments and needs. tion into everyone’s lives. work by building an inclusive culture Young customers and students Embracing digitalisation can someand incorporating it into our transforare two groups on which we are times require a helping hand and mation journey. focusing in terms of providing a someone there to provide guidance. tailored customer programme This year, the branch in Nyköping SweAccessibility for vulnerable groups whereby young customers and den initiated recurring events, inviting Banks are often criticised for their lack students receive discounts on our people to digital workshops to help of services for vulnerable groups, such products and services as a social them enter the digital world. In Finland as the elderly, people with disabilities benefit helping them to establish similar initiatives have been carried and others with low access to digital themselves on the financial market. out. Digital mornings have been introservices. We serve 10 million private In Denmark our Check-in and duced at which customers are invited customers and it’s important to us that Ung+ savings accounts amount to to the branch before opening hours to our services are available to everyone. EUR 297m (3% of our total savings get an introduction to digital services In Norway we are legally obliged to accounts). as well as face-to-face meetings aftermake ATMs and ADMs accessible to Our Check-in savings account in wards, with time set aside for practice everyone, especially the visually and Finland amounts to EUR 481m (5% and questions. In Denmark 60 employphysically impaired. Our ATM business of total savings accounts). ees from various functions in the bank in Finland and Sweden is outsourced In Norway we have specific now volunteer to serve as digital – to Automatia in Finland and Banstudent savings account amounting ambassadors. Their main task is to komat in Sweden. In 2017 our vendor to EUR 194m (3% of total savings assist and inspire colleagues in cusAutomatia launched 50 new “Talking accounts). tomer-facing functions to become fully ATMs” to help visually impaired peoIn Sweden our Check-in and familiar with the wide range of digital ple use them. 200 of the new-generaStudent savings account amounts solutions on offer, so colleagues can go tion ATMs in Finland are models comto EUR 602m (4% of total savings to the digital ambassadors if they need patible with the needs of physically accounts). suggestions and advice. The digital disabled people. Also, in 2017 our ambassadors also serve as a sounding mobile app was developed with a board with respect to the development focus on creating a better voiceover of our digital solutions. function to assist the visually impaired. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area 20 Commercial and Business Banking Commercial and Business Banking is embracing Nordea’s new purpose and values. By understanding our customers’ needs, being a proactive business partner and making engagement count – while at the same time ensuring that everything we do is for a greater good – we aim to build the preferred relationship bank for the future. To achieve our goals, many initiatives of the working group is to perform a ates, and the countries to which it is have been running in parallel throughgap assessment and develop plans for exposed. It is planned that speciﬁc cusout the year. These include our lending how to implement the new principles. tomers identiﬁed as being in a higher to the SME segment, ongoing hiring of Findings and recommendations are risk area will be engaged in a dialogue graduates, and staff training. They also currently being developed. in order to mitigate identiﬁed risks. include the introduction of new applicaA project that has already started, A pilot including a number of high-risk tions such as “Visual Agenda” – aimed aims to integrate ESG evaluations into customers was initiated in the autumn both at teaching ﬁnancial skills and the regular KYC process. This will of 2017 to test and evaluate the process. ensuring greater customer satisfaction, enable CBB to identify and mitigate The ﬁnal development and implemenand “Remote Meetings” – allowing our ESG risks among its high-risk customtation of the ESG evaluation process is customers more time to focus on their ers. New customers will be targeted as expected in 2018. businesses while helping to reduce part of on-boarding, while existing custravel times. tomers will be assessed during the regGreen ﬁnancing ular due diligence processes. The proDemand for green bonds from the invesImplementing ESG criteria cess will consider all CBB customers tor community has steadily increased. In In June 2017 the Board of Directors according to their risk impact (i.e. cusJune 2017 Nordea issued its ﬁrst ever approved the new sustainable ﬁnancing tomer size), and all customers with a green bond and, as part of the launch, principles included in our Sustainability relevant risk impact will be further CBB was a key participant in identifying Policy. A sustainable ﬁnancing impleassessed based on their risk level. The and pooling assets backing the bond mentation group was subsequently risk level is in turn determined based on issuance. Out of a total EUR 500m issued, established, which includes Commercial multiple factors, including the industry CBB customers made up EUR 130m of and Business Banking (CBB). The task segment in which the customer operthe green assets. The distribution per Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Commercial and Business Banking 21 sector was ‘green buildings’ (36%), tors to help the entrepreneurs realise prises, helping decide the winners in the ‘renewable energy’ (44%) and ‘water their full potential. Best Enterprise category, and also and waste water treatment’ (20%). selecting the Nordea Award winners for At the same time we have witnessed The Norrsken foundation the best business plan. These are selectan increase in demand from our corpoNorrsken is run by a private foundation ed out of hundreds of business plans, rate customers to diversify their funding and focuses on supporting social-imﬁrstly by ﬁnding regional winners and, base to include green ﬁnancing. In pact tech entrepreneurs and start-ups in the second stage, by electing overall order to support their sustainability as well as their surrounding ecosystem. winners at the national championships. approach, CBB launched an initiative in In their activities, they support and By engaging in Young EntrepreneurSeptember 2017 aiming at developing a invest in both for-proﬁt businesses and ship, we get a unique opportunity to green purpose-based loan product. By non-proﬁt organisations. Currently meet with hundreds of young entrepredirectly stimulating and promoting based in Sweden, Norrsken has plans to neurs and students to discuss creativity green purpose-based ﬁnancing prodexpand internationally over the coming and banking. ucts, we sincerely believe that both our years. Nordea will have access to the customers and society will beneﬁt. Norrsken House for events and gatherCustomer satisfaction ings, and will also offer the entrepre– a top priority neurs at Norrsken House ﬁnancial Our customer surveys show improved Criteria for eligible expertise, knowledge and suitable sercustomer satisfaction scores for our assets for green loans vices. The parties will jointly strive for Commercial and Business Banking cus• Meet the social, environmental Norrsken House entrepreneurs to have tomers, bringing us back to levels comand life cycle criteria assigned to the opportunity to work together with parable with 2015. We see a positive each category, i.e. aim to increase Nordea employees through board customer satisfaction trend in Denmark, the positive, or reduce the negaappointments and similar undertakings. Finland and Sweden. Scores in Norway tive, impact on the environment. In our view this will beneﬁt all remain at stable levels, comparable • Provide reports/documentation concerned. with 2016 and 2015. in order to evaluate the sustainWe are on a journey to improve cusability-related performance of the Young Entrepreneurship tomer satisfaction both in absolute assets. Nordea is a key partner to the Norweterms and versus competition, and this • Be consistent with the Green Bond gian association Young Entrepreneurwill remain a top priority for us. Many Principles and the verifier’s criteria. ship (“Ungt Entreprenørskap”) and, for initiatives are being launched to several years, has been playing a direct improve customer satisfaction, one role in motivating young entrepreneurs being a new enhanced process for sysEncouraging entrepreneurship and sharing valuable knowledge surtematically capturing and acting on cusCommunity engagement is an essential rounding the role of banking – for tomer feedback. It will support us in part of Nordea’s sustainable business example, when starting a company. focusing on the right aspects – those strategy and illustrates the important In 2017, CBB employees served on the that really matter to our customers. role we play in society as a bank. Buildjuries of both youth and student enterThe process will be rolled out in 2018. ing ﬁnancial skills and enhancing entrepreneurship make up the core of our group-wide community engagement programme. CBB engages with entreEligble areas for green loans preneurs in many different ways, from The table below provides an overview of the areas eligible for green loans and mentoring and networking to start-up how the positive impact of the initiatives may be measured and communicated. programmes and ﬁnancial skills training, helping them achieve their goals Green Bond Principles category Nordea subcategory Impact measurement indicators 1) and realise their visions. By encouraging entrepreneurship, we also help proRenewable Energy Wind, Hydro and Installed Estimation of mote economic growth. Speciﬁc examSolar renewable energy avoided CO2e production emissions compared ples of initiatives in this area include: capacity (MW) to baseline Energy Efficiency Smart grids, Energy Amount of energy Estimation of Start-up & Growth units storage, District saved (MW) avoided CO2e Growth companies and new start-ups heating emissions need support from the very beginning. Green Buildings Certiﬁed buildings Amount of energy Estimation of In order to generate greater attention to saved (MW) avoided CO2e this segment, Nordea has launched emissions dedicated Start-up & Growth Units. Pollution Prevention Pollution Prevention Water Number of people These are currently in place in Finland and Control and Control withdrawals or impacted and Denmark. Plans for setting it up in Water and waste treatment the other Nordic countries are well water management capacity (m3/day) under way. In these units, CBB focuses Waste to energy Production solely on supporting the mobilisation of capacity (MW) entrepreneurship in the Nordics and Clean Transportation Public No. of passengers funding entrepreneurial ideas, thus contransportation/Rail or amount of tributing to the development of start-up transportation freight and scale-up environments. CBB’s role Sustainable Sustainable Forestry Land area is to deliver sustainable services and Management of and Agriculture certiﬁed products by sharing expertise in susLiving Natural Resources tainable investments, risk management and business models, and even match1) Note these are examples of impact measurement indicators making between start-ups and invesNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area 22 Wholesale Banking The way to approach sustainability in Wholesale Banking is to embed it into everything we do. We build understanding of the risks and opportunities presented by our customers’ business, and support them with advice, relevant products and research, while managing our own business sustainably. Sustainability aspects are included in eration seen during the latter part of the into tangible action continues. Green our business decisions, product offering, year. The topics range from the releloans provide a broad group of customrisk management initiatives and cusvance of sustainability in equity marers with an opportunity to demonstrate tomer dialogue. Sustainable conduct kets, to product-speciﬁc guidance for their green credentials in ﬁnancing. In a and training are also essential for each customer. This development has way similar to green bonds, green loans attracting motivated and competent been supported by a monthly Nordea ﬁnance speciﬁc investments that have professionals to our teams. In 2017 we green bond letter and green bond environmental beneﬁts. The Green loan took major steps in integrating sustaininvestor and customer surveys. The surcategories framework at Nordea is ability into our product offering and risk veys clearly point to increased interest described on page 21. It is essentially management. Attention to sustainability in how to make sustainability operationthe same as that used in the Nordea in the customer dialogue and general al in ﬁnance and the CFO functions of green bond described below. The cateawareness-building among stakeholdvarious corporates. This is particularly gory criteria are being developed and ers were intensiﬁed. interesting for many Nordic companies updated together with an independent that have placed sustainability at the external veriﬁer. The ﬁrst green customGreen product offerings core of their corporate strategies. er loans have been signed and we will Green ﬁnancing forms part of the disNordea’s position as the leading bank look into expanding green ﬁnancing cussions about future ﬁnancing opporin the Nordics has enabled increased further to loan products next year. tunities with our corporate and instituawareness of sustainability aspects We also provide advice on the topic tional customers. The number of bilateramong Nordic business leaders and of ﬁnancing in a green or social format al meetings and events at which green European investors looking at the Norwith sustainable bonds. Focus is on ﬁnancing has a central role has clearly dic markets. Parallel work to support engaging with Nordea’s full range of increased from last year with an accelour customers in translating awareness customers, including investors, in disNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Wholesale Banking 23 cussing sustainability in the context of ed into one of the ﬁve ESG risk region and many of them follow the ﬁnance. Throughout 2017, our investcategories. Nordic or highest EU/international stanments paid off. In 2017 Nordea, was an About 2–3% of the evaluated expodards also in their foreign operations. arranger for 20 green bonds to a total sures fall into the highest risk category. Furthermore, managing compliance risk deal value of almost USD 4bn – more In these cases, long-term ﬁnancing is is a key element in ensuring that risks than doubling the amount from previtypically offered only for speciﬁc purare under control. We ask our customous years put together – including the poses on speciﬁc terms. Corporates ers to share their ﬁnancial crime/sancinaugural EUR 500m Nordea Green assigned a high ESG risk will be tions policies if available. Bond. We have moved from number escalated to a group-level nine in the Nordic league tables to a credit committee which Understanding lead position. will in turn consult the digitalisation BEVC in subjects Digitalisation is concerning our reshaping No 1 Cracking the ESG code * values, ethics and all banking activiOne way of advancing sustainability reputational risk. ties. We will inteis research that provides hard facts Clearly over grate the in empirical data. Nordea Markets 70% of the evalESG-related data has invested in building up dedicatuated exposure and analysis into bank for large corporates in the ed ESG research and published the belongs to one the information Nordics in the Prospera survey inaugural ESG report “Cracking the of the three lowin November 2017 platforms availESG code”, which has become by far est risk categories, able to the cus*shared position the most downloaded publication which is in line with tomer executives in on nordeamarkets.com. expectations for a the early part of 2018. The study highlights the correlapredominantly Nordic It is also about undertion between operational excellence portfolio. standing how digitalisation and ESG performance (measured In accordance with our strateand generally new technologies with MSCI ratings) and finds solid gy, the overall risk level and exposure in affect their business, their needs and evidence that ESG matters, both to Russia have been taken down. Expotheir expectations for ﬁnancial services. operational and share price perforsure in Russia is currently EUR 3bn, and New business ecosystems are being mance. is evaluated using the same principles shaped in basically all industries, The relative performance of the and process as the rest of the portfolio. replacing the traditional value chain top versus bottom ESG performers mentality. We still offer products and was as much as 40% in 2012–2015. Measuring customer satisfaction services in the traditional way but a Relationships are at the core of our greater emphasis is being put on costrategy and customer satisfaction is development, not only with a given cusFocusing on ESG evaluation measured annually by external parties. tomer, but with several customers at a The commitment to including ESG evalIn terms of customer satisfaction time involved in the same ecosystem. uation in Wholesale Banking’s internal Wholesale Banking reached the shared As a ﬁnancial service provider, we will decision-making operationalises the number one position in the Nordic thus become more integrated into the Code of Conduct and the updated ranking with a notable improvement in industrial and business processes of our Sustainability Policy. Integrating ESG three countries. The capital markets customers, and their sustainabilityrisk evaluation into our credit decisionleague tables conﬁrm the leading numrelated issues will also become our own making not only mitigates risks, but also ber one position in all relevant Nordic to an even greater extent. emphasises to our customers the capital markets areas. importance of good ESG management and transparent reporting. ESG underKnowing our customers Nordea Sustainable standing gives us further insight into Financial crime, anti-money laundering, Finance Conference the risks and opportunities our customsanctions screening and other up-toers face in their businesses. As part of date KYC processes cover all Wholesale In September 2017 the Nordea the climate change position statement, Banking units, and the latest legislation, Sustainable Finance conference we identiﬁed the handful of customers such as the fourth Anti-Money Launin Stockholm gathered together that we will follow on their transformadering (AML) Directive, is incorporated. 170 decision-makers from our core tion away from coal. The evaluation work is supported by customers. We have advanced in ESG risk evalunew digital assistance with robots that It became clear that sustainability ation according to plan but still have scan various information sources and is high on the strategic agenda in some way to go to realising our high capture relevant input so that the the Nordic region, and that corpoambition level. A dedicated centralised experts can focus on analysing the rates and investors are starting to expert team evaluates the ESG risk of data. Wholesale Banking’s governance realise that sustainability is crucial the large corporate customer groups in structure supports insight into ﬁnancial for long-term operating and finanall countries including Russia. The work crime issues by introducing non-ﬁnancial success. is structured by a speciﬁc ESG evaluacial risk forums for each division and tion tool that has industry-speciﬁc also KYC Evaluation Boards that hanquestions, and also captures controverdle, for example, high-risk customers sies. The ESG risk category is now in relevant units. included in credit memorandums. We expect the customers, and not Over 70% of Wholesale Banking only ourselves as their bank, to follow exposure at risk, excluding ﬁnancial all relevant laws and regulations and institutions and most of shipping that obtain the relevant permits for their will be addressed in 2018, was evaluatoperations. The majority of our customed in 2017 and customers were allocaters are headquartered in the Nordic Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area 24 Wealth Management Our vision is to be the leading Nordic wealth manager, and to create sustainable returns for our customers, constantly advancing progress in terms of the environment and society. That means integrating sustainability across Wealth Management’s core areas; investment and advisory. By advising our customers and acting together from offices in Stockholm and on their behalf, we can make important Copenhagen. Our Responsible InvestAwarded ESG process contributions to sustainable economic ment policy in Asset Management is In 2017, Nordea Asset Management growth and prosperity, through capital based on the UN PRI, which commits us received the Capital Finance Interallocation, interaction with companies to integrating ESG factors into our national (CFI)’s award for Best ESG and building partnerships. This is not investment analysis, decision-making process in Europe for the fourth only an opportunity, but also part of our processes and ownership policies and year in a row. ﬁduciary responsibility which, in turn, practices. We have continued to develcontributes to a greater good. op our Responsible Investment policy in Asset Management to include a stricter screening identiﬁes the most environSustainable investment and advice position on coal companies and clariﬁmentally and socially responsible comIntegrating relevant and material ESG cation on how we manage companies panies to invest in. As part of the conissues into the entire scope of Wealth in conflict areas. Also, a number of cept for the Stars funds, we engage Management’s products and advice actions have been taken to increase actively with companies on ESG risks was an important focus area in 2017. customer value. For example, we and opportunities, where meeting with The Nordea Group has developed a launched two new Stars funds – companies and also ﬁeld trips are key in new infrastructure in which sustainable Swedish Bond Stars and European the assessment of how these risks and advice and investment are managed in Stars. Stars funds have a higher level opportunities are managed. The propriworking groups covering all aspects of responsible investing in their portfoetary analysis model used in the Stars within Wealth Management. lio management, including proprietary funds was further developed in 2017 The dedicated Responsible InvestESG analysis that informs of investment and our involvement in the Sustainable ment team of nine people works selection and decisions. This positive Accounting Standards Board consultaNordea Sustainability Report 2017 Business area Wealth Management 25 tion has been important in further dards within the area. To further encouraging companies to report on enhance the value delivered to our Female leaders in the lead material ESG metrics. customers, we have transformed our In 2017, Nordea Asset Management At Nordea Life & Pension (NLP), we wealth advice to offer a “One-Stopanalysed nearly 11,000 companies launched a responsible investment poliShop” with comprehensive legal advice traded publicly across the globe cy with a focus on integration of ESG and inheritance planning across over the last eight years. The results factors and impact investmarkets. showed that, on average, companies ments to reach the target with a female chief executive officer of increasing the overActive ownership or a female chair of the board of all sustainability We worked actively directors have had a 25% annuallevel. Developing ESG rating and carbon footprint EUR throughout the year with corporate engagement and ised return since 2009, more than double the 11% delivered by the MSCI World Index. measures is an essential element of the strategy. NLP 762m stewardship, focusing on issues such as climate change, place to systematise their approach to in the Global Climate has also pubcorruption, human rights and serious allegations. lished a Stable and Environment human rights and Nordea’s Group Sustainable Finance Pension SustainFund water. During the was elected as the Social Issues Repreability declaration year we continued sentative of the Banking Committee in together with a our work with CDP and UNEP FI. We are further increasing responsible investment the Water Europe report transparency by enhancing the reportreport. on the pharmaceutical indusing on company engagements and votWe have started to examine our try’s effect on water in India. We also ing records. This information will be savings offerings to identify how we can established a new engagement with available at nordea.com. help customers make more sustainable European Financial Roundtable, in choices in the future. As a part of this, which we have a representative in the Digitalisation to create value all our private banking advisors in Swecore group together with Aviva, HSBC, In Wealth Management we have put den have undergone training on the the EFR Secretary General and the EU digitalisation at the heart of our stratemerits of responsible investment. affairs manager. In March, Nordea was gy to fundamentally improve our value one of the founders of the Corporate proposition. Initiatives such as robo-adSatisfying our customers Human Rights Benchmark. It provides vice and e-branches offer new and Wealth Management customers are in an annual comparative snapshot of the exciting ways to interact with customgeneral very satisﬁed with our services, world's largest companies looking at ers, reaching a new generation and preas they have been previous years. Howpolicies, processes and practices in viously untapped segments by offering ever, as our customers’ satisfaction is a low-fee automated ﬁnancial advice. top priority for us we would still like to In December 2017, we released our improve further. Successful Stars new robo-advice solution NORA in In general, we are aiming to move The Stars funds had another Sweden. It will be rolled out in other closer to the customer by fully implesuccessful year, exhibiting strong countries in the ﬁrst half of 2018. Anothmenting initiatives such as e-branches growth as total assets under maner focus area is robotics, which is revowhich offer around-the-clock service agement (AuM) in the Stars funds lutionising processes by enhancing effiand allow for flexibility. In Private Bankgrew by 61% in 2017. Swedish Stars ciency in areas such as KYC and product ing, the strategy has been fundamentalwas the best performing Swedish development. In our view, digitalisation ly realigned to make the organisation equity fund in 2017 in the market offers a signiﬁcant opportunity to promore customer-centric. It is doing so by and Emerging Stars is a five-star vide our customers with modern solunurturing a culture around service fund according to Morningstar. tions with a clear focus on sustainability, excellence and developing high staninclusion and responsibility. 2.2% 86% 5,309 of total assets have of total assets have companies in the portfolio been subject to positive been subject to negative environmental and/ environmental and/ We have interacted on or social screening or social screening environmental and social issues with 134 companies = Positive screening Negative screening Analysis aimed at identifying companies with well-managed ESG risks and opportunities. The ambition is to create shareholder value through identifying companies that have Analysis aimed at identifying companies involved in controversial activities and/or sectors and/or involved in the violation of international norms. 2.5% strong capabilities for integrating ESG metrics into business decisions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Governance 26 Governance In the last two years, we have implemented a new sustainability governance structure providing a solid foundation that enables developing and anchoring our sustainability strategy and agenda. The Board of Directors decides on Each business area and group funcresponsible for the strategic agenda Nordea’s Code of Conduct and Sustaination is represented in the Sustainability and execution of the sustainability stratbility Policy and approves the Statutory Committee. The committee prepares egy. Focus is on issues related to our Sustainability Report that is published in sustainability issues related to policies, direct sustainability impact, such as the Board of Directors’ Report in the guidelines and strategy, which are subhow we treat our employees and supAnnual Report in accordance with the mitted to BEVC for approval. Business pliers, our own emissions, etc. Swedish Annual Accounts Act of 2017. A areas and group functions are responsiGroup Sustainable Finance supports dedicated Board Committee assists the ble for implementing sustainability polithe business areas in implementing polBoard of Directors in fulﬁlling its overcies, products and risk management icies and processes in the business, i.e. sight responsibilities in terms of conduct, processes in the business. how to integrate sustainability into sustainability, compliance and operaTo enhance progress in certain straproducts and offerings in ﬁnancing, tions/systems, as well as related frametegic sustainability areas, we have investment and advice. works and processes. seven working groups focusing on one From February 2018 the two funcCEO in Group Executive Managespeciﬁc sustainability issue each such as tions were merged into one Group Susment decides on the sustainability stratprocurement, community engagement, tainable Finance team. egy including plans, targets and perfordiversity & inclusion, digitalisation, In 2017 we increased our resources mance indicators. The decision-making ﬁnancing, investment and advice committed to working with sustainabilibody for sustainability-related matters including tax. The working groups ty, both at group level and in the busiis the Business Ethics and Values Comreport to the Sustainability Committee. ness areas. For Nordea’s whole govermittee (BEVC), chaired by the CEO. We have established two group funcnance structure, please see the CorpoBEVC decides on Nordea’s values and tions responsible for sustainability – rate Governance Report in the Nordea ethical aspects to be considered in busiGroup Sustainability and Group SustainAnnual Report 2017. ness decisions and sustainability issues. able Finance. Group Sustainability is Nordea’s Sustainability Governance Board of Directors Decides on Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy and approves Statutory Sustainability Report Board Committee Assists the board in its oversight concerning sustainability Group Executive Management CEO decides on sustainability strategy including plans, targets and performance indicators Business Ethics and Values Committee Decides on Nordea’s values and ethical aspects to be considered in business decisions and sustainability issues that do not require board approval Sustainability Committee Business Areas and Group Functions Operational sub-committee to BEVC which prepares Responsible for implementing sustainability policies, sustainability issues related to policies and strategy products and related risk management processes Group Sustainability and Group Sustainable Finance Develops and executes sustainability policies and strategy and supports business areas and group functions in implementation Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Governance 27 Managing sustainability-related risks Sustainability can be included as an aspect in any of our risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, operational risk and compliance risk, and managed CASE as part of these risk streams. The Board of Directors bears ultimate responsibility for limiting and monitoring our risk exposures. The key principle for our management of risks is the three lines Supporting Nordic of defence (LoD), with the business areas constituting the ﬁrst LoD, Group entrepreneurs with dedicated Compliance and Group Risk Management & Control the second LoD, and Group Internal Audit the third LoD. Start-up & Growth units Failure to meet stakeholders’ expectations on how we are to behave as a susGrowth companies and new start-ups need ﬁnancial tainable entity on the ﬁnancial market services, support and advice from day one. Through close and as a responsible corporate citizen poses a sustainability-related risk. It’s not collaboration and mentoring, Nordea helps these companies just about complying with prevailing to grow and create important networking contacts with laws and regulations, but about acting ethically, which may extend beyond the relevant service providers, equity investors, business angels, law; otherwise, we run the risk of a negaccelerators and start-up hubs around the world. ative effect on our brand. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and ethical standards that regulate Nordea’s operaNordea has developed a very flexible both the business angels and the tions in a country, and which could result loan model for start-ups in Finland, start-ups in NordicBAN. in signiﬁcant ﬁnancial loss, bad reputawhich includes the active role of priAfter a period of gradually increastion, remarks or penalties from authorivate investors. We combine and tailor ing our activities in the Nordic start-up ties, constitutes a compliance risk. traditional loan products so that they ecosystem, Nordea Finland was ﬁrst Our stakeholders have identiﬁed repﬁt high-growth situations. Typically, out with launching a dedicated Startutational risk, risks related to corruption, we combine our partners’ guarantee up & Growth unit with a nationwide climate change and insufficient ESG due solutions with junior loan solutions offering last year in Finland. The unit is diligence processes, amongst others, as and other suitable instruments and specialised in fast-growing companies sustainability-related risks. We agree on create a package that ﬁts the customas well as in cooperating with private their conclusion and realise that these er's needs and situation. equity investors, large corporates and risks require further analysis and Therefore, our role in cooperating accelerators. Many of Nordea’s large attention. with private investors has become corporate customers have asked the To ensure that we identify our key very important for the ecosystem. Via Nordea Start-up & Growth team to sustainability-related risks in the value our new cooperation with NordicBAN, search for potential acquisitions and chain and also manage them in the Nordic Business Angel Network, the investment opportunities from among most efficient way, one of our shortmission is to actively connect and the start-up and growth companies that term sustainability goals was to launch introduce business angels on the Norsuit their growth or innovation needs. a risk assessment framework. This task dic level and match syndication-ready Vesa Riihimäki is Head of Start-up was more comprehensive than we start-ups with an active lead investor. & Growth in Finland. anticipated and the work is still in progThe Nordic region has tremendous “Our relatively long experience in ress and will continue during 2018. potential in building a tight co-investthe start-up ﬁeld and the fact that we ment ecosystem, and Nordea brings currently have 1,300 start-ups with a value via leveraging ﬁnance solutions loan solution in use solely in Finland, Nordea ranked as one and providing a strong network for give us a strong base to recommend of the world’s most great companies that we strongly sustainable corporations believe in, for venture capital funds, business angels and large corporates.” Nordea Bank AB has ranked among With the success in Finland the Corporate Knights’ 2018 Global other Nordic countries are following 100 Most Sustainable Corporations with similar units being established in in the World. The ranking was Sweden, Denmark and Norway. presented at the World Economic “I am happy to announce that Forum in Davos in January 2018. Nordea’s start-up and growth activiGlobal 100 companies represent ties are now ramping up in all the Northe top 2% in the world on sustaindic countries. Our start-up deal flow ability performance. will be highly valuable for Nordic To determine the ranking, investors and our door-opening role to Corporate Knights analyzed 7,425 large Nordic investors will also be companies against global industry valuable for start-ups in all the four peers on a suite of 17 quantitative Nordic countries going forward,” conkey performance indicators. cludes Vesa Riihimäki. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Risk and Compliance 28 Risk and Compliance Good risk management is a key success factor in the ﬁnancial services industry. To create value for Nordea’s shareholders and customers, it is important that our risks are under control. Compliance with laws and regulations is essential for Nordea; we want to be a good corporate citizen, ensuring fair treatment of our customers and aiding society in preventing the banking system from being used for illegal activity. Focusing on controls set by the European Central Bank (ECB) A lesson learned from the “Panama It is fundamental that banks have Banking Supervision (SSM). Efforts are Papers” was the need to strengthen strong internal controls in place. History ongoing to fully prepare for SSM superoversight of subsidiaries. Our indepenhas shown multiple examples of the vision in both risk and compliance areas. dent risk function has established clear damaging consequences of weak intergovernance for the oversight of branchnal controls – ranging from severe lossStrengthening our internal es and subsidiaries as well as regular es to bankruptcy. control framework and timely reporting by these to Nordea’s independent risk and comThe independent risk function has Nordea’s Chief Risk Officer. Similar pliance functions share the important taken signiﬁcant steps to ensure strong changes have been implemented by purpose to control risks to protect control of risks including notably the independent compliance function. shareholders, customers, employees, strengthening the risk models organisaOur independent compliance functaxpayers, etc., from unwanted surpristion and governance. Risk modelling tion has implemented a strong operates, hence ensuring we run a sustainable activities have been centralised to ing model and we have established a business. These functions have been achieve a consistent and coherent compliance risk policy, covering all substantially strengthened over the last approach to model governance across Nordea staff. The policy outlines princicouple of years to ensure that we not risk types, creating a centre of expertise ples as well as roles and responsibilities only have the right number of people for modelling and working in close colin relation to compliance risk. Core comworking with internal controls, but also laboration with key stakeholders and pliance processes have been identiﬁed, a high level of expertise. business partners. Risk models are funestablished and documented. CompliRisk and compliance are top priorities damental to our ability to identify and ance risk groups have also been estabfor Nordea. As a result of the decision to measure risk, and hence to price our lished and address our key compliance relocate the headquarters to Finland, we products. Precise models entail accurate risks across the line organisation and will be moving into another regulatory prices for customers and effective manprocesses. An example of a core process regime with high standards, in this case agement and control of risk. is our risk assessment process. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Risk and Compliance 29 Assessing risks and controls ture. Rules and regulations provide the actions so that similar events can be A risk and control self-assessment covoverall framework for how we operate prevented in future. ering both compliance and operational as a bank, and failure to comply thereWe have one legal action pending risk is conducted annually and covers with may lead to the authorities imposduring the reporting period regarding the whole Nordea Group. Self-assessing sanctions on us. Our internal anti-competitive behaviour or violations ment data is collected from each busigroup-level directives (including our of antitrust and monopoly legislation. In ness area and group function. Based on Code of Conduct) are reviewed and 2015, the EFTA Surveillance Authority the self-assessment, operational risk updated at least annually and approved (ESA) received a complaint from the officers independently monitor and either at the CEO or group board level. Swedish company Trustly, a provider of challenge the identiﬁed risks and manTo ensure a consistent approach to e-payment solutions, regarding the agement thereof. In parallel with the risk and compliance training and comalleged blocking of its ability to provide self-assessment, compliance officers munication, a joint risk and compliance its service in Norway. In October 2016, it perform their own independent risk training and culture team has been was announced that ESA has opened assessments based on a set of identiﬁed formed. We have also established a govproceedings against DNB, Nordea, key regulatory risks. For each identiﬁed ernance body to deﬁne the training Finance Norway and BankID for susrisk, the signiﬁcance of the risk is estineeded both in the on-boarding of staff pected breaches of the competition mated and controls in place to mitigate as well as in the continuous training of rules in the EEA Agreement. the risk are assessed. If additional mitieach employee to renew their licences to gating actions are required, these are work. Examples of training activities Emphasising personal identiﬁed and implemented. include team discussions, e-learning accountability modules and classroom training. FurWe emphasise personal accountability Combating ﬁnancial crime risk thermore, as part of strengthening the and if behaviour is observed that is not An example of a key risk is ﬁnancial independent compliance function, a conin line with Code of Conduct or corpocrime, which is a serious threat to the duct risk unit has been established. This rate values, this is addressed and action security and integrity of the global unit is responsible for various conduct is taken. ﬁnancial system, including Nordea. We and investor protection initiatives and for As an example, the independent risk are committed to preventing Nordea implementing our Code of Conduct. and compliance functions, together with from being used for any illegal activity. Internal Audit, have established a ConseWe have established group-wide ﬁnanLicence to Work quence Management Committee. The cial crime policies in order to achieve The Nordea Code of Conduct, anti-bribcommittee discusses, evaluates and robust and consistent standards of comery and corruption as well as risk and takes actions on inappropriate behaviour pliance. These policies support the compliance awareness are part of or poor risk and compliance perforbroader customer strategy, values and Nordea’s mandatory training Licence to mance in terms of adjustments to remuvision, and provide a uniform set of Work. This training is assigned to all neration. Nordea has also a channel ﬁnancial crime risk management princinew employees. In 2017, 97% (88%) of through which employees can raise any ples and mandatory standards for all new employees completed the trainconcerns they may have anonymously. ﬁnancial crime prevention throughout ing. All Nordea employees have to the Nordea Group. renew this mandatory training on a regRaise Your Concern To control the risk, it is essential that ular basis. In 2016, 93% of all staff comNordea’s whistleblowing function Raise we know our customers well. We therepleted the training. The training was Your Concern was established in 2012. fore perform due diligence both when launched again in late 2017 with deadIt encourages employees to speak up if we on-board new customers, and on an line in February 2018. they have concerns about any misconongoing basis. Furthermore, for customDetails in scope regarding the above duct or irregularities. This includes any ers assessed as high-risk, enhanced due data is found in note S8. on page 39. action that constitutes a violation of diligence is performed. On the basis of laws or regulations, or of Nordea’s interknowing our customers well, we are Learning from past mistakes nal policies, instructions or guidelines. able to perform efficient screening and It is part of our culture to take ownerRaise Your Concern aims to ensure monitoring activities to detect suspiship and learn from past mistakes. our compliance with global and nationcions of criminal behaviour, which is In 2017, sanctions issued by Financial al legislation and guidelines. It also reported to the police for further Supervisory Authorities (FSA) affected includes actions that could cause harm investigation. three companies in the Nordea Group. to Nordea’s business or reputation, or to The Board of Directors is regularly Nordea Bank AB (publ), Finnish Branch the health and security of our employupdated on risk and compliance matreceived a penalty payment of EUR 1m ees and customers. ters. Monthly risk reports as well as and a public warning from the Finnish In 2017 the possibility to report, both quarterly risk appetite and compliance FSA due to non-compliance with the internally as well as externally, on misrisk reports are presented to the Group provisions of the Investment Services conduct and irregularities was strengthboard. These reports cover the whole Act and the regulations issued by the ened by implementing an electronic Nordea Group and track key risks, conauthority. Nordea Funds Oy was issued reporting channel called WhistleB. trols and recommendations. with an administrative fee of SEK 0.45m The total number of reported cases from the Swedish FSA for late notiﬁcafor 2017 is 221. All of these concern Upholding a risk and tion of changes in major shareholdings. employees. Actions, being verbal warncompliance culture The Luxembourg Financial Supervisory ing, written warning or dismissal, were Nordea’s Code of Conduct and corpoAuthority announced that it had carried out in 48 of the cases. Six of the rate values guide individual behaviour imposed ﬁnes in the aggregate amount cases were sustainability-related; three at Nordea, and all staff are regularly of EUR 2m on nine supervised entities, concerned fraud and three concerned trained on this topic. Compliance with including Nordea Bank S.A., for breachAML. No cases regarding corruption or applicable laws and regulations, market es of Luxembourg laws and regulations. bribery were reported during the year. standards and business ethics is a funWe take these incidents very seriously damental aspect of our corporate culindeed and implement corrective Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 People 30 People We believe that there will be no business transformation without a human transformation. To fully succeed, we are changing not only our structure and governance as well as our strategy and direction, but also our culture and leadership and our performance and reward strategy. This huge transformation means a sigmore agile and less hierarchical means We are rethinking our ways of workniﬁcant shift in workforce. Our priority is that we want everyone to step into ing by moving into a more neton supporting our people and people leadership; leading ourselves, our peers, work-based structure. Inspired by the leaders on this journey, creating a and the work we are responsible for. agile principles, we want to have a simhigh-performance culture, building a Leadership is about unlocking potenpler and flatter organisation with less future-ﬁt organisation and equipping tial in ourselves, our teams, Nordea hierarchy, faster decision-making proour people with the competences needand society – guided by new leadercesses and better communication. And ed for the future. In 2017, we announced ship principles: We Lead From Within, we will provide people with great that we will be signiﬁcantly fewer peoWe Enable Others, We Serve the opportunities to learn from each other ple in the years to come. We will do our Whole, We Create Sustainable Impact and continuously develop in their roles. utmost to support those who will need and Everything is Learning. To bring to ﬁnd a new path outside Nordea. We these principles to life, they will be The continuous learning mindset have therefore established a job mobiliembedded in how we recruit, assess, We are transforming the way we perty team, dedicated to supporting the develop, reward and promote leaders ceive and engage in learning to rapidly next steps for the people who will leave at Nordea. and efficiently build the competence Nordea in the years to come. needed for today and tomorrow. In 2017, Partnering for performance we took the ﬁrst steps towards becomLeading from heart, purpose and learning ing a continuously learning organisaand values We want our people to feel tion. A new Learning function headed Our culture invites us to o ra t i o n safe, enabled and supby a new a Chief Learning Officer was l a b f Co l or t lead from the heart, he co ported to feel ownercreated. m purpose and values m ship of their own We want learning to be integrated as – the heart signifywit od contribution, part of our day-to-day roles through hm go e on ing the invitation Together growth and enjoycoaching and feedback as well as social nership it starts to bring our full we lead the way ment. We expect and formal learning interventions. This selves to work enabling our people leadmodel for learning will open new possiPassion to s and to always dreams and ers to create clarbilities for everyone at Nordea. everyday aspirations erv connect our busiity, alignment and for e ness decisions to focus for their Capturing our peoples’ voices Ow a greater good our purpose and team to deliver We will introduce a new survey, Our ou act in accordance ight our group-wide rc Transformation Survey (OTS) in 2018. r rs us with our values. We Courage to dow megoals and to enable The results will be used as input for ha to launched our new purt is their team individually quarterly team-based performance and pose and values in May and collectively to conlearning dialogues helping teams gain 2017, and more than 7,000 tinuously learn. a deeper understanding of the different people engaged in the developIn 2017, we also reviewed our dynamics at play in their team. It will ment process. We conducted a value reward strategy. The aim of the reward also help us monitor the progress of our survey, workshops, interviews and strategy is to support Nordea’s ability to transformational journey. It will allow stakeholder focus groups and the coltransform while performing, and realfor more frequent feedback in more lected data was used to form our new ise our group-wide strategic objectives. flexible settings and expand the feedpurpose and four values. Since May, Its aim is to deliver fair, equal and marback culture from between people leadmore than 31,000 Nordea people have ket-aligned total remuneration for our er and team member to include the engaged in sessions to discuss and people based on their roles and contriwhole team. adopt the new purpose and values. By bution. Attracting and retaining the living our values of passion, collaboramost capable people globally is central tion, ownership and courage, we can to our reward strategy. Aknowledged gender build an adaptive and resilient culture equality efforts with a customer-ﬁrst mindset, which Rethinking our ways of working In 2017, Nordea became one of will put us ahead of our competitors To implement our transformation, we 50 members of the Bloomberg and help us build an adaptive and resilwant to create a simpler structure and Financial Services Gender Equality ient organisation. the future will build on common platIndex, which recognises companies forms for the entire bank and centres demonstrating dedication to discloEmpowering our people to of excellence to ensure alignment, sure and best-in-class social policies contribute, grow and enjoy improve quality and speed and faciliand practices in the fields of gender Transforming Nordea requires also tate compliance. Processes will be balance and equality. transforming how we lead – becoming the same for all. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 People 31 Focus on equal pay roles, whereby we take job function, All-time-high evaluation In 2017, we launched a working group seniority and geography into of equal opportunities to understand market best practices, consideration. Since 2003 we have asked our people conduct country-speciﬁc investigations We will therefore initiate a pay how they perceive equal opportunities and take various actions to narrow our benchmarking project across Nordea at Nordea. In 2017 the score reached the gender pay gap. This included reviewthat will allow us to identify speciﬁc highest level in 15 years. Both female ing remuneration in our recruitments areas in which we have an equal pay and male employees evaluate equal as well as creating an equality pay pool concern for comparable roles, thereby opportunities higher than in 2016. and participating in the industry-wide enabling us to take appropriate remediHowever, male employees score equal equal pay project “Lika Lön” in Sweden. al action. The pay benchmarking project opportunities signiﬁcantly higher than We also performed a more in-depth will allow us to disclose more relevant female employees – index 88 vs. 75. analysis to better understand the metrics reflecting gender differences in We have succeeded in broadening underlying reasons for the gender pay pay in the 2018 Sustainability Report. the deﬁnition of diversity, beyond gengap. To address the fact that we have der, in our daily practices. People from an uneven representation of women Broadening the deﬁnition of many parts of the organisation together and men at different levels and areas of diversity and inclusion created practical tools for inclusiveness the bank, we have launched several talSetting clear requirements and creating in everyday situations, such as recruitent and succession planning initiatives transparency are key factors in our diverment, meetings and communication. to promote more women to senior mansity and inclusion strategy. We track our We initiated employee resource groups agerial positions, which typically qualify progress so that we can focus our efforts. with a focus on various diversity perfor higher pay. We did not succeed as well as in the spectives, and our people became the While these initiatives have had a previous year with our objective that advisory board to guide us with practipositive impact on our gender pay gap both genders should always be reprecal needs within the area of diversity. ﬁgure, we have chosen not to disclose sented among the ﬁnal three candiIn 2017, we also continued embedthe ﬁgure in this year’s report, as it dates when recruiting to managerial ding diversity and inclusion into our reflects a structural imbalance and does positions. We reached 68% in 2017, organisational practices and processes, not present the key aspects of differenccompared to 76% in 2016. However, for example in our training for recruites in pay between men and women. We concerning our target for the graduate ers. In 2017, we launched a new Wellbelieve that, to truly get to the heart of seats, we made progress and reached being at Work survey. It shows that 78% the issue, we need to undertake a more the goal. This year, 44% of our graduof our people experience an inclusive meaningful comparison of people’s ates were women and 56% men. climate where everyone, regardless of Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 People 32 create new and agile methods of impleSecuring employability Engaging in Pride events menting and measuring the progress. for our people The most visible Diversity & IncluAs we are now accelerating our transsion action in 2017 was attending Strengthened support formation, we are in the midst of organand sponsoring Pride Stockholm. for speaking up isational changes in terms of creating a We stand up for our belief in We condemn harassment, sexual simpler structure based on shared equality, and attending and sponharassment, bullying and similar violaapproaches serving the whole of soring the largest Pride festival in tions at Nordea. All our people have the Nordea, transferring parts of our tasks the Nordics is an excellent forum right to be treated with respect, without to Poland, developing robotics solutions for communicating these beliefs. fear of any type of victimisation. for taking over many of the operational Nordea was the only bank that parIn 2017, we strengthened our focus tasks to stay competitive and serving ticipated through several seminars on this area even more, and created our customers digitally, and we are and activities during the week, and new guidelines and support for our working in new ways across the bank. of course by joining the parade. managers. Our reporting structure was This means a shift in how we organNordea also sponsored Copenimproved and additional options to ise and lead the bank and which kind of hagen Pride Week, again showing escalate incidents were created. Our people and competences we are lookthat we are an open, tolerant and systems allow any employee to report ing for now and in the future. It also inclusive bank where it’s okay to be incidents openly or anonymously. Furmeans that many of us will need to who you are. Also Nordea’s ATMs thermore, we have reviewed our probuild new competences and adapt to along the parade route were deccesses to search deeper for potential new roles. We will continue to invest in orated and renamed “gAyTMs” for risks of discrimination of any kind, and building the capabilities we need in the the day’s event. will continue to keep doing so. future, and we will do our utmost to We welcome the #metoo movement support those who will need to ﬁnd a and have used the increased focus to new path outside Nordea for sustaingender, age, tenure and education, can create more awareness around our own able employment. contribute to our development. Howsystems and processes. We believe that In 2017, we built a common approach ever, our leaders rate the inclusive this focus can give us added value and to job mobility to take good care of the approach at a higher level than our opportunities to improve our working people affected by our transformation. employees. climate and our performance, and we We established a job mobility team to Going forward, we will continue to encourage our people to speak up if offer as much choice and support as further increase our commitment to they notice situations that are unacceptpossible in developing new competencdiversity and inclusion as an important able in the workplace. Our Code of Cones to improve the probability of ﬁnding part of our cultural transformation, and duct and our values fully support this. another job within or outside of Nordea. Employee training 2017 2016 Number of hours Average number of hours/ 465,811 404,366 79.4% Share of employees covered by employee 14.0 11.6 collective bargaining agreements Number of employees as at 31 December 2017 Men Women Total Nordea Group 15,630 17,540 33,170 Development of employee perception that Nordea gives Permanent contract 14,756 16,532 31,288 equal opportunities to female -full-time 14,336 14,944 29,280 and male employees, Index -part-time 420 1,588 2,008 Temporary contract 874 1,008 1,882 81 Composition of governance bodies as at 31 December 2017, % Men Women Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Board of Directors 5 4 2 7 Group Executive 8 2 6 4 68 Managers People leaders 2,233 1,514 113 2,459 1175 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 Employees 13,389 16,024 6,297 14,396 8720 People leaders refers to managers. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 People 33 We also ensure that we recruit responsibly, so we do not let anyone go if we have a role that ﬁts. This phase of our transformation also marks a shift in how we collaborate with our union partners at Nordea. We CASE have embraced a more collaborative and transparent approach whereby we involve our union partners earlier to be able to co-create sustainable solutions for people and society. Empowering customers A healthy working environment in digital corners A sustainable work-life balance is a prerequisite for great performance. And as In an increasingly digitalised world, many of us use a responsible employer, it is important for us to provide an inclusive and smartphones and tablets for conducting banking business, healthy working environment that will shopping online, obtaining medical advice, etc. For some provide the best conditions for each individual. people, however, it’s difficult to make the digital transition, We believe that when our people feel impeding customers’ use of our digital solutions that enable good at work, we can best create a culture in which our people can flourish better convenience and access to the bank. and thrive, and we have full focus on continuously improving the physical, To assist such customers, Nordea has show that customers have been able to social and organisational work environlaunched “digital corners” at branches conduct 89% of their banking errands ment that promotes work-life balance in all markets. The concept was ﬁrst when visiting the branch and the digiand health. Our sickness rate (3.38%) piloted at six branches in Denmark. tal corners. Our surveys also show that has remained similar to that of 2016 Now, six more branches – in Sweden, four out of ﬁve customers who have (3.65%). Norway and Finland – have introvisited the digital corner are comfortThe new Well-being at Work survey, duced digital corners and more will able with using digital solutions on gives us valuable information about our come. By the end of 2018, we expect their own going forward. peoples’ perceived work situation. The to have installed digital corners in Morten Olsen is Head of Branch survey will help us take a ﬁrm grip on approximately 15% of our branch Network and ATM/Cash development measuring violence and threats, bullylocations. at Nordea. ing, discrimination, harassment and A digital corner is a dedicated area “Many customers say that their sexual harassment with regards to sex, in the branch that is equipped with digexperience was very good, and that gender identity or expression, sexual ital devices and wiﬁ that customers can they learned of new possibilities. In our orientation, ethnicity, religion, abiliuse, either by themselves or guided by view, digital corners are a good way of ty-variations, age, or other grounds. a staff member. The purpose of digital creating value for our customers. They According to the results of the ﬁrst surcorners is to promote our digital soluare learning and becoming more vey, 4% of those who answered (69% tions and to show our customers how knowledgeable, making them more of our people) have experienced some to use them, thus enhancing accessibilcomfortable with capitalising on the kind of discrimination. 82% of them ity to the bank. digital opportunities offered by both have occurred internally and 18% are Customers’ perception of digital corNordea and society in general. It helps customer-related. Gender and age are ners and the assistance of our frontprepare them to meet the new digital perceived as the characteristics that are end staff is very positive. Our surveys era,” says Morten Olsen. most exposed to such actions. For details regarding disclosure of data related to our employees, see note S9. on page 39. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 34 Sustainability notes 35 About this report 35 S1. Materiality analysis 36 S2. Stakeholder engagement 36 S3. Climate 37 S4. Suppliers 38 S5. Tax 38 S6. Value creation 38 S7. Responsible business 39 S8. Compliance 39 S9. People 40 S10. Other disclosures Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 35 About this report The transaction closed on 1 October 2017 when both banks combined their business operations. Due to the change in organisational structure, data regarding operations now part Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2017 has been prepared in of Luminor is not included in this Sustainability Report. accordance with GRI G4, core level and in accordance with relevant parts of GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures. Similar to the ﬁnancial statements, this report covers Nordea Bank AB and all its subsidiaries unless otherwise stated. S1. Materiality analysis We report our sustainability performance on an annual basis. The Sustainability Report 2017 refers to the period 1 January to To effectively identify and prioritise key sustainable aspects, 31 December 2017, i.e. Nordea’s ﬁnancial year. The previous we regularly conduct a materiality analysis based on internal report covered our ﬁnancial year 2016 and was published in and external dialogues. February 2017. When performing the materiality analysis, we strive to The report has been subject to third-party assurance by PwC. engage as many stakeholders as possible, identiﬁed based on The assurance statement can be found on page 46. their relation to Nordea, as well as the ﬁnancial sector at large. Nordea’s Sustainability Report 2017 is our Communication on Our most recent materiality analysis was conducted in 2016. Progress (COP) submission to the UN Global Compact, of which In 2017, we upgraded our sustainability approach and started Nordea has been a participant since 2004. It also partly fulﬁls to develop a long-term sustainability roadmap. Based on our the reporting requirements of the Equator Principles (EP), which roadmap, we will renew our materiality analysis in 2018. This Nordea endorsed in 2007. For full EP reporting, see Nordea will ensure that we continue to focus on the sustainability Equator Principles Reporting at nordea.com. aspects most relevant to our business, from an impact perData in the report has been gathered from all business areas spective as well as from a value creation perspective. and group functions in all countries, with some exceptions due In 2016 we conducted stakeholder dialogues with eight key to availability of reliable data due to insufficient reporting sysstakeholder groups. The input provided by the identiﬁed key tems. This is indicated in conjunction with presented data where stakeholders was either direct or indirect. Direct input means we also present restatements. a dialogue held through forums, surveys and interviews and The Sustainability Report is divided into two sections. In the indirect input refers to a desktop analysis of reports, publicaﬁrst section, pages 4–33, we tell our sustainability story. In the second section, the sustainability notes on pages 34–45, suppletions, articles, other published content and meetings. To idenmentary information is provided regarding disclosures in the tify the material aspects, the dialogues focused on Nordea’s front section, as well as all data and information regarding the sustainability performance, risks, opportunities, communicafulﬁlment of GRI G4 and the GRI Index. We also report here on tion and governance. In total 176 stakeholders participated in limitations in scope and omission statements according to GRI, the dialogue and shared their perspective on which sustainwhere relevant. ability aspects they deem important and what they as stakeIn August 2016, Nordea Bank AB (publ) and DNB Bank holders expect of Nordea. The result from the dialogues and ASA entered into an agreement to combine their operations the desktop analysis were coupled with internal factors such in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in order to create a leading as Nordea’s strategy, targets and performance. This broad independent ﬁnancial entity in the Baltics – Luminor. mapping enabled Nordea to determine which aspects are Results from materiality analysis shown in pyramid form Trust and credibility-building Trust aspects. 1. Commitment from the Board and GEM on sustanability 2. Transparent and credible communication externally & internally 3. Consequent responsible investment practices Business-critical areas that Signiﬁcant 4. Climate change knowledge and preparedness are prerequisites for trust and 5. KPI follow-up on targets & actions credibility-building aspects. 6. Systemised ESG screening 7. Clear governance of sustainability & aligned compliance process 8. Implement responsible lending practices Issues that must be 9. Training and competence development Base addressed to reach 10. Common set of ethical values elementary level. 11. Transparent tax management 12. Responsible value chain (suppliers, partners & associates) 13. Increase employee diversity 14. Digitalisation 15. Proactive anti-corruption management 16. Anti-money laundering practices 17. Ethical & responsible advisory 18. Community involvement Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 36 material for the organisation and to set our short-term sustainability goals that were to be addressed during 2017. S2. Stakeholder engagement The result of the materiality analysis was illustrated in a position pyramid, see previous page. As shown, commitment In 2017 we revised the stakeholder analysis performed in 2016 from the Board and GEM on sustainability, transparency and and excluded social media as a stakeholder group based on communication, and responsible investment were the most that social media is a channel through which we engage with valued material aspects, closely followed by aspects such as our stakeholders, not a stakeholder itself. We added suppliers climate change and governance. Another important outcome as a key stakeholder group given the signiﬁcant size of our of the materiality analysis is our renewed and strengthened annual spend. understanding of sustainability risks that are relevant to In 2017, we engaged in dialogues in different ways with all Nordea. The stakeholders have identiﬁed reputational risk, our key stakeholders. We believe stakeholder dialogues are a risks related to corruption, climate change and insufficient good way of collecting valuable input for our sustainability ESG due diligence processes, amongst others, as risks requiragenda. Issues raised in these dialogues, as shown in the ing further analysis and attention and the driver for us to table below, have been taken into consideration when writing launch a risk assessment framework. this report. One overarching conclusion of the materiality analysis is that both internal and external stakeholders are very interestStakeholder Type of dialogue/channel Main aspects ed in sustainability, and eager to contribute to Nordea’s susEmployees Well-being at work survey Health and well-being tainability work. Our employees want to learn more about Culture carpet conversations Culture transformation sustainability and consistently work to strengthen Nordea as ManageGEM Sustainability Policy a sustainable ﬁnancial entity. All identiﬁed material aspects ment BEVC Sustainability roadmap are relevant for Nordea’s internal operations under the limitaSC Climate position statement Continous dialogues Sustainability risks tions of contracts, agreements and/or employment. The Short-term goals material aspects identiﬁed are controlled by Nordea, and thus Sustainability Report no aspect is relevant solely from an external perspective. Board of Meetings Sustainability Policy In 2017, we revised the materiality analysis performed in Directors Sustainability risks 2016 with internal stakeholders and with input from our conShort-term goals tinuous stakeholder dialogues. No changes have been made Sustainability Report to our 18 material aspects but we have made some changes Customers Customer satisfaction Decreasing customer to which indicators to report on in order to properly cover the surveys satisfaction material aspects. We have added 13 indicators and at the Net Promotor Score Sustainable business same time deleted three indicators. Individual customer solutions, e.g. green bonds meetings Change of domicile • To meet the increased demands globally on transparency Customer contact centre Sustainability reporting regarding tax, we have decided to revert to reporting tax in Round table discussions the same way as we did for 2015 and 2014. We will disclose Owners Annual General Meeting Well-being (sick leave) taxes paid by country and per tax type. This disclosure will Meeting with international Climate-related issues not be added as a GRI Indicator but as a data point. investors Investor questionnaires • Energy intensity (EN5) has been added since we work to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings which we Suppliers Qualifying questionnaire Content of Nordea Supplier Supplier audits Sustainability Policy think is best shown as a ratio. Individual dialogues Adherence to UN Global • Four indicators regarding supplier assessment (EN33, Compact HR11, SO9, SO10) have been added in order to cover all Regulators Peer group meetings with Climate-related risks in aspects of our Supplier Code of Conduct which is based on FSA and the Swedish lending portfolios (TCFD) UN Global Compact’s ten principles (environment, labour, government human rights and anti-corruption) and to disclose our susNGOs CEO Round table Increased transparency tainable procurement process in a more consistent and Individual NGO meetings regarding impact on transparent way. companies • Seven indicators referring to our Code of Conduct (EN29, Proactivity EN34, LA16, HR3, HR12, SO5 and SO7) have been included Media Interviews Responsible investment to enhance transparency for the report. Press releases Supply chain management • Coverage of beneﬁt plan obligations was only partly Change of domicile reported in the Sustainability Report 2016. Retirement beneﬁt obligations are reported in the Annual Report in accordance with legal requirements, and we have therefore chosen not to disclose coverage of beneﬁt plan obligation in S3. Climate the Sustainability Report in accordance with GRI. Hence EC3 is not reported this year. To reduce the carbon footprint from our own activities, we • Financial assistance received from government was only must take steps to mitigate contribution to carbon emissions, partly reported last year and was a way of disclosing our and in our operations we have committed to being a cartax contributions which will be covered by our tax reportbon-neutral company. This ambition is visible in three differing this year. Hence, EC4 is not reported this year. ent ways. • The indicator regarding operations assessed for corruption First, we strive to reduce emissions generated from our risks (SO3) was only partly reported last year and data direct operations. New travel guidelines, printing policy, reported from the reporting BAs (two out of four) was not waste reduction, digital subscriptions and a reduction in possible to compare. Instead, we disclose our work with paper documentation sent to customers are examples of risk assessments on a more general level on pages 28–29. ongoing activities to reduce emissions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 37 Second, we ensure that energy used in our buildings is years shall be made with caution. The reason for the change renewable. Since 2011, we have purchased 100% renewable of scope for 2017 is due to limitations in the data collection electricity through Guarantees of Origin equal to our electricity process. consumption in the Nordic region, extending the commitment Greenhouse gas emission intensity (EN18) is calculated as over the years to include our operations in Poland and Russia total CO2e emissions in relation to total operating income for too. CO2e emissions from electricity in the table below is our the Nordea Group. net emissions, i.e. after buying Guarantees of Origin. We do We recognise we still have certain challenges related to have a challenge in terms of achieving signiﬁcant energy reporting our climate impact. While collecting data from our reductions in our larger Nordic offices. They are built to statelarger offices is a fairly straightforward process, data from our of-the-art construction standards and based on stringent envibranch network can be far more complex as we lease spaces ronmental requirements set by Nordea as long-term leaseholdwithin larger buildings and therefore our energy usage is ers. Many of our Nordic premises are already LEED certiﬁed. often combined with that of other companies. This is a situaThird, for the remaining unavoidable emissions in 2017 we tion we acknowledge but one which is difficult for us to fully continued with the offsetting activities we have carried out remedy due to the nature of our branch network set-up. since 2015. The combination of measures ensures that Nordea has a programme for being CarbonNeutral® certiﬁed in line with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. S4. Suppliers Climate impact 2017 2016 Nordea has approximately 19,000 suppliers in total. 52% of Total energy consumption (MWh) 132,933 137,506 them are suppliers with which we interacted multiple times in 2017. 48% of them are suppliers we interacted with only once -electricity 95,434 97,929 in 2017. -heating 32,266 33,618 The number of contracted suppliers in our supply chain -district cooling 5,233 5,958 changed from 700 in 2016 to 1,200 for 2017. The explanation Energy intensity (MWh/EURm of total for this is that we worked to consolidate our contract data in operating income) 14.0 13.9 Nordea in 2017, providing us with a more comprehensive Total CO2e emissions (tonnes) 22,738 17,033 number of our contracts. The percentage of new contracted suppliers that were -diesel generators (scope 1) 51 48 screened for sustainability issues is calculated based on the 165 -electricity, heating, district cooling (scope 2) 3,187 3,409 new suppliers that were registered in our systems in 2017. -business travel (scope 3) 19,500 13,576 The indicators EN33, LA15, HR11 and SO10 are not reported as required by GRI G4. First, we don't disclose what type of CO2e emission intensity (tonnes/EURm of total operating income) 2.4 1.7 sustainability impact we have identiﬁed in our supply chain. Second, we only report the total number, and not the percentAll electricity ﬁgures for 2016 in the climate impact table above age, of suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant actual and have been restated due to the availability of more accurate potential negative sustainability impacts with which improveelectricity data directly from our electricity portfolio manager. ments were agreed upon as a result of assessment. We have also been able to include previously unavailable heatOur third-party risk assessment system that was mening and cooling data for headquarter buildings in Sweden. We tioned in the 2016 Sustainability Report was not implemented estimate that the data covers approximately 90% of Nordea’s in 2017 but will be in 2018. total energy consumption and CO2e emissions. We are constantly working to develop our processes with We report energy consumption in MWh instead of in GJ regards to sustainable procurement and aim to be able to as required by GRI G4 regarding EN3. All electricity is renewinclude more comprehensive data in the near future. able. Heating and district cooling is a mix of renewable and non-renewable. Energy consumption data covers Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia. The Baltic data only covers the ﬁrst and second quarters of 2017 as these were subsumed into Luminor Bank during the latter half of 2017. In 2016, data from international offices were included but we have not been able to compile that data this year. Energy intensity (EN5) is calculated as total energy consumption in relation to total operating income for the Nordea Group. We report scope 1–3 emissions according to GHG Protocol. Our scope 1 emissions stem from diesel generators for business continuity which must be tested on a regular basis to ensure they will function in the event of an emergency outage. The conversion calculation is based on the latest DEFRA emissions factors. For 2017, CO2e emissions from business travel include air travel for our operations in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden and rail travel for our operations in Sweden while the ﬁgure for 2016 included all countries of operation and air travel, rail travel and car travel. Hence, comparison between the Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 38 S5. Tax The total carbon emissions saved for one person from switching from an index fund tracking MSCI Emerging MarWe are a substantial corporate income tax payer in our main kets to Nordea Emerging Stars assuming a monthly savings countries of operation – Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweplan of SEK 2,000 per person per year for a period of 42 den – and we also pay social security contributions and bank years (average working life period) with a yearly average levies in the countries where we operate. Local corporate tax annual return of 9.30%, is 3,672.183 tonnes CO2. A round trip payments will not be impacted by the transfer of our headStockholm-Madrid by airplane emits 0.4418 tonnes CO2 per quarters to Finland. Statutory tax rates, contributions and levperson according to ICAO Emission Calculator. This gives us ies vary in our countries of operation, as does the size of 3,672.183/0.4418=8,312 round trips. Nordea’s business operations in each country. The total In Finland we have 2,500 start-ups and growth compaamount of tax paid in each country is determined by a combinies as our customers. Approximately half of them, i.e. nation of these variables. Corporate income tax includes cur1,300, have a loan solution in use today which are the ones rent taxes booked as an expense for the year and adjustments included in the model. The ﬁgure is currently not possible to the previous year’s current taxes. to gather on a Nordic level. Tax payments (EURm) 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 S7. Responsible business Total 1,728 1,588 By country The monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc social beneﬁt (FS7) covers Personal Bank-Denmark 422 387 ing. The monetary value of products and services designed to -Finland 261 291 deliver a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt (FS8) covers Whole-Norway 284 328 sale Banking and Wealth Management. Commercial and Business Banking does not develop products itself but medi-Sweden 585 405 ates products developed in other business areas. -Others 176 177 Data regarding companies held in Nordea’s portfolio with which we have interacted on social or environmental issues By tax type (FS10) are reported differently for the business areas for -Corporate income tax 1,017 1,015 which the indicator is relevant and not as a percentage as -Social security fees 489 429 prescribed by GRI G4. Personal Banking does not report on this indicator. Commercial and Business Banking has more than -Bank levy 222 144 300,000 unique customer advisor meetings per year and the content of those varies but includes sustainability issues if that is relevant for the customer. The ambition for 2018 is to focus S6. Value creation further on interacting with as many customers as possible regarding sustainability issues and to also use our digital chan2017 is the ﬁrst year for which we try to illustrate the value we nels to raise awareness about environmental and social issues. create in a model. The model is divided into four sections; Wholesale Banking discusses sustainability issues as an inteResources, Our business, Results and Impact, and will be gral part of the customer relationship and does not keep track developed further each year. The model is based on a number of it separately. The number of meetings focusing on green of assumptions, calculations, estimations and limitations ﬁnancing increased in 2017. Wealth Management reports the which are found below, divided into the four sections. Decinumber of companies in the portfolio with which Asset Mansions based on the model should therefore be made with agement had interaction in the form of meetings, calls, ﬁeld considerable caution. visits, etc. regarding ESG matters in 2017 as an absolute number (134) and as a share (2.5%) of the total number of compa• Resources: Figures can be found in Nordea’s Annual nies (5,309). The total number of companies consists of all Report 2017. Asset Management’s holdings in individual companies. • Results: Reported ﬁgures can be found in other sections The number of assets subject to positive and/or negative of this Sustainability Report and in Nordea’s Annual environmental and/or social screening (FS11) is only reported Report 2017. by Wealth Management. Total AuM for Asset Management Tax contribution consists of corporate income taxes (AM) within Wealth Management is EUR 224bn for 2017. and bank levies. Assets subject to positive screening covers 2.2% and is calcuData regarding carbon emissions from Global Climate lated as share of total AuM for AM. Assets subject to negative and Environment Fund provides a historical picture of how screening covers AuM in funds and discretionary mandates much CO2 the companies invested in released during the and is calculated as a share of total AuM for AM. The increase past twelve months. The measure reflects the emissions in in share of negative screened assets, from 71% to 86% relation to the revenue that corresponds to the fund’s ownbetween 2016 and 2017, is mainly due to the fact that this ership interest in the companies. The measure is reported year includes AuM in discretionary mandates where customas tonnes of CO2 per million in sales (USD) and is updated ers have chosen their portfolios to be subject to negative monthly. The ﬁgure was published in January 2018. The screening. calculations are not comprehensive and indirect emissions Personal Banking is the only business area that reports on are not covered. Therefore, it is important to see this as initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadindicative information about the impact of the Global Clivantaged people (FS14). The reason for this is that it is in this mate and Environment Fund. business area where the greatest impact of such initiatives is • Impact: The number of ﬁrst-time home buyers is calculatfound, and where tracking is possible. ed on all new household loans that were granted by Nordea in 2017. Criteria have been set whereby only customers below 35 years of age are included in the selection. All Nordic countries are included. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 39 S8. Compliance In 2017, 79.4% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. This ﬁgure is valid for the Nordic countries. In 2016 we disclosed the percentage of Nordea Data regarding the mandatory training Licence to Work is our employees covered by alternative agreements of equal or disclosure on indicator SO4 since that training includes our better standard than the collective bargaining agreements. anti-corruption policies and procedures. We report the numThis ﬁgure is not disclosed for 2017 due to new limitations in ber of employees who have completed their Licence to Work the data collection process. training as a percentage of the total workforce, which Our employee turnover rate for 2017 was 8.1%. We do not includes all employees regardless of region and employee report on LA1 according to the requirements in GRI G4. We category, hence not speciﬁed in accordance with the requirereport the employee turnover rate according to the following ments for SO4 in GRI G4. The training Licence to Work is only deﬁnition: Number of permanent FTEs who have left Nordea for employees, hence no business partners have been trained on own request divided by average number of FTEs within a in our anti-corruption policies and procedures. However, our chosen period. We do not report employee turnover in absolarge suppliers are covered by the Nordea Supplier Sustainlute numbers, by gender or by age group. We do not report on ability Policy in which adherence to anti-corruption as stated new hires as we do not have that number for the entire Group. in UN Global Compact is a requirement. LA6 covers sick leave, as we deem that to be most relevant The number of grievances regarding environmental impact for Nordea to report on due to the nature of our business. We (EN34), labour rights impact (LA16) and human rights impact don’t report injury, injury rate, occupational diseases rate, lost (HR12) is related to the Nordea Code of Conduct. We monitor day rate, absentee rate and work-related fatalities in accorbreaches of our Code of Conduct and other irregularites via dance with requirements in GRI G4. We have changed the way our whistleblowing system. We have not yet been able to syswe report on sick leave 2017 compared to 2016. In 2016 we tematically categorise the breaches to fully correlate with the reported it as total number of days employees were absent content of our Code of Conduct. This year we cannot therefrom work. For 2017, we report it as the total number of sickfore disclose the number of breaches in relation to the three leave days divided by total number of working days. We have indicators above, and we therefore cannot report the three restated the ﬁgure for 2016 to be comparable to 2017. aforementioned indicators as required by GRI G4. Our ambiThe number of training hours (LA9) covers all training tion is to be able to do so in the near future. (e-learning, classroom and online courses) initiated at Group During the year Nordea was not charged any signiﬁcant level, such as e.g. Licence to Work. All Nordea countries are ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with included. It is not possible to split data into employee categoenvironmental laws and regulations (EN29). ry or gender as required by GRI G4. The number of hours for local training sessions, which are extensive in a large organisation like Nordea, is not registered centrally and is thus not S9. People possible to track and report. Disclosure on composition of governance bodies (LA12) has Employee-related data is disclosed as headcounts in this Susbeen changed to enhance readability and understanding of the tainability Report which is different from the Nordea Annual reported ﬁgures and now only contains four categories in comReport in which data is disclosed as FTE (full-time equivaparison to eight categories in the Sustainability Report 2016. lents). However, employee turnover rate is based on FTE. This year we have chosen not to disclose the salary ratio women to men (LA13) as it reflects a structural imbalance Number of and does not reveal the key aspects of differences in pay employees between men and women. We believe that to truly get to the by country of operation 2017 2016 core of the issue, we need to undertake a more meaningful Men Women Total Men Women Total comparison of people’s roles where we take into consideration job function, seniority and geography. Nordea Group 15,630 17,540 33,170 15,888 18,946 34,834 Discrimination (HR3) is reported as a percentage of how Sweden 3,866 4,288 8,154 3,811 4,319 8,130 many of the respondents to the well-being survey experiDenmark 5,413 4,542 9,955 5,290 4,491 9,781 enced any form av discrimination or harrassment at any point in time and not speciﬁcally in 2017, and is therefore not Norway 1,736 1,565 3,301 1,767 1,622 3,389 reported in accordance with GRI G4 requirements. Finland 2,642 5,013 7,655 2,567 5,342 7,909 Estonia 41 121 162 125 529 654 Poland 1,284 1,250 2,534 884 974 1,858 Russia 165 371 536 272 610 882 International 483 390 873 1,172 1,059 2,231 offices Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 40 S10. Other disclosures Memberships of associations Nordea is member of a number of associations, see examples in the table below. Besides holding a position as a board External charters and initiatives signed member, we also often particpate in working groups and As the largest ﬁnancial services group in the Nordic region, committees. we seek to encourage best practice through active participation in international initiatives. See the table below for some Association/Forum Type of engagement examples. Swedish Bankers’ Association Board member Finance Denmark Board member External charters, principles and other initatives FFI Federation of Finnish Board member CDP Financial Services Nordea is a signatory to the CDP, a project that aims to collect and share information on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies. Finance Norway Board member The CDP is a cooperation arrangement between 655 institutional European Banking Federation Nordea is represented via the local investors with a combined asset holding of USD 78 trillion. We use the bankers’ associations who are database information in our ESG analysis. members. Equator Principles GFMA Global Financial Board members Nordea was the ﬁrst Nordic bank to adopt the Equator Principles, Markets Association endorsing them in 2007. It is a set of guidelines on how to prevent, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks in project ﬁnancing. EFR European Financial Member The Equator Principles apply globally to projects across all sectors, Roundtable where total project capital costs exceed USD 10m and the project is assessed to have a potential adverse social or environmental impact. EBG European Banking Group Member However, the long-term trend to reduce project ﬁnance activities has AFME Association for Financial Member continued and no new Equator Principles transactions were signed by Markets in Europe Nordea in 2017. Swedish Securities Dealers’ Board member Sustainable Investment Forums Association Nordea actively participates in local sustainable investment forums – the so-called SIFs – which are independent national forums that FEAM Forum for European Asset Member promote responsible investment. Nordea became a member of SWESIF Managers in 2008 and DANSIF in 2010. Furthermore, we were a founding member EFAMA European Fund and Board member of FINSIF launched in June 2010 and NORSIF launched in February 2013. Asset Management Association The Montreal Carbon Pledge Nordea signed the Montreal Pledge in 2014 as one of the ﬁrst signatories. The Pledge commits us to disclose the carbon footprints of Product and service information requirements our equity funds. As a responsible bank, we are bound to guide our customers UNEP FI to sound economic choices. All our customers, both private Nordea signed the UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative and corporate, should be accurately informed before doing (UNEP FI) in 1994. UNEP FI is a partnership between United Nations business. Environmental Programme and the global ﬁnancial sector created in the wake of the 1992 Earth Summit with a mission to promote sustainable In Personal Banking our product approval process ensures ﬁnance. More than 200 ﬁnancial institutions, including banks, insurers, and that relevant rules and regulations are followed and that we investors, work with UNEP FI to understand today’s environmental, social state the correct required product information in the terms and governance challenges, why they matter to ﬁnance, and how to and conditions. Our terms and conditions for existing prodactively participate in addressing them. ucts are revised on a continuous basis. UNEP Statement of Commitment by Financial Institutions on Sustainable Development represents the backbone of the initiative. By signing up to Commercial and Business Banking follows the Markets in the statement, ﬁnancial institutions openly recognize the role of the Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) & MiFID II, which covﬁnancial services sector in making our economy and lifestyles sustainable ers 100% of customers trading in ﬁnancial instruments. and commit to the integration of environmental and social considerations Wholesale Banking follows national legislation, MiFID prointo all aspects of their operations. cesses as well as Products and Risk Descriptions to inform UNGC customers of risks and characteristics of our products. This The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was initiated by the UN to applies to 100% of our signiﬁcant products. encourage businesses to align their strategies and operations with ten universal principles building on UN conventions in the ﬁelds of human In Wealth Management, we follow the Ethical Principles rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Nordea for Marketing of Funds, ensuring that we communicate transbecame a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002, ﬁrst through parently and accurately to our customers, done annually for Nordea Bank Finland. From December 2004 the coverage was extended all existing customers. to the whole Group as the signatory role was transferred to Nordea Bank AB (publ.). Customer satisfaction surveys UNGP For three of our business areas, Personal Banking, Commercial United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP) from 2011 is the ﬁrst global standard for preventing and and Business Banking and Wealth Management, we measure addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to overall customer satisfaction in our Customer Proposition Surbusiness activity, and continue to provide the internationally accepted vey every year. For Wealth Management, the result of customframework for enhancing standards and practice regarding business er surveys refers only to Private Banking customers. and human rights. In Wholesale Banking, customer satisfaction is measured UN PRI annually by external service providers with extensive quesAs one of the ﬁrst major banks in the Nordic countries, Nordea signed tionnaires and interviews. the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) in 2007. At the same time, we also launched our own policy for responsible investment. The policy shows how we adhere to these principles, report on our activities and progress in implementing the PRI. The report is public and available on the PRI website. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability notes 41 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data In 2017 there were 110,398 (141,619) complaints registered in the Nordic countries for the business areas Personal Banking and Commercial and Business Banking. The categorisation in the system does not allow us to identify which complaints that concerns breaches of customer privacy. In Wholesale Banking no general complaints or substantiated complaints regarding breaches of privacy were reported in 2017. In Wealth Management, no substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy were reported in 2017. In total six leaks, or possible leaks, of customer data were reported during the year. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Index 42 GRI Index GRI Indicator Name Page UNGC Omission statement General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4–1 Statement from the CEO 4–5 Organisational proﬁle G4-3 Name of the organisation 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 6, 16-17 G4-5 Location of headquarters 6 G4-6 Number of countries and locations of operations 6-7 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 Markets served 6, 16-17 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 6 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, contract, region and gender 6, 32, 39 Principle 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 39 Principle 3 G4-12 Description of supply chain 13, 37 G4-13 Signiﬁcant organisational changes during the reporting period 35 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 12 Principle 7 organisation G4-15 External charters and initiatives signed 8, 40 G4-16 Membership of associations 40 Identiﬁed material aspects and boundries G4-17 Entities included in the ﬁnancial statements 35 G4-18 Process for deﬁning report content 8, 35-36 G4-19 Material aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content 35 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation 35-36 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside of the organisation 35-36 G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports 37, 39 G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 36 Stakeholder engagement G4–24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 36 G4–25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 8, 10, 35–36 G4–26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 36 G4–27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 36 Report proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period 35 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 35 G4-30 Reporting cycle 35 G4-31 Contact point questions regarding the report Inside front cover G4-32 GRI Index and in accordance option 35, 42-45 G4-33 External assurance 46 Governance G4–34 Governance structure 26–27 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct 8, 29 Principle 10 and codes of ethics Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Index 43 GRI Indicator Name Page UNGC Omission statement Speciﬁc standard disclosures ECONOMIC Responsible tax payer G4-DMA 14 Own indicator Tax payments Tax payments per country and by tax type 14, 38 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA 11-12, 36-37 Princple 7, 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 37 Principle 7, 8 Note S3. G4-EN5 Energy intensity 37 Principle 8 Emissions G4-DMA 10-12, 36-37 Princple 7, 8 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 37 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 37 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 37 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 37 Principle 8 Compliance G4-DMA 8, 10, 28-29, 36 Princple 8 G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non38 Princple 8 compliance with environmental laws and regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA 8, 13-14 Principle 8 G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 13, 37 Principle 8 G4-EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 13-14, 37 Principle 8 Note S4. actions taken Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA 8, 10, 29, 39 Principle 8 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 39 Principle 8 Note S8. through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL Employment G4-DMA 6-8, 30-33 Principle 6 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 39 Principle 6 Note S9. gender, and region Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA 8, 10, 33, 39 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 32, 39 Note S9. total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education G4-DMA 8, 30, 32 Principle 6 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 32, 39 Principle 6 Note S9. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Index 44 GRI Indicator Name Page UNGC Omission statement Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA 8, 31-32 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 32 Principle 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA 8, 31-32 Principle 6 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by 31, 39 Principle 6 Note S9. signiﬁcant locations of operation Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-DMA 8, 13-14 Principle 4, 5 G4-LA14 New suppliers screened using labour practices criteria 13, 37 Principle 4, 5 G4-LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the 13-14, 37 Principle 4, 5 Note S4. supply chain and actions taken Labor practices grievance mechanisms G4-DMA 8, 10, 29, 39 Principle 6 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through 39 Principle 6 Note S8. formal grievance mechanisms Non-discrimination G4-DMA 8, 33 Principle 6 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 33, 39 Principle 6 Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA 8, 13-14 Principle 1, 2 G4-HR10 New suppliers screened using human rights criteria 13, 37 Principle 2 G4-HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the 13-14, 37 Principle 2 Note S4. supply chain and actions taken Human rights grievance mechanism G4-DMA 8, 10, 29, 38 Principle 1 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 39 Principle 1 Note S8. through formal grievance mechanisms Anti-corruption G4-DMA 8, 11, 28-29, 36 Principle 10 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 29, 39 Principle 10 Note S8. G4-SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29. Principle 10 Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA 8, 11, 29, 36 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 29 practices and their outcomes Compliance G4-DMA 8, 10, 28-29 G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non29 compliance with laws and regulations Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-DMA 8, 13-14 G4-SO9 New suppliers screened using criteria for impacts on society 13, 37 G4-SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and 13-14, 37 Note S4. actions taken Product and Service Labelling G4-DMA 13, 14, 18-25, 40 PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for 40 product and service information and labelling, and percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to such information requirements PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 19, 21, 23, 25, 40 Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Index 45 GRI Indicator Name Page UNGC Omission statement Customer Privacy G4-DMA 41 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 41 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES FOR THE FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR Product Portfolio G4-DMA 11-13, 19-25 Princple 1, 4, 5, 6 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc social beneﬁt 19 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc 21, 25 Principle 9 environmental beneﬁt Active Ownership G4-DMA 12-13, 24-25 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the portfolio with which the organisation 25, 38 has interacted on environmental and/or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 25, 38 Local Communities G4-DMA 14-15, 18-19 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people 19 Glossary A AML – Nordea’s Anti-Money G Green Bond Principles – Green U UNEP FI – The United Nations Laundering work is based on Bond Principles of the International Environmental Programme Finance international regulations with the Capital Markets Association, are Initiative is a global partnership ultimate goal of ensuring that voluntary process guidelines that between UNEP and the ﬁnancial funds from illegal sources cannot recommend transparency and sector, working to understand the be laundered through the banking disclosure and promote integrity in impacts of environmental and system or used to ﬁnance terrorism the development of the Green Bond social considerations on ﬁnancial or illegal operations of any kind. The market by clarifying the approach performance. purpose of AML is to protect not for issuance of a Green Bond. only the ﬁnancial system and our UNGC – The United Nations customers, but also society at large. K KYC – Know Your Customer is Global Compact is a strategic Nordea’s practice to identify and policy initiative for businesses that C CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project, know the customer, the nature are committed to aligning their a project that aims to collect and of the customer’s business and operations and strategies with ten share information on greenhouse use of services or products, universally accepted principles in gas emissions and climate change volumes and origins of customers’ the areas of human rights, labour, strategies. funds, wealth and transactions. environment and anti-corruption. The KYC process is used to give COP – Communication on proper customer advisory and UNGP – The United Nations Progress is the report that minimise the risk of terrorist Guiding Principles on Business and all signatories to the UNGC ﬁnancing and money laundering. Human Rights is a global standard have to submit every year. for preventing and addressing the M MiFID – Markets in Financial risk of adverse impacts on human E ESG – This term refers to how Instruments Directive, is a rights linked to business activity. environmental, social, and regulation that increases governance issues can affect transparency across the UN PRI – The United Nations the performance of investment EU’s ﬁnancial markets. Principles for Responsible portfolios (to varying degrees Investment is an initiative in across companies, sectors, regions, partnership with UNEP FI and asset classes and over time). ESG UNGC consisting of six principles screenings are used in evaluations regarding ESG issues. of partners and suppliers. Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 46 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Nordea’s Sustainability Report To Nordea AB (publ) Introduction We conducted our limited assurance and applicable legal and regulatory We have been engaged by the Group engagement in accordance with ISAE requirements. Executive Management of Nordea AB 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Our procedures are based on the cri(publ) (“Nordea”) to undertake a limitthan Audits or Reviews of Historical teria deﬁned by the Board of Directors ed assurance engagement of Nordea’s Financial Information. A limited assurand the Group Executive Management Sustainability Report for the year 2017. ance engagement consists of making as described above. We consider these inquiries, primarily of persons responsicriteria suitable for the preparation of Responsibilities of the Board ble for the preparation of the Sustainthe Sustainability Report. and Management for the ability Report, and applying analytical We believe that the evidence we Sustainability Report and other limited assurance procedures. have obtained is sufficient and approThe Board of Directors and Group ExecThe procedures performed in a limited priate to provide a basis for our concluutive Management are responsible for assurance engagement vary in nature sion below. the preparation of the Sustainability from, and are less in extent than for, a Report in accordance with the applicareasonable assurance engagement conConclusion ble criteria, as explained on page 35 of ducted in accordance with International Based on the limited assurance procethe Sustainability Report and are the Standards on Auditing, ISA, and other dures we have performed, nothing has parts of the Sustainability Reporting generally accepted auditing standards come to our attention that causes us to Guidelines (published by The Global in Sweden. The procedures performed believe that the Sustainability Report is Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are consequently do not enable us to obtain not prepared, in all material respects, in applicable to the Sustainability Report, assurance that we would become accordance with the criteria deﬁned by as well as the accounting and calculaaware of all signiﬁcant matters that the Board of Directors and Group Exection principles that Nordea has develmight be identiﬁed in a reasonable utive Management. oped. This responsibility includes the assurance engagement. Accordingly, we internal control relevant to the preparado not express a reasonable assurance tion of a Sustainability Report that is conclusion. free from material misstatements, The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 (International whether due to fraud or error. Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Responsibilities of the Auditor system of quality control including docOur responsibility is to express a concluumented policies and procedures sion on the Sustainability Report based regarding compliance with ethical on the limited assurance procedures we requirements, professional standards have performed. Stockholm February 9 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Catarina Ericsson Eric Lindholm Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 47 The Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 has been produced by Nordea in collaboration with: Bold: design Chimney Group: layout and production Nordea Sustainability Report 2017 For more information about sustainability Nordea Bank AB (publ) at Nordea please visit our website, Corporate registration no. 516406-0120 Smålandsgatan 17 | SE-105 71 Stockholm nordea.com/sustainability. Tel +46 10 157 10 00 | www.nordea.com For feedback, contact us at sustainability@nordea.com
