UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2018 DLA Piper Denmark MANAGING PARTNER STATEMENT DLA Piper Denmark cares about the environment. As a leading global law firm, we recognize that we have a responsibility to act ethically and responsibly at all times. Being a responsible business means committing to a journey of continuous improvement. For the past six years, we have officially supported the United Nations Global Compact. We are proud to again report on the progress that we have made. In May 2017, we joined the global law firm DLA Piper, which has broadened our international horizon. Consequently, we are committed to achieving DLA Piper’s CSR targets and strive to make a positive contribution both locally and globally. As a law firm, pro bono work is fundamental to our approach of being a social responsible business, and we aim to become the leading pro bono practice globally. Our pro bono work is centered around Child Justice, displaced people and the Role of Law and includes a ground-breaking partnership with UNICEF to support and develop UNICEF’s child justice work around the world. Our Communications on Progress follow the structure of the ten universal principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact and describe some of the activities related to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption that we focused on in 2017. For each of these four areas, we also describe planned initiatives for 2018. Hence, our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact also serves as a tool for the continuous setting of new goals for ourselves and our social responsibility. We make a point of contributing actively to society by influencing the development of the legal sector as well as emerging legislation and regulation. We aim to set the standards for responsible businesses and drive forward our commitment to a sustainable future. Martin Lavesen Managing Partner August 2018 UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 2 HUMAN RIGHTS As a law firm, we can achieve our business goals only if we provide a healthy working environment to our staff to ensure their well-being and job satisfaction and to enable them to develop as individuals. We therefore take good care of our people by respecting one another as humans, irrespective of gender, race, nationality, religion, faith, sexual orientation, age or disability. We aim to have the most committed and satisfied staff of the entire Danish legal profession. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Further strengthening our As a result of joining DLA Piper, we have launched a secondment global partnership and internal programme for our lawyers which involves short-term, internal knowledge management secondments to other global offices, in pursuance of promoting and through the increase of internal strengthening DLA Piper’s global cooperation. secondments THE PROFESSIONAL WORKING in the English language as well as different areas of ENVIRONMENT expertise within financial accounting and communication, which consequently serve to improve our communicative The greater part of the professional development in DLA proficiency and knowhow in international settings. Piper Denmark takes place via the cases and assignments which each individual staff member solves in his or her Business School daily work after having received instruction, consultation and feedback from his or her immediate superior. This In 2016, we launched an educational concept – Business ‘learning by experience’ is supported by more formal School – for our experienced lawyers. The concept is learning activities, including supplementary training and based on a cooperation with reputable business schools professional networks, internal and external lectures, in Denmark and abroad, and encompasses various secondments and stays abroad. By networking across business-training opportunities that can be adapted to both our geographic and organizational boundaries, we the career, the area of law practiced and the personal can sustain and develop our professional efficiency, which interests of the individual lawyer. Throughout 2017, we gives a solid starting point for meeting our established have continued to develop and promote further training goals and standards. for our lawyers within this programme. Performance management Secondment and training The pivotal tool for supporting and planning the An increasing share of our assignments are international, ongoing development of staff members is an individual and it is therefore important to us that our lawyers performance plan describing initiatives and activities gain international experience early on in their careers. which each staff member is expected to carry out during In 2017, five of our experienced lawyers and 11 of our the year, and the key performance indicators used to trainees were on secondment abroad or on educational measure their performance at year-end. leave to pursue international studies. This proved a unique opportunity to encourage professional exchanges Our junior-lawyer programme as well as expanding the professional capabilities and ideas of DLA Piper Denmark. Our staffs’ engagement in Our junior lawyers follow the programme for junior international relations has paved the way for solidifying lawyers operated by the Danish Bar and Law Society. We our global network as well as developing new and supplement this programme with a course programme professional qualifications. that is tailored to the needs of our own business. This includes further development of academic competencies UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 3 PHYSICAL WORKING ENVIRONMENT Joint trip abroad DLA Piper Denmark complies with the rules, guidelines In DLA Piper Denmark we focus heavily on the and standards for occupational health and safety and development of a thriving internal community. We are indoor climate laid down by the Danish Working currently planning a joint trip for all our staff members Environment Authority. To ensure high job satisfaction to the Canary Island of Lanzarote. To reinforce our and good health among our staff members, we offer corporate culture, our focus will be on discussing DLA numerous supplemental solutions, which include health Piper Denmark’s strategy and values with a mix of group insurance, a massage-therapy solution, flu vaccines, presentations and assignments. Employees will also have sports activities as well as a healthy and nutritious the opportunity to participate in a wide range of outdoor breakfast and lunch arrangement. activities in the evening after the official programme has finished. Health and Safety Committee The goal of our joint trip abroad is to work towards an As required under the Danish Working Environment even stronger performance culture and also to foster Act, we have a Health and Safety Committee consisting a general understanding that we all share responsibility of representatives elected by our employees as well as for ensuring collective well-being, and we make regular management representatives. Their tasks are to plan, adjustments to our expectations as to what we demand manage, advise and inform on as well as supervise the of each other and ourselves. work related to health and safety within our area. In 2017, the committee again held in-house courses in basic MENTAL WORKING ENVIRONMENT firefighting and in how to use a heart defibrillator. In the autumn of 2017, the mandatory workplace assessment DLA Piper Denmark expects everybody to contribute was conducted. to a sound working environment. Therefore, we expect that nobody bullies or harasses any colleague. Should Work-life balance anyone encounter problems of this kind or become As in previous years, our work-life balance activities were aware that bullying or harassment is taking place, we aimed at the health and well-being of our staff members. expect that person to take immediate action to deal with There is constant focus on healthy food and exercise the problem by contacting our Managing Partner, COO, as well as job satisfaction and personal well-being. We HR Manager, or another leader in DLA Piper Denmark cooperate with Falck Healthcare A/S, which offers whom he or she trusts. healthcare solutions that work and ensure a healthy and long work life. Workplace stress Our stress-management policy allocates responsibility in To promote a better work-life, we have implemented situations of stress. We have a certified stress coach in “Direct Access”, which allows our staff the flexibility our HR department who can help employees deal with to access the company network from any location – stress and assess the stress level of individuals. Via our including their private homes. health insurance policy, all staff members in DLA Piper Denmark have access to psychological counselling. We have applied new and improved policies for maternity and paternity leave. This means that both male and To enhance awareness of our stress-management tools female full-time employees are entitled to an extra two among our staff members, we held in-house meetings weeks’ leave in addition to their statutory entitlement about stress at both of our locations in 2017. under Danish law. In 2017, we added an exercise triathlon to our range of sports activities and, as every year, we participated in the Danish “We bike to work” campaign, which focuses on being physically active during transportation to and from work. As part of our work-life balance activities, the canteen has made use of cookery-club activities for staff members in both Copenhagen and Aarhus to increase job satisfaction and a healthy lifestyle. At these activities, staff members jointly prepared and ate dinner in an informal setting and thus created new relations with their colleagues. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 4 LABOUR DLA Piper Denmark respects and promotes diversity amongst our staff and in our daily relations. We believe that a diverse workplace makes us strong because it enables us to attract the best talents, build the most effective teams and deliver the highest level of service. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Retaining women lawyers Our goal is to have an Executive Committee consisting of 40% women by 2023. The Recruitment Committee continues to work together with our HR Recruitment Committee department and ensures a consistently professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as law students. In DLA Piper Denmark, staff are employed and treated entire careers. Our efforts have primarily focused on on the basis of their professional skills, competencies and proactive management initiatives and offering increased conduct. We do not discriminate against anyone because flexibility, including reduced working hours during a of their gender, race, ethnicity, religious beliefs or sexual period of their employment where it can otherwise orientation. prove difficult to balance work and family life. We are pleased about the positive development from 2014 to Recruitment Committee 2017 which confirms the validity of our efforts directed The main objective of our Recruitment Committee is at creating work-life balance. This positive development to provide consultation to and collaborate with our HR department on the recruitment of trainees and junior lawyers in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. Legal staff Heads of Department Together with our HR department, the Committee ensures a consistently professional approach to the assessment of new lawyers and junior lawyers as well as 51% 50% law students. 49% 50% The Recruitment Committee also participates in the planning of employer-branding activities and links recruitment with outward oriented activities in order to raise DLA Piper Denmark’s profile in university circles. Management Committee Executive Committee Gender composition of our lawyers At the end of 2017, 51% of our legal staff were women. This represents a 10% increase from 2016 and a 29,2% 50% 20% increase from 2014. Today, our Heads of Department as well as the Management Committee also consist of 50% 50% 80% women. Hence, we feel that we have truly managed an equal gender composition. Retaining women Men Women It is one of our declared goals to retain a higher number of female lawyers and junior lawyers throughout their UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 5 has been crucial to achieving our goal of having more Legal staff meetings women in managerial positions and on our Executive In 2017, we again held in-house meetings between our Committee. legal staff in Copenhagen and Aarhus to supplement the departmental meetings and the legal staff meetings at Promoting gender equality the individual locations. The purpose of the joint legal Throughout 2017, we participated in several events staff meetings is to strengthen the professional and social seeking to encourage and strengthen women’s equality network in our firm and to heighten the corporate spirit – in both workplaces and society as a whole. On March across our locations. 8, we celebrated International Women’s Day 2018 by inviting Dr. Lynn Roseberry, who has more than 20 years Staff Associations of experience working with gender issues as a lawyer, In DLA Piper Denmark, our junior lawyers have their scholar and in university management. She used the own association, which arranges work-related as well as occasion to talk about equality and gender diversity in sociable events and activities for them. A corresponding organizations. association exists for our secretarial staff, which also arranges work-related and sociable events and activities. In recognition of the under-representation of women In 2016, a student association was established for our law on international arbitral tribunals, we have also joined students for the same purposes. the Equal Representation in Arbitration Pledge. This Pledge seeks to increase, on an equal opportunity basis, the number of women appointed as arbitrators in order to achieve a fair representation as soon as practically possible, with the ultimate goal of full parity. Openness and dialogue DLA Piper Denmark acknowledges that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion, and we encourage all our employees to express their opinions individually or in groups at performance reviews, at meetings with the management and specified staff groups, at general department and office meetings and, in writing, in company climate surveys. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 6 ENVIRONMENT DLA Piper Denmark strives to limit environmental harm. As a service business, any harm caused to the environment by us is first and foremost connected with our office buildings and office operations as well as transportation. We are committed to minimizing our environmental impact across our operations, and our approach is based on the 3 R’s – reduce, reuse, recycle. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 • Less food and paper waste We continuously work on reducing both food and paper waste, and • Recycle in 2018 we aim to increase our efforts to cut our collective carbon footprint. REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE Reducing CO2 emission DLA Piper Denmark complies with all relevant Since the implementation of our Skype for Business environmental legislation and guidelines. We continue solution on all staff computers, the need to be physically our efforts to reduce our energy consumption present at meetings has been reduced immensely. Since and CO² emissions and to focus on selecting more we have locations in both Aarhus and Copenhagen, the environmentally-friendly and energy-efficient products reduced need for transportation between our offices and solutions – for instance in relation to light sources, translates into savings in working hours, environmental cleaning agents, and stationary. Part of the electrical impact, costs and safety. power consumed by us is generated by wind turbines. To supplement our Skype for Business solution, we have Reducing energy consumption implemented new smart boards for video conferences, etc. to further reduce the need for being physically We respect and support measures for reducing our present at meetings between our offices and with our environmental impact, including two-flush toilet clients, and not least with our global colleagues. functions, lower night-time temperature settings, and the use of environmentally-friendly cleaning products We also aim to promote both healthy and environment and water-saving methods. Our reduction and recycling friendly transportation and have thus acquired new initiatives lie with our operations and service function, bicycles, which are freely available as a means of which makes a cost-benefit assessment of new measures. transportation to our staff. This not only helps reduce This includes waste sorting and the collection of carbon emissions, but also improves time efficiency, as cardboard and paper waste, scrap metal, household glass transportation by car in big cities – such as Copenhagen jars and bottles, returnable plastic bottles and batteries. and Aarhus – is often more time-consuming than cycling. In 2016 our Aarhus office moved to a new location, the Diminishing paper use newly-built DOKK1. DOKK1 was built with special focus on the environment, and the compact structure of the We continuously intensify our paper sorting efforts, and building reduces its surface area and the resulting heat we now reuse and recycle more paper than previously. loss. The building also features a 2432 square metre We have thus replaced our many smaller printers with photovoltaic power system on the roof, a seawater fewer, more modern and energy-efficient printers. cooling system to provide air conditioning and ventilation These main printers have been implemented with the inside the building, and both indoor and outdoor LED programme “FollowMePrint, which helps reduce printing lighting to significantly reduce energy consumption. mistakes and has also proven to decrease the use of color print from 70% to 30%. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 7 Focus on less food waste Since 2016, our canteen has implemented a new waste sorting system, and we also make use of smaller plates in a further attempt to reduce food waste, as new studies reveal that if the plate size is reduced by just 9%, the food waste can be reduced by over 25%. Our sorted food waste is furthermore collected by the company ReFood, which recycles our food waste and used cooking oil. Both are subsequently used in the production of biogas – a green and C0²-friendly alternative to incineration. The used cooking oil is recycled as biodiesel. Our canteen has not merely continued its 2017 focus on healthy and nutritious food, but has also further developed its high standards within sustainable foodstuff as well as its inventory, such as straws and cardboard cups that are made of environment-friendly material. It has also focused heavily on organic food, pursued to purchase both locally grown vegetables and animal welfare approved meat, and has adjusted the selection on the daily buffet as well as improved the planning of menus and purchasing. Environment-friendly vendors In continuation of 2016, we still make use of Goodwings, a socially responsible hotel portal which has teamed up with a number of non-profit organizations whose daily work supports the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Half their commission on hotel bookings is donated to any one of these good causes – at the choice of and at no extra cost to the customer. We find this to be an important and highly relevant initiative for global sustainability. The project we have chosen to support is the Plastic Changes project, which addresses ocean plastic pollution and aims to provide the next generation with plastic free oceans. In regards to electronic appliances, DLA Piper Denmark has a broker arrangement with a company that reuses laptops, printers and telephones. Our appliances are used for re-sale or individual components are used as spare parts. In cooperation with the cleaning companies handling the daily cleaning of our offices, we focus on environmentally friendly solutions that reduce our consumption of energy, water and chemicals in the cleaning process. Our cleaning products originate from the company Tana-Chemie, which pioneers integrally sustainable high performing, cleaning and sanitizing products for professional sectors. Their products are not only 100% environment-friendly, but its containers are also made of reusable materials. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION DLA Piper Denmark is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and regular supervision serves to ensure that the Code is being observed. Our firm is subject to Danish anti-money laundering regulation – including measures to prevent financing of terrorism – and we have prepared an internal set of rules and established a new procedure to ensure our full compliance. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 In 2017, a new Act on measures to prevent money laundering and New Anti-Money Laundering Act financing of terrorism came into force. We have since been devoted to safeguard and integrate these new rules and policies, so they become an integrated part of our focal points. We can thus reinforce both our goal to combat corruption as well as our social responsibility. ETHICS AND PRE-CONFLICT COMMITTEE DLA Piper Denmark has an Ethics and Pre-Conflict Committee, whose terms of reference cover complaints, matters concerning staff conduct, conflicts of interests relating to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, and business-related conflicts of interests. Ethics partner Martin Lavesen has been our ethics partner since 2013. The ethics partner is consulted by the Ethics and PreConflict Committee when needed to decide basic ethical issues. He acts as an excellent consultant and sounding board to both the Committee and to the firm in general. Induction programme All new members of DLA Piper Denmark’s staff must take part in an induction programme which ensures that they are introduced to the relevant working tools, business procedures, etc. Updated anti-money laundering material In 2017, we held in-house brush-up courses concerning our anti-money laundering material consisting of two guides – one for lawyers and one for secretaries – which have been updated so as to serve as quick reference tools for more frequent use. This year, we have implemented the recent amendments to the Danish anti-money laundering legislation. This includes risk management, internal audits, improvement of our policies as well as setting up whistleblowing arrangements. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 9 OUR CSR STRATEGY DLA Piper Denmark is proud to subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact, but our social responsibility goes beyond that. We wish to contribute to sustainable development and improvement where we can make a difference. GOALS AND ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Increase our pro bono efforts Our goal for 2018 is to provide 30 hours of pro bono work per lawyer per year. We are committed to achieving DLA Piper’s CSR targets offers legal counsel through international pro bono and strive to make a positive contribution both locally projects in marginalized parts of the world. and globally. As a law firm, pro bono work is fundamental to our approach of being a responsible business, and Research and knowledge sharing we aim to become the leading pro bono practice We are deeply committed to educating lawyers. In globally. Other areas of focus – which are of significant terms of recruitment, we have a natural interest in importance to us are legal assistance, legal research and being visible and approachable to law students, and knowledge sharing. several of our lawyers lecture at university and business schools and hold seminars and exam cram sessions for Pro bono law students. But our involvement goes further, as we Throughout 2017, DLA Piper International have devoted also think that we have a societal obligation to put our significant resources to pro bono legal work. Being part fingerprint on the making of future lawyers. Given our of one of the largest law firms in the world, we are able long-standing tradition of being a litigation law firm, we to develop, manage and deliver pro bono in size, scale feel compelled to contribute to spotting and cultivating and scope unlike any other global law firm. Our areas talented litigators. We therefore invest considerable of focus include improving access to legal services for under-represented groups – in particular children and asylum seekers. Some of our lawyers are involved in legal aid work, and several of our partners in DLA Piper Denmark serve in fiduciary positions as administrators or on committees concerned with cultural activities. DLA Piper Denmark is engaged in the UNICEFpartnership, where we offer legal assistance in correspondence to UNICEF’s global Child Justice Programme. In cooperation with our colleagues in London, we have among other things taken part in creating a comparative analysis of the impact of sugar taxes in different countries. This was undertaken in light of UNICEF’s desire to analyse if sugar taxes are in fact qualified as an effective means of measure in regard to regulating consumer behavior. We are also devoted to take part in DLA Piper’s New Perimeter, which is a global non-profit programme that UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 10 time and energy in participating in moot trials, such as the moot trials arranged by the Legal Debate Society, an apolitical association for law students at the University of Copenhagen, and the Vis Moot court competition in Aarhus. Investing our time and energy into the teaching of our young people is something which brings us much pleasure and value, and we will continue to do so in 2018. Devotion to the legal community Over the years we have made it a point to be active in the legal community, both in Denmark and abroad, by holding fiduciary positions and appointments to various official bodies and associations, such as the International Bar Association, the International Chamber of Commerce, the Danish Institute of Arbitration, the Danish Standing Committee on Procedural Law, the Danish Press Council, the Danish Bar and Law Society and the Association of Danish Law Firms, where we make a valuable contribution towards influencing the development of the legal sector as well as emerging legislation and regulation. Legal assistance In 2017, we handled several cases of societal impact – i.e. group actions concerning issues of public importance affecting a large number of people. For instance, one of our junior lawyers was on a threemonth secondment at Justitia, Denmark’s first judicial think tank. Justitia aims to promote the rule of law and fundamental human rights and freedom rights, both within Denmark and abroad. Justitia’s work is entirely dependent on private funding and support. During those three months, our junior lawyer, who ordinarily works with public law in Copenhagen, was dealing with legal issues relating to freedom rights and human rights, surveillance and the rule of law. UN Global Compact Report 2018 | 11 DLA Piper Denmark Law Firm P/S is part of DLA Piper, a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further information can be found at www.dlapiper.com. DLA Piper Denmark Copenhagen • Aarhus • dlapiper.dk
