Smart City Lighting Solutions COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 – United Nations Global Compact NOVALU.ME STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP): October 2017 to October 2018. “ NOVALUME joined the UN Global Compact in November 2017 and I am pleased to confirm that NOVALUME reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe the actions we Novalume is committed to supporting the have taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact ten principles of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and the fight against corruption We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress our primary channels of communication. made in implementing these principles. Sincerely yours, Date of publication: October 19, 2018 (Next issue: October 2019) Novalume COP is available in both Novalume’s corporate website (novalu.me) and a hard copy form. Jakob Meiland Hansen Chief Executive Officer of Novalume United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me NOVALUME ABOUT US Novalume is an innovative Danish company that is committed to delivering Today, Novalume pursues the expansion of its customer base, markets and complete Smart City lighting solutions that fit municipalities’ needs in terms scope of services in Scandinavia, Europe, Latin America and Asia and is of energy-efficiency, savings, sustainability and Smart City infrastructure. managing several large Smart City LED lighting installations around the globe. Currently, Novalume has completed the installation of 27,000 LED In collaboration with Denmark’s export credit agency (EKF), Danish banks streetlights and has started the implementation of Lumintell™ Smart City and other well-known financial institutions around the world, Novalume Platform in the city of Talca, Chile. Furthermore, the lighting installation offers a payment plan that makes investing in LED and Smart City will also be upgraded by the capacity to generate public Wi-Fi so Talca technology pay for itself from day one. We call it the “pay-as-you-save“ residents can get online, wherever they are in the city. model. Thanks to this model, Novalume provides complete Smart City solutions that can both ensure a completely new LED lighting solution with IoT-ready network and drastically reduce the electricity costs and CO2 emissions of its customers by up to 75%. And city lighting management is just the beginning. Novalume’s engineers have created Lumintell™ Smart City system that can serve multiple Smart City functions. Thanks to Lumintell™, each streetlight is connected to an online monitoring application that can be accessed via www.lumintell. city on a computer, tablet or smartphone. Through the web-based and user-friendly application, city officials can access a customized Smart City dashboard with precision dimming controls and profiles, remote diagnostic and proactive maintenance, performance graphs, smart data and reporting tools that help city managers to take data-driven decisions and improve public services. Novalume delivers advanced LED lighting infrastructure for Smart Cities We reduce cities’ energy consumption, maintenance costs and CO2 emissions by up to 75%. Novalume provides Lumintell™ Smart City and IoT-ready infrastructure We enable city leaders to make their city more efficient, intelligent and sustainable. Novalume offers “Pay-as-you-save“ Financing Plan Novalume eliminates capital expenditure and uses the generated savings to cover the payments of the Smart City upgrade. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me NOVALUME NOVALUME CULTURE OFFICES Passionate, Innovative, Solution Oriented, Predictable and Eco-Friendly: NOVALUME A/S is headquartered just outside Copenhagen, in Denmark with These are the core values of Novalume culture. two branch offices in Santiago, Chile and Bogóta, Colombia. They guide us in our daily work, in the way we do business and in our commitment to our customers – a commitment that is bound by trust and professionalism. At Novalume our vision is to develop the best-in class Smart City lighting solutions and enable our customers to achieve more with less. NOVALUME TEAM “Hundreds of cities around the world are switching to LED lighting and building Smart City infrastructure, and the social, economic and environmental benefits are already being documented. Thanks to the existing street lighting infrastructure of cities and our LUMINTELL™ Smart City network, we can connect cities, reduce dramatically their energy consumption, maintenance costs and C02 emissions, provide in real-time smart data from sensors, and make cities more efficient, intelligent and sustainable. Whether the cities’ priority is sustainability, energy-efficiency, savings or improving the quality of life of their citizens, our LUMINTELL™ solution allows them to achieve their objectives.” Jakob Meiland Hansen, CEO of Novalume United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 QUALITY OF LIFE AND ENVIRONMENT We consider environmental friendliness to be an important aspect of our smarter and greener Smart City Lighting solutions. To help create a more sustainable society we strive to combine environmental and economical value solutions for our customers and municipalities around the world. Projections indicate that 5 billion people (60% of the world’s population) will live in cities by 2050 and, according to the International Energy Agency, the overall demand for lighting will be 80% higher by 2030 than it was in 2005. With lighting representing a large and increasing share of municipal energy OUR LED LIGHTING SOLUTIONS ENHANCED WITH LUMINTELL™ consumption, our LED public lighting solutions –with the Lumintell™ REDUCE THE CITIES’ ENERGY smart system, allow municipalities to drastically reduce their energy CONSUMPTION AND CO2 EMISSIONS consumption, maintenance costs and CO2 emissions by up to 75%. This BY UP TO 75% important reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions has a direct and positive impact on the environment. For example, in the United States alone, replacing outdoor lighting with LED lighting can save US$6 billion annually and reduce carbon emissions by the equivalent of taking 8.5 million cars off the roads for a year. Going Green is the financial model of the future. Novalume, thanks to its business model and innovative financing solutions, helps municipalities around the world to transition. By reducing our carbon footprints, each one of us can contribute to making the earth a safer, better place to live. It is our sincere hope to provide solutions that create a better life for the residents of the municipalities we work with and contribute to the preservation of the global environment, through the actions of our business. The “Go Green“ label was created by Novalume to encourage municipalities to reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. This label is used in our marketing materials across mutliple channels. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Our offices are based in a light and modern facility in Roskilde. Novalume complies with all European rules and regulations within the field of human rights. The office area is separated from production and the warehouse, offering a good working environment in light surroundings. As part of our kitchen/ lunch area we have an outdoor terrace where employees can take breaks and have lunch outside if the weather allows. A yearly APV workplace evaluation is conducted by the Novalume Work Environment Organization. Following the evaluation a report is generated and management actions are agreed. A summary of the APV workplace evaluation are shared and presented to all employees. In addition, management identified tasks and progress are shared with all employees and are taken into protocol. These reports and protocols are stored in Novalume safe and electronically on our server. At least once every two years the Chief Operations Officer (COO) travels to selected global suppliers and performs a supplier/sub-supplier evaluation. During the onsite evaluation Novalume investigates and checks the implementation and foundation of ISO certifications 9001, 14001 and 18001. ISO compliance is not mandatory for our cooperation, but we strongly encourage suppliers to implement and act according to ISO18001. All audit reports are stored in Novalume safe and are available electronically from our Novalume server. OHSAS 18001 Certificate ISO 14001 Cerificate Kim Krahl Larsen, Novalume’s Chief Operations Officer, during one of the Supplier Evaluations in China, in September 2018. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION In Q4 2017, Novalume wrote the first version of the Novalume’s Code of Conduct (12 pages) available on Novalume’s corporate website at novalu.me/ download and delivered as a printed copy to all Novalume staff. The purpose of this code of conduct is to ensure that Cooperation Partners, including suppliers and service providers, as well as employees of Novalume A/S operate in accordance with internationally recognized minimum standards for human rights, working conditions and the environment. Novalume A/S adheres to the principles of this code and expects the same of its Cooperation Partners. Observance of the code will be an enforceable and enforced part of any agreement or contract between Novalume A/S and our Cooperation Partners. The aim of the code is not to terminate business, but to help Cooperation Partners improve their social and environmental standards. Novalume is therefore willing to work with Cooperation Partners to achieve compliance with the provisions of this code. However, we will not conduct business with a Partner if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a Partner engaged in violations of fundamental human rights (see zero-tolerance standards in the Code of Conduct). Novalume A/S will periodically review the adequacy and continuing effectiveness of this code of conduct. We took the serious matter of anti-corruption one step further and asked our selected business Partners to sign a similar agreement in order to align This Code of Conduct applies to all NOVALUME’s Cooperation Partners. themselves with Novalume’s values and principles. Novalume will from time The provisions of the code extend to all workers, regardless of their to time check whether Partners are aligned with this agreement. status or relationship with a Cooperation Partner. The code therefore also applies to workers who are engaged informally, on short-term contracts, In Q1 2018 top management at Novalume was requested to sign an or on a part-time basis. extended version of the Agreement/Pledge on Anti-Bribery. By signing this document, top managers confirmed that they had no knowledge of Novalume’s Code of Conduct is available in both the Internet at https:// any current or former agreement or arrangement involving bribery and/or novalu.me/download/ and a hard copy form. facilitation payments that involved or related to Novalume or Novalume’s suppliers, agents or customers. If Novalume A/S has reason to believe that such violations are being committed by a Cooperation Partner, the business relationship will be terminated with immediate effect without any right for the Cooperation United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me Partner to remedy such a violation. If we have reason to believe that the the most appropriate course of action that will help to foster respect for fundamental Cooperation Partner was aware of the violation and willingly assisted in human rights, labour standards and the environment. If any conflicts are detected, the the violation of fundamental human rights, the Cooperation Partner may Cooperation Partner must inform Novalume A/S immediately. be reported to the proper authorities. The management of Novalume also encourages the employees to freely unite themselves Signed copies of the Code of Conduct document and Top Management to raise awareness about human rights, labour and work environment issue. To facilitate Anti-Bribery agreements are all stored in Novalume safe and in electronic the development of the work environement and corporate culture, we have created an copy on Novalume’s server organisation called WEO (Work Environment Organisation/ “Arbejdsmiljø Organisation“ in Danish) and have a key person responsible for action plans, follow-up and outcomes. As a CCO, Kim Krahl Larsen is also the Chairman of the WEO with three other representants 4. LABOUR from different departments to help the discussion. Novalume’s Code of Conduct confirms that we in no way support working with forced or bonded labor, internally or externally. KIM KRAHL LARSEN Chairman of the WEO Novalume will now go further by always following the rules and regulations & COO of the free worker market. Novalume complies in all matters with minimum wage standards in all regions were Novalume is represented with branch offices or has employers on contracts. Novalume offers full time employees a pension and healthcare insurance as NICOLAS H. BONVALET JOHN KYVSGAARD THOMAS MIKKELSEN part of their salary after being with the company for a minimum 6 months. Marketing/Communication Finance Technology/IT Novalume offers free and unlimited warm and cold soft beverages during work days, along with the option of a lunch arrangement which is 50% paid for by the company. 5. PARTNERSHIPS AND MEMBERSHIPS All employee contracts are stored in Novalume safe and are available electronically on Novalume’s server. At Novalume we believe, that the key to sustainable and innovative solutions for Smart Cities and our society is the cooperation between organizations, companies, policy makers International Standards and citizens. Joining local and international networks is a great opportunity for Novalume to improve our business activities and services, get insight into and inspiration about the In addition to meeting the provisions of the Code of Conduct, Cooperation latest green tech trends and collaborate with other innovative organizations focused on Partners shall comply with all national laws and regulations as well as other the green transition, the well-being of citizens and smart solutions for cities. applicable standards (e.g. collective bargaining agreements). GATE 21 – The Gate for Green Growth (Denmark) Where there are differences between the provisions of this code and national laws or other applicable standards, Cooperation Partners shall Gate 21 is a nonprofit partner organization with a vision of making Greater Copenhagen adhere to the higher or more stringent requirements. the leading region in the world for green transition and growth. As a partner of Gate 21, Novalume joins some of the most ambitious regions, municipalities, companies and Conflicts between the provisions of this code and national laws or other knowledge institutions in Greater Copenhagen, where we will participate in working toward applicable standards shall be evaluated by Novalume A/S in cooperation for the common goal of accelerating green change and growth. with the Cooperation Partner and relevant stakeholders in order to establish United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me STATE OF GREEN – Denmark’s Offical Green Brand State of Green is a not-for-profit, public-private partnership from Denmark. The organization fosters relations with international stakeholders and is a network of Danish businesses, governmental and academic institutions, experts, and researchers. With the other members of State of Green, Novalume will be working to drive the global transition to a sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient society. CLEAN (Scandinavia) CLEAN provides and manages projects and partnerships between private cleantech companies, public actors and knowledge institutions. CLEAN has four focus areas: Smart Energy, Resource Efficiency, Smart City and Internationalization. The organization creates innovative solutions to some of the challenges that concern us all and as a member of CLEAN, Novalume wants to contribute to this vision. DOLL – Lighting the Future of Smart Cities (Denmark) DOLL Living Lab is a leading facility of its kind in Europe, testing and demonstrating intelligent outdoor lighting systems and Smart Citytechnologies. This is a place where people come together: 80+ delegations come and visit DOLL Living Lab annually, experiencing the solutions in a 1:1 scale. Currently, 50+ partner companies such as Novalume and knowledge institutions contribute to the Living Lab with key resources and knowledge. ANAP Asociación Nacional de Alumbrado Público (Colombia) ANAP is a non-profit association which specializes in public lighting, bringing together companies, service and technology providers, auditors, engineering firms and territorial entities (150 municipalities) across Colombia. Novalume has joined the ANAP Group in order to promote the evolution of public lighting services in Colombia. All members, through the promotion of work plans and discussion tables, conferences and congresses, develop and pursue constant research and innovation in order to boost the use of new technologies and the preservation of the environment while improving public services and the quality of life of residents. **** United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principles-based approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, Novalume is not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. . More information about the UN Global Compact ‘s SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) by 2030 here: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/sdgs . Announcement of Novalume’s support to the principles of the UN Global Compact in the Newsroom of the Novalume’s Corporate Website: https://novalu.me/un-globalcompact/ United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2018, October 2018 | novalu.me Novalume, signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2017 Smart City Lighting Solutions Lykkegaardsvej 9, 4000 Roskilde, Denmark +45 35 37 88 88 | info@novalu.me novalu.me
