DORR PORR AG, CSR Absberggasse 47, 'l 1 00 Vienna H. E. António Guterres Secretary GeneraI United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Vienna, 28 May 2018 UN Global Compact Letter Of Commitment Dear Mr. Secretary-Generat, I am pleased to confirm that PORR AG supports the ten principtes of the Gtobal Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principtes within our sphere of inftuence. We are committed to making the UN Gtobat Compact and its principles part of the strategy, cutture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in cotlaborative projects which advance the broader devetopment goals of the United Nations, particutarty the Sustainabte Devetopment Goats. PORR AG witl make a ctear statement of this commitment to our stakehotders and the generat pubtic. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Gtobat Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountabitity and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annuatty according to the UN Gtobat Compact COP poticy. Sincerety yours, lng. rt-Heinz Strauss MBA, FRICS PORR AG, CSR Absberggasse 47, A-1 100 Vienna Registered office located in Vienna, Erste Group Bank AG T +43 50 ó26-0 Commerciat Court of Vienna, FN 34853 f tBAN AT472010040310763800 csr@porr-group. com VAT No,4TU14490102 BIC GIBAATWG POrr-grouP.com 2 Wir sind die PORR. Sustainable Value Report 2016/2017 Nachhaltigkeit verbindet uns. W ha t . con n e c t s u s W e a re P O R R . Sus t ainab ili t y 3 connec ts us. 4 Valu We are PORR. a b l e Sustainability connects us. 5 Highlights 7 Foreword by the Executive Board 8 Sustainability strategy We build responsibly. Adding value connects us. 12 Economic success 14 Value chain 15 Quality management 16 Value-based leadership 18 Combating bribery and corruption 19 Contributing to the local economy We are a team. Recognising value connects us. 22 Safety ﬁrst 25 Sustainable HR development 29 Competitive remuneration 30 Equal opportunities and diversity We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. 34 Success through innovation 37 Sustainable products and construction methods 39 Procurement and supplier management 40 Energy efﬁciency 42 Reducing energy on the construction site 44 Resource management and waste treatment Service section 47 About this report 48 Sustainability organisation 49 Risk and impact analysis 50 Stakeholder management 51 Materiality matrix 52 GRI G4 Content Index 57 Key data/Appendix 72 Acknowledgements 5 20 Sustainability certiﬁcates for PORR projects 2.6m t Material recycled -2.8% Reduction in energy consumption: What we’ve energy used/production output 1 achieved in 2016/2017. -31.4% Reduction in accident frequency 1 75 Award-winning research projects 2,346 Training sessions 1,073.4 t CO2 saved across vehicle ﬂeet 83.6% Staff appraisals in 2017 1 Change from 2016 to 2017 6 The PORR Executive Board team from left: Hans Wenkenbach, Karl-Heinz Strauss and Andreas Sauer 7 We are PORR. Sustainability connects us. Dear e r s , s t a k e h o l d Intelligent building means embracing responsimore effectively, we carried out a risk and impact bility. That’s why doing business sustainably is a analysis together with our stakeholders in 2017 key component of our strategy. It gives us a clear and used this as the basis for determining clear competitive advantage and forms the basis for objectives. The resultant catalogue of measures long-term economic success. The importance will be evaluated periodically and adjusted where of CSR is also becoming ever clearer when bidnecessary. ding on international calls for tender. What’s more, demand for environmentally sound and We want to improve our environmental perforclimate-friendly projects is also set to rise. mance and that’s why we are committed to optimising our resource and energy efﬁciency – in We are addressing the major challenges of our close cooperation with our clients and awarding times – demographic shifts, climate changes, authorities. In the period under review we manscarcity of resources, migration, digitalisation aged to implement an array of measures to cut and so on – with strategic solutions that are both C02 emissions and markedly improve our ﬁgures timely and forward-looking. As a company that related to energy and recycling. consumes a lot of resources and energy, PORR has been committed to responsible corporate With the goal of establishing PORR as “the best management for many years already. We work place to work”, we implemented numerous iniclosely together with providers of certiﬁcation tiatives in the reporting period. These improve systems such as ÖGNI. We are also part of susequal opportunities and promote diversity in the tainability networks like the UN Global Compact company even more effectively. What this means and respACT. At the same time we are cooperatfor the now more than 17,000 staff members from ing with internationally acclaimed management over 60 nations is a better balance between work systems in the ﬁelds of Environment, Occupaand home life. Measures such as home ofﬁce, tional Health and Safety, Quality and Anti-bribery. ﬂexitime models, childcare and nursing care opFurthermore, we have been reporting on our tions and, from 2018, workplace health promotion CSR activities since as early as 2009 in the form all play a signiﬁcant part in achieving our goals. of a sustainability report in line with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines GRI G4. There’s a lot we have achieved in the past two years and we will continue to enhance our efforts Our sustainability strategy covers the three core in the environmental and social sphere in the areas of adding value, recognising value and years to come. preserving value. These encompass every relevant aspect in terms of economy, society and We hope you ﬁnd this report an informative and the environment. In order to hone our focus even engaging read. Karl-Heinz Strauss, CEO Andreas Sauer, CFO Hans Wenkenbach, COO 8 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y st r a t e g y PORR strives to generate proﬁts in a sustainable manner, whereby the company embraces its responsibility towards society. The three action ﬁelds of its CSR strategy are characterised by a clear focus on value. PORR is an international construction company Recognising value involves measures and initiathat renders services across the entire value tives to nurture the staff’s performance, skills and chain of the building industry. The impacts of expertise. The top priorities here are the aspects its business activities on society and the enviof health and safety, identiﬁed by the workforce ronment are thereby multifaceted. In order to do as the central element in the materiality analysis. justice to this responsibility with a view to future generations, value-based management is a core Preserving value refers to the responsible apelement of the corporate strategy. At the same proach to ecological resources. Special attention time we strive to incorporate the interests of our is paid to the high environmental and social stakeholders into our daily business. standards of PORR. Adherence to environmental regulations is regularly assessed through audits PORR is committed to a strategy centred on susby an independent body. In addition, every busitainability – the backbone of its business activiness division is required to systematically record ties lies in the interplay between economy, ecolenvironmental impacts and to plan and impleogy and society. Through its skills, PORR helps to ment improvements. master the challenges we all face today – including climate change, responsible consumption and In the ﬁeld of CSR, PORR concentrates its busiresource-friendly production, sustainable urban ness activities on issues that are highly relevant planning and industry, innovation and infrastructo stakeholders on the one hand and issues that ture. In its economic activities the company gives are intrinsically intertwined with PORR’s core equal weight to economic, societal, social and business on the other. At the same time, risks environmental standards, which are summarized have been identiﬁed in the course of the 2017 risk in the three action ﬁelds of adding value, recogand impact analysis and allocated thematically nising value and preserving value. based on critical aspects. This should enable individual threat factors to be mitigated well in Adding value forms the foundation of every advance. The aspects identiﬁed in the course of economic activity within PORR. It encompasses the materiality analysis are listed in this chapter the core business of construction and simulincluding the speciﬁed short and medium-term taneously serves as the basis for its economic goals. The central aspects of long-term economic success – the central aspect of PORR. In the success, customer satisfaction, and occupational ﬁnancial sphere PORR draws on anti-bribery health and safety involve measures that are not training, audits and similar measures to ensure only highly relevant for PORR, its staff and its legally compliant processes, thereby also gaincustomers, but also decisive for the success of ing economic beneﬁts. the business. 9 We are PORR. Sustainability connects us. Intelligent building means strengthening diversity. Our employees and workers are the success factor behind the way we live our responsibility in construction. „ Karl-Heinz Strauss, CEO Sustainability goals Topic Short and medium-term goals Long-term economic success ķ Implementing the strategic plan for the further digitalisation of corporate, labour and construction processes ķ Exploiting economic beneﬁts through the increase in resources saved Customer satisfaction ķ Group-wide roll-out of standardised feedback sessions with clients ķ Introduction of a regular stakeholder forum Health, safety and prevention ķ Group-wide saturation with the “Vision Zero” campaign: reducing LTIFR <10 ķ Continuing with training on occupational health and safety ķ Introduction of workplace health promotion with complete coverage Further education and training ķ Promoting e-Learning ķ Implementing the digIT LearningMap and thereby increasing the average length of training ķ Roll-out of porr_academy for employees on the home markets ķ Strengthening the competencies of women to increase the percentage of women at every level of the hierarchy ķ Increasing the percentage of apprentices to 5% Compliance ķ Further developing the high compliance standards ķ Conducting regular audits to receive certiﬁcation ķ Continuing with Group-wide anti-bribery and compliance training Diversity and equal opportunities ķ Diversity as a ﬁxed focal topic in training for future managers and establishing it in the general educational programme ķ Roll-out of “We@PORR” to all PORR markets ķ Raising awareness of diversity-related issues through communication, network meetings, role models etc. Environmentally sound use of ķ Reducing speciﬁc primary energy consumption by 1.5% annually materials, energy and emissions ķ Reducing the speciﬁc GHG emissions by at least 1.5% annually ķ Continuing with energy-efﬁciency measures in the ﬁelds of equipment, ﬂeet and building management ķ Further developing methods that conserve resources in foundation engineering, building construction and civil engineering ķ Further increasing the percentage of recycled construction materials ķ Focused risk analysis with regard to environmental impacts ķ Cutting contaminated fractions through advances in waste treatment and recovery techniques ķ General reduction in waste Sustainable procurement ķ Group-wide roll-out of SAP MM ķ Evaluating a SAP-based supplier management system ķ Set of criteria for high environmental and social standards ķ Introduction of ISHAP documentation system with complete coverage We b uil d re sp on A ddi n g v a lu e 11 sib ly. c o n n ec ts us. 12 Eco n o m i c success As one of Austria’s leading construction companies and an acclaimed international player, PORR realises attractive opportunities for growth. The clear focus is on earning power and a well-balanced risk proﬁle. With its concentration on the construction busiDynamism and growth ness, PORR is positioned as a growing company PORR does not want to be the biggest construcwith strong earning power. The company focuses tion company in Europe; it wants to be the best. on the stable home markets with secure margins And this is why it is true to its motto “Intelligent in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and the building connects people”. The goal is to bring toCzech Republic, where PORR offers its entire gether the high standards of quality, technology portfolio. The company additionally operates in and efﬁciency in collaboration with every person the project markets of Qatar and Dubai, Norway, involved in a project – whether their role is as a Great Britain and selected countries in the CEE/ builder or as a user. Values such as trustworthiSEE region. Here the construction group works ness, reliability, customer focus, teamwork and a selectively with its export products in tunnelling, partnership approach are the core components railway construction and civil engineering. PORR of the PORR identity. operates as a full service provider for construction projects of every level of complexity. The With a strong core shareholder structure, PORR broad service range and the complete value chain beneﬁts from stable ownership with owners that allow the company to provide services that span consistently support the company’s strategy. a project’s entire lifecycle. In 2017 PORR and its The Strauss-Ortner syndicate holds 53.7% of the 17,719 staff members generated production outshares with the rest in free ﬂoat. put of EUR 4,738m. Business performance (in EUR m) 2017 2016 Change Production output 4,738 3,925 20.7% Order backlog 6,367 4,804 32.5% Order intake 6,301 4,150 51.8% EBITDA 200.7 187.3 7.1% EBIT 90.2 100.1 -9.8% EBT 85.3 91.1 -6.3% Net proﬁt 63.7 66.8 -4.7% Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) 597 441 35.4% Equity ratio 20.7% 18.7% 2.0PP Net debt/net cash -147 53 >-100.0% Stafﬁng level (average) 17,719 15,328 15.6% 13 We build responsibly. Adding value connects us. We deliver high quality for our NO customers thanks to our specialist SE expertise and innovative, sustainable solutions. DK „ Hans Wenkenbach, COO UK DE PL CZ SK CH AT RO BG QA QA AE Intelligent growth ness on the named markets along with largeThe home markets include “Intelligent growth” is the central element of the scale building construction projects. Since 2016 Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland and the Czech Republic. corporate strategy. In the period under review the the activities in Germany have been housed in PORR portfolio was strengthened in Austria and Business Unit 2 – Germany. Business Unit 3 – InOn selected international Germany in important sectors and regions. With ternational concentrates on Poland and other CEE/ project markets PORR’s range the takeover of Franki Grundbau and Heijmans SEE countries, Great Britain, Qatar and Norway. is concentrated on services in tunnelling, railway construction Oevermann in Germany, PORR has expanded its Business Unit 4 contains all services in the areas and civil engineering. service range in specialist civil engineering and of Environmental Engineering, Healthcare & Sertrafﬁc construction. This also led to a signiﬁcant vices. Attractive new target markets, increase in production output. The acquisition of such as Sweden and Denmark, are being evaluated in parallel. the Salzburg-based Hinteregger Group was ﬁnalLeader in technology and innovation ised in Austria, strengthening the PORR portfolio PORR is gearing up for the challenges of digiin industrial civil engineering, power plant contalisation. Spanning multiple divisions, various struction and underground construction. teams from the operating units and shared service department are dedicated to this issue. The Core competency – construction goal is to ﬁnd new solutions that make internal PORR is committed to its core competency – processes more efﬁcient and provide customers construction. It is the leading construction comwith value added. pany in Austria and is also among the industry’s leaders on the other home markets of Germany, Best place to work Switzerland, Poland and the Czech Republic. The Clear responsibilities, streamlined and ﬂexible focus is on earning power, sustainable ﬁnancial structures, transparent management and dedstability and a well-balanced risk proﬁle. PORR icated staff are the decisive success factors builds as much as possible itself. Here the diffor PORR. Occupational health and safety also ferent demands of the permanent business and plays a key role in the corporate strategy. With project-driven business are reﬂected in the orVision Zero PORR is pursuing a clearly deﬁned ganisational structure. 1 prevention strategy to eliminate accidents at work. Furthermore, the PORR diversity initiative Powerful business units “We@PORR” strives to promote equal opportuPORR’s activities are divided into four business nities and further improve diversity. All of these units: the strongest segment by a considerable measures are part of the goal of positioning PORR margin in terms of output is Business Unit 1 – as the “best place to work”. In the long term, the Austria, Switzerland and Czech Republic. In 2017 strategy is expected to be reﬂected in a signiﬁaround 51% of production output was generated cant increase in productivity. by this unit, which bundles the permanent busi1 Permanent business: PORR offers complete coverage of all construction services. Project business: PORR selectively offers services that represent value added for the company. Value chain Planning, design and development Hazard analysis, audits Energy efﬁciency evaluation Quality management and assurance, environment, occupational health and safety, trainings Communication, information Construction site equipment Site preparations, infrastructure, logistics, deploying personnel Procurement Suppliers: raw materials, auxiliary and construction materials Subcontractors: ﬁnishing trade and building technology, HVAC Service providers: e.g. designers, architects, consultants etc. Construction Group strategy, Acquisition and project market testing and tender preparation Construction Handover management, to clients Potential clients contracting Products and energy Auxiliary products speciﬁc to sources used the environment Raw materials and construction materials: cement, steel, gravel, Consumption of raw materials bitumen, wood, water, formwork, insulation materials, scaffolding, Packaging material plasterboard etc. Noise, dust, emissions, wastewater, waste Materials recycled in-company: including rubble from asphalt and Temporary use of space for construction concrete site equipment and infrastructure Energy sources: fuels, gas, electricity, district heating 15 We build responsibly. Adding value connects us. Q u a l i t y m a n a g e m e n t True to the motto “know your customer”, there is a strong emphasis on quality management and customer satisfaction at PORR. Standardised tools are used for measurements, evaluations and continuous optimisation. Customer satisfaction is a key success factor Structured activities for process and product in the construction industry. The issue covers quality are undertaken as part of continuous aspects such as adherence to contracts and quality assurance in order to increase customer deadlines, process and product quality, mainsatisfaction. The process quality is safeguarded taining budgets and good communication. High with the help of the quality management plan, demands in terms of occupational safety, the which targets the speciﬁc needs of the project. complete fulﬁlment of obligations, and a cooperative approach to project development through Assessment systems solution-oriented, qualiﬁed personnel are addiPORR evaluates the satisfaction of its customers tional preconditions for good and long-lasting at multiple stages of the project’s lifecycle. This relationships with clients. includes face-to-face talks, the quality of problem solving in the course of calls for tender or Optimal quality assurance order negotiations, as well as when building and Customer satisfaction is deﬁned as a material handing over projects. goal in every project and is recorded and speciﬁed through a standardised process in the manA central instrument here is the client meeting. agement system. Additionally, in the course of The project manager records the results of the the materiality analysis conducted in spring 2016, customer meeting in the form of a personal customer satisfaction was deﬁned as a relevant account. In Germany, for example, a ﬁnal report aspect. “Know your customer” is also explicitly template is used in the course of which the client laid out as a guiding principle of the corporate is questioned about satisfaction over the course policy in the Management Handbook. of the entire project. In addition to the quality of the project management, other issues covered High customer satisfaction presupposes optimal here include aspects of occupational health and quality assurance. This is the only way to guaransafety, environmental protection, the attitude and tee that every project handed over conforms to skills of personnel, adherence to deadlines and the desired speciﬁcations and contractual obliother contractual obligations, as well as the posgations. The more consistently quality assurance sibility of recommending the company in future. is practised, the greater the chance of a ﬂawless construction process. The degree of quality conAnother opportunity for assessment lies in the trol is inﬂuenced by the client’s project speciﬁvarious communication platforms for interacting cations as laid out in the contract, the technical with customers. This includes work on commitstandards, and legal regulations. It also extends tees, participation in standardisation bodies, repto the demonstrable assessment of suppliers resentations of interest and trade associations, and work done by subcontractors in addition as well as construction site excursions and site to qualiﬁed services provided by the company. discussions with the developers. 16 Value-based leadership Behaviour driven by core values is a central success factor at PORR and serves as the foundation for all decisions in the Group. PORR’s business activities as a leading company in the construction industry also have high socio-political relevance. In order to do justice to this responsibility, PORR has developed a Code of Ethics that is binding for all members of staff as well as service providers and suppliers. The ethical guidelines laid out here form the basis for all of the company’s business activities. They provide a foundation for the morally, ethically and legally unimpeachable behaviour of everyone involved in the business process. Furthermore, PORR has mission statements for managers and employees, a compliance management system, issuer compliance guidelines and guidelines on preventing corrupt behaviour, as well as numerous other guidelines (e.g. on antitrust law, checking contracts and business partners, avoiding the illegal employment of foreigners and social dumping, as well as avoiding money laundering and ﬁnancing terrorism). A wide range of additional guidelines and work instructions (purchasing, hospitality, donations, ﬁnancial accounting etc.) and a new whistleblower system pursuant to Section 32 MAR, as well as appropriate, multi-year educational plans for staff also serve to enhance the internal processes in the Group. 17 We build responsibly. Adding value connects us. The open exchange with the stakeholders and our sustainable strategy of intelligent growth form the basis for PORR’s long-term success. „ Andreas Sauer, CFO Focus on human rights consequence is that standards, laws and internal PORR is committed to upholding human rights and external regulations are upheld and unlawful when conducting any business activity. PORR’s practices avoided. In addition, the PORR internal business locations are not situated in regions audit department is itself subject to regular manwhere human rights violations are prevalent. On datory audits. ethical grounds, the company generally avoids doing business in countries where human rights The Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer (CCO) is appointed are abused, failing which it deliberately withdraws by the Executive Board and supports it in develfrom these markets (e.g. in the case of foreign oping and upholding the Group-wide compliance journalists being arrested). These decisions conmanagement system. The CCO and every Comform to the company’s sustainable management pliance Ofﬁcer is truly independent with regard approach. to their tasks. Compliance structure The relevance of compliance and compliance One focal point of the compliance organisation management systems has increased exponenlies in safeguarding fair competition and avoiding tially in recent years. On the one hand, there corruption. Transparent and fair behaviour on the is extensive new regulation accompanied by market is the top priority for PORR. Any restricpunitive sanctions, on the other, prosecutions are tion on free competition and breaches of compebeing pursued even more fervently. tition or antitrust laws are thereby incompatible with the PORR corporate philosophy. This is also connected to increased responsibility for the company. PORR has to guarantee The company has a compliance system that is in that every staff member upholds every legal use in every branch ofﬁce. The PORR manageobligation in the course of their professional ment compliance system should ensure that the activities. risk of violating any legal obligation is minimised. This in turn also sustainably protects PORR’s Recertiﬁcation reputation and strengthens the trust of business PORR’s goal is to continuously develop the high partners and public authorities in the company. compliance standards that guarantee recertiﬁcation. In the period under review work was comAll of PORR’s business locations and propleted on preparing and implementing ISO certicesses are regularly assessed by the internal ﬁcation in line with the new anti-bribery standard audit department in a way that is independent, (ISO 37001). In addition, all compliance guidelines objective and random. Additional audits are also were revised in the reporting period. conducted wherever necessary. The accompanying reports are presented to the Executive Board and discussed in detail. Internal audit contributes to responsible management insofar as it optimises business processes, oversees the internal control system, and develops existing internal regulations. Risks are pinpointed in advance, thereby enhancing the awareness of the people involved in the process. Another 18 Combating bribery and corruption PORR has declared its commitment to unreservedly combat bribery and corruption. The most important focal points involved information and training for staff on the issue of anti-corruption. The central management philosophy “There is no on a published list of sanctions or in countries place for corruption in our company” holds true with a CPI index of below 50. Any processes that for every employee, worker and supplier. With have come to light in the past are to be investithis in mind, the focal points of the compliance gated and disclosed in full. As the responsible organisation at PORR lie in preventing corrupauthorities suspected illegal price-ﬁxing to have tion and antitrust breaches. A key focus of the taken place in the period between 2006 and compliance activities in the period under review 2015, searches were carried out on 3 May 2017 at was the comprehensive training on measures four TEERAG-ASDAG and PORR sites. The PORR and methods to combat corruption. The training Executive Board immediately initiated an internal plan runs for three years at a time and has been investigation into the affair and is fully cooperatimplemented without any deviation to date. In the ing with the authorities. reporting period 2016/2017 a total of 2,650 people took part in compliance training. Furthermore, In the reporting period 2016/17 there were no PORR has whistleblower systems in place in signiﬁcant ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for every division, allowing employees to report any non-compliance with laws and regulations. possible grievances. Compliance training Anti-competitive conduct is not tolerated under Regular compliance training is held in order to any circumstances at PORR. Regular checks make every staff member aware of the compliare carried out at the PORR business locations ance regulations governing their business activincluding the construction sites. What’s more, ities. The content of these training incorporates PORR does not operate in countries that appear the ﬁndings of the compliance risk assessment. Compliance training programme Training type Year Participants Anti-corruption e-Learning part 1 2 2016 1,800 Antitrust and competition law 1 e-Learning part 2 3 2017 850 Anti-corruption refresher1 e-Learning part 3 2 2018 2,050 Management conference Topic and presentation 2015 430 Procurement conference in Berlin Presentation and discussion 2015 64 Management conference Topic and presentation 2016 450 Divisional management conference BU 1 in Vienna Presentation and discussion 2016 65 PORR Congress 2017 Awareness 2017 2,000 Foreign Labour Act PORR academy 2017 500 Additional training and e-Learning in foreign branch ofﬁces e-Learning Poland 2014–2017 >500 1 Courses in German, English, Polish, Czech and Hungarian 2 Preventing bribery and corruption 3 Competition law: preventing anti-competitive practices 19 We build responsibly. Adding value connects us. t r i b u t i n g t o Con e c o n o m y the l o c a l The value added statement of PORR shows the extra value the Group has created for society. The company’s objective is to create and expand sustainable value added for its stakeholders. PORR creates value for its interest groups at every to ﬁnancing communities, thus also supporting stage of the value chain with its innovative propublic infrastructure. jects and solutions. Here the company pursues the goal of generating sustainable value added. The value added statement shows the direct Through its forward-looking business approach, ﬁnancial value PORR creates for the relevant the PORR Group safeguards jobs as well as serinterest groups in the course of its business vices provided by the public sector. activities. Value added is deﬁned as the output generated less the costs of goods and services The company has international branch ofﬁces, purchased and used, adjusted for depreciainvests in research and development, works with tion, amortisation, impairment and reversals of international and local suppliers, and makes an impairment. overall contribution to the development of the local economies on its relevant markets. As an In 2017 the value added stood at EUR 1,126m employer PORR is also responsible for jobs at and was thereby up 15.6% on the previous year. home and abroad and thereby for purchasing Accounting for 92.0%, the largest share of value power through wages and salaries. By paying added related to the PORR workforce. taxes and charges PORR makes a contribution Value added statement 2017 Material expenditure, Staff purchased services and Group output Value creation EUR 1,036m (92.0%) other expenses EUR 4,523m EUR 1,126m EUR 3,286m Public sector EUR 22m (1.9%) Shareholders EUR 42m (3.8%) Depreciation, amortisation and External equity providers impairment EUR 5m (0.4%) EUR 111m Companies EUR 21m (1.9%) 20 W e are a tea m . Re cog nisin g va l 21 ue connec ts us. 22 Safety first Safety is the top priority at PORR. The focus is on preventing accidents through safe operations at the construction site. Occupational health and safety is the central pillar of the PORR strategy; its importance is governed by the management system OHSAS 18001:2007 and was once again conﬁrmed in the course of the materiality analysis. In addition to the health-related aspects, the issue of safety is highly relevant even during the award process – especially in Northern Europe occupational safety is a decisive factor when awarding tenders. In many respects PORR is a leader in this sphere. Accident ﬁgures are disclosed even during the bidding process and multi-stage procedures are developed with the client in order to realise the projects without a single accident. Furthermore, PORR attends regular meetings with clients on occupational health and safety – including with ASFINAG, ÖBB and VERBUND. Cross-border cooperation PORR is also active in cross-company working groups such as the Holz-Bau union in Austria, the main trade association for the German construction industry (www.bauindustrie.de) and the industrial unions Construction-Agriculture-Environment and the Alpine Kolloquium in the D-A-CH-S region (www.bauforumplus.eu). At European level the company is represented in the European Federation of Foundation Contractors (www.effc.org) and takes part in social policy dialogue through its membership of the European Construction Industry Federation (www.ﬁec.eu) and the European Federation of Building and Woodworkers (EFBW). Vision Zero The trend of the PORR accident statistics has clearly been heading in the right direction, even 23 We are a team. Recognising value connects us. Occupational health and safety is a top priority for us. Regular training sessions and prevention measures have led to a signiﬁcant reduction in the risk of accidents. „ Martin Sonnberger, Occupational Health & Safety though the accident frequency in 2016 matched for 2017 came from Germany, the Czech Republic that of 2015. That said, the working hours lost due and Austria. In addition, new safety gear was to accidents has been falling steadily, suggesting issued during the period under review. a decrease in the severity of accidents at work. With “Vision Zero” the company is pursuing a Strong commitment clearly deﬁned prevention strategy to reduce Measures for occupational health and safety are the frequency of accidents. Here the focal points coordinated in regular coordination meetings. All have been summarised in seven success factors of the foreign branch ofﬁces gave their approval that range from management and staff responsifor the measures with the cross-border health bility through to identifying risks and using safer and safety managers at the European jour ﬁxe. technologies through to staff training. The meThere was also a dedicated D-A-CH jour ﬁxe for dium-term goal for PORR is to reduce the LTIFR occupational health and safety and an Austrian (Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate) to less than 10 jour ﬁxe. PORR has relied on full-time safety by 2020. ofﬁcers since introducing them in 2015: there are now more than 30 occupational health and safety Promoting safety training experts working across the Group. In organisaWith its internal training and development faciltional terms, the importance of health and safety ities complemented by external courses, PORR is recognised through its status as a staff unit. offers a diverse range of training in occupational health and safety. The focus on training for conFocus on mental health struction managers and foremen in the period In the period under review PORR conducted an under review was on the ﬁelds of earth-moving online survey on the mental health of its workmachinery, the use of mobile phones on conforce. Skilled workers were questioned using a struction sites, access points and roads on conwritten feedback form. The response rate among struction sites, as well as reporting potential hazsalaried workers was 85% and among waged ards and near-misses. workers 50%. Among construction site personnel the focus is After evaluating the highly satisfactory results on issues such as personal safety gear, fastening across the board, workshops were held in the loads, pressurised pipes, working at high altitudes presence of occupational psychologists in order and dealing with mobile communication devices to draw concrete conclusions from the ﬁndings on construction sites. From 2017 the occupaand develop appropriate measures. This led to tional health and safety experts from the differconclusions including a desire for a stronger ent countries will develop the focal points on an focus on health. The requisite measures have alternating basis. Under this system, the content already been implemented. 24 Together. 25 We are a team. Recognising value connects us. Occupational Health & Safety In order to prepare our workforce for the challenges of the future, PORR is committed to sustainable HR development. Key aspects here include individual support and viewing diversity as a valuable resource. The construction industry is a classic people expansion of business activities, the company business – employees are the main factor for the has a workforce of 17,279 people.1 The PORR staff company’s success. The Group is committed to members come from over 60 nations. continuous further education and training in ­order to maintain and expand the talent for innovation The number of training sessions in the years and competitive advantages – in line with the 2016 and 2017 climbed to 783 and 1,563­ principle of lifelong learning. With its educational respectively (all figures for the DACH region ­ platform porr_academy, PORR has established and Poland; Czech Republic is not included). access to education for the entire staff – whether Among s­ alaried employees, the average number they are full or part-time. What’s more, a training of training ­sessions was 12.1 hours in 2017 and academy for apprentices and skilled workers is ­ 1 2.4 hours in 2016. The reporting sphere has also in the planning phase. Here there is a strong been ­expanded in the current report and now focus on nurturing talented individuals and on encompasses P ­ oland in addition to the DACH the in-depth training of tomorrow’s specialists. region, as well as the Czech Republic for trainThe investments in HR development are reflected ing sessions. The general structure of the indusin the long periods of time that employees and try – men ­dominate in the technical construction workers stay with the company. area that is also more training intensive – is generally reflected in the higher training times PORR experienced renewed growth in the period among men. under review. As a result of the takeovers and the HR structure1 2017 2016 Average workforce 17,279 14,552 of which women 11.8% 12.5% Apprentices 322 251 of which women 12 14 New staff 2 4,756 3,945 Leavers3 1,035 765 Average length of training per employee in hours4 12.1 12.4 Partial retirement5 117 74 Parental leave/part-time work, women3 149 102 Parental leave/part-time work, men3 118 32 1 Data covers the home markets, Norway, Qatar and Romania 2 Waged workers and salaried employees 3 Only salaried employees 4 Data covers salaried employees in the home markets, synchronisation of the data collection systems for Norway, Qatar and Romania is underway. 5 Only Austria and Germany 26 The biggest potential we have lies in our staff. That’s why we nurture their strengths and competencies through targeted measures for professional development. „ Bettina Deuts, HR development Deﬁning targets and evaluating performance PORR organised a career day for those studying PORR has mandatory staff appraisals in place to construction engineering. In 2016 and 2017 PORR allow every employee to access the appropriate took part in the trade fair at the Vienna Unifurther development and training programmes versity of Technology campus of Gusshaus ÖVG, and to evaluate their progress. Other beneﬁts inthe Austrian Society for Vacuum Technology. In clude making work structures more efﬁcient and 2017 students had the chance to hold concrete improving teamwork. Overall, the take-up rates interviews with recruiters from the company as for staff appraisals rose sharply in the reporting part of the “Long Night of Recruitment” in Graz. period: in 2016 they stood at 74.0% (women) and Also for the ﬁrst time in 2017, PORR had a stand 75.0% (men) and in 2017 at 86.2% (women) and at the IT Career Forum in Vienna. 82.7% (men). Data has been available from every home market since 2016. The rise of digitalisation In the recruiting process PORR is increasingly Tomorrow’s specialists and skilled workers turning to digital communication systems such PORR has set the goal of increasing the number as Skype or the SharePoint platform. If applicants of apprentices from 3% of the skilled workforce don’t work in the same place that they are applyto 8% – this translates into around 400 apprening to or are unable to travel, then interviews are tices. Furthermore, awareness raising of the held via Skype. From 2018 the entire onboarding appeal of the construction industry should be of staff should be conducted digitally. Following conducted among school pupils through speciﬁc the start in Austria, an evaluation and eventual programmes. In this sphere PORR works closely roll-out to further markets is planned. Not only together with the relevant trade fair organisers does this modernize processes in HR manageand the media. PORR attends the “Apprenticement, but it also leads to efﬁciency increases. ship Day” and introduces pupils to the construcFurthermore, in 2017 PORR started to conduct tion industry with the initiative “PORR@HAK”. In exit interviews with staff leaving the company. the course of work-experience days, pupils have In the recruiting sector PORR works with the the chance to get a taste of the company and its mobile app hokify and cooperates closely with vocations and get to know them. Furthermore, Whatchado, Xing and LinkedIn. PORR was once again a partner to the Business School Games and the new product MINT Master. Focus on e-Learning In the ﬁeld of HR development PORR is increasUniversity students were also part of a targetingly making use of new digital media such as ed campaign in the period under review, with webinars, e-Learning etc. and thereby adapting numerous measures implemented. Here PORR optimally to the requirements of the workplace attended “BeWanted Graz” for the ﬁrst time and the needs of its employees. The training in 2016 and “BeWanted Vienna” in 2017. In the programme covers a wide range of topics ranging course of “Meet.ing”, a one-off event by the from the principles of communication to occuVienna University of Technology Career Center, pational health and safety through to legal topics a workshop on Building Information Modeling such as employing foreign workers. In 2016 ﬁve (BIM) was held for the ﬁrst time in 2016 together new legal topics were incorporated into the trainwith colleagues from PDE. In cooperation with ing programme as webinars. the Carinthia University of Applied Sciences, 27 We are a team. Recognising value connects us. Focus on apprentices Daughters’ Day There are numerous initiatives in place to raise In 2016 PORR once again participated in “Daughawareness among school pupils of the appeal of ters’ Day”, with around 30 young women attendthe construction industry. Female pupils in paring. The company also plans to participate in 2018. ticular are targeted – with the goal of increasing the percentage of women in the sector step by Corporate presentations step. PORR offered so-called “taster days” in the Numerous presentations and training sessions for form of work-experience days for the ﬁrst time. job applications were held in 2016 together with These gave pupils the chance to get a taste of the trusted partners – including Weidinger & Partner, company and its vocations and get to know them BBRZ and BEST; some of these were enhanced better. with tours of construction sites. Around 190 people participated in the events in total. PORR@HAK The successful initiative “PORR@HAK” was conLong Night of Recruitment in Graz tinued once again with PORR represented at 14 2017 was the ﬁrst time that PORR took part in commercial colleges under this initiative in 2016. an event where interested parties from every The goal of the programme is to give ﬁfth-grade target group (ﬁrst-timers, old hands, etc.) could pupils information on commercial opportunities hold concrete job interviews with the company’s in the construction industry. recruiters. 28 01 03 04 02 MTOP – More than one perspective 01 In 2016 PORR began its cooperation with the Vienna University of Technology event in cooperation with PDE MTOP organisation. This offers sustainable support to highly skilled refugees looking to enter the labour market. 02 “PORR@HAK”: PORR representatives meet pupils at Work training for refugees Neusiedl commercial college Selected refugees were given assistance in starting their careers as part of a work training (job 03 market service programme). This enabled PORR “Daughters’ Day 2016”: Strong interest and great enthusiasm to acquire new staff, who have now been taken on as permanent employees. fair.versity Austria PORR once again participated in the trade fair for careers and further education with a focus on diversity in Austria in 2016. Participants had the chance to talk to our construction manager Andrea Moore in the course of “speed dating”. 29 We are a team. Recognising value connects us. Competitive remuneration When it comes to pay, PORR is committed to transparent and fair remuneration based on the principle of equal opportunities. In addition to legal stipulations, the company also considers market rates. The remuneration system at PORR is centred on social fringe beneﬁts provided conform to conmarket conditions, country-speciﬁc collective temporary standards and sometimes go beyond bargaining agreements and minimum wages – the legal stipulations. regardless of origin, gender, age or religion. The respective collective bargaining agreements are Corporate retirement provisions in place in every country included in the report PORR offers all staff members in Austria a corwith the exception of Qatar, Romania and Switporate pension plan with a retirement fund, as zerland. The principle of “equal pay for equal long as they have been with the company for a work” applies to every area of the company. minimum of ﬁve years. The contributions are Owing to speciﬁc market requirements, not only managed by carefully chosen pension funds or are the minimum wage requirements upheld for corporate insurance funds. The sustainability of skilled workers, extra pay is also provided on a the contributions is secured on the basis of reccase-by-case basis. ommendations by an ethics committee. Furthermore, all staff members receive an anniversary There is a bonus system in place for managers, bonus upon 25 and 35 years with the company. which – in addition to the basic salary – provides a ﬂexible salary component based on the degree Hardship funds to which performance targets are met. The regIn addition to the legal retirement provisions, ular staff appraisals not only form the basis for PORR also maintains the hardship funds, which HR development measures, but also for salary had capital of around EUR 50,000 in the period adjustments and determining whether perforunder review. Payouts from the hardship funds mance targets have been met. Detailed informatotalled EUR 18,500 in 2016 and EUR 16,000 in tion on the remuneration system for members 2017. The goal of the fund is to mitigate the ecoof the Executive and Supervisory Boards can be nomic impact of illness, disability or death in cases found in the Annual Report. Employment and of hardship and to ﬁnance social safeguards. 30 l o p p o r t u n i t i es Eq u a and di v e r s i t y PORR is committed to equal opportunities regardless of cultural and ethnic origin, age or gender. Diversity is a valuable resource and is viewed as an opportunity to break new ground together. The “We@PORR” diversity initiative was brought committee. These include the advisory board, on to life in 2016 to raise awareness of the issue of which managers from different levels including diversity in the company. One of the initiative’s the Head of Human Resources, the Chairman other objectives is to increase the percentage of of the Works Council and the Head of Commuwomen at every level of the Group. Equal opportunications sit, as well as the Council, which is nities and diversity should be used to increase prothe central management and steering body for ductivity in every area and to improve the work-life diversity at PORR. The latter consists of the three balance. PORR is also taking proactive measures Executive Board members, the Head of Human regarding the integration of refugees – including Resources, the Chairman of the Works Council through vocational and educational training. and the Head of Corporate Communications, as well as an external expert. Organisation and structure The “We@PORR” diversity initiative is allocated Corporate Social Responsibility and diversity to the division Corporate Social Responsibility and measures are in force across the Group, whereby has been restructured in terms of both content the latter can be adapted in line with the respecand organisation, whereby the project teams tive market depending on its legal speciﬁcations rotate depending on the focal point. The teams and needs. There is already a diversity contact are overseen by the managers of the diversity partner on every home market; the roll-out to division, which is also represented in every additional markets is underway. 01 31 We are a team. Recognising value connects us. 01 “We@PORR Kids”: Better work-life balance through childcare 02 Mentoring programme: Targeted initiative to empower women 03 Diversity training: Recognising and combating discrimination 02 Empowering women Numerous measures to empower women have been implemented under the title “Seizing opportunities”. This has thereby increased the transparency in promoting managers within PORR and established obligatory internal advertising of management positions. Measures implemented across Austria include those to develop skills and expertise such as the training “Empowerment for women in the operating construction business”, as well as a seven-month mentoring programme for women. These will be rolled out to the home 03 markets based on demand. What’s more, two corporate networks were implemented to strengthen Focus on work-life balance team cohesion, present examples of learning and As a modern and attractive employer, PORR has best practice, and cover special issues related to put in place a better framework for combining diversity. The meeting of the women’s network one’s professional and private life. This was “Women@PORR”, or the “Diversity Table”, which behind the introduction of initiatives such as all employees are welcome to attend, is held the “Kids Days” (childcare on school-free days), twice a year and serves as a basis for sharing and the “PORR Adventure Camp” (two-weeks of networking. childcare in summer), the Parent-Child Ofﬁce for childcare emergencies in the Vienna head PORR diversity training for managers ofﬁce, and PORR Nursing Leave. What’s more, Multiple diversity training sessions for manin the reporting period proactive management of agement were planned and implemented in the parental leave was introduced across the whole period under review. The ﬁrst range of courses of Austria including the information platform started in November 2017 with further sessions Toolio. Employees throughout the Group already to follow from January 2018. Topics covered receive the “PORR Baby Box”. Additionally, in the during these two-day training sessions range period under review the models for home ofﬁce from recognising discrimination mechanisms, and ﬂexitime were developed and implemented prejudices and stereotypes, through to measures in Austria as a ﬁrst step in 2017. The roll-out for avoiding discrimination and approaches to to other markets will now be realised based on special-needs groups and potential conﬂicts. local needs. The PORR career break is based on a reduced-salary model and can be taken for a period of up to eight months. The next focal points will involve generational management and workplace health promotion. 32 We car e abou t t Pr ese rvi ng va lu 33 Wir sind die PORR. Nachhaltigkeit verbindet uns. e e nvir on m e n t . h s us . e c on ne c t 34 Su c c e ss t h r o u g h inn o v a t i o n Capabilities in innovation are essential for economic success and closely tied to digitalisation. Additional potential is created through the strong integration of staff in the innovation process. The development of innovative solutions is an consortiums. In the period under review PORR essential part of planning and design processes received multiple awards for its activities in innoas well as for the actual construction. As the convation. The company took the ﬁrst three places tact point, the PORR Technology Management at the 2016 Innovation Awards chosen by the and Innovation (PTI) department provides comnational committee of the International Tunnelprehensive advice and support in every question ling Association (ITA). of innovation. The innovation projects of other departments and operating units are bundled in Digitalisation of construction processes the Knowledge Management division. Employees One central issue in the ﬁeld of innovation activfrom other European PORR sites are also involved ities is digitalising design and construction proin speciﬁc projects. PORR employs a total of 45 cesses. In future all PORR processes will be digipeople in the ﬁelds of Research, Development and talised as far as possible and thereby the majority Innovation. The key importance of these ﬁelds is of processes will be paperless. 30 employees are reﬂected in the investments in R&D – investments involved in developing and applying Building in 2016 were 20% higher than the previous year, Information Modeling (BIM). Different design and while for 2017 R&D expenditure was at a similarly build processes – such as architecture, calculahigh level. In the period under review, state subsition and monitoring construction progress – are dies totalled around EUR 100,000. gradually being integrated into these models. In order to beneﬁt from external research netPORR ideas contest works, PORR works with competitors and major PORR initiated the ideas contest in order to nurture clients on a range of different research projects. the potential for innovation in the company. Here Numerous university institutes are involved in there has already been a sequel to the existing the industry and innovation projects, forming the model of generating ideas – with a stronger focus scientiﬁc and academic basis for interdisciplinary on the issue of innovation. The ideas range from 01 Sapphire-Libeskind: Pioneering project development using BIM software 02 PORR ideas contest: Awards and bonuses for the best ideas and innovations 03 Structural planning: Design of support 01 structures using BIM 35 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. 02 precast, steel-reinforced concrete parts, such as track support plates for example. This has already been patented in Austria and the Europe-wide patent is pending. Another innovation is drainage-optimised, annular gap grouting for tunnel boring machines. This is now sturdier and more permeable thanks to a new mix. A utility model for this has already been submitted in Austria and the European patent application is currently being prepared. 03 Common materials used for sealing excavation new or advanced construction methods and innopits primarily involve cement and chemical comvative materials through to ways of saving energy, ponents whose environmental credentials are and improvements in internal processes and strictly regulated. Thanks to a newly developed procedures. The PORR knowledge factory in the soft gel, which is, for the ﬁrst time, completely PORRtal enables employees to provide additional organic, there is now a construction material input for developments and advances, thereby available that is based on natural, renewable raw exploiting synergies within the Group. materials and has no negative impact on groundwater such as pH increases or salt seepage. The Innovation in railway construction soft gel was patented in Germany in 2017. PORR has been present in the ﬁeld of track engineering for more than 30 years with numerIn its current research projects PORR is exploring ous innovations in its Slab Track Austria system. issues such as optimising the statics of high-rise Over the years the system has established itself buildings in order to reduce energy-intensive as a tried-and-tested technology. One advance resources, namely concrete and steel. Moreover, in this ﬁeld is the usability of Slab Track with or it is also exploring options for increasing the without integrated guide rails in the form of interpercentage of recycled material in asphalt and changeable precast concrete parts. This makes for reducing the absorption of sunlight through individual sections of tunnels and bridges easy special roof coverings. to access and traverse for emergency vehicles dependent on wheels. The PORR-patented technology is widely used, including on the highspeed German Unity Transport Project 8. New patents A brand new reinforcement system with perforated sheets has been developed for the efﬁcient and economical production of thin-walled, 36 Holiday Inn Express Munich City West. Modern concept embodying sustainability 37 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. l e p r o d u c t s a n d Sust a i n a b o d s c t i o n m e t h constru Resources such as energy and raw materials are not subject to an unlimited supply. With forward-looking buildings PORR is setting new standards in environmental preservation and climate protection – in the interests of its customers and the generations to come. Discussions on the issue of sustainability gathto determinations of mass, volume and space, ered momentum once again at the end of 2015 assessments are made of demolition concepts with the UN Climate Conference in Paris. National and the ease of disassembly as well as the sepaand international Sustainable Development Goals ration of construction materials. set new standards, whereby companies tend to even surpass these kinds of regulations. In Further developments of certiﬁcation systems view of the importance to the national economy PDE offers consulting and assistance services and the high amounts of resources consumed, for the three main labels of the DGNB certiﬁcathe construction and real estate industry has tion family (DGNB, ÖGNI, SGNI), as well as for a weighty responsibility. PORR demands high BREEAM and LEED in the ﬁelds of new construcstandards of sustainability from its suppliers and tion, modernisation and standing assets. Added is proactively committed to forward-looking conto these are other national labels like klima:aktiv, struction standards. Minergie, TQB of ÖGNB, SNBS, NNBS, BNB and NaWoh. PDE also proactively pursues participaOptimising the lifecycles of buildings tion in further developing certiﬁcation systems. The goals of the construction industry are plain As part of the German Green Building Association to see – to be as climate-neutral as possible, (GGBA), PDE and four other selected companies closed resource cycles, the use of renewables, have been entrusted with the task of preparing and realising concepts that conform to demothe rating system documents of the US-American graphic developments. In this regard, building system LEED for the German-speaking world. At certiﬁcation systems provide a recognised and the end of 2016 accreditation was awarded by proven process and method for minimizing the BRE Global Ltd® and the order was received from use of resources without compromising the DIFNI (BREEAM DACH region) to adapt the world’s quality of homes, workplaces and lifestyles in the leading system BREEAM for the markets Austria, respective buildings. The goal of PORR Design & Germany and Switzerland in the usage proﬁle of Engineering (PDE) is to optimise the lifecycle new construction in terms of both language and of projects in terms of economy, ecology and norms. socio-cultural aspects. In addition to the usable sustainability performance of the buildings, both In spring 2017 PDE played a leading role in adaptthe usage capability and the usage credibility of ing the new core system for the Austrian Susthe space is maximised. tainable Building Council (ÖGNI) for the building types ofﬁce, hotel, residential, production and The use of digital building models (BIM) logistics for the Austrian market. Digital building models play a central role when developing climate-neutral projects. They faciliIn 2016 and 2017 there were 20 projects, including tate the evaluation of the environmental impacts 15 PDE projects, which were awarded sustainabilof projects and constructions. Important factors ity certiﬁcates. What’s more, there are dozens of here are the simulation of thermal comfort, projects in the process of receiving certiﬁcation. energy requirements and daylight. In addition 38 01 bee@PORR At more than 30 sites across its home markets, PORR has provided beekeepers with the requisite space for their bee colonies – for example on the grounds of branch ofﬁces or on rooftops. On the roof of the Group headquarters in the Favoriten district of Vienna alone there are six hives; on the roof of the branch ofﬁce in Warsaw there are already ten. In Germany a total of twelve beehives have been established at four locations, each providing a home for around 60,000 bees in the peak season. The initiative has also had a warm reception internally. There has been strong interest in the project and several employees have 02 now taken up beekeeping in their spare time. The project is unique to date in terms of this dimension. During the peak season the PORR beehives provide a home for around 13 million bees in 220 hives across the Group. 03 01 Marina Island, Prague: Living on the Vltava 02 bee@PORR: Home to 13 million bees 03 Novotel and ibis in QBC Vienna: Urban development at Vienna Central Station 02 04 04 Baltyk Tower, Poznan: New city landmark 39 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. Procurement and supplier management PORR focuses on establishing stable, long-term relationships with suppliers and subcontractors – with strict attention paid to occupational health and safety, environmental standards and human rights. Procurement is a crucial division at PORR. Every longstanding relationships that resemble partyear PORR purchases materials and services nerships and the consequent predictability of the with a total value in excess of EUR 3 bn from business partner mitigate the business risks for more than 40,000 companies in 50 countries. PORR (e.g. through insolvency, delayed payment When selecting suppliers, PORR applies the claims etc.). Many of the products and services principles laid out in the Code of Ethics and has are procured in such a way that they can only pledged to uphold the speciﬁed social and enbe delivered or provided by regional suppliers. vironmental standards across the entire value Long delivery routes or procuring products from chain. Adherence to sustainability standards regions with lower social standards and labour is evidenced by the requisite certiﬁcates and standards are avoided wherever possible. self-reporting in the master data sheet. In addition, guidelines and aspects are deﬁned that Sustainability risks are then monitored during the execution phase Certain important materials used by the company and evaluated upon conclusion of the project at have high sustainability risks. Included here are the latest. Non-adherence incurs consequences construction materials such as concrete, cement, that can stretch to being blacklisted for further steel etc. A very strong focus is placed on regional contracts. The set of criteria in the self-reporting supply when procuring these materials: for examform is regularly updated to include socio-enviple, concrete can only be acquired by providers ronmental aspects. located a maximum of 50km away from the construction site. The ﬁrst choice in the energy Reducing the number of suppliers sector wherever possible is electricity from In view of the diverse range of services rendered the hydropower plants of domestic providers. by PORR, the demands on suppliers and service Appropriate measures have been put in place as providers also vary greatly in terms of product part of energy efﬁciency management. A sharp and service group speciﬁcations. In general PORR rise in attention paid to upholding sustainability strives to avoid small-scale supplier structures criteria in the procurement process has come and prefers to make use of a product group of from Green and Blue Buildings as well as tunnel fewer, carefully selected suppliers. The higher projects. Socio-environmental labels are selected revenue of the individual suppliers has a posfor procurement for the company’s own use such itive impact on the prices and contractual conas paper, advertising, PORR clothing (for use on ditions that PORR can command. Moreover, the construction sites and as leisurewear). 40 Energy effi c i e n c y PORR’s goal is to continuously reduce its energy consumption. The use of alternative drive systems and energy sources should increase energy efﬁciency, whereby sustainable ﬂeet management plays a central role. As an industrial company, PORR’s energy con135,692.67 and 163,713.59 tonnes of C02 equivasumption is high, whereby most of it is generated lent were generated through operating activities. from construction site operations, transporting 24.5% of the energy consumption in 2017 came goods, and the administrative infrastructure. from renewables. Decrease in energy consumption Reducing emissions In 2016 and 2017 the company consumed The signiﬁcant reduction in direct greenhouse 464,439.25 and 545,675.67 MWh energy respecgas emissions (GHG emissions, Scope 1+2) was tively. Despite numerous acquisitions, in 2017 it facilitated by the ongoing ﬂeet replacement was possible to reduce energy consumption in with vehicles that boast reduced fuel consumprelation to production output by 2.8% against the tion. The use of state-of-the-art construction previous year 2016. machinery, improvements in production facilities and staff training, and the use of low-pollutant The most important energy source by some marproducts also contributed to the reduction in gin is diesel, accounting for 52.9%, followed by emissions. gas, electricity and heating oil. With this in mind, a main focal point in increasing efﬁciency was on For the indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3), PORR construction vehicles and machinery. records emissions generated through ﬂights, rail travel, the use of car rentals, and business travel. The dominant use of fossil fuels led to a simThe emissions already included in Scope 1 are ilar picture in greenhouse gas emissions and excluded. The increased use of video conferencenergy consumption. In the years 2016 and 2017, ing led to a signiﬁcant reduction in the travel time Energy consumption by energy type (annual consumption in MWh) 1 2017 2016 Change Electricity 53,633.33 52,290.87 2.6% Gas 118,684.80 132,801.75 -10.6% Heating oil 21,537.46 13,347.73 61.4% District heating 5,399.35 5,471.51 -1.3% Liquid gas 17,392.32 10,411.28 67.1% Diesel 288,607.80 236,087.80 22.2% Petrol 5,095.50 4,225.61 20.6% Pulverized lignite 35,325.10 9,802.70 260.4% Total 545,675.67 464,439.25 17.5% Production output in EUR m 4,677 3,870 20.9% Energy consumption/ production output in kWh/EUR 0.117 0.120 -2.8% 1 Data covers the home markets, Qatar, Norway and Romania 41 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. The advantages yielded by our sustainable Energy consumption by energy type (annual consumption in %) ﬂeet management are not only environ6.5% mental, they also bring beneﬁts in terms Pulverized lignite 9.8% of safety and ﬁnances. 0.9% Electricity „ Werner Zenz, Central Equipment Management Petrol 21.8% Gas 52.9% 2017 3.9% Diesel Heating oil 1.0% District heating 3.2% Liquid gas of employees and the subsequent number of least a similar degree. As sustainability indicakilometres generated by company cars, rail travel tors are increasingly becoming a factor in award and ﬂights in the period under review. processes, higher energy efﬁciency improves PORR’s overall competitive position. Increasing energy efﬁciency In plant engineering for asphalt and concrete mix Regular audits plants, as well as gravel processing plants, measThe data on energy is collected in the relevant ures are consistently implemented to reduce the PORR markets under the framework of the envienergy consumed and consequently the GHG ronmental management system. The assessment emissions. A contribution to reducing emissions is conducted in the course of regular energy also comes from new construction and refurbishaudits in line with ÖNORM EN 16247-1 on the ing buildings used by the operating business. basis of the Austrian Energy Efﬁciency Act or the EDL-G in Germany. The requisite reporting to the Against this backdrop, just as much attention monitoring point in Austria is realised punctually is paid to upholding the highest environmental and the ﬁndings from the energy audits are incorconstruction standards as on ﬁtting photovoltaic porated into the energy-efﬁciency planning. systems (PV systems). The energy produced is used not only for heating and lighting, but also for operating electric vehicles. The new construction and refurbishment of existing buildings used for operations as part of the new world of work has also been realised in line with environmental principles. Here a huge Measures to increase energy efﬁciency priority for PORR is low energy consumption for Constant modernisation of the vehicle ﬂeet and heating, cooling and lighting. The introduction of construction machinery Central management of construction machinery shared printers on each ﬂoor rather than each Measures related to buildings such as LED lighting, desk plays has led to additional energy efﬁciency shared printers increases in ofﬁce work. Setting up photovoltaic units with charging points or electric vehicles Setting up videoconferencing facilities to reduce travel Implementing the energy efﬁciency guidelines Gradual switchover towards renewable energy sources for In line with the energy efﬁciency guidelines, heating and production PORR intends to cut its primary energy conModernising old production plants and installing frequency sumption by at least 1.5% by 2020. The use of converters to control motorised drives etc. Optimising construction site logistics alternative energies and an array of measures Processing excavated material directly on the in construction equipment and mobility should construction site also lead to a reduction in GHG emissions of at Consistent use of Skype for telephone conferences 42 Reducing energy on the construction site Consistent energy savings on construction sites contribute to sustainable energy efﬁciency and reduce harmful airborne emissions. A critical focal point in increasing energy efficiency lies in reducing energy consumption on construction sites. Here PORR consistently strives to acquire products with the best emissions standards on the market when purchasing off-road equipment, replacing the ﬂeet of cars and LCVs, and installing automatic start-stop functionality on construction vehicles. In addition, the use of construction machinery with electric drives is currently being examined. Central equipment management The goal of PORR Equipment Services (PES) – which bundles the equipment management of the entire Group – is to sustainably increase efﬁciency and reduce airborne emissions in equipment management. All equipment and vehicles have been recorded in the PES so that Group-wide standardisation and subsequently a reduction in the range of brands and types can be achieved. An additional measure is the Groupwide determination of technical standards for equipment, machinery and vehicles. Following its implementation in Austria, Germany and the Czech Republic, the standardisation process is also being rolled out in Poland. Decrease in total emissions The results of recent years show that the consistent implementation of measures has paid off. The emissions of off-road equipment totalled 129,646kW in 2017. In order to facilitate 43 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. Emissions of pollutants (in kg/kW) 2017 2016 Change Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.53 2.57 -1.5% Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.16 0.20 -20.2% Nitrogen oxide (NO X) 2.38 2.70 -11.9% Particular matter (PM) 0.13 0.16 -15.0% comparisons with previous years, the ratios PES generally only buys machinery that conof the signiﬁcant pollutants have been shown in forms to the best available emissions standards kg/kW once again. on the market. All equipment with an operator seat has been ﬁtted with an automatic start-stop Energy savings from on-road equipment function, signiﬁcantly reducing idle time and (cars, pickups, light commercial vehicles) operating hours. In order to achieve a further reduction in pollutant emissions, PES cut the timeframe for replacing This has reduced emissions and extended the cars from seven years or 240,000km to four years intervals needed for maintenance, meaning that or 140,000km. As the vehicle matrix was streamthe equipment can be operated in a more ecolined at the same time under consideration of CO2 nomical and energy-efﬁcient way. emissions and the acquisition of energy-efﬁcient vehicles, it was possible to achieve a signiﬁcant reduction in CO2 emissions. Measures to reduce energy consumption on the road The passenger car matrix (on-road vehicles) is constantly updated to conform to state-of-the-art standards in In 2016 there was a reduction of 664.2 tonnes terms of exhaust emissions, consumption and air emisfor on-road equipment; in 2017 the value stood sions. The shorter period of vehicle usage also reduces at 409.2 tonnes. The details on savings for cars, fuel consumption. When acquiring off-road construction equipment, all of pick-ups and light commercial vehicles as well as the machinery acquired conforms to the best-in-class the regional breakdown for the years 2016/2017 exhaust standards. are shown in the table EN19 – Change in GHG The project start-stop for construction machinery is emissions – on page 67f. being implemented consistently. There are also plans to acquire additional electric cars and electric construction equipment as well as hybrid construction machinery. Energy savings from off-road equipment For the past two years, all automotive construction (construction machinery) machinery (including compressors and generators) has In 2016 PES and its subsidiaries operated conhad telematics boxes built in; these report the number of operating hours in the SAP system daily. Equipment struction machinery with total engine power of that is underutilised is indentiﬁed and eventually sold, 128,546kW; in 2017 the value was 129,646kW. which also has a positive impact on reducing emissions When acquiring new construction equipment, of pollutants. 44 e m a n a g e m en t Reso u r c m en t an d w a s t e t r e a t PORR wants to send out a clear signal in regard to the advance of climate change. By bundling its activities in the ﬁeld of resource management, PORR aims to increase the efﬁciency of its measures. The responsible approach to resources and the the total waste generated in the Group from 2016 clear commitment to environmental protection to 2017, the percentage of waste in the “nonrepresent an important pillar of the PORR sushazardous” category has held steady at around tainability strategy. Environmental management 94%. The increase in waste came from corporate is part of the Integrated Management System growth as well as ﬂuctuations in the project sit(IMS), which is certiﬁed to 14001:2015 at the SQS uation (this was especially pronounced in waste (Reg. Nr. 40247) and guarantees not only quality ﬂows from the project markets). The reporting and economic feasibility, but also the protecof waste for PORR covers the countries Austria, tion of environmental, labour, health and safety Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Qatar and standards. The goal of the system is to realise a Norway. Not included in the report are waste volGroup-wide environmental policy that takes into umes from Switzerland, Great Britain, Romania account all legal speciﬁcations. Here the incorpoand a few Austrian sites, as it was not possible to ration of environmental aspects into all relevant document the company’s own amounts of waste processes is just as important as entrepreneurial reliably due to joint waste disposal arrangements decision-making. with other companies. It should also be noted that only the main ﬂows were recorded for the Czech The focus of environmental management lies in Republic (2016 and 2017) and Poland (2016) and improving energy efﬁciency and optimising the therefore no amounts were available for the item use of resources – in particular through steadily “other non-hazardous waste” in the period under increasing the recycling rates and reducing the review. volume of waste. In order to achieve optimal results and be able to realise synergies, the As the disposal method (e.g. recycling, incinerGroup’s entire knowhow in the ﬁeld of environation or landﬁll) is generally at the discretion of mental engineering is bundled in PORR Umweltthe disposer, the ﬁnal treatment type is unknown technik (PUT). The measures for environmental in the majority of cases. In principle, most of the protection – which includes seminars, certiﬁcawaste mass in Austria is recycled – particularly tion, investments, proprietary refurbishment prowood, metal, paper and mineral oils – or burnt to jects etc. – increased from EUR 2,373,207 (2016) produce energy, especially in the case of municito EUR 23,274,181 (2017). On the one hand the pal waste, plastic packaging and workshop waste. increase was caused by the proprietary project “contaminated site N12 Kapellerfeld”; on the other Focus on recycling hand 2017 was the ﬁrst year that included investAgainst a backdrop of an increasing scarcity of ments of the newly acquired subsidiaries ABW, resources, recycling is becoming an ever more Koller, Langes Feld and PKM Muldenzentrale. important issue. Reclaiming and reusing waste protects the environment and helps to reduce Waste management disposal costs. PORR’s goal is to recycle as The majority of the volumes of waste in the period much material as possible and thereby steadily under review involved municipal waste, followed increase the percentage of recycled construction by metal and wood. Despite a 47.5% increase in materials. A new recycling plant has been built at 45 We care about the environment. Preserving value connects us. Amounts recycled from construction rubble (in t) 1 2017 2016 Recycled building material from rubble 85,200 144,900 Recycled building material from broken concrete 402,700 331,500 Recycled building material from asphalt 330,800 251,800 Recycled building material from natural rock 201,300 138,700 Reuse of excavated material/soils 510,000 260,100 Total 1,530,000 1,127,000 1 Data covers Austria, Czech Republic, Poland and Qatar. Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Romania are not included in the ﬁgures. the Pirka site in order to do justice to this goal. Environmental lab – innovative waste The recycled construction materials are used for treatment methods a range of applications including as base layers Methods for recycling a wide variety of waste when building roads and parking spaces, for types with different contamination levels are backﬁll in building construction, for paving and developed in the environmental laboratory. The access to construction sites, in building paths goal here is to limit harmful reactions and to be through ﬁelds and forests, for ﬁlling verges and able to send the waste for proper disposal. The soil stabilisation, as well as for constructing challenge faced in these attempts lies in the ever tennis courts. In the years 2016 and 2017 the evolving combinations of pollutants. This requires Group-wide amounts of recycled waste stood at investment both in new analytical equipment and 1,530,000 tonnes and 1,127,000 tonnes respecin developing new methods to increase efﬁciency tively. This value is subject to ﬂuctuations that and be able to make decisions based on ecocan arise for example through the contamination nomic and environmental criteria. Targeted R&D of large quantities of mineral construction waste, activities outside the standardised lab processes for example with excavated material. In Austria, allow identiﬁcation methods to be improved, test the Czech Republic, Poland and Qatar the permethods to be adjusted, and methods to identify centage of recycled construction material from and quantify substances and laboratory-scale asphalt rose by 10% overall. In general it should testing apparatus to be developed for special be noted that the use of secondary raw materials scientiﬁc questions. is subject to project-related ﬂuctuations. Rehabilitating contaminated sites Recycling in-house Making safe and rehabilitating contaminated PORR has its own recycling plants for consites is a key focal point for PORR. In recent years struction materials in the form of the Himberg PORR Umwelttechnik has played a signiﬁcant and Pirka sites, which are capable of producing part in practically every major environmental around 600,000 tonnes of recycled construction clean-up project and is one of the leading commaterials, secondary raw materials and qualpanies in this ﬁeld thanks to its knowhow in ity proﬁles. PORR is also promoting the issue environmental engineering. The following rehaof recycling in the research and development bilitation projects were realised in 2016: contamsector. Projects currently underway include inated site N12 Kapellerfeld (around 2.6m m³, developing a method to increase the quality of 175,000m² surface area), contaminated site K20 recycled construction materials, to process brick Donauchemie Brückl (around 240,000m³, around chippings, plasterboard and insulation material. 20,000m² surface area). Furthermore, PORR is working on the ﬁrst-time use of brick chippings as a substrate product in In the reporting period there were no environthe greening of buildings and on an innovative mental breaches at PORR subject to obligatory method to improve the construction properties reporting. No logs are kept of minor incidents of recycled materials. such as an oil leak from an excavator. 46 vice sec tion S er 47 Service section About this report About this report This Sustainable Value Report covers the activleads to enhanced awareness with regard to the ities of the PORR Group in 2016/2017. PORR’s most important risks. The potential impacts and goal is to report from across the entire Group on risks are evaluated in meetings and workshops. sustainability issues. As 86.9%, i.e. the majority of production output, is generated on the home The risk assessment conforms to the requiremarkets already reported, PORR will concentrate ments of the Austrian Act to Improve Sustainas a next step on the markets with production ability and Diversity and covers the areas of output of more than 1%. Included here are the environment, social affairs, employee matters, project markets of Qatar, Norway and Romania. respecting human rights and combating corThis report is designed for every stakeholder ruption and bribery. The risks reported by the group of PORR AG and covers the period from stakeholders have been assessed in terms of 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017. implications and probability before being evaluated, consolidated, and then laid out in a matrix. Since 2008 PORR has issued regular reports at Appropriate countermeasures were speciﬁed for two-year intervals on its activities in the ﬁeld of the top risks listed, some of which have already Corporate Social Responsibility. The last report been implemented. was published in December 2016. The Sustainable Value Report is based on the requirements of The risk and impact analysis relates to the comthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – G4 Sustainplete value chain including the supply chain. It ability Reporting Guidelines. The report fulﬁls the was conducted with the aid of internal evaluarequirements of GRI G4 in the “Core” version. A tions already in circulation such as the materiality materiality analysis was carried out for the ﬁrst matrix, the PESTEL analysis, the risk matrix etc. time in the second quarter of 2016. This report and from workshops with stakeholders, whereby focuses on the issues and indicators determined. the stakeholder representatives came from the The report has not been subjected to an external ﬁelds of staff and management, clients, supplievaluation. In addition to the report, PORR proers and service providers, legislators and authorvides information on corporate responsibility in ities, the ﬁnancial community, NGOs, the media, the Annual Report and at porr-group.com/csr. representation of interests bodies and civil engineers. In addition to the existing materiality analysis, in 2017 PORR conducted a risk and impact analysis. The report includes an introductory statement This involved the systematic recording of possiby the Executive Board, an overview of the comble risks with the involvement of external stakepany’s strategy regarding CSR, the company, its holders. With the goal of mitigating possible risk product portfolio and markets. This is followed by factors well in advance and being able to implethe three chapters on adding value, recognising ment countermeasures in a timely manner, the value and preserving value, which each depict top risks of the company have been pinpointed the respective ﬁeld of action at PORR as deterand their impacts documented. This approach mined by the materiality analysis. increases transparency on the one hand, and also Your contact partner: Theresia E. Pircher Corporate Social Responsibility staff unit T +43 50 626-1840 theresia.pircher@porr.at 48 S u s t a in a b i l i t y organ i s a t i o n The issue of sustainability is anchored in the The CSR organisational structure is divided into CSR staff unit that reports directly to the Group two major segments. Under the title “We@PORR”, Executive Board. Together with the CSR project the ﬁrst segment covers aspects related to team – a cross-departmental network of experts diversity and to Work&Life including family and from Quality Management, Human Resources, nursing care, ﬂexible working hours, age, gender, Technology Management, Strategy, Occupational ethnic origin etc. The second major area is called Health & Safety, Purchasing, Group Management, “Sustainability@PORR” and primarily deals with Risk Management, Equipment Management and the issues of reporting, communication and ratEnergy Efﬁciency and Waste Management – susings. Included here are enquiries from CSR ratings tainability measures are regularly evaluated and platforms and potential clients and the media, as adjusted and new CSR projects are developed well as producing the Sustainable Value Report. where necessary for issues with a direct connection to the company’s core business. In its function as the coordination point, the staff unit is involved in regular dialogue with the PORR The Group Executive Board cooperates with the stakeholders and incorporates this into the furHead of the CSR staff unit to determine the susther development of sustainability activities in tainability strategy and goal-setting along with the form of special activities such as workshops, the accompanying set of measures, which apply lectures, training sessions or live Q&As at events. a medium and long-term perspective. The CSR In this way the issue is proactively promoted and manager is then responsible for the effective the requisite awareness and identiﬁcation among implementation of the measures agreed. stakeholders is assured. CEO CSR staff unit CSR project team Waste Management Purchasing Equipment Management Health & Safety Group Management Sustainable Building, Energy Efﬁciency Human Resources Quality Management Risk Management Technology Management, Innovation Environmental Engineering Strategy 49 Service section About this report Risk and impact analysis In order to mitigate possible risk factors well in advance, the top risks of the company have been pinpointed and their impacts documented. On this basis PORR has then determined appropriate countermeasures. Occupational health and safety Ethics and compliance Impacts on both physical and mental health are The aspect covers the risk of unfair competition recorded as risks under this aspect. Numerous and the distortion effects accompanying it, the countermeasures have been implemented in legal consequences, and the possible excluorder to avoid accidents at work and the possible sion from award procedures. With this in mind, costs to the national economy. In addition to the PORR has implemented measures including regular occupational health and safety training, the introduction of a compliance management PORR has established a “reporting point for system and guidelines. It is also committed near-misses and hazardous situations” as well as to anti-bribery and compliance training and an “advice centre for mental health and conﬂict increased checks and balances through the resolution”. internal audit department. Sustainability in the supply chain Lack of skilled labour Misconduct on the part of suppliers and subconProblems can arise in executing tenders and tractors regarding human rights, environmental the quality of the work rendered due to a lack of issues and employee matters is to be avoided as skilled labour. The error rate increases and there it may have undesirable consequences including may also be delays in construction execution. a lack of quality in execution and processing, Measures taken to counteract this include the the loss of orders, wage and social dumping, or development of an intensive system for further damage to company’s image. One measure, for development and training. In the recruiting sector example, is the production of a catalogue of critea stronger focus is being placed on addressing ria for high environmental and social standards in women, older jobseekers and qualiﬁed skilled the supply chain. PORR also increasingly relies on workers with immigrant backgrounds. Moreover, its own highly qualiﬁed staff. Furthermore, ISHAP women should be given greater encouragement (social security and requirements for employing and promotion in the operating business through foreigners) has been introduced to improve the training. checks and documentation of outside personnel. Intercultural competencies Environment and climate Conﬂicts and social tension often result from There are no environmental standards in place contrasting values and cultural backgrounds. This that offer complete coverage of the entire value can lead to communication problems and delays chain. High environmental impact can lead to an in project realisation through a lack of teamwork. increase in the costs for fuel and energy, a rise in PORR is combating this with a wide range of resource consumption and to the loss of orders. measures including internal measures for furThis is why PORR has implemented a range of ther development and training, diversity-speciﬁc measures – including project processes focused company networks to strengthen team cohesion, on the environment and quality with the aid of and diversity training and intercultural compemanagement systems – and is committed to efﬁtency training. cient energy management and to establishing an internal environment and waste network. Only a selection of the measures implemented is given here. A detailed overview of all of the measures can be found in the Appendix from page 70f. 50 Stakeholder Management PORR promotes constructive and targeted communication with its stakeholders in relation to the relevant sustainability issues. Stakeholder management is a fundamental pillar in the quest for commercial success. Understanding the needs of the signiﬁcant interest groups – i.e. the groups of people with a direct connection to the company, who inﬂuence it or are inﬂuenced by it – opens up new perspectives. Economic success can be secured long-term by comparing the needs of stakeholders with the company’s own activities. The most important stakeholder groups for PORR are its staff, customers, shareholders and investors, suppliers, media, society, representation of interest bodies, authorities and legislators, and cooperation partners. Multifaceted communication Contact with stakeholders takes place at multiple levels. PORR promotes direct exchanges in the course of realising projects, through cross-company networks, road shows, conferences, shareholders’ meetings, trade fairs and workshops. Another approach is through online surveys, including those sent in the course of producing the materiality matrix, the internal evaluation on the mental health of the workforce and that on the need for childcare and nursing care. Pressing issues are also addressed in the form of live Q&A sessions at large-scale internal events. Stakeholders can additionally access information relevant to the company through general media reporting, the PORR website, newsletters, corporate publications such as the Annual Report or Sustainable Value Report, the staff magazine, as well as from circulars and the intranet. 51 Service section About this report Materiality matrix high A Long-term economic success A A B Customer satisfaction C Safety, security and prevention D Further education and training for staff B E Contributing to the local economy Relevance for stakeholders C F Compliance EE G Risk management for projects D D F H Diversity and equal opportunities L J G I Innovative technologies M K M H H N I N J Environmentally sound use of materials O K Upholding human rights L Sustainable procurement P M Energy and emissions N Ecological products and services O Biodiversity and soil Relevance for PORR low P Commitment to society 2,50 low high 2,50 3,00 3,50 4,00 4,50 PORR is a member and/or supporter of numersustainability topics for PORR could be recorded, ous initiatives and sector-speciﬁc organisations. the requirements of the GRI G4 reporting guideThese include the following institutions: lines, including the sector supplement on the construction industry, the topics of the relevant Federation of Austrian Industry, VIBÖ (Associasustainability ratings and the peer group were all tion of Industrial Construction Companies Ausanalysed and evaluated in terms of their validity tria), EIC (European International Contractors), for PORR. the Polish Construction Industry Association, Achilles (prequaliﬁcation platform), CDP (Carbon The topics ascertained were then condensed into Disclosure Project), DGNB (German Sustainable 16 core topics in the course of a workshop. In a furBuilding Council), FEhS (Institute for Research ther step they were transferred to an online quesin Building Materials), Mineral Resources Forum, tionnaire in which each topic could be assessed German Water Partnership, Ludwig Boltzmann in terms of relevance. The materiality matrix was Society, ÖGNI (Austrian Sustainable Building produced based on the results of the survey and Council), Railway Business Forum, STUVA then went on to serve as the foundation for the (Research Association for Tunnels and TransPORR sustainability strategy. The importance of portation Facilities), Business for Integration, the topics was based on how relevant the topics UN Global Compact, Diversity Charter, respACT were for stakeholders and for PORR. The most (Austrian Business Council for Sustainable material topics are thereby those that have the Development), Companies for Families, Global greatest impact on PORR and/or those that are Reporting Initiative. most relevant for stakeholders. Topic identiﬁcation in the sustainability process The ﬁndings showed that “long-term economic In the course of conducting a comprehensive success” and “customer satisfaction” were the materiality analysis, PORR deﬁned the material most relevant issues by a considerable margin, CSR topics for the Group. All social and environboth from the company’s viewpoint and from mental aspects along the company’s entire value that of the stakeholders. For staff members the chain were analysed and prioritised in the course top priorities were “safety and prevention” as well of this process. To ensure that the full range of as “further education and training”. 52 Page reference: SVR 2016/2017 AR = Annual Report 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Indicator Description Reference page Comment General Standard Disclosure Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 7 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 49, 70f, AR 45ff Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 Name of the organization 12 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 12f, AR 23 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 12, AR 23 G4-6 Countries in which the organization operates or in which the organization has 12f operations that are speciﬁcally relevant to sustainability topics G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12, AR 26 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 12f customers and beneﬁciaries) G4-9 Scale of the organization including total number of employees, total number of operations, 12, 57 net sales, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided G4-10 Total number of employees by location, employment contract, gender, employment type, 25, 57f legal recognition, ﬂuctuations in employment numbers, seasonal variations G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 29 G4-12 Supply chain 14 G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership 12f or supply chain G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 37f G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 47, 51 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 51 Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements AR 119ff G4-18 Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 47 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content 49, 51 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 51 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 51 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 47 and the reasons for such restatement G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and 47, 49, 70 Aspect Boundaries 53 Service section GRI G4 Content index Indicator Description Reference page Comment Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 50 G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 51, 71 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 47, 50, 51 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 49, 51, 71 and how the organization has responded Report Proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 47 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 47 G4-30 Reporting cycle 47 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 47 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 47 G4-33 The organization’s policy with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 47 not veriﬁed Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees responsible 48, for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts AR 27ff Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 16f Speciﬁc Standard Disclosure Economic Performance Indicators Economic Performance DMA Management approach 12f EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 19 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 37, 49 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 29 EC4 Financial assistance received from the government 34 state research subsidies 54 Indicator Description Reference page Comment Environmental Performance Indicators Materials DMA Management approach 39 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 44f, 62 Energy DMA Management approach 40, 63f EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 40f, 63f EN5 Energy intensity (per production/sales unit or per service) 64f EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 40f, 63f EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 64 Emissions DMA Management approach 40f EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 40f, 65 EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 40f, 66 EN17 Gross other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 40f, 66 EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 40f, 65 EN21 Nox , Sox and other signiﬁcant air emissions 43, 68 Efﬂuents and Waste DMA Management approach 44f EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 44f, 69 EN24 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills 45 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous 68 under the terms of the Basel Convention annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Environmental Products and Services DMA Management approach 44f EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 37, 44f Land Degradation, Contamination and Remediation DMA Management approach 45 CRE5 Land remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land use, 45 according to applicable legal designations Overall Environmental Protection Measures DMA Management approach 44 EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 44 Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA Management approach 39 EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts 39, 49, in the supply chain and actions taken 70f 55 Service section GRI G4 Content index Indicator Description Reference page Comment Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment DMA Management approach 25 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 25, 57f by age group, gender and region LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 58 Occupational Health and Safety DMA Management approach 22 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism 58f and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 59 CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in veriﬁed compliance with an 22f internationally recognized health and safety management system LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 22f Training and Education DMA Management approach 25 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 25f, 60 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 25ff employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 26, 60 reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA Management approach 30 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 61, category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other AR 36 indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men DMA Management approach 29 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by 29 employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation Human Rights Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining DMA Management approach 29 HR4 Operations and suppliers indentiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom 16f, 39 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Assessment DMA Management approach 16f HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject 16f, 17 to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment DMA Management approach 39 HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 39, 49, and actions taken 70f 56 Indicator Description Reference page Comment Society Anti-corruption DMA Management approach 18 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related 16f to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks identiﬁed SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption 18 Anti-competitive Behavior DMA Management approach 16f SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 18 and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance DMA Management approach 17 SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary 18 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 57 Service section Key data/Appendix Key data/Appendix G4-9 Economic performance (in EUR m) 2017 2016 Change Production output 4,738 3,925 20.7% Order backlog 6,367 4,804 32.5% Order intake 6,301 4,150 51.8% EBITDA 200.7 187.3 7.1% EBIT 90.2 100.1 -9.8% EBT 85.3 91.1 -6.3% Consolidated profit 63.7 66.8 -4.7% Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) 597 441 35.4% Equity ratio 20.7% 18.7% 2.0PP Net debt/net cash -147 53 >-100.0% Average staffing levels 17,719 15,328 15.6% Employment G4-10 Staffing structure 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL NO QA RO Change Average workforce 9,985 2,703 266 762 1,590 58 1,617 298 17,279 of which women 1,051 471 35 104 213 13 79 76 2,042 in % 10.5 17.4 13.2 13.6 13.4 22.4 4.9 25.5 11.8 Salaried employees 3,456 1,596 132 424 901 38 722 209 7,478 of which women 915 459 35 100 211 13 79 76 1,888 in % 26.5 28.8 26.5 23.6 23.4 34.2 10.9 36.4 25.2 Waged workers 6,521 876 134 338 689 20 895 132 9,605 of which women 136 11 4 2 153 in % 2.1 1.3 1.2 0.3 1.6 Apprentices 251 28 10 24 1 6 2 322 of which women 9 2 1 12 2016 Average workforce 8,757 1,459 223 779 1,355 5 1,729 245 14,552 of which women 939 281 33 109 307 2 71 70 1,812 in % 10.7 19.3 14.8 14.0 22.7 40.0 4.1 28.6 12.5 Salaried employees 3,054 959 127 429 847 5 683 182 6,286 of which women 821 272 33 103 305 2 71 70 1,677 in % 26.9 28.4 26.0 24.0 36.0 40.0 10.4 38.5 26.7 Waged workers 5,703 500 96 350 508 1,046 112 8,315 of which women 118 9 6 2 63 198 in % 2.1 1.8 1.7 0.4 56.3 2.4 Apprentices 209 32 10 251 of which women 8 5 1 14 58 LA1 New hires and ﬂuctuation by gender and region 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL NO QU RO Total New hires, salaried employees and waged workers 1,194 814 67 155 719 53 1,617 137 4,756 of which women 155 172 7 16 90 11 79 17 547 Left the company1 229 297 16 67 134 6 215 34 1,035 2016 New hires, salaried employees and waged workers 959 548 63 214 370 9 1,729 53 3,945 of which women 107 158 9 25 52 2 71 19 443 Left the company1 211 131 19 62 125 189 28 765 1 salaried employees only LA3 Parental leave 1 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL QU RO Total Female salaried employees 68 23 1 2 49 1 5 149 later left the company 3 1 4 Male salaried employees 28 37 1 48 1 3 118 later left the company 4 4 2016 Female salaried employees 75 6 3 16 1 1 102 later left the company 3 2 2 2 1 10 Male salaried employees 14 17 1 32 later left the company 1 1 2 1 Norway is not included in the ﬁgures Occupational health and safety LA6 Accident and injury statistics 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL NO QA RO Total Fatal accidents at work Accidents at work 427 76 5 8 14 3 7 3 543 Frequency of accidents1 27 18 11 6 6 8 6 11 Hours lost 67,403 14,542 645 2,021 2,729 1,095 208 88,643 Hours worked 15,866,760 4,245,595 435,254 1,328,101 2,454,348 385,618 22,834,314 514,122 48,064,112 Working hours lost due to accidents (in %)2 0.42 0.34 0.15 0.15 0.11 0.28 0.04 0.18 Cases of occupational illness 20163 Fatal accidents at work 1 1 Accidents at work 504 63 12 4 4 4 591 Frequency of accidents1 32 26 28 3 2 16 Hours lost 77,097 14,183 2,955 1,008 392 95,635 Hours worked 15,674,648 2,402,271 424,136 1,465,710 1,969,458 13,795,127 433,467 36,164,817 Working hours lost due to accidents (in %)2 0.49 0.59 0.70 0.07 0.02 0.26 Cases of occupational illness 8 8 1 Number of accidents at work x 1,000,000/hours worked 2 (Working hours lost due to accidents/hours worked) x 100 3 Norway is not included in the ﬁgures 59 Service section Key data/Appendix LA6.1 Type of injury 1 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL NO RO Total Foreign-body injuries 17 1 1 19 Abrasions 4 2 1 7 Broken bones 42 9 2 2 1 56 Multiple types of injury 22 1 1 24 Bruising 162 16 4 2 184 Lacerations 27 4 1 1 33 Cuts and gashes 95 5 100 Miscellaneous and unknown injuries 20 24 3 5 52 Burns and chemical burns 18 4 1 1 1 25 Loss of body parts, sensory organs 4 1 5 Strains, sprains, torn ligaments 100 10 2 3 115 2016 Foreign-body injuries 15 1 16 Abrasions 9 9 Broken bones 48 7 1 1 57 Multiple types of injury 25 25 Bruising 146 30 4 180 Lacerations 26 5 1 32 Cuts and gashes 100 2 102 Miscellaneous and unknown injuries 42 4 46 Burns and chemical burns 24 1 25 Loss of body parts, sensory organs 3 3 Strains, sprains, torn ligaments 97 16 6 2 1 122 1 Qatar is not included in the ﬁgures LA7 Number of workers with high sickness rates or exposure 1 2017 AT CH CZ PL RO Total Noise 1,357 18 85 526 251 2,237 Chemical-toxic pollution 165 165 Welding fumes 21 7 14 42 Dust 256 122 251 629 Other 195 25 980 1,200 Number of eligibility and follow-up exams 1,994 25 110 1,642 251 4,022 2016 Noise 1,122 54 85 80 247 1,588 Chemical-toxic pollution 29 8 37 Welding fumes 25 11 10 46 Dust 105 36 247 388 Other 185 24 400 609 Number of eligibility and follow-up exams 1,466 65 109 534 247 2,421 1 Germany, Norway and Qatar not included in the ﬁgures 60 Further education and training LA9 Average number of hours of education and training per year 1 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL Total Women 10.37 17.26 3.11 8.20 19.07 12.73 Men 11.76 16.41 4.27 5.63 10.80 11.84 Total 11.38 16.66 3.96 6.24 12.73 12.08 2016 Women 10.20 12.69 0.47 17.80 11.20 11.20 Men 11.71 14.14 1.46 15.60 18.50 12.90 Total 11.32 13.71 1.31 16.10 15.80 12.40 1 Data based on: porr_academy (only salaried employees), synchronisation of data collection system underway for Norway, Qatar and Romania. LA10 Partial retirement 1 2017 Austria Germany Total Total 108 9 117 of which women 45 1 46 Salaried employees 103 6 109 of which women 44 1 45 Waged workers 5 1 6 of which women 1 1 2016 Total 74 74 of which women 24 24 Salaried employees 69 69 of which women 23 23 Waged workers 5 5 of which women 1 1 1 Owing to different legislature, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Poland are not included in the ﬁgures. LA11 Performance evaluation of staff members by region (in %) 1 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL Total Women 89.0% 85.0% 93.3% 79.8% 81.6% 86.2% Men 82.7% 84.9% 97.3% 83.3% 77.5% 82.7% 2016 Women 85.7% 78.6% 80.0% 79.4% 34.0% 74.0% Men 80.3% 75.6% 80.8% 81.4% 27.0% 75.0% 1 Data only recorded for salaried employees on the home markets. Synchronisation of data collection system underway for Norway, Qatar and Romania. 61 Service section Key data/Appendix LA12 Composition of governance bodies 2017 AT DE CH CZ PL NO QA RO Total Executive Board 3 3 of which women 1 Supervisory Board 14 14 of which women 2 2 Management staff up to L4 not including Executive Board 2 425 171 6 13 29 1 11 7 663 of which women 21 7 9 1 2 40 up to 30 30 to 50 18 4 6 1 29 over 50 3 3 2 1 9 of which men 404 164 6 13 20 1 10 5 623 up to 30 1 1 30 to 50 209 88 5 7 11 1 6 3 330 over 50 195 75 1 6 9 4 2 292 2016 Executive Board 3 3 of which women Supervisory Board 1 15 15 of which women 2 2 Management staff up to L4 not including Executive Board 2 407 111 5 23 36 1 8 7 598 of which women 18 3 10 1 2 34 up to 30 1 1 30 to 50 13 1 17 7 1 1 40 over 50 4 2 6 3 1 16 of which men 389 108 5 23 26 1 7 5 564 up to 30 2 2 30 to 50 221 60 5 17 15 1 6 3 328 over 50 166 48 6 11 1 2 234 1 as of 31 December 2017 2 Level 1: Executive Board, Level 2: Managing Directors, Level 3: Departmental or Divisional Heads, Level 4: Group Leaders EC1 Contribution to the local economy Economic value generated (in € m) 2017 2016 Revenue 4,293 3,417 Earnings from companies accounted for under the equity method 59 46 Other operating income 171 106 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment -111 -87 Material expenditure -2,944 -2,251 Other costs for generating value -342 -256 Economic value generated 1,126 974 62 Distribution of economic value generated (in € m) 2017 in % 2016 in % Staff 1,036 92.0 874 89.7 Public sector 22 1.9 24 2.5 Shareholders (dividends) 42 3.8 38 3.9 External equity providers (net interest expense) 5 0.4 9 0.9 Company (retained proﬁts) 21 1.9 29 3.0 Value generated 1,126 100.0 974 100.0 Materials EN2 2017 Share of recycled materials (in t) 1 AT CZ PL QA Total Recycled building material from rubble 85,200 85,200 Recycled building material from broken concrete 353,400 31,800 17,500 402,700 Recycled building material from asphalt 271,400 18,200 41,200 330,800 Recycled building material from natural rock 201,300 201,300 Reuse of excavated material/soils 306,600 203,400 510,000 Total 1,217,900 253,400 41,200 17,500 1,530,000 1 Switzerland, Norway and Romania not included in the ﬁgures In production plants only recycled building material from asphalt by PBG itself is used exclusively: Austria: 41,500 tonnes (2017), Poland: 41,240 tonnes (2017) and Czech Republic: 18,200 tonnes (2017). Secondary raw material as share of total (in %) 2 AT CZ PL QA Total Recycled building material from asphalt 9% 11% 10% 10% 2 Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Romania not included in the ﬁgures 2016 Share of recycled materials (in t) 3 AT CZ PL QA Total Recycled building material from rubble 144,900 144,900 Recycled building material from broken concrete 324,700 6,800 331,500 Recycled building material from asphalt 222,600 17,200 12,000 251,800 Recycled building material from natural rock 138,700 138,700 Reuse of excavated material/soils 260,100 260,100 Total 1,091,000 17,200 12,000 6,800 1,127,000 3 Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Romania not included in the ﬁgures In production plants only recycled building material from asphalt by PBG itself is used exclusively: Austria: 42,000 tonnes (2016), Poland: 12,000 tonnes (2016) and Czech Republic: 17,200 tonnes (2016). Secondary raw material as share of total (in %) 4 AT CZ PL QA Total Recycled building material from asphalt 9% 10% 12% 9% 4 Germany, Switzerland, Norway and Romania not included in the ﬁgures Use of recycled material (in t) 5 2017 2016 Change Recycled building material from asphalt 430,000 397,577 8.0% 5 BU4 Environmental Engineering 63 Service section Key data/Appendix Energy EN3 Energy consumption 2017 Type of energy (annual consumption in MWh) AT DE CH CZ PL NO QA RO Total Electricity 23,657 12,226 1,985 1,685 9,870 1,314 2,897 53,633 Gas 87,825 1,802 22,139 6,919 118,685 Heating oil 5,781 13,171 336 2,249 21,537 District heating 4,063 781 556 5,399 Liquid gas 7,743 9,623 26 17,392 Diesel 163,262 54,705 2,572 12,294 18,525 2,212 24,559 10,479 288,608 Petrol 1,443 611 46 425 2,402 16 153 5,096 Pulverized lignite 35,325 35,325 Total 293,774 92,920 4,964 36,543 68,927 3,542 24,559 20,448 545,676 2016 Type of energy (annual consumption in MWh) AT DE CH CZ PL NO QA RO Total Electricity 27,820 12,563 1,958 1,530 6,956 18 1,446 52,291 Gas 107,197 2,485 22,178 724 218 132,802 Heating oil 5,981 6,692 194 481 13,348 District heating 3,220 874 1,377 5,472 Liquid gas 9,682 691 38 10,411 Diesel 152,868 38,614 2,438 10,973 11,874 74 8,768 10,479 236,088 Petrol 1,667 321 48 355 1,665 19 153 4,226 Pulverized lignite 9,803 9,803 Total 308,434 62,240 4,676 35,036 32,880 110 8,768 12,295 464,439 Energy consumption by energy source (in %) 6.5% 2.1% Pulverized lignite 9.8% Pulverized lignite 11.3% 0.9% 0.9% Electricity Electricity Petrol Petrol 21.8% Gas 2017 2016 28.6% 52.9% 3.9% 50.8% Gas Diesel Heating oil Diesel 2.9% 1.0% Heating oil District heating 3.2% 1.2% Liquid gas District heating 2.2% Liquid gas 64 EN5 Energy intensity 2017 2016 Change Total energy consumption (in MWh) 545,676 464,439 17.5% Production output (in EUR m) 1 4,677 3,870 20.9% Energy consumption/production output (kWh/EUR) 0.117 0.120 -2.8% 1 PORR achieved a Group-wide increase in production output. EN6 Change in energy consumption1 Type of energy (in MWh) 20172 2016 Change Electricity 53,633 52,291 2.6% Gas 118,685 132,802 -10.6% Heating oil 21,537 13,348 61.4% District heating 5,399 5,472 -1.3% Liquid gas 17,392 10,411 67.1% Diesel 288,608 236,088 22.2% Petrol 5,096 4,226 20.6% Pulverized lignite 35,325 9,803 260.4% Total 545,676 464,439 17.5% 1 Figures include the PORR home markets as well as Romania, Norway and Qatar. 2 including Franki Grundbau, BBGS, Hejiman Oevermann and Hinteregger EN7 Reduction of energy consumption for products and services 1 (in MWh) 20172 2016 Change Electricity 53,633 52,291 2.6% Gas 118,685 132,802 -10.6% Liquid gas 17,392 10,411 67.1% Total 189,710 195,504 -3.0% 1 Figures include the PORR home markets as well as Romania, Norway and Qatar. 2 including Franki Grundbau, BBGS, Hejiman Oevermann and Hinteregger Energy consumption by type of energy (annual consumption in MWh) 1 2017 2016 Change Electricity 53,633.33 52,290.87 2.6% Gas 118,684.80 132,801.75 -10.6% Heating oil 21,537.46 13,347.73 61.4% District heating 5,399.35 5,471.51 -1.3% Liquid gas 17,392.32 10,411.28 67.1% Diesel 288,607.80 236,087.80 22.2% Petrol 5,095.50 4,225.61 20.6% Pulverized lignite 35,325.10 9,802.70 260.4% Total 545,675.67 464,439.25 17.5% Production output in EUR m 4,677 3,870 20.9% Energy consumption/ production output in kWh/EUR 0.117 0.120 -2.8% 1 Figures include the PORR home markets as well as Romania, Norway and Qatar. 65 Service section Key data/Appendix Emissions EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 2017 Type of energy (in t) AT DE CH CZ PL RO NO QA Total Electricity Gas 17,565 360 4,428 1,384 23,737 Heating oil 1,561 3,556 91 607 5,815 District heating Liquid gas 1,781 2,213 6 4,000 Diesel 40,815 13,676 643 3,073 4,631 2,620 553 6,140 72,152 Petrol 361 153 11 106 601 38 4 1,274 Pulverized lignite 9,891 9,891 Total 62,083 19,959 751 7,607 15,730 4,042 557 6,140 116,869 2016 Type of energy (in t) Electricity Gas 21,439 497 4,436 145 44 26,560 Heating oil 1,615 1,807 52 130 3,604 District heating Liquid gas 2,227 159 9 2,395 Diesel 38,217 9,654 609 2,743 2,969 2,620 18 2,192 59,022 Petrol 417 80 12 89 416 38 5 1,056 Pulverized lignite 2,745 2,745 Total 63,915 12,197 683 7,268 6,404 2,701 23 2,192 95,382 CO2 emissions by energy source (in %) 7.6% 2.5% Pulverized lignite Pulverized lignite 9.2% 10.8% 1.0% 1.0% Electricity Electricity Petrol Petrol 17.4% Gas 23.5% 4.5% Gas 56.4% 2017 Heating oil 55.7% 2016 Diesel Diesel 3.3% 0.6% Heating oil District heating 3.3% 0.8% Liquid gas District heating 2.4% Liquid gas 66 EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 2017 Type of energy (in t) AT DE CH CZ PL RO NO QA Change Electricity 6,624 3,423 556 472 2,763 811 368 15,017 Gas 3,513 72 886 277 4,747 Heating oil 405 922 23 157 1,508 District heating 772 148 106 1,026 Liquid gas 619 770 2 1,391 Diesel 11,428 3,829 180 861 1,297 734 155 1,719 20,203 Petrol 101 43 3 30 168 11 1 357 Pulverized lignite 2,473 2,473 Total 23,462 9,208 764 2,248 6,965 1,832 524 46,722 2016 Type of energy (in t) Electricity 8,346 3,769 587 459 2,087 434 5 15,687 Gas 4,288 99 887 29 9 5,312 Heating oil 419 468 14 34 934 District heating 612 166 262 1,040 Liquid gas 775 55 3 833 Diesel 10,701 2,703 171 768 831 734 5 614 16,526 Petrol 117 22 3 25 117 11 1 295 Pulverized lignite 686 686 Total 25,256 7,284 778 2,139 4,045 1,187 11 614 41,313 EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 2017 1 AT DE CH PL NO QA Total Air travel 1,100 455 24 14 72 242 1,906 Rail 5 2 7 Car rentals 34 105 2 141 Staff trips2 612 612 Total 1,751 562 24 14 74 242 2,666 2016 3 Air travel 1,125 462 25 1,612 Rail 3 1 4 Car rentals 39 141 1 181 Staff trips2 614 614 Total 1,782 604 25 2,412 1 Czech Republic and Romania not included in the ﬁgures 2 Staff with a parking space in the headquarters not included in Scope 1 3 Czech Republic, Romania, Poland, Norway and Qatar not included in the ﬁgures 67 Service section Key data/Appendix EN19 Change in GHG emissions1 Type of energy (in t) 20172 2016 Change Electricity 16,090 15,687 2.6% Gas 28,556 31,872 -10.6% Heating oil 7,323 4,538 61.4% District heating 1,026 1,040 -1.3% Liquid gas 5,392 3,228 67.1% Diesel 92,355 75,548 22.2% Petrol 1,682 1,394 20.6% Pulverized lignite 12,364 3,431 260.4% Total 164,786 136,739 20.5% 1 Figures include the PORR home markets as well as Romania, Norway and Qatar. 2 including Franki Grundbau, BBGS, Hejiman Oevermann and Hinteregger EN19 Reduction of C02 emissions for passenger cars, pick-ups, light commercial vehicles (LCVs) 2017 CO2 OLD CO2 NEW CO2 reduction Decomissioning km CO2 savings g/km/vehicle g/km/vehicle g/km/vehicle Number Annual output t/CO2/year Austria Cars 125 116 9 405 30,000 106.1 Pickup 210 183 27 8 30,000 6.6 LCVs 212 185 27 264 30,000 214.2 Germany Cars 125 114 11 98 30,000 32.3 Pickup 199 199 LCVs 221 181 40 11 30,000 13.0 Switzerland Cars Pickup LCVs Czech Republic Cars 140 117 23 43 26,000 26.0 Pickup LCVs 232 196 36 11 26,000 10.2 Poland Cars 108 106 2 13 30,000 0.8 Pickup 197 196 1 1 30,000 LCVs 193 193 30,000 Total 409.2 68 2016 CO2 OLD CO2 NEW CO2 reduction Decomissioning km CO2 savings g/km/vehicle g/km/vehicle g/km/vehicle Number Annual output t/CO2/year Austria Cars 133 113 20 484 30,000 290.4 Pickup 237 193 44 6 30,000 7.9 LCVs 215 181 34 230 30,000 234.6 Germany Cars 131 110 21 74 30,000 46.6 Pickup LCVs 227 176 51 20 30,000 30.6 Switzerland Cars Pickup LCVs Czech Republic Cars 138 113 25 75 26,000 48.8 Pickup LCVs 232 195 37 5 26,000 4.8 Poland Cars 109 108 1 18 30,000 0.5 Pickup 197 197 3 30,000 LCVs 193 193 2 30,000 Total 664.2 EN21 Emission performance pollutants (in kg/kW) 2017 AT DE CZ Total/weighted Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.51 3.15 2.07 2.53 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.16 0.16 0.08 0.16 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 2.43 2.15 1.64 2.38 Particulate matter (PM) 0.14 0.1 0.06 0.13 2016 Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.54 3.33 2.07 2.57 Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.20 0.25 0.08 0.20 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 2.71 3.14 1.64 2.70 Particulate matter (PM) 0.16 0.17 0.06 0.16 Emission performance pollutants (in kg/kW) 2017 2016 Change Carbon monoxide (CO) 2.53 2.57 -1.5% Hydrocarbons (HC) 0.16 0.20 -20.2% Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 2.38 2.70 -11.9% Particulate matter (PM) 0.13 0.16 -15.0% EN25 Transported, imported, exported and treated hazardous waste (in t) 2017 2016 Change Total hazardous waste transported 3,071 7,295 -58% Total hazardous waste imported Total hazardous waste exported 50 Total hazardous waste treated 49,7051 26,941 84% 1 includes “new” subsidiaries ABW, LF, Koller, PKM-M3 69 Service section Key data/Appendix EN23 Total weight of waste (in t) 1 2017 AT DE CZ PL NO QA Total Municipal waste 986.25 265.27 182.28 640.64 21.98 403.93 2,500.35 Paper 201.97 298.36 0.81 31.72 112.76 645.62 Paper packaging 235.84 36.57 6.78 84.77 0.01 363.97 Plastic packaging 29.35 18.55 3.03 97.47 0.02 69.00 217.42 Glass 18.52 2.00 0.01 20.53 Metal 686.12 100.39 17.39 68.71 51.41 47.04 971.06 Wood 332.18 73.67 167.39 158.50 1,354.04 2,085.78 Bulky waste 62.07 11.75 66.06 2.08 141.96 Other non-hazardous waste 845.61 171.37 3.35 3.60 97.10 1.121.03 Non-hazardous waste 3,397.91 975.92 445.74 897.02 267.25 2,083.87 8,067.71 Mineral oil 188.79 22.43 5.63 2.30 219.15 Workshop waste 28.77 23.54 0.21 0.71 8.23 61.46 Other hazardous waste 90.25 12.31 0.78 0.50 160.75 264.59 Hazardous waste 307.81 58.28 1.00 6.84 8.23 163.05 545.21 Total 3,705.72 1,034.20 446.74 903.85 275.00 2,246.92 8,612.43 2016 Municipal waste 772.67 216.76 154.85 141.17 8.27 135.20 1,428.92 Paper 106.48 137.46 6.39 0.02 2.18 92.00 344.53 Paper packaging 108.30 6.78 9.76 22.78 147.62 Plastic packaging 28.66 19.88 2.93 26.08 69.00 146.55 Glass 17.10 0.50 2.00 0.02 19.62 Metal 573.38 243.91 21.12 2.73 21.56 170.00 1,032.70 Wood 412.19 13.63 59.88 44.09 23.28 360.00 913.07 Bulky waste 129.20 1.08 53.76 166.55 350.59 Other non-hazardous waste 976.73 19.03 85.00 1,080.76 Non-hazardous waste 3,124.70 659.03 310.68 403.46 55.29 911.20 5,464.36 Mineral oil 188.99 10.96 1.04 200.99 Workshop waste 36.98 5.50 42.48 Other hazardous waste 110.43 3.03 3.50 0.57 9.00 126.53 Hazardous waste 336.40 19.49 4.53 0.57 9.00 369.99 Total 3,461.10 678.52 315.21 404.03 55.29 920.20 5,834.35 1 Switzerland and Romania not included in the ﬁgures 70 Risk and impact analysis Aspect Risk Impact Occupational health Impact on physical/ ķ Increased number of accidents at work and safety mental health ķ Possible criminal proceedings ķ Increased costs to the national economy ķ Loss of social status Sustainability in Inadequacies on the part of ķ Violation of human rights and employee matters the supply chain suppliers and subcontracķ Lack of quality in execution and processing by subcontractors tors regarding human rights, ķ Loss of orders through incorrect selection of subcontractors environmental issues and ķ Wage and social dumping employee matters ķ Damage to image Environment and Incomplete coverage of ķ Increased impact on the environment can to lead to rises in costs climate environmental standards for fuel and energy throughout the entire value ķ Higher consumption of resources chain ķ Loss of orders ķ Possible criminal proceedings ķ Laborious permit procedures for projects through overregulation Ethics and compliance Unfair competition ķ Distortion effect and exclusion from award procedures ķ Legal consequences ķ Damage to image Lack of skilled labour Lack of hiring and retaining ķ Problems in executing tenders and the quality of work rendered qualiﬁed skilled labour ķ Excessive pressure at work due to workers being spread too thinly increases error rate ķ Delays in construction execution ķ Unemployment of (domestic) unqualiﬁed workers Intercultural Intercultural problems ķ Conﬂicts and social tension through contrasting competencies values and cultural backgrounds ķ Communication problems ķ Delays in project realisation through a lack of teamwork 71 Service section Key data/Appendix Measures ķ Creating a secure work environment through controls ķ Conducting occupational health and safety training ķ Reporting system for near-misses and hazardous situations ķ Raising awareness through communication with staff, intranet etc. ķ Increasing the resources of vocational health practitioners and health and safety ofﬁcers ķ Providing high-quality safety gear, clothing and equipment ķ Introducing workplace health promotion ķ Installing points for mental health and conﬂict resolution ķ Catalogue of criteria for high environmental and social standards in the supply chain ķ Securing qualiﬁed staff for the company ķ Intensifying the company’s own value chain, i.e. offering and delivering as many construction services as possible itself ķ Long-term commitment of subcontractors to PORR as a partner ķ Introducing ISHAP to improve the checks and documentation of outside personnel at construction sites with regard to social security and regulations on foreign labour ķ Incorporating sustainability in the design and execution of buildings, focus on Green and Blue Building ķ Environmental and quality-oriented project realisation with the aid of management systems ķ Increased development and realisation of protective structures (e.g. against avalanches and ﬂoods) ķ Measures to reduce emissions through efﬁcient energy management, e.g. ﬂeet management ķ Optimising energy credentials during building upgrades and refurbishments ķ Renaturation ķ Enhancing credibility through approval by independent experts e.g. ISO certiﬁcation and ECO norms ķ Knowledge transfer by participating in cross-company initiatives ķ Establishing an internal environmental and waste network in order to mitigate risks ķ Participating in prequaliﬁcation processes through increased CSR standards ķ Enhancing credibility through approval by independent experts e.g. ISO certiﬁcation and ECO norms ķ Introducing compliance management systems and guidelines ķ Obligatory Code of Ethics ķ Anti-bribery and compliance training ķ Introduction of a whistleblower system ķ Increased checks and balances through internal audit department ķ Intensive system for further education and training ķ Targeted recruitment and HR measures ķ Cooperation with schools ķ Expanding the target group circle e.g. women, older jobseekers, qualiﬁed skilled workers with immigrant backgrounds ķ Binding knowledge carriers to the company ķ Focus on knowledge transfer through mixed teams ķ Staff beneﬁts and incentive system ķ Workplace health promotion ķ Diversity management ķ Increased promotion of women in the operating business through training ķ Mentoring programmes ķ Internal measures for further development and training ķ Increased use of buddies ķ Diversity-speciﬁc company networks to strengthen team cohesion ķ Forming mixed project teams ķ Diversity training and intercultural competency training ķ Campaigns to raise awareness ķ Diversity management 72 Acknowledgements Media proprietor PORR AG Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna T +43 50 626-0 ofﬁce@porr-group.com porr-group.com Concept, realisation and editing PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility be.public Corporate & Financial Communications GmbH, Vienna Layout FOON Design & Strategie, Graz Photos PORR, APA-Fotoservice/Hetﬂeisch, APA-Fotoservice/Tesarek, Astrid Knie, Klaus Ranger, Franz Michael Moser, Linus Lintner, Vaclav Jedlicka, Glam Photo+Design, Shutterstock.com Printing Ueberreuter Print & Packaging GmbH, Korneuburg Further information PORR AG . Corporate Social Responsibility Absberggasse 47, 1100 Vienna csr@porr-group.com Disclaimer Every care has been taken to ensure that all information contained in every part of this Sustainable Value Report is accurate and complete. The ﬁgures have been rounded off using the compensated summation method. We regret that we cannot rule out possible round-off, typesetting and printing errors. This report is a translation into English of the report issued in the German language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. In the event of a discrepancy or translation error, the German-language version prevails. 1
