UNGC 2018 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact January 2018 Changing the perspective on risk www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Contents Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following United through the implementation of the four pillars of our 4 6 8 Community Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect 8 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Environment Principle 7: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 8 approach to environmental challenges Statement of Support Our approach to UNGC Principles & Verisk sustainability Maplecroft People 9 10 14 Principle 1: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 3: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: 5 The effective abolition of child labour 6 Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Sustainable Development Goals & Verisk Maplecroft Community Products Environment Principle 1: 1 2 20 27 34 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 4: 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 5 compulsory labour Principle 6: 6 The elimination of discrimination in 7 respect of employment and occupation Principle 9: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 10 environmentally friendly technologies VM Support for Women’s People Products Empowerment Principle 2 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress About Verisk Maplecroft “ Verisk Maplecroft helps global organisations make sense of the complex world they work in by giving them the critical insight they need to understand the key issues impacting organisational resilience, sustainable sourcing and investment decisions. For over 10 years, we’ve worked hand-in-hand with the world’s most sophisticated brands to develop a unique portfolio of global risk analytics, expert insight and user-centric platforms. These resources enable us to deliver a holistic evaluation of the key strategic, operational and reputational risks facing multinational organisations, their suppliers and the raw materials they source for any location worldwide. Our data-driven solutions offer global scope, granular detail and singular insight into the primary political risk, human rights, economic and environmental issues impacting organisational resilience, sustainable sourcing and the investment landscape. By using our data and analysis companies gain a competitive edge in their decision making across critical functions of their business, including: business resilience, responsible procurement, compliance, market entry, security, sustainability, human rights due diligence and ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) investment. Company name Email Number of employees Verisk Maplecroft info@maplecroft.com 99 employees Address Web address Sector 1 Henry Street www.maplecroft.com Professional, scientific and Bath technical services BA1 1JS UK Submission date Contact name 27 January 2018 Gus MacFarlane Telephone Membership date Contact position +44 (0) 1225 420 000 11 February 2005 Director © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Statement of Support “ This report summarises the continued investment and commitment that Verisk Maplecroft has to sustainability and corporate citizenship. As in previous years, we have developed and implemented a comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plan with leadership from our global CSR team. The plan was based on four key pillars: Community, Environment, People and Products. This is our third year of using this structure and this approach has guided and empowered the teams to continuously Sondra Scott, improve in our commitment area, building on the work of previous years. President, We are fortunate to enjoy the support of our parent company Verisk Verisk Maplecroft Analytics which brings to us investment, scale and innovation as we We are pleased to submit this leverage off their initiatives and those of our sister companies. report which details our 2017 We are proud of our achievements and advancements in 2017 and are activities in support of the aims and interests of the United confident that our efforts are in alignment with the goals and principles Nations Global Compact. Our of the UN Global Compact. mission is to not only actively adhere to the principles but to In addition to building on our existing programs, in 2017 we launched innovate so that our employees, several new initiatives which warrant mention. clients and communities can benefit from our expertise and New Career Development Framework: In response to concerns raised efforts. We are privileged to in our employee engagement survey, a team of analysts worked closely have the backing of our parent with our Human Resource team to develop a comprehensive career company Verisk Analytics which development framework which gives analysts and consultants insight to supports us in this effort. their career pathways and skills required to advance their development and the tools to be their own Talent Strategists. New Promotion Policy: In 2017, we finalised our Promotion Policy & Procedure guidance in response to feedback from employees. This policy brings transparency to our merit based policy. New Analyst Forum: In early 2017 we created an Analyst Forum. The Forum is run by employee representatives and acts as a platform for employees to discuss any work-related issues or grievances. The forum meets on a quarterly basis as part of an ongoing cycle to monitor and ensure all employees have the ability to voice issues or work place suggestions throughout the year. In addition to these initiatives which underscore our commitment to the principles around our people, we launched new products which help our clients advance their own commitments to the UN guiding principles. We are committed to develop and deliver products and services that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. 4 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress In addition to record breaking investment in the This year Verisk Maplecroft joined global expansion and improvement of our existing products, NGOs and businesses by submitting our expert we launched several new products in 2017 some recommendations to the Australian parliamentary highlights include: inquiry, which was seeking submissions on the content of a potential Australia Modern Slavery Act. Environmental Social and Governance Corporate Exposure Tool: Our new tool combines our global Importantly, at our core we support the principles data sets with asset level data from our sister through our own corporate values which reflect company Wood Mackenzie to give our oil and gas Verisk Analytics’ comprehensive nine-point value clients and their investors a weighted average score framework. The first two values are Respect for the of their risk exposure. This gives them insight into Individual and Integrity; both speak directly to the how to focus and target their efforts to improve their compact principles. environmental, social and governance activities. We are pleased to submit this report which details our Sector Adjusted Risk Scores: Our new Industry 2017 activities in support of the aims and interests Scores evaluate 79 industries for their relative of the United Nations Global Compact. Our mission performance across a range of key sustainability is to not only actively adhere to the principles but issues. They have been designed to be applied to our to innovate so that our employees, clients and risk indices to help clients develop more targeted risk communities can benefit from our expertise and assessment frameworks that take account of both the efforts. We are privileged to have the backing of our location and the nature of the activity undertaken. parent company Verisk Analytics which supports us in this effort. In 2017, we continued with our policy of providing a broad range of stakeholders our insights through the public domain in order to raise awareness of the key social, environmental and governance risks found across the world. We do this via our significant and growing presence in international media, through free thought leadership pieces on our public website and the attendance of conferences and public speaking engagements. There are a variety of other ways in which we support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including our collaboration with UNICEF on the development of the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas, the updating and expansion of the publicly available Girl Stats platform, with generous funding from our parent organisation Verisk Analytics. The hosting and updating of the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum (HRBDF) in partnership with the UN Global Compact. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 5 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Our Approach to Sustainability “ In 2017, we continued to develop and strengthen our policies, commitments and actions to ensure we live up to not only our own values, but those of the United Nations Global Compact. We adopt Verisk’s corporate values. These values, outlined below, Hannah Broscombe, represent the standard to which we hold ourselves both in our dealings Supply Chain Analyst internally, and when working externally with clients and in our local Human Rights/CSR Coorrdinator communities. Sustainability and corporate social responsibility is a core Our policies and processes are aligned with Verisk Analytics and our part of our business. We work sister company, Wood Mackenzie. This represents an adoption of more closely with our parent and sister companies to ensure robust and mature human resources policies and management systems, that our sustainable business as well as new corporate social responsibility commitments. strategy benefits our team and has minimal negative impacts Our employee handbook defines our commitments and expectations in on the environment and local relation to sustainability and corporate citizenship. This handbook was communities. revised in 2017 to include more robust and comprehensive policies for staff. These commitments and expectations are organised around four pillars: Corporate Values ■■ Human rights ■■ Environment Respect for the Individual ■■ Labour standards ■■ Transparency and disclosure Integrity Each of these pillars explicitly references how we strive to support the Passion ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. While corporate citizenship is embedded across our organisation, it is ultimately the Persistence responsibility of both our Human Resources and Operational Leadership Confidence / Humility teams to implement and enforce the policies outlined in our employee handbook. Excellence Teamwork Source: Verisk Analytics 6 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Figure 1: Summary of framework Wellness Community Engagement Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Community Ethnicity Gender Working Engagement Working Working Group Steering Committee Group Group Verisk Maplecroft CSR Working Group Source: Verisk Maplecroft Our commitment to CSR Our CSR strategy incorporates four key pillars: Community, Environment, People and Products. Within each of these four pillars in the strategy document, we outline the actions we take to support local community initiatives, reduce our impact on the environment, support the development and wellbeing of our staff and deliver products that support responsible business practices. Much of this is done through close engagement with the various working groups and steering committees across the Verisk family. This Communications on Progress report will further demonstrate our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact through each of our four CSR pillars. The 4 pillars of Maplecroft CSR Community Environment People Products © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 7 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability UNGC Principles & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following United Nations Global Compact Principles through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Principle 1: Principle 8: 1 Businesses should support and respect 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater the protection of internationally proclaimed environmental responsibility human rights Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility People Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights Principle 3: Principle 4: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and association and the effective recognition of compulsory labour the right to collective bargaining Principle 5: Principle 6: 5 The effective abolition of child labour 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 10: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Products Principle 1: Principle 2: 1 Businesses should support and respect 2 Make sure that they are not the protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses human rights Principle 4: Principle 5: 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 5 The effective abolition of child labour compulsory labour Principle 6: Principle 7: 6 The elimination of discrimination in 7 Businesses should support a precautionary respect of employment and occupation approach to environmental challenges Principle 9: Principle 10: 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 10 Businesses should work against corruption in environmentally friendly technologies all its forms, including extortion and bribery 8 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Our approach to sustainability Sustainable Development Goals & Verisk Maplecroft Verisk Maplecroft contributes to the following Sustainable Development Goals through the implementation of the four pillars of our CSR strategy. Community Environment People Products © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 9 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress 1 Community Photo: conservation work at the National Trust’s Crook Peak Site in the Mendip Hills “ Our commitment to the community: supports the following UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 8 Lyn Prentice supports the following SDGs Office Manager Goal 2 Goal 5 and Wellness Champion Goal 10 Goal 15 Community engagement is at the heart of our CSR strategy. Our commitment Every year, we organise a variety of events and initiatives We are committed to being a community-friendly business, playing that enable colleagues to an active and supportive role in the areas in which we operate. We support the organisations that encourage our staff members to engage with local organisations and make a real difference in our local communities. institutions, through volunteer work, fundraising and knowledge sharing. This commitment is embedded in our CSR strategy which is made up of four pillars, including Community, Environment, People and Products. Community engagement is also embedded in our corporate culture through our parent company, Verisk Analytics, which strongly encourages all business units to take an active role in local communities. Verisk Analytics runs an annual Community Engagement Week; a week-long event promoting local volunteer opportunities for all employees. During Community Engagement Week, each member of staff is entitled to a paid day off to donate their time to a local cause. In 2017, the participation of 19 staff members in this process equated to an equivalent value contribution by Verisk Maplecroft of approximately GBP24,325. We also provide an additional stipend that staff can use to cover the cost of any necessary supplies, travel and lunch. 10 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Community 1 The Verisk Maplecroft / Wood Mackenzie Community Engagement Steering Committee continued to oversee the coordination and promotion of community engagement activities across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie. The group is led by Stephen Halliday, Chairman of Natural Resources at Verisk Analytics, and is comprised of representatives from across Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie in Europe, the Americas, and Asia. As part of an overarching commitment to supporting local communities, our parent company Verisk Analytics continues to support thousands of causes through its Matching Gifts Programme. By matching the donations made by both active and retired employees and directors, as well as their spouses, Verisk enables staff to double their contributions to Photo: gardening at Julian House, a women and children’s refuge in Bath charitable organisations. This is subject to a limit of £3,500 per employee and spouse, and £1,750 per Our actions in 2017 retired employee and spouse. Volunteering in the local community Our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, also demonstrates its commitment to communities In 2017, 38 Verisk Maplecroft staff took part in through its donation ‘top ups’ programme, which a Community Engagement Week across three Verisk Maplecroft employees can take part in. Top locations: Bath, Calgary and New York. ups differ from Verisk Gift Matching in that they can Bath (United Kingdom): 14 members of staff be applied to all donations or funds raised, not those participated in a number of events including just directly contributed by staff or their spouse. conservation work at the National Trust’s Crook They can also be used to contribute towards the Peak Site in the Mendip Hills and gardening work costs associated with volunteer activities. All top ups for Julian House a local shelter for women and are subject to approval by the Verisk Maplecroft / children. These projects were selected for a number Wood Mackenzie Community Engagement Steering of reasons: Committee. ■■ Crook Peak, Mendip Hills: To fulfil our commitment to the principle of environmental protection. This initiative also enabled staff with an interest in environmental issues to take part in a project that was conservation-focused. Staff helped to clear shrubs and restore calcareous grassland habitat to maintain a variety of rare plant species. ■■ Julian House: To engage with and learn more about the local organisations operating in the Bath area and to make a meaningful contribution to the local community. As part of this, the team cleared out a fallen tree and garden waste, replanted the flower beds with a range of herbs and flowers, and provided a sandpit and toys for the children to play with. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 11 1 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Community “ Calgary (Canada): In October, a member of Maplecroft staff, along with colleagues from Wood Mackenzie, took part in a volunteer initiative at Ronald McDonald House. The organisation provides a home away from home for families that must travel to a different city to receive medical Dominic Simonis-Law care for an ill child. Our team cooked brunch at one of the sites, providing Global Content Lead families with a meal ahead of a busy day at hospitals and clinics. Disruption and Security New York (United States): Four members of staff from our New York While we have more to do in office worked with Grand Central Neighbourhood Social Services to developing our community deliver meal services to the homeless. engagement initiatives, we believe we have laid the In addition, staff across our entire network of offices, including London foundations for a sustainable and Singapore, took part a number of fundraising activities. For and successful strategy. As example, bake sales were held and other fundraising initiatives in we continue to grow, we aim to increase our engagement support of disaster relief and children’s charities throughout the year. with our local communities by providing more volunteer Donating to worthy causes opportunities for staff, and In 2017, Verisk Analytics provided the International Rescue Committee diversifying the number of charities that we fundraise for. (IRC) with complimentary access to Verisk Maplecroft’s Global Risk Analytics and Country Risk Monitoring Service. The donation includes a licencing agreement that allow IRC staff to access Verisk Maplecroft data and written analysis, as well as dialogue with analysts when required. Access, which is worth approximately USD75,000, will support the organisation’s strategic planning and the deployment of resources in anticipation of humanitarian crises. Similarly, in 2017, Wood Mackenzie held a charity draw, allowing staff from Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie to nominate a charity of their choice to receive a donation of USD1,500. Staff from Verisk Maplecroft put a number of charities forward, including the Humanitarian Organization for Migration Economics (HOME), which was selected as a winner. HOME is a Singapore-based charity that supports abused and exploited migrant workers. A member of our team in Singapore volunteers with HOME on an ongoing basis. Over the course of the year, Verisk Maplecroft staff raised approximately £800 for causes including: ■■ Hurricane disaster relief. These funds were then matched by Wood Mackenzie who led efforts to help colleagues in Houston, Texas affected by Hurricane Harvey. ■■ Save the Children ■■ Cancer Research UK ■■ The National Trust ■■ Julian House The money was raised through a variety of initiatives such as bake sales and calls for donations. 12 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Community 1 Measurement of outcomes In our 2017 Communication on Progress report, we stated that our aim was to increase staff volunteering during Community Engagement Week from 38% to 50% or above. Unfortunately, we were unable to reach this target due to a variety of factors including conflicting schedules and travel. In 2018, we plan to make renewed efforts to reach this target of 50% participation. The CSR team will work closely with line managers to ensure that community volunteering is considered when projects are being scheduled. We also aimed to improve our data collection for better measurement of outcomes and impacts. We have begun this process by reaching out to all the charities and organisations we supported and seeking feedback on the work we did. We will continue to seek feedback from all our charity partners in future to support continuous improvement. Photo: volunteering at Ronald McDonald House Future goals ■■ Increased staff volunteering during Community Engagement week, particularly by encouraging staff in our global offices outside Bath and London to get involved ■■ Continued support for Julian House in Bath in 2018, voluntary work at Bath Cats and Dogs Home and any other organisations that are nominated by staff throughout 2018. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 13 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress 2 Environment Photo: National Trust Area Ranger Rebekah West leading our volunteering group during Verisk Community Service Week. The group carried out scrub clearance to encourage native wildflower species at the Trust’s Crook Peak site, Somerset. “ Our commitment to the community contributes to the following: UNGC Principles Principle 7 Principle 8 Rory Clisby Sustainable Development Goals Research Analyst Environment and Climate Change Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 We work with clients to help them improve their Our commitment environmental stewardship. We also seek to apply the same We are committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to sustainability principles to our environmental challenges and to undertaking environmental initiatives own operations. that promote environmental responsibility. Our commitment to the environment is detailed in both our employee handbook and CSR strategy and requires us to work towards improving our environmental performance, preventing pollution wherever possible and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. In this context, we aim to: ■■ Manage our processes to avoid or reduce waste ■■ Work to lower our use of energy ■■ Minimise unnecessary travelling to reduce the impact of aircraft and road vehicle emissions ■■ Include environmental considerations in investment decisions ■■ Ensure all employees have an awareness of our environmental policy so that it is implemented effectively 14 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Our commitment applies to our own operations, We continued to implement a sustainable our field of influence and our work with our clients. procurement policy for food, catering and cleaning Ongoing implementation of which is part of our products used in our Bath office. We purchase overarching commitment to corporate citizenship, products with the highest ethical and environment which is reflective of the Verisk corporate values. standards possible, such as those of organic origin (as defined under UK and EU law). Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, has committed to reducing energy and resource consumption in its Food and drink items purchased for staff carry at products and operations, optimising its environmental least one of the following certifications: footprint and improving waste management and ■■ Organic; certified by the Soil Association, EcoCert energy efficiency in business operations. As a part of or the Organic Food Federation the wider Verisk family, Verisk Maplecroft also commit ■■ Fairtrade Foundation; compliant with fair trade to this. standards relating to supply-chain transparency In addition, in the environmental pillar of Verisk and equitable pricing for producers Maplecroft’s 2017 CSR Strategy we committed to the ■■ Rainforest Alliance; compliant with Sustainable following goals: Agriculture Network standards for conservation, ■■ Continue to measure greenhouse emissions and social wellbeing and sustainable farm management investigate off-setting emissions for all Verisk Maplecroft activities As a part of our precautionary approach, we ensure that the everyday products we source do not contain ■■ Review IT, heating and lighting equipment for palm oil due to the high risks of environmental energy efficiency degradation and human rights violations associated ■■ Investigate the potential for 100% renewable with the commodity. We also source cleaning electricity supply for our Bath office products which have a lower environmental impact, as well as recycled paper cleaning products. ■■ Reduce staff air travel where possible In 2017, we investigated the possibility of obtaining ■■ Continue to reduce paper and electricity 100% renewable energy at our Bath office. We are consumption currently contracted to our current supplier until June ■■ Roll out our environmental commitments to staff 2018. We will re-visit potential suppliers when the based in other locations time arises. Our actions in 2017 As a part of our 2017 goal to roll out sustainable initiatives to our satellite offices, the following were Maintaining a sustainable procurement policy introduced in our London office: Throughout 2017, we continued to source sustainable ■■ Reusable cups stationery. All our purchased paper products are recycled and our printing paper carries the following ■■ Ethical procurement policy for catering products certifications: ■■ Expansion of recycling provision ■■ Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) mix of recycled ■■ Carbon neutral procurement policy for office wood, wood harvested from sustainable sources furniture and wood harvested from controlled sources ■■ EU Ecolabel for reduced life-cycle impact ■■ Woodland Carbon; a greenhouse gas (GHG) offsetting initiative operated by the Woodland Trust © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 15 2 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Environment Furthering our efforts to recycle waste Throughout 2017, we continued to provide recycling facilities for domestic plastic, cardboard and metal packaging. This is collected on a weekly basis. We also initiated a drive amongst staff to increase our recycling rates. All waste office paper is collected by a commercial confidential waste paper disposal company and is recycled. In 2017, the Bath office recycled 0.9 tonnes of paper. Improving our energy and resource efficiency Staff numbers at our Bath office are now stable at around 40 people and we have halved our office floor space after successfully sub-letting spare capacity to another company. A move towards greater flexibility has also seen a rise in homeworking and remote working. Given this situation, we continued to see falls in energy and resource consumption at our Bath office in the past 12 months. The Verisk Maplecroft Cambridge House office in Bath has a Category D Energy Performance Asset Rating; with a score of 97/150 (lower scores indicate better energy efficiency). While the score is above what would be expected if the building was new, the score is below the benchmark for existing building stock of this type (109). The annual building emission rate is 99.02kg of CO2 per square metre. In September 2017, we replaced all fluorescent tube lighting at our Bath office with 40-watt LED panels. The replacement panels are around 50% more energy efficient than the previous light fittings and are more durable, typically having a life span of 50,000 hours. In 2017, the Verisk Maplecroft Bath office used 85,866 kilowatt hours of electricity. Based on the UK energy generation mix, this is estimated to represent 30.2 tonnes CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) of greenhouse gas emissions. This represents a 33.1% reduction in electricity usage compared to the same period in 2016 and a 40.1% reduction compared to the same period in 2015 (see Figure 4: Annual electricity consumption). Discounting seasonal fluctuations in energy demand, the long-term trend for reducing energy consumption indicates a consistent quarteron-quarter fall in energy consumption per month between January 2015 to December 2017 (see Figure 2: Quarterly electricity consumption). Initiatives that enabled us to reduce our energy use include: ■■ Successfully sub-letting one of our floors out at our Bath office and consolidating all staff and meeting rooms onto a single floor ■■ Replacing fluorescent lighting with energy-efficient LED lighting ■■ Efficient use of air conditioning and heating ■■ Drive to switch off lighting and heating in unoccupied rooms 16 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Figure 2: Quarterly electricity consumption 45000 40000 35000 Kilowatt Hours (kWh) 30000 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 Figure 3: Annual paper usage in Bath office Figure 4: Annual electricity consumption (kWh) 70000 60000 50000 A4 Sheets 40000 2017 2016 85,866 30000 128,368 20000 10000 0 2015 2015 2016 2017 143,545 Paper consumption in Bath has also fallen in the past 12 months, partially due to a smaller workforce. In 2017, staff at Cambridge House used 15,000 A4 sheets of paper. This is a 60% reduction in paper use from 2016 and an 80% reduction from 2015 (See figure 3: Annual paper usage in Bath office). Initiatives that allowed us to reduce our paper usage include: ■■ Exclusively delivering products to clients electronically ■■ Continued company policy of reducing paper-use, including default double-sided printing © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 17 2 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Environment Verisk Analytics: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory and Environmental Commitment During 2017, Verisk Analytics completed an inventory of its 2016 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, encompassing all Verisk business units worldwide, including Verisk Maplecroft. As part of this process, Verisk Maplecroft reported emissions associated with energy consumed by our Bath office and emissions from air travel. Our other offices were accounted for by the Verisk business units that accommodate them. The inventory was conducted in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a globally recognized standard developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent accounting firm, provided external assurance of the results, such review being performed in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Carbon and carbon-equivalent emissions from the Verisk family of companies totalled 23,652 tonnes in 2016. The figure represents a decrease in emissions from the prior year (24,689 tonnes) -despite the company’s expanding geographic and customer base, and the integration of several acquisitions during 2016. The most significant factor in the decrease was the transfer of core IT operations from the company’s Jersey City, New Jersey, headquarters to two LEED Gold-certified facilities (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) in New Jersey and Utah. For the first time, Verisk participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a worldwide engagement effort to collect and analyse emissions data as the basis for strategic planning by policymakers and others. Also during 2017, Verisk purchased renewable energy certificates and carbon offsets to help address our projected global carbon emissions for 2017 and 2018. The quantities purchased for each year are equivalent to the amounts needed to reduce 100% of Verisk’s 2016 global emissions. The renewable energy certificates support renewable energy projects (such as wind, solar, hydroelectric) in almost every country where Verisk has an office, including the UK. The carbon offsets support efforts to reduce emissions at several landfills located in the United States. All projects are third-party verified and certified according to international standards, including Green-e Climate, Green-e Energy, and the Climate Action Reserve. 18 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Environment 2 Reducing travel to cut carbon emissions Measurement of outcomes Due to the nature of our business, international In 2017, we met many of the goals we committed to travel for sales and consulting staff is unavoidable. in our 2016 Communication on Progress report. Most However, the use of teleconferencing facilities is notable was the installation of energy efficient lighting encouraged wherever possible to avoid unnecessary across the whole of our Bath office, enabling energy travel. and – eventually – financial savings to be made. As expected, our electricity consumption and paper has In 2017, UK and European-based Verisk Maplecroft continued to fall as we have decreased our office employees flew a total of 255,954 miles, representing footprint. 46.75 tonnes CO2e of greenhouse gas emissions. This is down from the 303,147 miles flown by our We have maintained sustainable procurement European-based staff in 2016. It has not been and recycling policies and have had success in possible to measure flights taken by staff based in encouraging our sister company to adopt similar other locations, but it is very likely that flight mileage initiatives in our London office. We continue to will have increased due to a rise in internationallysupport the greenhouse gas monitoring commitments based staff. We will continue to use teleconferencing of our parent company, Verisk Analytics, and their and remote presentation technologies as our primary programme of carbon offsetting. means for internal and external meetings. Future goals During the past year we have continued to offer the ■■ Investigate potential suppliers of 100% renewable cycle-to-work scheme to our UK-based employees. electricity for our Bath office This is a UK government initiative that provides users with a financial incentive to purchase a bicycle ■■ Reduce air travel by staff where possible and use it to cycle to and from work. Through this ■■ Continue to monitor and reduce paper and scheme, the government hopes to reduce pollution electricity consumption and improve health by encouraging cycling as a ■■ Continue to roll out our environmental commitments means of commuting. to staff based in other locations © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 19 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress 3 People Photo: Staff at our Singapore office “ Our people strategy and activities support the following UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Anna Edgar Principle 3 Principle 4 Director, Human Resources Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 10 The introduction of our new promotion policy and Sustainable Development Goals competency framework Goal 3 Goal 5 enables employees to understand what ‘good’ looks Goal 8 Goal 10 like. Transparent, objective and justifiable standards will help Our commitment the company recognise and retain our excellent staff. We have developed a culture that seeks to support, respect and draw attention to human rights among our employees and customers. When our people thrive, our business thrives. We are committed to treating all individuals fairly and with respect. This includes promoting equality and diversity, as well an inclusive and supportive environment for our staff. Our employee handbook confirms our commitments to the United Nations Global Compact principles of human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption, as well as to our corporate values of integrity and respect for the individual. 20 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People 3 Our handbook reaffirms this through our commitment to: ■■ Respecting human rights and helping our customers do the same through the provision of relevant human rights products and services ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives); and ■■ Ensuring that all our employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining through an established trade union ■■ Fighting all forms of forced and compulsory labour and to the effective and responsible abolition of child labour ■■ Ensuring that no individual suffers discrimination, directly or indirectly, Photo: staff in the Singapore office on the grounds of sex, (including pregnancy), marital status, religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age, disability or otherwise; and to providing a working environment free from harassment and intimidation ■■ Enforcing a zero tolerance policy for corruption in all our operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers. This is outlined in our anti-bribery and corruption policy, which was updated in 2016 Supporting employee wellbeing through our CSR strategy The People pillar of our CSR strategy builds on our commitments to human rights and labour rights and aims to realise these through Community targeted actions. The People pillar is closely aligned with the Thrive Wellness Engagement programme run by our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, and is owned and driven by our employees. This is a comprehensive programme which incorporates gender and ethnic diversity, wellness Diversity and Inclusion and community engagement. Like Thrive, our People pillar includes a range of programmes and actions, which can be divided into three main categories: Diversity and Inclusion, Wellness and Community Thrive Structure Engagement. Our actions in 2017 Employee handbook extends employee benefits Throughout 2017, we made further improvements to employees’ benefits and entitlements, which are reflected in our employee handbook. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 21 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People “ These changes include: ■■ Updated Flexible working policy: This policy provides employees with the ability to change their working patterns or location to facilitate greater balance between work and personal commitments. The Ben Sempala-Ntege flexible working policy allows employees to choose a range of options Head of Client Services (in close coordination with their supervisors), including working from home, job sharing, part-time work or more flexible working hours. The Diversity continues to be policy is open to all members of staff, but is particularly beneficial to a main focus at Verisk those with young families. Maplecroft as evidenced by the commitment of the senior ■■ New Working Parent Playbook: In 2017, the Parental Leave leadership team to support Playbook was designed by the Gender Working Group to assist and promote the Gender and Ethnicity Working groups employees (both women and men) and managers planning for in a range of internal and parental leave. People are Maplecroft’s most valuable asset. After external facing activities. hiring and training talented people, we don’t want to lose them. Our Greater connections with our goal is to develop exceptional practices for managing parental leave wider corporate structure has allowed us space to explore so that it is a positive experience for the employee and the team. inclusion issues in 2017 and Doing this well will provide a significant competitive advantage for plan to expand these activities Maplecroft through retaining talented people, and it is also the right in 2018. thing to do. ■■ New Promotion Policy Procedure: In 2017, we finalised our new Career Development Framework and our Promotion Policy & Procedure guidance in response to feedback from employees. Our new policy supports our philosophy that our employees are the Talent Strategists of their own careers and we wish to provide a transparent and clear process to help employees navigate their Verisk Maplecroft journey. ■■ New Analyst Forum: In early 2017 we created an Analyst Forum. The Forum is run by employee representatives and acts as a platform for employees to discuss any work-related issues or grievances. Managers are not present at the meetings to ensure open dialogue between junior members of staff. The Forum meets on a quarterly Employees Figure 5: Employees by age by(years) age basis as part of an ongoing cycle to monitor and track progress on (years) issues and ensure all employees have the ability to voice concerns or 7% make work place suggestions throughout the year. 26% 18% Committing to a more diverse workforce Beyond the improved employee benefits offered in our updated policies, we also worked hard in 2017 to ensure we provide equal opportunities to all our employees regardless of their sex, marital status, religion or belief, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, 49% gender reassignment, age, disability or otherwise. 20-30 31-40 41-50 50+ 22 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People 3 Figure 6: Female representation Senior Mid Level Professional (Exec, A & B bands) (C, D & E bands) (F & G bands) 29% 31% 50% 71% 69% 50% = Female = Male Continued work of the Ethnicity Working Group Some of the 2017 highlights from our Diversity & and Gender Working Group Inclusion programme run by our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, are listed below: The Verisk Maplecroft and Wood Mackenzie Ethnicity Working Group (EWG) aims to increase the overall ■■ Wood Mackenzie launched the LGBT+ network percentage of ethnic and racial minority employees globally with high levels of buy-in and ongoing within Wood Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft, and support across the business specifically in line management and subject matter ■■ The Gender Working Group launched the Parental expert roles. It also aims to address the ethnic and Leave Playbook and Lactation Facility policy, racial gap between our workforce and the regions in helping new parents make a smoother transition which we work and conduct business. into parenthood The Gender Working Group (GWG) aims to increase ■■ The Ethnicity Working Group, in partnership with the female talent pipeline and opportunities for Human Resources, took great strides to raise women to develop and progress within Wood our company profile in the broader community, Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft, and to address the expanding our reach and ensuring we continue to gender balance for the benefit of the individuals and attract the very best talent the organisation. In 2017, our Gender Working Group undertook a number of actions, which contribute Prioritising employee wellbeing towards Principle 6 of the United Nations Global The Verisk Maplecroft & Wood Mackenzie Wellness Compact. Group promotes the well-being of employees and supports a healthy lifestyle – in terms of both physical and mental health. In 2017, the Wellness Group implemented a variety of initiatives and activities to improve the wellness of our employees. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 23 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People Photo: Wellness day Singapore office Some of the 2017 highlights are listed below: ■■ The creation of a netball team and football team in our London office ■■ The provision of free organic fruit to all our staff in all our offices. In addition, an organic fruit and vegetable company visited our Bath “ office and advised on healthy menus and the use and benefits of fruits and vegetables. Employees were given cookbooks with healthy recipes ■■ The delivery of massage therapy in the offices to reduce stress levels Jan Zalewski and a chiropractor in our London office once every 6 weeks Head of Asia ■■ The provision of wellness activities such as walking, mini golf, boating, punting, hiking and mountaineering, followed by a social outing Our wellness programme promotes a healthy lifestyle ■■ The delivery of mindfulness workshops to reduce stress levels: This through a supportive business included a 1.5-hour introduction to mindfulness. In this session, there environment. Fresh fruit was an introduction to the science of mindfulness, a guide as to how and fitness classes are available each week and the mindfulness works and how it can help you, at work and at home wellness day enables teams ■■ The delivery of stress workshops: This included a 2-hour workshop to plan something fun and active outside the office. For covering how to spot stress in the body, coping with stress and your example, we had a great day own personal wellbeing out exploring the open waters ■■ The provision of the Verisk Global Walking Challenge: In 2017, 1,965 of Singapore. employees from the wider Verisk organisation took part in the Verisk Global Walking Challenge. Together we achieved 685,480,945 steps. Thirty-eight percent of employees involved met, and even exceeded, the goal of 8,000 steps per day. 24 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People 3 Measurement of Outcomes In 2017, we met a number of the goals set out in our 2016 Communication of Progress report. Wood Mackenzie continued the rollout of the unconscious bias training to new managers across global operations. Over 377 people attended from both Wood Mackenzie and Verisk Maplecroft. We also worked with Human Resources to further improve provisions for employees going on maternity, paternity and parental leave. In addition, we improved our support for mental health issues through the provision of stress management workshops and mindfulness sessions aimed at managing and reducing stress at work. Cultural awareness days were organised by Wood Mackenzie to celebrate different cultures. Wood Mackenzie also sponsored an event in the Moscow ■■ Collect data on ethnic diversity in the company, office to celebrate Maslenitsa (also called as as a snap shot of now, and seek to make positive Pancake Week), and the Ethnicity Working Group impacts to increase representation at all levels of and the Beijing Social Committee teamed up for an the business in the next few years event exploring Chinese food and culture among the »» With data, we can monitor our progress against country’s different regions. our aspirations and benchmark ourselves with Future goals our industry peers Diversity & Inclusion »» We can better understand what barriers there may be to achieve greater ethnic diversity In 2018, the Ethnicity Working Group and the Gender ■■ Create a more ethnically diverse candidate pool, Working Group will work with Human Resources to achieve the following goals: for both new and experienced hires by working with Human Resources to target underrepresented/ ■■ Increase the number of female employees in minority groups through social media. In the topour technology and software team. This will be flight universities and colleagues, we aim to recruit supported through our involvement in initiatives for entry level employees. The aim is to establish such as Tech Talent Charter (see Products section) ourselves as an employer of choice for talented ■■ Create line manager toolkits which include practical individuals from all backgrounds steps to support and promote diverse teams ■■ Increase career progression opportunities for ■■ Develop an actionable plan on ethnicity and female employees between bands D and C diversity to positively impact Verisk Maplecroft ■■ Increase job sharing opportunities for female employees looking to return to work following maternity leave © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 25 3 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress People Wellness In 2018, our wellness programme will focus on the following goals: ■■ Provide line manager support, training and materials on mental health and flexible working ■■ Provide massage and/or reflexology sessions every 6 weeks ■■ Give employees the opportunity to take part in mindfulness courses ■■ Provide ‘coffee & croissant’ catch ups once a week for staff to get together in a more informal setting ■■ Continue to include comprehensive health checks and a £200 wellness allowance per person per year in our health plan for 2018 26 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products 4 4 Products “ Our products and services support the following UNGC Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Stefan Sabo-Walsh Principle 3 Principle 4 Head of Value Chains Principle 5 Principle 6 A majority of businesses Principle 7 Principle 8 with multinational supply Principle 9 Principle 10 chains struggle to identify their exposure to ESG issues Sustainable Development Goals associated with the hundreds of raw materials present in their Goal 5 Goal 12 products. By quantifying 20 Goal 13 Goal 16 commodity-specific risk issues, Verisk Maplecroft’s Commodity Risk Service allows users to pinpoint those which have the Our commitment most potential to expose them to ESG risks in their supply We are committed to developing and delivering products and services chains. that help our clients manage a range of risks and implement responsible and sustainable business solutions. Our suite of human rights, environment, political and economic indices enables companies to carry out robust due diligence and risk assessments, identify potential and actual impacts across 198 countries and to implement measures to improve their sustainability performance. Our research team produces in-depth country risk reports covering governance, political, human rights, environmental and security issues, as well as providing daily updates through our online portal on key events and trends within focus countries. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 27 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products Figure 7: Research and Consulting capabilities As part of our bespoke advisory offering, our consultancy team, supported by our researchers, helps companies to articulate their corporate commitments. We do this through the development of policies and codes of conduct. Our consultants and researchers also work with clients to provide: ■■ Risk and impact assessments ■■ Supply chain analysis ■■ Stakeholder engagement ■■ Due diligence ■■ Benchmarking and materiality assessments ■■ Sustainability reporting ■■ Management systems support Our actions in 2017 Ongoing product and service delivery Since our last Communication on Progress, we have continued to offer the following products and services to support responsible business practices: Country Monitoring Service Through our Country Monitoring service, we analyse the specific risks affecting companies operating in or sourcing from a particular country. Our expert analysts monitor 198 countries, such as Brazil, China and South Africa, to identify long-term emerging risks and rapidly unfolding events that affect our clients and their workers/supply chains. Our analysts produce regular written briefings via our online portal on a number of issues including governance, human rights, environmental issues and security. Our in-depth Country Risk Profiles also contain specific sections on these themes, allowing clients to gain deep understanding of the key issues within a particular country. 28 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products 4 “ Sam Haynes Head of Indices Our 150 indices help companies to screen their supplier base or their own assets for risk related to responsible sourcing and business disruption. The breadth and depth of our dataset enables businesses to assess risks at the country, subnational, industry, and Photo: Country monitoring commodity level. This helps them understand their risks Risk datasets and therefore better prioritise their response. Verisk Maplecroft Dataset or Risk Index UNGC Principles Human Rights Dataset Human Rights Civil and Political Rights, Human Security, Labour Rights and Principle 1 Protection, Access to Remedy Risk Principle 2 Labour Rights and Protection Indices Labour Child Labour, Decent Wages, Decent Working Time, Principle 3 Discrimination, Forced labour, Freedom of Association and Principle 4 Collective Bargaining, Migrant workers, Occupational Health and Principle 5 Safety, Trafficking in Persons, Young Workers Principle 6 Environmental Risk Dataset Environment Climate Change and Environment, Natural Hazards Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Rule of Law Dataset Anti-Corruption Corruption Risk Index Principle 10 As highlighted in the table above, our risk datasets cover all 10 of the UNGC Principles. The data offering enables clients to assess a range of human rights, economic, environmental and political risks in 198 countries. Over the last twelve months, we have continued to increase clients’ awareness of issues such as civil and political rights, labour rights, climate change, natural hazards and corruption through the delivery of our datasets and individual risk indices. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 29 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products Photo: Human Rights Data Our data goes beyond country risk and assesses International Post Corporation’s (IPC) Postal environmental, social, and governance risks Sector Sustainability Report associated with over 150 commodities and 79 Throughout 2017, we continued to work with the industries. This enables our clients to assess their International Post Corporation (IPC) to develop the exposure to risk on a more granular level. We have Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System also started to incorporate forward looking analysis (EMMS) programme, a sector-wide initiative to into our offering through the development of a improve carbon management and achieve relative predictive dataset which assesses the likelihood of carbon emissions reductions across the postal issues such as civil disorder, interstate tension, and sector. The EMMS programme is a global initiative, government instability occurring in the future. consisting of 20 national postal companies from five Voluntarily provided comments on Australian continents, and provides a common measurement new modern slavery act and reporting structure that enables participants to share their carbon and environmental management In May 2017, Verisk Maplecroft joined global NGOs strategies, performance and achievements. and businesses by submitting our recommendations to the Australian parliamentary inquiry, which was Verisk Maplecroft will continue its partnership with seeking submissions on the content of a potential IPC in 2018 to further improve carbon management Australia Modern Slavery Act. Recommendations and achieve associated carbon emissions reductions were based on our expert analysis and experience of across the postal sector up to and beyond 2025, working hand-in-hand across sectors with companies and will also support IPC in evolving it’s EMMS complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act. programme in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 30 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products 4 Maintaining the Human Rights and Business Development Forum In partnership with the United Nations Global Compact, throughout 2017 we continued to host and update the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum (HRBDF). This is a multi-stakeholder online platform, funded by the GE Foundation, that helps companies and policy makers understand and share real-world challenges and best practice examples relating to the protection of human rights in developing and emerging economies. Strengthening our product and service offerings Throughout 2017, we continued to update our suite of research and consulting services covering human rights, environmental, economic and political risk, using enhanced methodologies and our rigorous review process. In 2017, we produced the second iterations of our Human Rights and Political Risk Outlooks; two publicly available reports highlighting the most pertinent human rights and political trends for business for the forthcoming year. Both Outlooks were well received by clients and the media. To engage clients on more in-depth trends highlighted in the reports, both the Politics team and the Human Rights team ran webinars attended by between 3060 clients. We are currently working to produce third editions for 2018. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 31 4 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products As part of growing public awareness on the issue of modern slavery, in 2017 we released the second edition of our Modern Slavery Index. This index is specifically designed for companies seeking to assess the extent to which they are exposed to modern slavery through their business operations and supply chains. By using the International Labour Organization (ILO) definition of modern slavery, we have aligned the index with the UK Modern Slavery Act definition to help clients meet the requirements of the legislation. In 2017, we worked closely with a number of clients Ongoing participation in the Children’s Rights to produce bespoke reports and training sessions Index on the drivers of modern slavery, including the As part of a five-year agreement with UNICEF and risks to business operations and workers in supply the Global Child Forum, we are continuing to manage chains. We also worked with the Corporate Social the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas. This online, Responsibility team at our parent company, Verisk interactive tool enables businesses to systematically Analytics, to identify its own potential risk exposure and objectively compare children’s rights associated for their Modern Slavery Statement under the UK with their operations, business partners or Modern Slavery Act. We are currently developing investments. The Atlas is constructed around the Modern Slavery training to roll out to all Verisk 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles – a employees globally in 2018. charter that sets out the actions companies can take New environmental datasets to respect and support children’s rights. In October 2017, our environment team worked to The Atlas provides businesses with data for 198 release two new indices: The Carbon Policy Risk countries across three indices: The Children’s Index and the Climate Change Exposure (offshore) Rights in the Workplace Index, Children’s Rights Index. in the Marketplace Index and Children’s Rights in the Community and Environment Index. Business ■■ The Carbon Policy Index assesses the potential users can also refer to industry guidance to better for more stringent greenhouse gas emissions understand their exposure and consider the actions reduction policies to be implemented and the they need to take to strengthen internal due diligence degree to which they are likely to have material procedures in the workplace, marketplace and implications for business. Amid the transition to a community and environment. low carbon economy, this index helps our client understand the legislative landscape with respect Bringing girl’s rights to the boardroom through to carbon emissions – and prepare for the future. Girl Stats ■■ The Climate Change Exposure (Offshore) Index In 2017, we continued to run Girl Stats; a data-driven assesses the degree to which countries’ territorial platform helping businesses to identify the issues waters are exposed to the physical impacts of affecting adolescent girls around the world. The climate extremes and future changes in climate publicly-accessible interactive website offers data on over the next three decades. This new index issues such as health, education and labour market features a subnational map at a resolution of participation, enabling business to identify gaps and 22km2, and captures long term changes as well as understand where their engagement and investment shifts in climate variability and extremes. will have the most positive impact on the lives of adolescent girls. 32 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Products 4 Commitment to the Tech Talent Charter Measurement of Outcomes In 2017, we joined the Tech Talent Charter (TTC), an In 2017, we continued to expand our products and employer-led initiative that was formed to address the services to enable our clients to effectively identify significant gender imbalance within the technology and manage their human rights, environmental, industry in the UK. The initiative was supported in the political, economic and governance risks. We government’s policy paper on the UK Digital Strategy produced further editions of our publicly available in March 2017 and to date 89 of the country’s largest Human Rights and Political Risk Outlooks, created employers of computer developers have signed up to two new environmental indices, strengthened our the TTC. relationships and developed partnerships with key influencers in the field of human rights, environment Enhancing due diligence in the sourcing of raw and governance to deliver enhanced products and materials through our new commodity datasets services. Throughout 2017, we also expanded our In 2016, we launched our commodity risk service Commodity Risk Service from 56 commodities to to help clients identify environmental, social and 151. In addition, we achieved our goal of reducing governance risks in the sourcing of raw materials. the number of indices and simplifying the data within In particular, this helps companies assess risks the Children’s Rights and Business Atlas. beyond the first tier of their supply chain, by Future goals providing data and insights relating to hard and soft commodities across a range of countries. During ■■ Develop new predictive and dynamic indices 2017, we continued to develop these datasets and continue to expand the coverage of our and by December 2017 we have created over 150 commodities offering. commodity datasets. These commodities include, but ■■ Enhance our Value Chain Mapping service by are not limited to: expanding the coverage of our sector and product ■■ Coffee ■■ Gold scores. ■■ Cotton ■■ Coal ■■ Fully integrate the new corporate exposure tool into ■■ Palm oil ■■ Cobalt our portal and broaden its sector coverage. Supporting investment decision-making through ■■ We plan to enhance the Girl Stats project by new investor service developing a freely-available Adolescent Girls’ Our Institutional Investor Service (IIS), which Index, which will rank countries on the basis of provides environmental, social, governance and educational and other opportunities available to political (ESG+P) data and analysis to investors, girls and young women. continued to grow through 2017. The following ■■ Combine our industry and commodities works developments took place: streams to develop a product risk index during ■■ We deepened our integration into the ESG 2018. workflows of a number of clients managing sovereign debt ■■ We launched the beta version of our corporate exposure tool, which quantifies the underlying geographical ESG risk exposure of equities in the extractives sector to complement traditional management and performance-focused datasets ■■ We further developed our activity in relation to real estate and other real assets. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 33 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Verisk Maplecroft takes the following actions to support the Women’s Empowerment Principles Policies and practices related to supporting women’s empowerment and advancing gender equality in the workplace Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior management and board positions We are fully committed to having a representative and balanced leadership team. Mentoring and career progression is open to all employees, regardless of gender, with support and opportunities for all. Our President, Sondra Scott, is female and dedicated to providing equal opportunities for all staff and potential candidates. We are constantly looking to improve the ratio of females in management and leadership positions and in 2017 appointed Erin McVeigh as Head of Interfaces and Data Services, Alex Channer as Global Content Lead for Human Rights, Anna Edgar as Head of Human Resources, and Sabina McKinley as “ Head of Campaigns. Our not-for-profit project, Girl Stats, is also led by Michelle Carpenter (see page 4 of this section). Our Gender Working Group continues to collect data on issues such as maternity protections, gender pay gaps and women’s representation Michelle Carpenter across Verisk Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie. Human Rights Analyst and Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management Project Manager, Girl Stats positions We not only work in an We apply the principle of equality throughout the organisation, environment that promotes promoting a gender-balanced leadership at all levels. gender equality and fosters female talent, but also help Equal pay for work of equal value our clients to achieve better diversity outcomes through We use data from an independent survey carried out by Willis Towers our range of products and Watson to benchmark our pay bands. A gender lens is also applied to all services. salary reviews and performance management exercises to ensure there is equality between men and women at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and capability. See the People section for more details. Flexible work options We operate a flexible working system, whereby work start and end times are not fixed. This flexibility gives employees the scope to manage family and other non-work commitments alongside their work responsibilities. Having updated our flexible working policy in 2016, employees are now provided with greater opportunities for flexible working arrangements, including working from home, telecommuting and sabbatical leave. 34 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Access to child and dependent care While we currently do not provide employees with access to child and dependent care on a corporate basis, UK employees may participate in the Childcare Voucher Scheme, which allows them to give up a portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare credit of the same value. Each month, participants are eligible for tax relief and lower National Insurance contributions on vouchers purchased (up to the value of £243). Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave We provide full support to pregnant women in terms of access to ante-natal care and enhanced health and safety arrangements. While employees are on maternity leave, we offer them Keep In Touch (KIT) Recruitment and retention, including training and days to support their eventual return to work. Prior development, of female employees to returning, discussions are held to assist a smooth We are an equal opportunities employer, committed reintegration into the workplace, including through the to promoting equality and diversity as well as an provision of flexible working hours. inclusive and supportive environment for all of our Following the introduction of a new maternity leave employees. We do not discriminate on the grounds policy in October 2015, which includes improved of gender, and men and women are treated equally benefits for new mothers, we now ‘top-up’ statutory during the recruitment process and throughout their maternity pay to full pay for the first 18 weeks of employment. All employees receive training and have maternity leave. Our paternity leave policy has also the opportunity for professional development after been updated to provide the same benefits for up to they join the company. two consecutive weeks of leave following the birth. In 2017, Verisk Maplecroft became a signatory to In 2017, our Gender Working Group developed the the Tech Talent Charter; a commitment by industry ‘Parental Leave Playbook’. This provides guidance bodies and organisations to drive diversity and for employees (both male and female) and line address the gender imbalance in technology managers in planning for parental leave. The roles. A senior member of the management team playbook provides sample timelines and meeting has responsibility for rolling out the commitments agendas to ensure that employees and managers outlined in the Charter, including adopting inclusive communicate effectively and preparations are made recruitment processes and contributing employment for cover, handovers and return to work. diversity data to a central anonymised database for annual publication. Gender specific health and safety issues We take every precaution to ensure we provide and maintain working conditions that are safe, healthy and comply with all statutory requirements and relevant codes of practice. The commitment applies to all employees, regardless of gender. © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 35 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender-based violence and harassment Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers We deplore all forms of sexual harassment and seek to ensure the maintenance of an inclusive, We aim to assign all employees work mentors when supportive and safe environment for all employees. they begin employment with us. Work mentors guide Our commitment to this is outlined in our employee new employees through the company’s systems and handbook, along with relevant grievance and work methods, and also provide regular feedback disciplinary procedures. on performance. In addition to this, all employees can apply for a mentor at any stage in their career to Education and training opportunities for women support their professional development. workers Other established or emerging best practices We are committed to the professional development of all our employees. We undertake to provide all N/A of our employees, regardless of gender, with the Any relevant policies, procedures and activities training necessary to successfully fulfil their job that the company plans to undertake by its responsibilities. next COP to address this area, including goals, Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of timelines, metrics and responsible staff gender equality, inclusion and non-discrimination N/A for all workers Policies and practices related to supporting We are an equal opportunities employer, committed women’s empowerment and advancing gender to promoting equality, diversity and an inclusive and equality in the marketplace supportive environment for all of our employees. Supplier diversity programme Verisk Maplecroft is represented by one employee in the Gender Working Group, led by our sister While Verisk Maplecroft does not currently have a company Wood Mackenzie. The aim of the supplier diversity programme in place, our parent working group is to understand more about the company, Verisk Analytics, is advancing efforts to gender balance in both companies and produce ensure that minority, women and veteran-owned recommendations as to how to encourage the businesses, as well as small and disadvantaged attraction, development, retention and promotion of businesses, are given the opportunity to participate in female talent. the procurement process in the United States. Verisk has also joined the Women’s Business Enterprise In addition, line managers across our company National Council as a first step towards expanding have received unconscious bias training as part of procurement opportunities for women-owned an initiative led by the Gender Working Group. This businesses. training was aimed at helping participants to manage biases that might not be under conscious control, During 2017, Verisk implemented a Supplier Code including those related to gender. Across Verisk of Conduct applicable to all suppliers worldwide. By Maplecroft and our sister company, Wood Mackenzie, accepting a contract from Verisk, a supplier agrees four people are trained to deliver unconscious bias to abide by the principles outlined in the Code of training. Conduct, including those prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sex. The Code of Conduct also outlines Verisk’s zero tolerance approach to all forms of harassment, including sexual harassment. 36 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Other established or emerging best practices We have an unparalleled range of innovative products and services that help clients respect the rights of women and girls. Many of these have been designed to incorporate best practice guidance. For example, the methodology behind our suite of human rights indices incorporates the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework as a basis for assessing risk in 198 countries. In addition, the human rights due diligence services that we provide to our clients is fully informed and aligned with the Composition of supplier base by sex ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ Framework and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Our parent company, Verisk Analytics, collects data Human Rights. on the number of female-owned businesses in the supplier base in the United States. Any relevant policies, procedures and activities that the company plans to undertake by its Support for women business owners and next COP to address this area, including goals, entrepreneurs timelines, metrics and responsible staff As outlined above, our parent company, Verisk By the end of 2018, the Girl Stats team will seek to Analytics, has joined the Women’s Business deliver a freely available Adolescent Girls’ Index, Enterprise National Council to expand procurement which will rank countries on the basis of opportunities opportunities for women-owned businesses. available to girls and young women. This index will Supplier monitoring and engagement on women’s allow companies to identify the countries in which empowerment and gender equality including the their investment in girls and young women will have promotion of the Women’s Empowerment Principles the most impact. Verisk Analytics does not currently carry out supplier The COP describes policies and practices engagement on women’s empowerment and gender related to supporting women’s empowerment equality. and advancing gender equality in the community Gender-sensitive marketing Designing community stakeholder engagements Verisk Analytics does not currently have any formal that are free of gender discrimination / gender-sensitive marketing policies in place. stereotyping and are sensitive to gender issues Gender-sensitive product and service For the past 12 years, we have been helping development organisations manage stakeholder relationships, often in highly sensitive environments. This has Verisk Maplecroft has developed a range of products included the design and implementation of numerous and services aimed at helping clients understand and community stakeholder engagements for clients. respect the rights of women and girls. This includes These projects are carefully planned to ensure our Women and Girls’ Rights Index, which assess the that they are free from discrimination and sensitive risks to business from the possible association with to gender issues. In many cases, the stakeholder practices that discriminate against, or infringe on, the engagement projects that are undertaken require the rights of women and girls. matter of gender equality to be directly addressed, Another example is the Girl Stats platform, which was necessitating a fair and non-discriminatory approach officially launched in June 2016. to be taken to data collection. 37 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 37 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Empowering companies to positively impact the lives of girls Adolescent girls and young women face many legal, cultural and economic barriers around the world that hinder their ability to achieve full equality with men. However, research consistently shows that investing in girls and young women is not only vital for lifting families out of poverty, but also for sustained economic growth. In 2015, we received funding from our parent company, Verisk Analytics, to extend the work of Girls Discovered; an interactive data and mapping platform that we had established in 2009 in partnership with the Nike Foundation and United Nations Foundation. Following receipt of the grant, the project team decided to make the platform more business-relevant, and conducted a full rebrand, which included a new name – Girl Stats. The team also comprehensively revised the datasets and indicators on the website, and developed interesting insights and analysis to highlight how businesses can make a difference in the lives of girls around the world. Girl Stats helps companies to understand the issues that girls face, and how their operations can either positively or negatively affect their lives. It focuses on business-relevant issues such as access to education and employment, as well as legal and societal barriers that prevent girls and young women from reaching their full potential. Girl Stats also provides links to compelling CSR initiatives focused on girls, as well as organisations working on the ground so that companies can partner with the right groups to make change. The website also offers in-depth, country-level insights into the situation of girls and young women in key emerging markets. In 2017, Girl Stats was updated to include two years’ worth of data, allowing users to compare indicators over time and analyse trends. The written analysis, which helps users to understand the data, was also updated. Alongside this, all indicators on the website were aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals. Companies can now use Girl Stats to better target their investments to contribute to the realisation of the SDGs. 38 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles Gender impact assessments or consideration of We endeavour to provide access to these products gender-related impacts as part of its social and/or and services to as many organisations as possible. human rights impact assessments Indeed, we make some of this content publicly available (for example, via the Girl Stats platform, We provide human rights impact assessments as part or through the publication of thought leadership of a range of human rights due diligence services pieces). We also consider providing our products and we offer. These assessments focus on assessing services to NGOS and international organisations clients’ actual and potential human rights impacts. at a discount on a case-by-case basis, where this is Assessments include gender-related impacts, and practical. are carried out in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Strategies to ensure that community investment projects and programmes (including economic, Ensuring female beneficiaries of community social and environmental) include the full programmes participation of women and girls N/A N/A Community initiatives specifically targeted at the Other established or emerging best practice empowerment of women and girls N/A As outlined above, the Girl Stats platform provides comprehensive data on the lives of adolescent girls Any relevant policies, procedures and activities and young women around the world, with the aim that the company plans to undertake by its of helping businesses to target their investments to next COP to address this area, including goals, promote positive change for girls. timelines, metrics and responsible staff In addition, we support the empowerment of women N/A through our community engagement initiatives. In The COP contains or refers to sex2017, we marked International Women’s Day by disaggregated data presenting Girl Stats to all Verisk employees. As part of this presentation, we created awareness of Achieving and maintain gender equality in senior gender-based discrimination in the workplace and in management and board positions supply chains, particularly in developing economies, Following our acquirement by Verisk Analytics in and provided practical solutions for tackling gender December 2014, the structure of our management inequality. team and its composition has significantly changed. Strategies to ensure that community investment Our organisation does not have a board of projects and programmes (including economic, management. However, our operational leadership social and environmental) positively impact team is comprised of five members, one of whom is women and girls female. Our main impact in this respect is through the Achieving and maintaining gender equality in provision of a range of human rights products and middle management positions services. These help clients to make a positive Our middle management team is comprised of 28 contribution to the rights of those affected by their members, 11 of whom are female. actions, both direct and indirect, including women and girls. Equal pay for work of equal value We use data from an independent survey carried out by Willis Towers Watson to benchmark our pay bands. A gender lens is also applied to all salary reviews and performance management exercises to © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 39 Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress Appendix: Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles ensure there is equality between men and women Education and training opportunities for women at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and workers capability. See the People section for more details. In-depth workplace training is provided by our Flexible work options company to all male and female employees. In addition, all staff can attend external events All employees benefit from a system of flexible and conferences as part of their professional working hours, with no set start and end times. Our development. new flexible working policy allows staff to apply for additional flexible working options, including working Creating and maintaining workplace awareness from home, telecommuting and sabbatical leave. of gender equality and inclusion and nondiscrimination for all workers Access to child and dependent care All employees are required to read and abide While we currently do not provide employees with by our equal opportunities policy, as well as our access to child and dependent care on a corporate discrimination, bullying and harassment policy. Our basis, UK employees may participate in the Childcare updated employee handbook contains information on Voucher Scheme that allows them to give up a these policies and their application. portion of their salaries in exchange for childcare credit of the same value. Each month, participants All line managers are required to undertake are eligible for tax relief and lower National Insurance unconscious bias training in an effort reduce possible contributions on vouchers purchased (up to the value unconscious discrimination on the basis of gender. of £243). This training is rolled out on a continuous basis. Currently, we have 7 employees making use of the Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for Childcare Voucher Scheme. women workers Support for pregnant women and those returning We aim to assign all employees work mentors when from maternity leave they begin employment with us. Work mentors guide new employees through the company’s systems and In the past 12 months, we have provided support to work methods, and also provide regular feedback two female employees in this respect. In the coming on performance. In addition to this, all employees months, two additional members of staff will make can apply for a mentor at any stage in their career to use of our maternity leave policy. support their professional development. Recruitment and retention, including training and Other established or emerging best practices development, of female employees N/A During 2017, we hired 25 new employees and interns. Fourteen were female and 11 were male. All Any relevant policies, procedures and activities employees receive training and development as part that the company plans to undertake by its of recruitment and professional development. next COP to address this area, including goals, timelines, metrics and responsible staff Gender-specific health and safety issues N/A N/A Gender-based violence and harassment N/A 40 © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com Verisk Maplecroft | UNGC 2018 Communication On Progress © Verisk Maplecroft 2018 | www.maplecroft.com 41 www.maplecroft.com
