LIFETIME VALUE CRE ATOR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 LOT TE SHOPPING AN INVITATION TO THE ENRICHED FUTURE OF RETAIL, CREATED BY THE NEW VALUES OF LOTTE SHOPPING Lotte Shopping Annual Report 2017 LIFETIME VALUE CREATOR Lotte Shopping established its vision of being a “Lifetime Value Creator”, which includes our pledge to offer REPORT OVERVIEW UNIQUE FEATURE customers the highest value for every purchase they make from us. In order to create new values that will make their lives 00 ABOUT LOTTE GROUP This annual report informs readers about Lotte Shopping’s This year’s report is designed to demonstrate more beautiful and enriched, we are leading the evolution of 02 CEO'S MESSAGE wide range of initiatives and achievements. In particular, Lotte Shopping’s commitment to adding new values to 06 INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO retail through continuous change and innovation. it introduces in detail our approach to realizing the future of customers’ lives with its new logo, Value Line. retail while strengthening our core competencies in channels, You will see the beautiful and luxurious image of the future innovations, customer satisfaction, and other areas, of retail, shown through the varied colors and shapes of in response to changes in trends, technologies, and lifestyles. Lotte Shopping’s Value Line logo. LEADING TRENDS IN RETAIL EXPERIENCE OMNI PAGE. 10-15 CONVERGING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION EXPECT THE FUTURE OF RETAIL PAGE. 16-21 CREATING NEW LIFESTYLES AND VALUES ENJOY A FULLER LIFE PAGE. 22-27 Reader's Guide ABOUT LOTTE SHOPPING REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CSR MANAGEMENT 30 COMPANY PROFILE 62 LOTTE DEPARTMENT STORE 73 LOTTE SHOPPING’S CSR 32 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 64 LOTTE MART 74 CUSTOMER-CENTERED MANAGEMENT 34 GLOBAL NETWORK 66 LOTTE HIMART 76 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MORE INFORMATION 36 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 68 LOTTE SUPER 78 WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS Links to the related information of the contents in the report. 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 LOTTE HOME SHOPPING 80 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS 39 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT 70 LOTTE CINEMA 40 2017 NEWS HIGHLIGHTS 71 LOHB’S 44 KEY MARKET STRATEGY LINK TO WEBSITE Please click to go to the homepage. FINANCIAL REVIEW 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 84 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 85 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 86 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERACTIVE PDF & PR VIDEO DOWNLOAD Click on the left-hand icon to download our Interactive PDF and PR videos. Click on Pages on the left-hand menu tab and Contents on the Contents page to move to the pages you want. ABOUT LOTTE GROUP ONE OF THE WORLD’S MOST HIGHLY RESPECTED BUSINESS GROUPS Lotte Group began with the founding of Lotte Confectionery in 1967. Over the past fifty years, it has grown into one of South Korea’s best-known business groups, expanding its business interests to include food, retail, tourism, BUSINESS AREAS http://www.lotte.co.kr petrochemicals, construction, machinery, finance, information and communications, and service operations. The Group is also expanding its operations across Asia and around the globe. FOOD Lotte Confectionery Lotte Chilsung Beverage MISSION Lotte Liquor Lotte Foods VISION Lotte-Nestle Lotte Asahi Liquor Lottelmsc WE ENRICH PEOPLE’S LIVES BY PROVIDING SUPERIOR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Lotte R&D Center Lotte GRS THAT OUR CUSTOMERS APPRECIATE AND DEPEND ON. RETAIL Lotte Department Store Lifetime Value The mission of LOTTE is to establish a foundation and baseline for our business activities. It plays a vital role in Lotte Mart strengthening the pride and unity of our employees and motivating them to work for a united cause. Lotte Super Korea Seven Creator Lotte Hi-Mart Lotte Home Shopping Lotte.com LOHB’s Lotte Cinema FRL Korea Lotte International RICHNESS CONTRIBUTION EXPANSION To promote sustainable growth over the next 50 years, CHEMICAL/ Lotte MCC CONSTRUCTION/ Lotte E&C LOTTE has chosen to focus on qualitative growth “Richness” is the value The value of “contribution” propels Comprehensive expressions such as MANUFACTURING Lotte CM Business Division that LOTTE has endeavored to LOTTE forward to become “products and services” and “everyone, and declared a new vision.“Lifetime Value Creator” Lotte E&M provide our customers with since our a group that “customers appreciate everywhere” represent LOTTE’s represents our resolution to make LOTTE a brand Lotte Aluminum foundation, and which distinguishes us and depend on, which enriches unyielding desire to expand Lotte Fine Chemical that provides our customers with the very best value Lotte Advanced Materials from our competitors. people’s lives.” our scope of business. throughout their lives. Lotte Chemical Canon Korea Business Solutions KP ChemTech Fuji Film Korea CORE VALUE TOURISM/SERVICE/FINANCE Global Logistics Lotte Rental CORE VALUES ARE THE STANDARDS THAT ALL LOTTE STAFF SHOULD ASPIRE TOWARD SO THAT LOTTE CAN FULFILL ITS MISSION AND VISION. Lotte Logistics Lotte Resort Lotte Members > > CHALLENGE RESPECT ORIGINALITY Lotte Duty Free Lotte Foundation for Arts We focus on the nature of our task We respect different opinions, We quickly respond to changes, cooperate Lotte Property & Development CHALLENGE RESPECT Lotte Institute of Economy & Business Strategy and continue to challenge ourselves to communicate with others and observe with other fields without boundaries, Lotte Welfare Foundation accomplish higher goals. general rules to build a bond of trust and implement innovations to develop Lotte Samdong Welfare Foundation with our community. originality inimitable by anyone. Beyond Lotte Insurance > Customer > Lotte Skyhill CC Expectation START START START Lotte World Understand the nature of our task Respect when our colleagues Respond quickly to changes and Lotte Academy and set a goal to contribute to the and stakeholders have different opinions and trends in the business environment. Lotte Asset Development outcome of the entire organization. actively communicate with them. Lotte Giants > > PROGRESS PROGRESS PROGRESS Lotte Scholarship Foundation Lotte Data Communication ORIGINALITY Take the initiative to improve work Observe general rules and actively respond to Pay great attention to various industries Lotte JTB processes and achieve goals. the stakeholders’ demands. and collaborate with them to create greater value. Lotte Card Lotte Capital OUTCOME OUTCOME OUTCOME Lotte PS Net Never give up, and set Behave carefully considering Develop creative thoughts and take innovative Lotte Hotel We do not aim to satisfy customers’ needs, but rather to and achieve higher goals. the impact of our action to build trust measures to provide products and services that Daehong Communications create value beyond their expectations. within our community. our competitors cannot easily imitate. EB Card & Mybi Lotte Hotel Busan Hyundai Information Technology AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 02 03 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR CEO'S MESSAGE Dear Valued Customers and Shareholders: In 2017, the growth of the retail industry slowed due to a prolonged economic downturn and rapid changes in the operating environment. In this climate, Lotte Shopping actively explored its potential in all of its business sectors, so as to weather crises and continue its growth. One of our important focuses was on securing new growth engines, including our online operations and omnichannel services. We also opened a number of new stores, diversified our store formats, and differentiated our products both at home and abroad. “WE WILL BECOME A GLOBAL In addition, we made significant improvements to the efficiency of RETAILER THAT ADDS VALUE our management. Our commitment to transparency, compliance, and social responsibilities continued as well. With my profound TO OUR CUSTOMERS’ LIVES gratitude for the heartfelt support that you have always shown us, 2017 REVIEW BY PURSUING QUALITATIVE especially during times of difficulty, I would like to tell you about our performance in 2017 and our plans for the upcoming year. GROWTH BASED ON THE In 2017, we revamped our core competencies and built foundations for future growth by actively exploring potential in all of our CREATION OF SOCIAL VALUES.” business divisions. Focused on core competencies and future growth foundations South Korea’s retail industry faced a year of stagnant growth, due largely to lowered consumer confidence, increasing household debt, intensifying competition among business channels, expanding governmental regulations, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) issue. Despite this environment, online shopping, consumer electronics retail stores, and health and beauty stores continued to grow in popularity, backed by changes in purchasing patterns. These changes included an increasing number of single-person households, an aging society, a definite trend towards small-quantity, neighborhood-based purchases, value-conscious shopping, and rising sales of healthand environment-related products. Lotte Shopping made multilateral efforts to improve its results while effectively adapting to these changes in its management environment. First, we opened a large number of new stores both at home and abroad. We also renovated our existing stores and upgraded our product inventory. In addition, we added to our menu of online operations with a special focus on mobile shopping, and significantly bolstered our omnichannel services which link our online and offline channels. Overseas, we concentrated our energy on enhancing our operational efficiency, including cost reductions, with a focus on improvements to our profitability. However, our sales and operating profit decreased from the previous year to KRW 18.18 trillion and KRW 529.9 billion, respectively. Primary contributing factors were a drop in our offline store sales, a rise in our costs following new investments, and a slump in our overseas operations. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 04 05 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR tions were also strengthened by continuously developing fresh Lotte Shopping plans to improve its sales and profits and estabOne of our top priorities will be fulfilling our corporate social refoods and PB products in line with changing consumption trends, lish solid foundations for future growth by quickly adapting to this sponsibilities, which will include realizing shared growth with our 18,180 while opening a delivery center for online purchases. changing environment, based on the capabilities that it has accubusiness partners, the communities in which we operate, and mulated over its thirty-plus years as a retail industry leader. smalland medium-sized merchants. We will also take steps to 2017 Sales In the home shopping business, we continued solid growth by enhelp resolve societal issues such as youth unemployment and (in KRW billions) hancing our competiveness in each channel, including TV home To this end, we will continue to transform our offline stores into South Korea’s low birthrate. In addition, we will take the lead in shopping, data broadcasting, and mobile shopping. We also experience spaces through store renewals and the introduction improving the environment and creating pleasant and comfortboosted customer satisfaction levels by developing new prodof new formats. In order to strengthen our online operations, we able shopping experiences for our customers and safe workplac530 ucts, launching exclusive brands, and upgrading our products. intend to upgrade our mobile systems, expand the exclusive dees for our employees. livery center, and enter new platforms. 2017 Operating Profit In the cinema sector, we continued with our strategy of new cineThe growth of Lotte Shopping into a global retail company has (in KRW billions) ma openings both at home and abroad. Our commitment to proIn addition to focusing on the development of new and distinbeen based on its strong potential and the solid capabilities that viding state-of-the-art facilities was reflected by our introduction guished products, content, and services, we will continue to it has developed by overcoming many crises and trials over the of the world’s-first LED cinema, which does not require projecidentify new paradigms for retail by introducing more advanced years. We will continue to demonstrate our unique potential and We continued with our policy of new department store openings, tors. We also invested in a number of movies, including “Along omnichannel services through the linkage of leading-edge ICT capabilities, using them as a foundation for growth in the midst of focusing on outlets, elCUBE, and other growth channels, while with the Gods: The Two Worlds”, which achieved an audience of technologies with our online and offline operations. the current difficult management environment. reinforcing our private brand business by integrating our PB over 14.41 million. multi-store brands. Our omnichannel services were made even In the department store segment, we will augment our “digital reWe will become a true “Lifetime Value Creator”, offering the best more attractive through their convergence with leading-edge In the health and beauty store sector, we secured competitiveness tailer” strategy by building integrated digital channels and applyvalue for our customers’ lives by realizing qualitative growth technologies. We became the first player in the industry to introby opening new format stores, including one in Dongseong-ro, ing state-of-the-art technologies, as well as opening new stores based on the creation of social values. duce an “el.BOT” shopping assistant robot and a “Pepper” huDaegu, and fortified the position of our offline stores through onof growth channels, increasing experience stores, and developmanoid robot, as well as “LOSA,” or Lotte Shopping Advisor, an going store renewals and exclusive brand launches. In addition, ing differentiated products. I look forward to your unwavering trust and support. AI shopping guide chatbot. In addition, we added to our number we replenished our online business base by opening “LOHB’s Thank you. of smart department stores by increasing Smart Shopper stores. MALL” for mobile commerce. In the hypermarket business, we will add to the quality of our fresh foods and meal solutions and focus on the strategic develAnother meaningful achievement, supported by our position as 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS opment of our PB products, while expediting our expansion of an official sponsor of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Games in experience and specialty stores. the department store category, was our launch of differentiated Preparing for a challenging future through progress products like “Pyeongchang Long Padding” and “Pyeongchang and innovation In the consumer electronics retail sector, we will strive to build Sneakers” which created sensation in the retail industry and Domestic consumption should grow moderately with a business omni-stores and scale up our omni-sales, while concentrating our helped to boost domestic demand. upturn in 2018. It is expected, however, that traditional offline capacity and efforts on developing PB products, introducing globchannels will be sluggish, governmental regulations on the distrial brands, and tapping into new businesses. We added more customer experience stores with four new hybution industry and competition between channels will intensify, permarket openings. These hypermarkets all feature unique and consumers’ purchasing patterns will continue to change. In the supermarket sector, we will add to our product competshopping experiences: extremely comfortable rest and relaxitiveness and expand premium supermarkets and new-concept ation spaces through the creation of “urban 4 rest”; a “Grocerant” In addition, the introduction of various new technologies such as stores by commercial district, while aggressively invigorating our combined grocery and restaurant outlet that allows customers to AI, robots, big data, and the Internet of Things, will further expeonline operations. purchase food products and have them cooked on the spot; and dite the industry’s evolution into new retail, breaking down the extended specialty stores. We also rolled out a series of value boundaries between online and offline economies. In the home shopping sector, we will enhance our competitiveinnovation products such as the “Only Price” single-cost PB prodness through differentiated products and content by channel, ucts. while making efforts to bolster our mobile operations and foster new platforms. In the consumer electronics retail sector, we achieved balanced growth in our offline stores and online operations by opening new Our multiplex cinema operations will also undergo significant Himart stores, expanding the Omni Zone, and building a logistics improvements, including entering the online platform business, center for online purchases. We also broadened the range of ofimproving our profitability, and enhancing our qualitative competferings by our flagship PB product brand, HIMADE, boosted our In 2018, we will remain committed to improving itiveness. In the health and beauty store sector, we will continue product competitiveness by introducing prominent global brands, our performance and securing growth drivers adding new stores, renovating our stores, upgrading the attracand substantively augmented the service areas of our Home through ceaseless change and innovation, tiveness of our offerings, and expanding our online operations. Care business, winning enthusiastic responses from customers. thereby enhancing customer values and contributing to the development of the retail industry. Kang, Hee Tae In the supermarket sector, we introduced the Lotte Freezia frozen President and CEO food specialty store, in addition to premium food markets, as part of our plural store opening strategy. Our online business foundaAN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 06 07 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO Q1. A1. IN 2017, LOTTE SHOPPING TOOK ON NEW LOTTE GROUP SWITCHED TO A HOLDING The transition was aimed at maximizing shareholder value by enhancing transparency in corporate governance and inCHALLENGES WITH THE MOMENTUM CREATED BY COMPANY STRUCTURE IN OCTOBER 2017. creasing management efficiency. It has allowed Lotte Group to simplify its governance by eliminating circular shareholdTHE REORGANIZATION OF THE LOTTE GROUP AND THE WHAT WAS THE PURPOSE OF ings. It has also laid the groundwork for its business units, LAUNCH OF A HOLDING COMPANY. WE SPOKE WITH THIS TRANSITION? including Lotte Shopping, to maximize revenue creation by concentrating resources on their core operations. LOTTE SHOPPING’S CEO KANG, HEE TAE, CURRENTLY IN HIS SECOND YEAR IN OFFICE, ABOUT LOTTE SHOPPING'S As an operating company, Lotte Shopping will continue to enhance shareholder value by improving its financial structure BUSINESS STRATEGIES AND PRACTICES. and promoting a shareholder-friendly dividend policy, at the same time concentrating on its core competencies. RETAIL Q2. WHAT WAS THE PROCESS OF THIS TRANSITION? LOTTE CHEMICAL/ FOOD CONSTRUCTION/ MANUFACTURING A2. Lotte Corporation, the holding company of Lotte Group, was TOURISM/SERVICE/ established through the spin-off and merger of Lotte ConfecFINANCE tionery, Lotte Shopping, Lotte Chilsung Beverage, and Lotte Foods. This transition was done through the spin-off of their investment business units, followed by the merger of the investment business units of Lotte Shopping, Lotte Foods, and Lotte Chilsung Beverage into the investment business unit of Lotte Confectionery. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 08 09 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Q3. Q4. Q5. THE DOMESTIC MARKET A SLUMP IN OVERSEAS BUSINESS HAS FINALLY, PLEASE TELL US IF ENVIRONMENT IS EXPECTED TO BEEN A MAJOR CAUSE OF A DECLINE YOU HAVE ANYTHING THAT FACE MANY CHANGES IN THE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF LOTTE YOU WOULD LIKE SAY TO NEAR FUTURE. HOW DO YOU PLAN SHOPPING. WHAT IS YOUR APPROACH YOUR SHAREHOLDERS AND TO DEVELOP YOUR DOMESTIC TO ADDRESS THIS GOING FORWARD? INVESTORS. BUSINESS STRATEGIES? A3. A5. As I mentioned earlier, Lotte Shopping has It is true that we are faced with many challenglaid the foundation to enhance the value es in the domestic market, such as lower conoffered to its shareholders and investors sumer confidence, increased governmental regthrough the transition into a holding compaulations regarding store openings and opening ny structure. In the future, we will make even hours, intensifying competition among channels, greater efforts to improve sales, profits, and changing population structure and consumption other results. In addition, as a leading retail trends, and demand for innovations through the company in South Korea, we promise to thorintroduction of new technologies. Lotte Shopping oughly implement compliance and transparwill focus on its core competencies to improve its ent management, and faithfully fulfill our soprofitability. cial responsibilities including shared growth. I hope that you will continue to support us. We will transform our offline stores into experience stores where customers want to spend time A4. and enjoy themselves, and our online businesses will be strengthened through the use of mobile platforms. In addition, we will continue to offer a wide range of distinguished products, content, and services, while allowing customers to expeReferring to hypermarkets, Lotte Mart decided to dispose of rience our differentiated omnichannel services its facilities in China after its operations there were suspendthrough linkage with AI, AR, robot, big data, IoT, ed by the Chinese government due to the THAAD issue last MORE INFORMATION and other cutting-edge ICT technologies. year. Therefore, we plan to instead develop our overseas KEY MARKET STRATEGY business in Southeast Asia, with a focus on Indonesia and PP. 46-47 We will be also more dedicated than ever to Vietnam, where stable economic growth continues. GLOBAL NETWORK improving our profit and loss structure, reducPP. 34-35 ing costs, and increasing investment efficiency. We will closely monitor the economic outlook and retail marWithin Lotte Group’s retail business units, we ket trend in each country to establish and implement an optiwill maximize synergies among our retail affilimal business strategy. We plan to lay a stable earnings base MORE INFORMATION ates, which will include organizing a consultative by expanding our store opening areas and diversifying our KEY MARKET group to carry out procurement, publicity, and STRATEGY store formats to reflect customer trends, while expanding new businesses. PP. 44-45 B2B and online operations with new businesses. Although our earnings deteriorated due to the sluggish business in China, we expect our overseas operations to gradually stabilize once the disposal is completed smoothly and our operations in Indonesia and Vietnam start to perform well. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 10 11 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 1 LEADING TRENDS IN RETAIL EXPERIENCE OMNI Online PURCHASE PICK SHIPPING Offline Our omnichannel services are continuously diversifying, offering customers pleasant and convenient shopping through the linkage of online and offline operations. Our Smart Pick service allows customers to pick up their purchases in more stores, while Himart omni-sales have developed into omni-stores where online shopping and offline shopping are done in one place. We invite you to experience new retail trend-leading shopping with the omnichannel services of Lotte Shopping. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 12 13 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Number of available stores for Smart Pick Smart Pick orders (2017, based on department store results) 1 Number of orders (Thousands) Sales (KRW million) across South Korea 2015 35 62 / 6,038 2016 176 / 17,434 ULTIMATE OMNICHANNEL Lotte Department Store 2017 SMART PICK 326 / 32,763 462 Smart Pick Lotte Himart 343 Lotte Super “Smart Pick” is Lotte Shopping’s flagship omnichannel service, which combined the merits of online and offline shopping. It allows customers to order products at the online shopping malls of Lotte Department Store, Lotte Mart, Lotte Himart, and Lotte Super using PC or mobile devices and pick up their purchases at any Smart Pick offline store. In 2017, the Smart Pick service of our retail affiliates was integrated to further enhance customer convenience. Customers are now able to pick up bags that they have ordered at Lotte Department Store’s official online mall, elLotte, at any nearby convenience store, or take delivery of consumer electronics that they ordered at Himart while shopping at Lotte Super. Lotte Mart and Lotte Super also offer a Drive & Pick service, which allows shoppers to shop online and then collect their order at a pick-up point in an offline store’s parking lot or at a gas station. With the continuous evolution of Smart Pick, the number of customers using the service increases significantly each year. In 2017, Smart Pick sales amounted to KRW 32.8 billion (based on department store results), an impressive rise of 88% from the year before, and the number of cumulative orders exceeded 570 thousand. Lotte Shopping is expanding the range of products available through Smart Pick while strengthening customer communications and promotions so that more customers can enjoy the convenience of the Smart Pick service. We will continue to improve our services, increasing pick-up stores and reducing the waiting time for pick-up from three hours to two hours. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 14 15 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Omni Store 2 3 Closing time for same day delivery EVOLUTION OF OMNICHANNEL OMNI-STORE 7PM WHAT’S NEXT FOR OMNICHANNEL INTEGRATION OF DIGITAL CHANNELS Lotte Himart has operated the Omni Sales service since 2015. The service In 2018 Lotte Department Store will begin to integrate its digital channels to Create Build personalized allows customers to access its online shopping mall and order products that further strengthen its omnichannel services. This project aims to create a a marketing hub marketing channels are not in stock in the store by using a tablet PC in the store’s Omni-Zone. As a strategy to overcome limitations to store display spaces and invigorate online 8,000 Number of daily shipments mobile-oriented marketing hub by organically combining its website, PR app, smart coupon book, mobile department store, and other channels which were DIRECTIONS FOR DIGITAL CHANNEL INTEGRATION operations, the service is now available at all Himart stores across the country. previously operated separately. We will offer personalized marketing for each customer while converting paper DM to mobile and upgrading our customer In 2017, Lotte Himart enabled Omni-Zone orders to be delivered faster than services. ever by opening the domestic consumer electronics industry’s first-ever lo4,300㎡ gistics center for online purchases. In January 2018, we were the first in the We also plan to make the “L.pay” mobile payment and digital wallet service domestic consumer electronics industry to launch an omi-store by combining available without any additional app required, and to further enhance the O2O online and offline stores. At Himart Guri, which was reborn as the first om(online to offline)-specialized service functions that are currently provided by Size of logistics center ni-store, customers can access its online shopping mall, order products that existing mobile department stores. In addition, we will concentrate on offering are not in the store by using an exclusive app found on in-store tablet PCs, specialized functions for our most valuable guests (MVGs), and will focus on and pick up their purchases on the spot. managing customer service in a more consistent manner. Once the integration Himart logistics center for online purchases Enhance Manage MVGs and of digital channels is complete, we expect that mobile-based personalization O2O service customer services The logistics center for online purchases that Lotte Himart Himart Guri evolved from a home appliance store to a lifestyle-oriented store services and digital marketing for our customers will be enhanced significantly. O 2 O opened in 2017 is tasked with the delivery of Himart shopping by providing a relaxing space where customers can enjoy books or coffee in mall and Omni Sales orders. Located on a 4,300m2 site, the a pleasant environment while waiting for their purchases. We will continue center can handle everything from goods warehousing to to provide our customers with the joy and convenience of online and offline classifications and shipments. It is capable of processing shopping combined by increasing the number of omni-stores. approximately 8,000 items a day. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 16 17 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 2 CONVERGING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION EXPECT THE FUTURE OF RETAIL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ROBOT ICT IT BIG DATA DEEP LEARNING The convergence of shopping and ICT has opened up amazing and exciting shopping, the likes of which has never been experienced before. We are leading the evolution of retail through technological innovations, such as AI shopping guide chatbots that offer personalized shopping, shop assistant robots, and smart department stores which do not require a shopping cart or basket. Be the first to meet the future shopping, introduced by Lotte Shopping. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 18 19 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 1 When customers log onto eILotte, Lotte Department Store’s official online shopping mall, they will be warmly welcomed by “LOSA,” an AI shopping guide chatbot. LOSA provides product recommendations while communicating with customers by voice or text through the elLotte mobile app. Offline, it offers 2 in-store shopping guidance. For example, if a customer were to say “Show AI LIFESTYLE MANAGER me trendy skirts”, LOSA would use accumulated data from conversations and SMART SHOPPING ASSISTANT DEEP LEARNING CHATBOT LOSA online and offline big data to suggest products that match the customer’s reSELF-DRIVING ROBOT EL.BOT quests and preferences. HUMANOID ROBOT PEPPER LOSA can also recognize images: when customers show pictures they have taken of products that they like, it can inform them of similar products. The more that LOSA communicates with customers, the more data that will be accumulated, and the higher accuracy the system will achieve, allowing us to provide more accurate and customized services going forward. Through LOSA, Lotte Department Store has commercialized online and offline channel integrated services by utilizing AI. In the long term, it plans to develop LOSA into an AI assistant-cum-lifestyle manager. * LOSA: Lotte Shopping Advisor LOSA Shopping in Lotte Department Store has become all the more enjoyable and 15 millions 100 360 el.BOT convenient thanks to the robots. In 2017, Lotte Department Store introduced Number of products Number of customer Number of communication scenarios an “el.BOT” self-driving shopping assistant robot and a “Pepper” humanoid in database characteristics analysis for recommendation shopping assistant robot, bringing extra joy and excitement to our customers. The el.BOT has been active since April, greeting customers and helping with their shopping with buttons such as “Hungry,” “Bored,” and “Information” located on its touchpad. It moves by itself to guide customers around the store while offering information on restaurants and a 3D virtual fitting service, or connecting customers with service associates who can speak their language. The “Pepper” humanoid robot, which started in October, offers a more friendly impression as it resembles a person. Pepper can speak four languages, and when customers ask questions on the screen located in its chest, it responds to them through voice, hand gestures, and on-screen information. In addition, Pepper offers entertainment features LOSA, learning on its own through such as dance performances and taking photos, as AI deep learning well as facial recognition-based product recommenThe LOSA AI shopping guide chatbot is dation, making happy memories while ensuring equipped with a number of functions including convenient shopping. Lotte Department Store voice and text communication, image recognition, and department store information. will continue to provide customers with more Applying an AI deep learning recommendation exciting and innovative shopping experiengine, LOSA can recommend products ences through ongoing improvements to that best match customers’ shopping goals its robot services. and preferences. Through online and offline Pepper purchase patterns, LOSA can analyze over 100 customer characteristics such as behavior, interests, and preferences, and can continue to improve the accuracy of its analysis through the data accumulated through conversations and the searches that it conducts. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 20 21 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 3 Smart Table Smart Shopper SMART DEPARTMENT STORE SMART SHOPPER, SMART TABLE, AND SMART LOCKER The era of smart department stores, where there is no need for carrying luggage or a shopping cart, is in full swing. In 2016, Lotte Department Store introduced a “Smart Shopper” service that combines offline shopping with state-of-the-art ICT technologies. Starting in the food stores of Lotte Department Store Bundang, in 2017 the service was added to our Nowon branch’s food section, allowing more customers to use the innovative services offered by smart department stores. Shoppers can have their purchases delivered to their homes by swiping the bar codes of the products at a terminal in the store and then paying for them at a self-serve checkout. They can also make changes to their purchases or cancel them by using an “Order Viewer” device while they’re still shopping. Smart Table provides customers with floor guides, shopping information, gaming, and other features on a large touch screen in the store. As a new-concept kiosk that can be used by several people at the same time, it attracts customers to the stores and encourages them to extend their stay once there. Smart Smart Shopper Department Store Smart Table Smart Locker Smart Lockers are also available for customers who need to keep their products fresh and cold. When products are placed into the Smart Lockers, passwords are sent to the customers’ smartphones, with an alarm clock service Smart that goes off every three hours to remind them that their items are still in their Smart Locker. The number of Smart Shopper users is steadily increasing thanks to the posLocker itive feedback from customers, including parents with children in strollers, office workers shopping after work, and customers using public transportation. Going forward, we will continue to expand the stores that apply the Smart Shopper service, and will incorporate other cutting-edge ICT technologies into various fields. By doing so, we will continue offering smart department stores that lead the retail environment in this era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 22 23 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 3 CREATING NEW LIFESTYLES AND VALUES ENJOY A FULLER LIFE CHANGING LIFESTYLE SOLO ECONOMY COMPANION ANIMAL DOUBLE-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS The lifestyles of customers are diversifying due to accelerating demographics and social environment changes. Lotte Shopping is proposing an advanced lifestyle where a variety of experiences and cultures are enjoyed in combination with shopping, by introducing next-generation experience stores, companion animal-specialized stores, and frozen food specialty stores. Experience the new values that Lotte Shopping presents, offering satisfying improvements to everyday life. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 24 25 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 1 Store Innovation Strategy by Lotte Mart FOURTH GENERATION (2017): SHARED VALUES RESPONDING TO CHANGES IN TRENDS Share economic benefits and social values NEW CONCEPT Create communication, healing, and rest areas for local residents LOTTE MART EXPERIENCE STORE THIRD GENERATION (2016): SPACE DIFFERENTIATION Increase new lifestyle support spaces Urban 4 rest In response to a rise in the number of one-person households and dual-inIncrease specialized experience stores These four branches have introduced a “Grocerant” section, come families, a rapidly aging society, and more online, small-quantity, localallowing customers to purchase food products and have them ly-based shopping, Lotte Mart has developed experience stores that will allow cooked on the spot. Hungry shoppers can now enjoy their own it to leverage the strengths of its offline stores. In 2017, Lotte Mart opened four steaks, hamburgers, lobsters, fruit juices, salads, and so on, prenew hypermarkets as fourth-generation experience stores in Yangpyeong and SECOND GENERATION (2014): PRODUCT DIFFERENTIATION pared for them by our cooks right in the store. Increase PB and exclusive products Seocho in Seoul, Hangang in Gimpo, and Chilseong in Daegu. Introduce specialty stores Our innovative attempts to break away from the existing, monotThe Yangpyeong, Seocho, and Chilseong branches all feature extremely comonous domestic hypermarket format are winning positive reviews fortable rest and relaxation “urban forest” concept spaces through the creation from customers. Lotte Mart will continue to develop a new frontier Won Red Dot Design Award of an “Urban 4 Rest” section on the entire first floor of each branch. They also FIRST GENERATION (2010): PRODUCT MIX AND LOWEST PRICE for offline retail with novel store configurations that maximize the Lotte Mart won the Red Dot Award in the Communication Design Focus on product mix contain famous restaurants and food & beverage stores, further increasing the strengths of offline stores, improve the customer experience, and category at the Red Dot Design Awards 2017 for its “Urban 4 Rest”, Advocate lowest price customers’ enjoyment. support customers’ lifestyles. which opened on the first floor at Lotte Mart Seoul Yangpyeong in April 2017. “Urban 4 Rest” was created as a healing and rest area, in the concept of an “urban forest”. Grocerant Market AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 26 27 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Pet Garden LOTTE freezia 2 3 RESPONDING TO CUSTOMER NEEDS RESPONDING TO CHANGES IN SOCIETY NEW OPPORTUNITY PET BUSINESS NEW FORMAT LOTTE FREEZIA 5,800 Driven by an aging society and an increase in one-person households, the number of households living with companion animals has been on the rise Change in the ratio of one-person households * Source: Statistics Korea Since 2012 the frozen food market has been steadily growing by more than 7% per year, following increases in one-person and now makes up as much as 30% of total households. This has led to rapid households and dual-income families. Responding agilely growth in the companion animal-related market in recent years. Lotte Shopto changes in consumption trends and customer lifestyles, ping has quickly adapted to this change, advancing into the market ahead of in 2017 Lotte Super opened Lotte Freezia, the nation’s first its competitors. 31.3% high-quality frozen food specialty store, in Banpo, Seoul. 4,600 Since 2012, Lotte Mart has operated the PET GARDEN store which specializ2025 Lotte Freezia carries more than 1,200 frozen items, including es in pet products and relevant services. Currently operated in 25 Lotte Mart 29.6% dumplings, pizza, late-night snacks, and ice cream, as well stores, PET GARDEN carries more than 2,500 related products, including PB 2020 as over 300 refrigerated and room-temperature products and products. It offers care services for animal hospitals, hotels, beauty parlors, its own “Yorihada” (cook) PB brand for home meal replace3,650 and customers with companion animals, as well as companion animal funerments. It also lends ice packs and bags in which customers als. Lotte Mart is dedicated to animal welfare, carrying out a campaign for the can carry their purchased products home, and has a customrehoming of abandoned animals. er service area with microwaves and other appliances where 2,900 27.1% purchases can be cooked on the spot. In 2018, Lotte Department Store was the first department store to open a Change in the domestic pet market value (KRW billion) 2015 consulting store for companion animals, named “ZIPSA (butler)”. In this store, 2,300 * Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs professionally trained pet consultants analyze problems and present custom23.9% ized solutions according to the life cycle and characteristics of companion 2010 1,700 animals, just like butlers. In addition to selling pet foods and supplies, it also offers differentiated services such as pet walking and consultations relating to basic healthcare and nutrition. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 ZIPSA Rapidly growing companion animal market As of 2017, the percentage of households living with companion animals accounted for 28.1% of total households, an increase of 10.2% over the past five years. The domestic pet market value grew sharply from KRW 900 billion in 2012 to exceed KRW 2 trillion in 2017, and is expected to reach approximately KRW 6 trillion by 2020. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 28 29 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 4 18,180 20 YEARS Sales Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) (in KRW billion) Ranked first in the department store category for the twentieth consecutive year Ranked first in the consumer electronics retail ABOUT LOTTE SHOPPING category for the twelfth consecutive year ENHANCING OUR REPUTATION 530 1ST Operating Profit National Customer Service Index (NCSI) AS A TOP-TIER (in KRW billion) Ranked first in the department store category for the fifteenth consecutive year Ranked first in the hypermarket category for the seventh consecutive year GLOBAL RETAILER 27,948 BEST Assets Korea Ethical Management Awards (in KRW billion) Received Grand Prix from the Korean Association of Business Education (KABE) Lotte Shopping is committed to pursuing transparent and ethical corporate management along with balanced growth in both quality 1ST and quantity, further elevating its profile as the No. 1 retailer in South Korea and as a global retail player around the world. 13,351 Korean Standard Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) Shareholders’ equity Ranked first in the department store category (in KRW billion) Ranked first in the premium outlet category AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 30 31 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR COMPANY PROFILE COMPANY OVERVIEW RETAIL CHANNELS Lotte Shopping has been a leader in the development of South Korea’s reLotte Shopping boasts the industry’s largest portfolio of offline stores and onLEADING THE WORLD OF tail industry since its founding in 1979. We have grown into the country’s line and mobile shopping malls. The variety of our retail channels, including RETAILING THROUGH CHANGE top retailer by expanding our business interests to include a wide range of department stores, hypermarkets, consumer electronics retail stores, superAND INNOVATION retail categories. Our business operations range from department stores, markets, home shopping, cinemas, and health and beauty stores, is among hypermarkets, consumer electronics retail stores, and supermarkets to home the highest both in South Korea and around the world. shopping, cinemas, and health and beauty stores. We are also developing many different new retail operations, such as mulWe offer a host of innovative products and services along with continuous tipurpose shopping malls and outlets, mini department stores, experience new store openings and store renovations. In addition, we take the lead in hypermarkets, omni-stores, premium food markets, frozen food specialty creating the future of retail through our smart shopping environment and stores, and T-Commerce. Moving forward, we will continue to present a omninichannel services which tie in with the Fourth Industrial Revolution. never-before-experienced retail culture through our innovative omnichannel We are also active globally, advancing into countries such as Russia, China, services, while enhancing the strengths of our offline stores and the competiVietnam, and Indonesia, and contributing to the development of local cultiveness of our online operations with a focus on mobile platforms. tures and retail industries. QUANTITY GROWTH DEPARTMENT STORES DISCOUNT STORES SUPERMARKETS New Core Values Management Policy Lotte Department Store Lotte Mart Lotte Super Avenuel VIC Market Lotte My Super Young Plaza Lotte Mart Mall online shopping mall Lotte Market 999 Lotte Outlets e-Super online shopping mall Lotte Premium Outlets Lotte Premium Food Market Lotte Factory Outlets Beyond Customer Expectation Ensure transparent management elLotte premium online mall VISION DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS elCUBE Challenge Enhance core capabilities LIFETIME HEALTH & BEAUTY STORES HOME SHOPPING SPECIALTY STORES LOHB’s Lotte Home Shopping Lotte Himart VALUE Lotte i-Mall Lotte Freezia Respect Practice value management Toys “R” Us CREATOR Pet Garden Babies “R” Us Originality Offer on-site management CINEMAS Lotte Cinema QUALITY GROWTH AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 32 33 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS http://www.lotteshoppingir.com Lotte Shopping was aggressive in its efforts to expand sales and secure profits in each business segment in 2017, even though the country’s retail industry as a whole suffered from very slow growth due to the effects of a prolonged recession. In 2018, we will focus on our core competencies to improve profitability and ensure the efficiencies of our overseas operations. Through these efforts, we will continue to build our status as South Korea’s number one retailer and a global distributor. (Based on K-IFRS and consolidated financial statements, in KRW billions) (Based on K-IFRS and consolidated financial statements, in KRW billions) 2016 2017 SALES REVENUES DEPARTMENT STORES DISCOUNT STORES BY BUSINESS 3,204 (17.6%) 6,577 (36.2%) 18,180 DIVISION 24,114 18,180 GROSS PROFIT 7,636 7,872 7,636 OPERATING PROFIT 530 763 530 NET PROFIT (21) 247 (21) 2,229 (12.3%) 2,071 (11.4%) 4,099 (22.5%) OTHERS (including other businesses* and consolidated adjustments) SUPERMARKETS CONSUMER ELECTRONICS CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITION STATEMENTS * Other businesses include Home shopping, LOHB’s, and cinema. (Based on K-IFRS and consolidated financial statements, in KRW billions) 2016 2017 Assets 41,916 27,948 Current assets 16,932 6,295 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS Non-current assets 24,984 21,653 (Based on K-IFRS and consolidated financial statements, in KRW billions) Liabilities 24,652 14,597 2016 2017 Current liabilities 13,386 8,545 Sales 24,114 18,180 Non-current liabilities 11,266 6,053 Cost of sales (16,243) (10,544) Shareholders’ equity 17,264 13,351 Gross profit 7,872 7,636 Controlling shareholders’ equity holdings 16,305 12,659 Selling and administrative expenses (7,108) (7,106) Capital stock 157 141 Operating profit 763 530 Capital surplus 3,911 3,506 Profit before income tax 320 (170) Hybrid bonds 269 269 Net profit 247 (21) Capital adjustments (116) (2,904) Retained earnings 11,996 11,730 *The company adopted K-IFRS 1115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , prior to the required date of compliance. In accordance with the transitional Accumulated other comprehensive income 88 (83) provisions in K-IFRS 1115, the new standards were applied retroactively, and the cumulative effects of the first application were reflected on January 1, 2017, the Non-controlling shareholders’ equity holdings 960 693 initial date of application. As a result, the amounts recognized in the financial statements have been revised, leading to adjustments such as a decrease of KRW 4.828 trillion in sales. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 34 35 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping has been adding to its profile and its reputation as a worldGlobal Network KOREA class retail operator by expanding into such countries as Russia, China, Vietnam, and Indonesia. Wherever we go, we strive to provide our custom1,429 ers with new values and experiences while pursuing a well-thought-out loDepartment Stores 35 1) calization strategy. Our current plan is to increase our presence in Southeast Outlets 21 Asia, an area that we believe has a very high potential for growth. Discount Stores 5 Consumer Electronics 123 2) Supermarkets 462 H&B Stores 572 3) Cinemas 96 Convenience Stores 114 Home Shopping 1 CHIINA 130 Russia Department Stores 5 1 Discount Stores 112 4) Cinemas 12 China Home Shopping 1 130 INDONESIA 47 Department Stores 1 Discount Stores 46 Vietnam VIE TN AM Korea 49 49 1,429 Department Stores 2 Discount Stores 13 Cinemas 33 Home Shopping 1 RUSSIA 47 1 Department Stores 1 Indonesia * As of the end of 2017 1) Includes two Young Plaza stores and three stores that are managed under contract 2) Includes five VIC Mart stores 3) Lotte Super (leased, owned, and merchant stores) + Market 999 (leased and merchant stores) + CS Retail (leased and owned stores) 4) Includes thirteen Lotte Super stores in Beijing AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 36 37 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping’s Board of Directors is composed of nine directors, all of whom are elected Board of Directors at an annual General Shareholders’ Meeting. Five of them must be from outside the company. The Board also has three sub-committees--the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Enhancing our enterprise value Nominating Committee, and the Internal Transactions Committee. The Board is tasked with and earning the trust of society by enhancing our enterprise value by putting transparent, accountable, and responsible management processes in place that will help us earn the trust of society. carrying out our responsibilities openly and transparently Shin, Dong Bin Lee, Won Joon Kang, Hye Ryun Lee, Jae Won Chairman, Lotte Group Vice Chairman Lotte Group Professor, Ewha School of Business, Lawyer, Yulchon LLC Ewha Womans University Kang, Hee Tae Yoon, Jong Min Bahk, Jae Wan Choi, Seok Young Lee, Jae Sool President and CEO, Lotte Shopping President and Head of HR Team, President, Hansun Foundation for Advisory Group Member, Auditor, PyeongChang Olympic Management Innovation Office, Lotte Group Peace and Prosperity on the Korean Peninsula UN Central Emergency Response Fund Organizing Committee Inside Directors Outside Directors Name Position Board Responsibilities Name Position Board Responsibilities Shin, Dong Bin Chairman, Lotte Group Inside Director Kang, Hye Ryun Professor, Ewha School of Business, Ewha Womans University Outside Director Nominating Committee Lee, Won Joon Vice Chairman, Lotte Group Representative Director, Board Chair, Outside Director Nomination Lee, Jae Won Lawyer, Yulchon LLC Internal Transaction Committee Committee Chair Bahk, Jae Wan President, Hansun Foundation for Peace and Prosperity on Audit Committee Chair, Kang, Hee Tae President and CEO, Lotte Shopping Representative Director, Internal Transaction Committee Chair the Korean Peninsula Outside Director Nomination Committee Yoon, Jong Min President and Head of HR Team, Inside Director Choi, Seok Young Advisory Group Member, UN Central Emergency Response Fund Audit Committee Management Innovation Office, Lotte Group Lee, Jae Sool Auditor, PyeongChang Olympic Organizing Committee Audit Committee, Internal Transaction Committee AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 38 39 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Corporate Governance Board operations and decision-making Ethical Management Reducing Incidence of Unethical Behavior Lotte Shopping’s Board of Directors makes decisions regarding Lotte Shopping takes a number of steps to reduce the incidence matters set forth in the company’s articles of incorporation, issues of unethical behavior among its employees and managers. They Realizing shareholder value assigned to it at the General Shareholders’ Meeting, and matters Realizing shareholder value include offering “clean leadership education to our executives, and relating to the company’s basic managerial policies and operations. through open, honest, through open, honest, clean Lotte practical education to our employees. We also carry It met sixteen times in 2017. out periodical clean holiday campaigns and clean vacation camtransparent, and accountable transparent, and accountable paigns . decision-making Board Committee Operation decision-making The Board operates three committees: the Audit Committee, the We share a similar commitment with our partner companies through Outside Director Nominating Committee, and the Internal Transaca “clean Lotte” campaign , in which we implement themed camtion Committee. The composition, authority, and operation of each paigns and ethics projects involving communications, gender equalcommittee are determined by rules and regulations determined by ity, and company dining rules. We also produce ethical management the Board. materials, such as a “Clean Lotte Report” and instructions in ethical behavior. Audit Committee Composed of three outside directors, this committee is responIn addition, we require that our employees and executives sign a sible for auditing the company’s accounts and operations. It also pledge of compliance regarding ethical management and behavior provides oversight and support to assist the company’s executive Focusing on Integrity and read our Ethics Q&A Book . We also provide our partner comteam manage its operations properly. It met five times in 2017. Lotte Shopping’s ethical management rules and regulations ensure panies with a listening tour , during which they visit our business that all its employees will act in a transparent, ethical, and princisites and sign a mutual upright deal contract . Outside Director Nominating Committee pled manner. They are expected to behave with honesty, fairness, Composed of one inside and two outside directors, this committee and sincerity. Promoting Ethical Behavior Externally is tasked with ensuring management transparency by recommendOur efforts to encourage a culture of ethical behavior extend to soing Outside Director candidates to represent the interests of shareThe company has also established “The Lotte Code of Ethical Conciety in general. To begin, we encourage our employees to practice holders. The committee met once in 2017. duct”, which outline the basic required standards of employee conethical behavior voluntarily, rewarding those who do so and publicizduct in the workplace. Our employees can also access webtoons ing exemplary cases. Internal Transaction Committee and a guidebook with detailed guidelines regarding specific emWe have also striven to help create a fair market environment by Composed of one inside and two outside directors, this committee ployment situations. The company takes a two-track approach of joining the Fair Players Club, a publicand private-sector anti-coris tasked with ensuring that the company engages in free and fair investigation and prevention through its Ethics Improvement Team ruption project organized by the Global Compact Network Korea. trade practices. It also reviews and approves all contracts negotiand its Ethics Planning Team. Both of them operate under the aegis ated between the company’s affiliates. The committee met three of the Ethical Management Division. In addition, we have provided a wide range of ethical management times in 2017. materials to a series of Business Ethics Briefs produced by the AnEthical Management System ti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission of Korea. We also operate The goal of Lotte Shopping’s ethical management system is to ena “clean sharing” program, encouraging our employees to donate to sure that ethical management practices occur in all facets of its opercharities any fees they receive for outside speaking engagements ations. To this end, we have set up an ethical management website and other outside activities. and a mobile hotline to make it easier for our employees to report violations of our ethics guidelines by their colleagues and our partner Awards for Ethical Management companies. Lotte Department Store won a number of awards for ethical manComposition of Board (as of the end of 2017) agement in 2017. They included the Grand Prix at the Korea Ethical In addition, each Lotte Department Store has an Ethical ManageManagement Awards from the Korean Association of Business Edument Officer, whose job is to receive feedback from our employees. cation (KABE) in recognition of our commitment to ethical manageBOARD OF DIRECTORS We also operate a “Clean Center” where employees can report and ment, as well as an appreciation plaque by the British Foreign Office return gifts, money, or other valuables received from any of our partin recognition of our participation in anti-corruption activities organer firms. nized by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). AUDIT OUTSIDE DIRECTOR INTERNAL TRANSACTION COMMITTEE NOMINATING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Lotte Code of Ethical Conduct 01. Customer safety is our number one priority. 06. Do not accept gifts of money, valuables, entertainment, or other favors. Three Outside Directors One Inside Director and One Inside Director and two Outside Directors two Outside Directors 02. Always keep company information confidential. 07. Avoid all instances of nepotism, influence peddling, and all requests for favors. 03. Do not play golf with employees of partner companies. 08. Do not use company funds for personal purposes. Oversees corporate accounts Screens and recommends candidates for Monitors and reviews internal transactions and operations Outside Director positions between related parties and affiliates 04. Do not go drinking with employees of partner companies. 09. Do not abuse or harass other people, either verbally, sexually, or physically. 05. Always pay the bill when dining with employees of partner companies. 10. Do not give gifts to fellow employees, or accept gifts from them. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 40 41 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 2017 News Highlights March May Opened elCUBE LIVING Sejong Opened elCUBE Gwangbok Lotte Department Store opened an elCUBE Lotte Department Store opened elCUBE LIVING store in the city of Sejong. The compaGwangbok, its fifth elCUBE branch in Busan. ny’s fourth elCUBE store as well as its first speBuilt on a site of 1,038m 2 with four stories cializing in the “living” concept, it is designed above the ground, it includes a design charto reflect the characteristics of its local area, acter specialty shop, a multi-shop specializing including many married customers in their 30s in cosmetics, a fitness zone selling general fitto 40s. The store boasts thirty brands that enjoy ness and water sports brands, and a variety of a high level of popularity at both online and orbrands targeting young customers. in dinary stores, as well as a Kids’ Total Zone, an B’s art LOH experiential living multi-shop, and a lifestyle-orite M Opened LOHB’s in Dongseong-ro, Daegu Lot seo ented bookstore. n Dong L O H B ’s o p e n e d a n e w f o r m a t s t o r e i n Ya gp ng ye -ro Dongseong-ro, Daegu. Boasting an enhanced on ,D g aeg u shopping environment, it features innovative displays, eye-catching interior colors, and furnishings that reflect their product categories. It boasts a large number of highly popular brands seen on SNS and online platforms, including a section dedicated to K-Dermo and related brands. Customers are also attracted by its wide variety of imported cosmetics brands, makeup tools, and male and diet products. April elCUBE LIVING Sejong, Gwangbok Opened PyeongChang 2018 Official Stores Lotte Department Store began carrying out marketing activities for the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Games at its main branch in its role as Opened Lotte Mart Yangpyeong Reopened Lotte Premium Outlets Icheon a PyeongChang 2018 Official Store. This was Lotte Mart opened its Yangpyeong branch, a Lotte Premium Outlets Icheon reopened after later expanded to many stores nationwide, customer experience store boasting an “urban completing an extensive renovation project, selling more than 800 items including Olympic forest” concept. Taking up 13,775m2 with eight adding much more space to its FASHION & mascots like Soohorang and Bandabi. In stories above the ground and two below, it KIDS MALL. The floor space has grown to addition, its official online mall, elLotte, opened features an “urban 4 rest” section on the entire 67,200㎡, making it the nation’s largest outlets. a PyeongChang Olympic Pavilion. This was first floor where customers can rest and relax. It also boasts the largest amount of floor space followed by offering such Games-themed It also contains a “Grocerant” section, allowing for children’s goods in the entire country, along 18 20 products as PyeongChang Padding and customers to purchase food products and have with other outlets selling fashion brands from ng Cha PyeongChang Sneakers in November. All the ong them cooked on the spot, as well as specialboth South Korea and abroad. stores’ employees wore official Olympic Games ty stores like Toys “R” Us, ROOM X HOME, Pye Of fic badges and acted as PR ambassadors for ROOM X HOME KITCHEN, TE, and PET GARial Sto them. res DEN. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 42 43 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR June Opened Lotte Himart Logistics Center October Established holding company structure Lotte Himart opened South Korea’s the for Lotte Group first-ever logistics center for online purchasLotte Group switched to a holding company es in the country’s consumer electronics instructure on October 1. This was done by sepdustry. Located on a 4,300m2 site in Icheon, arating the human resources of Lotte ShopGyeonggi-do Province, the center can handle ping, Lotte Confectionery, Lotte Foods, and everything from goods warehousing to classiLotte Chilsung Beverage into the investment fications and shipments, all in one place. It is and business units, while the investment comcapable of processing 8,000 items a day for panies of Lotte Shopping, Lotte Foods, and ny Himart shopping mall, mobile app, and Omni Lotte Chilsung Beverage were merged into the Sales orders. pa investment unit from Lotte Confectionery. om gc July “Su per S” LE D cin em Estab lishe d ho ldin st ru ctu Lotte Group had already reorganized itself into a business unit system the preceding February. The transition is expected to enhance management transparency within the compaa re Opened “Super S” LED cinema for ny, as well as improving shareholder value. It Lot Lotte Cinema opened Super S, the world’s first te G roup also enables Lotte Shopping to concentrate LED cinema that does not require projectors, more of its efforts on revenue creation by alat the Lotte Cinema Lotte World Tower in Jamlowing it to make decisions independently. It sil, Seoul. Movies screened there boast ten can now focus its investments on its core busiAWARDS times more brightness than conventional cinnesses and secure its own growth engines. emas, since the light is emitted directly from a LED display board. The contrast ratio is also Opened Lotte Outlets Goyang significantly improved, enabling viewers to see Lotte Department Store opened Lotte Outlets movies with a higher image quality in a brightLotte Shopping was honored with a number of Goyang, spanning 16,628m² of floor space er environment. awards in 2017, continuing to rank first in quality and with one story above the ground and one besatisfaction level surveys both at home and abroad. August low. It is being operated as a lifestyle outlet facility, with over 120 fashion, household item, Received Grand Prix at Korea Ethical Management Awards from and food brands on display. Customers can Korean Association of Business Education (KABE) also visit a number of restaurants and a kid’s Ranked first in department store category for twentieth consecutive café. In addition, South Korea’s second IKEA year, and in consumer electronics retail category for twelfth consecutive Opened first Lotte Freezia store is located right inside its premises. year in Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) survey Lotte Super opened Lotte Freezia, the naRanked first in department store category for fifteenth consecutive year, tion’s first high-quality frozen food specialty and in hypermarket category for seventh consecutive year in National store. Concentrating its sales on single-person Customer Service Index (NCSI) survey households and dual-income families, Lotte Ranked first in department store category for fifteenth consecutive year, Freezia carries over 1,200 frozen items, includand in consumer electronics retail category for second consecutive year ing dumplings, pizza, and late-night snacks, in National Brand Competitiveness Index (NBCI) survey Fre as well as over three hundred refrigerated and Lotte Ranked first in department store and premium outlet categories in ez room-temperature products and its own “Yoriia Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) survey hada” (cook) PB brand. It also has an area Ranked first in department store and premium outlet categories in where purchases can be cooked on the spot. Korean Standard Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) survey AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 44 45 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Key Market Strategy Domestic LOTTE SHOPPING WILL INCREASE ITS RANGE OF OPERATIONS IN SOUTH KOREA AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND CONTINUE TO IMPROVE ITS PROFITABILITY AS A LEADING GLOBAL RETAILER. Lotte Shopping has adopted a strategy of enhancing its core competencies and improving its profitability as a means of DEALING WITH DIFFICULTIES dealing with this changing operating environment. For example, IN SOUTH KOREA’S RETAIL INDUSTRY our offline stores are concentrating on improving their profit South Korea’s retail industry has long been beset by such difficulties as structure, and reducing their costs. They are also enhancing economic slowdowns, weakening consumption, the THAAD issue, govtheir competitiveness through new store openings (with a proernmental regulations regarding store openings and their hours of opernounced focus on high-growth channels), adding more new ation, intensifying competition among channels, and upward pressure on format, experience, and specialized stores, product innovation, wages. In addition, consumption trends are changing due to a rise in the number of one-person households and dual-income families, a rapidly content expansion, and service development. aging society, and more online, small-quantity, locally-based, and value-conscious shopping. The many new stores that we have introduced, such as the “elCUBE” mini department store, fourth-generation hypermarThe country’s retailers are responding by pursuing a variety of growth kets, Himart omni-stores, premium food markets, and the Lotte strategies. They include strengthening their online and mobile businesses, developing differentiated products and services, and making the best Freezia frozen food specialty store, have won enthusiastic repossible use of their offline stores. sponses from their customers. We are capturing the hearts of shoppers with a constantly-widening number of products, content, and services, such as Smart Shopper, AI shopping helpers, and high-quality, value-priced PB products that meet the needs of value-conscious shoppers. In our online businesses, we are constantly adding to our range of products and our accessibility, while making dramatic service improvements with a focus on our mobile operations. In addition, we are introducing digital commerce businesses, such as T-commerce and V-commerce, to complement our existing online channels. We will also continue offering our customers the ultimate in shopping experiences. This includes upgrading our omnichannel services even further by combining our Smart Pick, O2O service, omni-sale, and other online and offline operations, and introducing AI, AR, robot, big data, IoT, and other new ICT technologies. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 46 47 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Indonesia AN EMERGING MARKET WITH A HIGH POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH Indonesia is a country of 260 million people with very high growth potential, rich resources, and a reputation for political stability. The market there is growing steadily, due to high economic growth rates, low unemployment, and sustainable wage increases. Although growth in the hypermarket sector is slowing, online markets and small-sized stores like supermarkets and convenience stores are picking up the slack. Lotte Shopping entered Vietnam in 2008. Since then, it has tapped into the department store, hypermarket, home shopping, and cinema businesses. Lotte Department Store operates two department stores in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. In addition to earning the trust of local communities through localized merchandising, we plan to continue with our strategy of new store openings throughout the country. Lotte Mart has thirteen stores in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, and other cities. It plans to open more midto large-sized stores and other small ones fowww.ilotte.com cusing on small-portion PB products, and will also enter the B2B business, exporting PB products to Myanmar, Laos, and other countries while increasing its online presence. Lotte Shopping operates one department store and forty-six hypermarkets in the country. Lotte In addition, we will continue with our strategy of Department Store, which operates Lotte Shopping new store openings, especially department stores Avenue, is working on increasing its profitability and hypermarkets. The Lotte Mall Hanoi, currently by strengthening its merchandising, expanding under construction, will be a multipurpose shopits online operations, and improving its business ping mall when completed in 2021. The construcstructure. Lotte Mart is focusing on building a nation of a large-scale complex, called “Eco Smart tionwide network to broaden its range from twenCity,” is also ongoing in Ho Chi Minh City. ty-five cities to thirty-five. It will especially focus on promoting supermarket openings, bringing the toLotte Home Shopping is engaged in 24/7 home tal number of its operations to sixty hypermarkets shopping broadcasts in major Vietnamese cities and twenty-two smaller-sized stores by 2020. after establishing a Lotte DatViet joint venture with DatViet, the nation’s largest media group, in 2012. One way that Lotte Mart intends to enhance its The company is now concentrating on stabilizing product competitiveness in Indonesia is by inits operations to increase sales and enhance its creasing its number of PB products. It will also revenues. continue opening new, small-sized format stores, with a focus on fresh-packed goods. In addition, the online shopping malls of Lotte Department Store and Lotte Mart entered the ilotte online GROWTH POTENTIAL BOOSTED BY shopping mall that Lotte Group had established in THE YOUNGER GENERATION collaboration with the Salim Group of Indonesia. These operations will continue to grow by bolsterVietnam is an emerging market with very high potential for growth. This is due to a large population of young people, a stable political environment, ing our e-commerce and O2O alliances, with a and a high level of spending capacity and consumption. Its GDP growth is major focus on the ilotte business. expected to be in the range of 6.2%-6.5%* from 2017 to 2020. The counVietnam try’s number of convenience stores and online markets are growing faster than its hypermarkets, while retailers are continuously making inroads into it as a means of entering other Southeast Asian nations in the future. * Source: IMF AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 48 49 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Division 5 Lotte Super Lotte Mart Lotte Cinema REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Lotte Department LOHB’s Store PROVIDING INDUSTRY-LEADING CHANNELS, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES Lotte Shopping provides innovative and original channels, products, and services, leading the rapidly changing market environment and consumption trends. Through these efforts, we realize the ultimate in customer satisfaction and contribute to the development of the distribution industry and improvement of local communities. Lotte Lotte Himart Home Shopping Key Subsidiaries and Affiliates AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 50 51 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Avenuel Jamsil AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 52 53 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Mart Yangpyeong AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 54 55 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Himart Omni Store AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 56 57 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Premium Food Market Gongdeok AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 58 59 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR LOHB’s Dongseong-ro, Daegu AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 60 61 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Cinema World Tower AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 62 63 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Review LOTTE 2017 REVIEW included reopening the food court at Lotte Department Store Jamsil in The continuing slow growth in South Korea’s department stores in Seoul as a “Food Avenue”, including a “Grocerant” combined grocery 2017 was mainly due to the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense and restaurant outlet where orders are cooked on the spot. (THAAD) issue, the central government’s tightened rules regarding DEPARTMENT STORE multiplex shopping malls, changes in purchasing patterns by valOur ongoing efforts to innovate our products and services and use ue-conscious shoppers, and lower offline store sales. differentiated types of marketing continued apace. This included strengthening our private brand business by folding our five PB multiLotte Department Store responded by adding new stores and products store brands–Eliden, By Et Tol, Between, Archiv, and UNIT–into a sinand by strengthening its online operations and omnichannel services. gle umbrella brand called Eliden. Sales and operating profit fell from 2016 to KRW 3,204.2 billion and KRW 395.6 billion, respectively. NUMBER OF STORES IN SOUTH KOREA NUMBER OF STORES OVERSEAS We also contributed to the success of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Games, carrying out company-wide marketing as their official de35* 21 5 Lotte Department Store Outlet elCUBE 1 5 1 2 Russia China Indonesia Vietnam The company’s new store openings focused on growth channels, like outlets and the “elCUBE” mini department store, while Lotte Premium Outlets Icheon reopened as the nation’s largest when expansion work partment store sponsor. Many of our stores including PyeongChang 2018 Official Store supplied more than 800 items. They included such high-quality, reasonably-priced products as “PyeongChang Long Padfinished in April. In October, Lotte Outlets Goyang began operating as ding” and “PyeongChang Sneakers”. All our offerings proved to be * Includes two Young Plaza stores and three others that are managed under contract a lifestyle outlet, with over 120 brands featuring fashions and lifestyle very popular with shoppers keen to support the Games. and food offerings. Our omnichannel services were made even more attractive through We also opened an elCUBE LIVING in Sejong in March and an their convergence with cutting-edge ICT technologies, such as artificial elCUBE Gwangbok in Busan in May, bringing the total of these facilintelligence (AI) and robot. We also became the first player in the inities to five. Innovations to our existing stores continued as well. This dustry to introduce an “el.BOT” shopping assistant robot and a “Pepper” MAJOR BUSINESSES humanoid robot, as well as “LOSA,” or Lotte Shopping Advisor, an AI LOTTE Department Store shopping guide chatbot that offers voice communications and chats Avenuel/Young Plaza on customers’ mobile devices. “LOSA” uses both online and offline LOTTE Outlets/LOTTE Premium Outlets elLOTTE Premium Online Mall big data to suggest products that match a customer’s requests and elCUBE preferences. In addition, we added to our number of smart department stores by introducing Smart Shopper, Smart Table, and Smart Locker services in our Nowon Store’s food section. The main focus of our overseas operations was adding to our competitiveness and securing new revenue bases. Although we faced difficult operating conditions due to the THAAD issue in China, our efforts to increase cost savings and sales in Vietnam and Indonesia showed healthy results. 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS Although consumption is expected to improve in 2018 compared to 2017, we will also confront a number of changes, including rules regarding multipurpose shopping malls, interest rate and minimum wage increases, and a growing trend concerning proper work-life balances. In response, Lotte Department Store will continue with its policy of new SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW store openings focusing on growth channels, such as multipurpose 2017 3,204 shopping malls, outlets, and elCUBE. We will also add to our “digital 2016 8,030 retailer” strategy through the ongoing digitalization of shopping using 2015 8,033 AI, big data, and other ICT technologies. In addition, we will continue offering a wide range of products, content, and services, and expanding our number of experiential stores. OPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW In terms of our overseas operations, our profitability-centered man2017 396 agement will continue through improvements to our business structure 2016 614 and our cost management processes. We will also undertake a series 2015 513 of new projects in Vietnam and Indonesia. * The company adopted the Korean IFRS 1115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in 2017. Sales amounted to KRW 7,567.0 billion when applying the K-IFRS prior to this change. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 64 65 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Review LOTTE Lotte Mart Gimpo Hangang added more specialized stores, including a “Smashing 9” multi-brand shoe shop. We also introduced the “GroMART cerant” concept to these sites, allowing customers to purchase food products and have them cooked on the spot. Hungry shoppers can now enjoy their own steaks, lobsters, fruit juices, salads, and so on, prepared for them by our cooks right in the store. Our investments in value innovation products continued apace. In February, we launched a series of “Only Price” single-cost PB prodNUMBER OF STORES IN SOUTH KOREA NUMBER OF STORES OVERSEAS ucts. We also developed more than 150 new PB products, including the very popular “1st Grade Milk”, “Mineral Water”, and “Wet Tissues”. 118 5 Lotte Mart VIC Market 112 46 13 China Indonesia Vietnam In addition, we added to our menu of “Hav’eat” premium-quality PB products, targeting value-conscious consumers who want the safest and healthiest possible foods, with sales doubling from the previous year. We also made improvements to the quality of our fresh foods, strengthened our sales of home meal replacements, and introduced a number of small-portion food products aimed at single-person households. Our online shopping mall, Lotte Mart Mall, totally revamped its website to better focus on its mobile operations. It now offers consumers MAJOR BUSINESSES three million products, including lifestyle-oriented goods for seniors and rental products. We also opened Bonafit Socks, an online store LOTTE Mart specializing in the sale of socks, and consolidated our Smart Beacon, VIC Market Smart Pick, Smart Scan, and other omnichannel services even more. LOTTE Mart Mall Online Mall Specialty Stores Customer convenience was also enhanced by the installation of electric vehicle chargers at all our sites. Our overseas operations saw a pronounced focus on enhancing our operating efficiencies. This included increased product competitiveness, more innovative customer services, and strengthened online operations in Vietnam and Indonesia. We also decide to dispose of our facilities in China after our operations there were suspended by the Chinese government. 2017 REVIEW 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS South Korea’s hypermarket industry performed poorly in 2017, mainly The South Korean hypermarket industry is expected to experience due to lower consumer confidence, increased governmental regulamore difficulties in 2018, due to reduced consumer confidence, contions regarding store openings and opening hours, the THAAD issue, stantly tightening governmental regulations, and greater competition and product crises involving contaminated eggs and sanitary napkins. among retailers. To deal with this situation, Lotte Mart will speed its Other factors included an increase in small-quantity online shopping, transition into a mobile-based, specialized merchandiser. more value-conscious consumption, and intensified competition. SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW We will build a quality innovation center to improve our quality and 2017 6,577 price competitiveness, focusing our efforts on developing health-food Although Lotte Mart took decisive steps to face these challenges, 2016 8,201 products. We will also add to the quality of our home meal replacesales dropped from 2016 to KRW 6,577.4 billion. Operating profit also 2015 8,324 ments and other meal solutions, increase our range of PB products, fell, mostly owing to our high investments in store and product innovaand continue to innovate the structure of our offline stores—especially tions and our decision to withdraw from the Chinese market. experiential and specialized sites. OPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW We added more customer experience stores by opening four new hyOn the overseas front, we will strive to continue with new store open2017 (229) permarkets in Yangpyeong and Seocho in Seoul, Hangang in Gimpo, ings and revamp our online malls in Vietnam and Indonesia. In Viet2016 (97) and Chilseong in Daegu. The Yangpyeong, Seocho, and Chilseong nam, we plan to increase our exports of PB products to Myanmar, 2015 (61) branches all feature extremely comfortable rest and relaxation spaces Laos, and other neighboring countries. through the creation of first-floor “urban 4 rest”. * The company adopted the Korean IFRS 1115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in 2017. Sales amounted to KRW 6,969.0 billion when applying the K-IFRS prior to this change. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 66 67 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Review LOTTE 2017 REVIEW 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS The South Korean consumer electronics industry did not fare well in Although the South Korean consumer electronics market will proba2017, largely due to lowered consumer sentiments and slow sales of bly experience slower growth due to a maturing premium market and HIMART mobile and AV appliances. On the plus side, sales of healthand enlowered demand for white goods, online sales and demand for home vironment-related products, such as clothes dryers, air conditioners, appliances, such as clothes dryers and air cleaners, should increase and air purifiers, grew rapidly. Lotte Himart made a series of moves to steadily. Himart will continue strengthening its Omni Sales business strengthen the operations of its online shopping malls and add to its by building Himart-style omni-stores, introducing next-generation omomni-sales, while also increasing its number of high-margin products. ni-apps, and expanding its investments in online channels. These efforts helped us to record sales of KRW 4,099.3 billion, up 4.1% over the year. Our operating profit surged by 18.9% to KRW 207.5 bilWe will broaden our range of premium-quality PB products and globlion. al brands, activate our B2B operations, and increase our number of NUMBER OF STORES MARKET SHARE Home Care services. We are also planning to enhance the competi462 44% We opened five new stores, bringing our total to 462. We also enhanced the competitiveness of our offline stores through store renewals, improved operational efficiencies, and by continuing to diversify tiveness of our offline stores by offering more professional and specialized merchandising in them. and differentiate our items. In addition, our flagship PB product brand, HIMADE, expanded its range of offerings from small appliances to larger ones, including air conditioners and washing machines. We also added more global brands, including large appliance makers like Beko and AEG and home appliance and other household brands MAJOR BUSINESSES such as Siemens, Karcher, and Sonax. In addition, we expanded our Global/ menu of futuristic products, increased our range of AI products such HIMADE/TV∙AV/Digital/ as AI speakers and AI air conditioners, and began operating an elecMobile/Kitchen/ Living/ tric wheel experience zone. General Merchandise/ Health Our Home Care business grew to include boiler and plumbing cleaning, mold removal, insulation, insect screen replacements, and drain smell blocking services, leading to many new users. We also scaled up our B2B operations, targeting apartment residents, wedding fairs, and general businesses. Our omnichannel services were also revamped by expanding the Omni Zone, which allows customers to access our online shopping mall products at all our stores. We also strengthened our online business base through improvements to their infrastructures, such as building a logistics center for online purchases–another “first” for South Korea’s consumer electronics industry. Our “Smart Pick” and “Cross Pick” services, which allow customers who have ordered products online to take delivery of them at any Himart, 7-Eleven, Lotte Super or other offline stores, increased their number of pickup sites and applicable products. We also introduced SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW an “AR Showroom” service to enhance our customers’ shopping con2017 4,099 venience. This is an augmented reality mobile app that lets customers 2016 3,939 view virtual arrangements of home appliances, with their own living spaces seen in the background. These various efforts boosted our on2015 3,896 line sales by 171.5% from the year before. OPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW 2017 207 2016 175 2015 160 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 68 69 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Review Business Review LOTTE LOTTE SUPER HOME SHOPPING 2017 REVIEW SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW 2017 REVIEW TOTAL SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW Growth in South Korea’s super-supermarket industry slowed in 2017 2017 2,071 South Korea’s home shopping industry enjoyed solid growth in 2017. 2017 3,350 due to ongoing governmental regulations, lower consumer confidence, 2016 2,189 This happened despite a challenging business environment, including 2016 3,056 growing competition, and crises involving contaminated eggs and 2015 2,184 low consumer demand, a falloff in the number of TV channel viewers, 2015 2,988 sanitary napkins. To deal with this, Lotte Shopping diversified its busiand increasing competition among channels. The industry dealt with ness portfolio, introduced products that better mirrored current trends, this situation through differentiated product strategies, diversified strengthened its online operations, improved the efficiency of its outOPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW broadcasting content, and improved delivery services. OPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW lets, and reduced its costs. Despite this, sales in 2017 fell to KRW 2017 (3) 2017 115 2,071.4 billion. 2016 1 Lotte Home Shopping also took steps to enhance its product com2016 81 petitiveness, developing new products and launching more exclusive 2015 11 2015 72 We continued with the development of new store formats that reflectbrands. In addition, we made improvements to our online and offline ed changes in South Korea’s population structure and consumption channels by utilizing big data and guarding our costs efficiently. Sales patterns. An example is Lotte Premium Food Market, which received rose by 9.6% year-on-year to KRW 3,349.6 billion, while our operatfavorable customer responses by meeting their demand for ing profit climbed by 42.6% to KRW 115.4 billion. safe, high-quality food. We opened its third site, Lotte Premium Food Market Gongdeok. MAJOR BUSINESSES We also enhanced our channel competiveness, includMAJOR BUSINESSES ing TV home shopping, Internet and mobile shopping LOTTE Super/LOTTE My Super We also opened Lotte Freezia Banpo, the nation’s malls, data broadcasting, IPTV, and catalogues. Our TV and Web TV Shopping LOTTE Market 999 first frozen food specialty store, in August. Calculated e-Super Online Mall “Lotte OneTV” home shopping service introduced a Catalogue Shopping to appeal to the lifestyles of busy office workers and LOTTE Premium Food Market number of differentiated services on infotainment proMobile Shopping LOTTE freezia Online Shopping one-person households, it maximizes customer convegrams, while developing additional exclusive products style products, such as premium household items and (specializing in frozen foods) T-Commerce nience with its own dining areas and by selling a variety and expanding its range of coverage. home furnishing products, we made a number of imof small-portion products. In addition, we established a provements to our delivery services, including introducing two-hour delivery system for online purchases in Seoul by Mobile shopping sales grew significantly, thanks to such a safe delivery option for one-person households and female opening the Lotte Fresh Gimpo Center. new content as one-person broadcasts using SNS, a “Showroom” customers. curation shopping service, and our “Mobile Shopping Go” live broadWe unveiled a number of unique new services. They included leading 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS casting program. We also upgraded our mobile apps, such as Lotte 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS the industry by installing an electric vehicle charging station at Lotte The South Korean economy is expected to recover slowly in 2018, Home Shopping, Baro TV, and Lotte OneTV. Our omnichannel serSouth Korea’s home shopping industry is expected to fare well in Super Yongin, and introducing the nation’s first 360-degree auto-scan, due to a long-awaited increase in demand from shoppers. The counvices were improved through the opening of the Seoul Station and 2018. This will be led by online channels, with their obvious appeal to self-pay service. We also took the lead in the development of smart try’s SSM industry should especially benefit from this trend, given the Gimhae branches of our Studio Shop, at which customers can buy TV more value-conscious consumers. Lotte Home Shopping will continue supermarkets, expanding the use of a soundwave pay service in all effects of a rise in the number of oneand two-person households, a home shopping products and services. Our Smart Pick service was to bolster its TV operations by adding more PB brands and strengthour stores. rapidly aging society, and increased labor costs. enhanced as well. ening its relationship with other well-known ones. In the mobile arena, we will enhance customer convenience by introducing the UNISIZE Another step that we took involved launching “Lotte Smart Quick”, the Lotte Super will sharpen its competitive edges by improving its prodIn addition, we developed exciting new products, launched a variety of online fitting and TV voice shopping, and by introducing a mobile country’s first-ever paid-within-an-hour delivery service. We also enuct competitiveness and productivity, and pursuing structural reforms new brands, and dramatically upgraded our entire range of offerings. content broadcasting system to meet the demands of younger cushanced the quality of our omnichannel services, such as Smart Beato its revenue and other bases. We will also increase our number of Our fashion brands, such as GEORGES RECH and Anivee f., and our tomers. In addition, we will establish new platforms, by introducing con, Smart Pick, and Drive & Pick, by merging their online and offline new-concept stores, like premium supermarkets, while revamping our PB brands, like LBL (Life Better Life) proved to be very popular with 3D showrooms, launching a V-commerce program, and entering the channels. online operations by opening additional delivery centers. value-conscious shoppers. In addition to introducing trend-setting lifemulti-channel network (MCN) business. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 70 71 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Business Review Business Review LOTTE LOHB’S CINEMA 2017 REVIEW SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW 2017 REVIEW SALES (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW South Korea’s film industry grew slightly in 2017, with its number of 2017 709 South Korea’s retail industry was stagnant in 2017, due to reduced 2017 145 viewers surpassing 200 million and an expanded secondary market. 2016 691 consumer confidence and intensifying competition. Despite this, the 2016 92 Overseas markets, including China and Vietnam, also enjoyed con2015 662 H&B sector continued its relatively high growth, thanks to shoppers’ 2015 47 tinuing growth. Lotte Cinema had KRW 709.0 billion in sales, up 6.6% continuing fascination with trendy products, a pleasant shopping envifrom the previous year. This was mainly due to an aggressive strategy ronment, and good prices. LOHB’s enjoyed sales of KRW144.5 billion, of new multiplex openings and other marketing strategies, a succesOPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW up an impressive 56.6% from the previous year. This was largely atOPERATING PROFIT (K-IFRS consolidated basis) In billions of KRW sion of box office hits, and strong growth in our overseas operations. 2017 29 tributable to ongoing store expansions and renewals, brand develop2017 (20) 2016 35 ment, and various marketing activities. 2016 (22) We opened two new multiplexes in South Korea, bringing our total 2015 30 2015 (15) there to 114. We also invested in a number of movies, including “The LOHB’s has been opening new stores continuously since its estabSheriff in Town”, “Midnight Runners”, and “Along with the Gods: The lishment in 2013. We opened sixteen new ones in 2017, bringing our Two Worlds”. The number of people who watched “Along with the total to ninety-six. Our branch in Dongseong-ro, Daegu is a new-forGods: The Two Worlds” surpassed 14.41 million, placing it mat store, featuring an enhanced shopping environment and second in the nation’s box office history. many more enticing products. It includes eye-catching NO. OF OVERSEAS interior colors, furnishings reflecting product categories, CINEMAS/SCREENS Our commitment to providing state-of-the-art facilities an entire section dedicated to “K-Dermo”, and wellis reflected in such specially-customized sites as China 12/91 known brands seen on SNS. NUMBER OF STORES 33/150 96 Vietnam Charlotte, Super Plex, and Super 4D. In addition, we introduced Super S, a world’s-first LED cinema that NO. OF CINEMAS/SCREENS We pursued a series of differentiated product stratedoes not require projectors, at the Lotte Cinema Lotte (SOUTH KOREA) gies, including the development of exclusive products World Tower in Jamsil, Seoul. We also began offering 114/810 to meet and match new and ongoing consumption a number of omnichannel services, including Baro Ticket, 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS trends. Some outstanding examples were the introduction Baro Coupon, and Baro Popcorn. The world’s film industry is expected to continue its growth, of the Stila department store brand, directly-imported Japled by an increasing number of viewers and growth in the secondanese color brands (including Cezanne and Mote Mascara), and In terms of our international operations, we focused on adding to our ary market, including videos and DVDs. Competition among related offering by Bbi@ and Dr. Wonder. We also developed a large number stable of multiplexes, strengthening relationships with our local busiindustries will also intensify. Lotte Cinema will cope with this situation of high-quality, reasonably-priced PB products to satisfy the tastes of 2018 OUTLOOK AND PLANS ness partners, and enhancing our competitiveness. We now operate by continuing to promote digitalization through AI and other technoloyoung women, who form our major customer base. They include Ultru, South Korea’s H&B sector is expected to enjoy healthy growth again in twelve multiplex cinemas in China, and thirty-three in Vietnam. gies. We will also strengthen our online platform business through an Entia, and NOSE. 2018, although competition will probably intensify. LOHB’s will continaggressive marketing strategy, including omnichannel services and ue with its aggressive strategy of store openings and the development entering the Over The Top (OTT) business. We strengthened our mobile and online operations. In July, we beof dramatically new store formats. came the first player in the industry to launch an omni-app, called We will enhance our content sourcing operations and alliances with “LOHB’s MALL”. It allows customers to enjoy a wide range of memWe will broaden our range of new product categories, including F&B overseas studios, and continue producing box office hits. Overseas, bership benefits from both mobile shopping malls and offline stores; and general merchandise, introduce more SNS and online hit prodwe will increase our distribution, investment, and production activities in addition, it integrates both online and offline purchases, letting cusucts, and revamp our current range of PB products. Other plans inin Vietnam and expand our operations by advancing into new countomers check them all at the same time. “L. POINT” Lotte points and clude selling national private brand (NPB) products and sourcing more tries. We will also raise our profitability by continuing to differentiate payments have also been integrated into it, resulting in enhanced user brands from overseas. We will also strengthen our online operations, our currently existing cinemas. convenience. with a pronounced focus on mobile platforms. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 72 73 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR LOTTE SHOPPING’S CSR SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 6 Economy Society We pursue continuous We contribute to national CSR MANAGEMENT economic growth and local development through systematic social contribution activities CARING AND SHARING AIMING TO BE BY FULFILLING OUR SOCIAL A TOP GLOBAL RETAILER RESPONSIBILITIES Ethics Environment We practice integrity in We actively protect management and create the environment and a fair and impartial prevent climate change Lotte Shopping will grow into a trusted and respected company corporate culture by faithfully fulfilling its social responsibilities to customers, the environment, partners, and local communities, with an established philosophy and well-organized system for sustainable management. Our commitment to sustainable management encompasses the economy, environment, customers, society, ethics, employees, and partners. Among these, we have selected four areas – the economy, society, ethics, and environment – as the focus of our sustainability efforts. Chaired by the CEO, our Sustainable Management Committee systematically manages every aspect of sustainability. Our focus on creating shared value is led by the CSR Team of the Office of External Collaboration. The team works to ensure that all our corporate social responsibility activities achieve their full potential. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 74 75 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 1 WE ARE COMMITTED TO MAKING OUR CUSTOMERS’ CUSTOMER CENTERED MANAGEMENT LIVES HEALTHY AND ENRICHED THROUGH INNOVATIVE SERVICES AND THE MOST STRINGENT SAFETY AND SECURITY PRACTICES POSSIBLE. ing, invitations to cultural events, and the exclusive use of VIP SERVICE EVALUATIONS lounges at our overseas department stores. Lotte Shopping’s service evaluation system uses a wide range of indicators to measure the efficacy and efficiency of its services. PROTECTING CUSTOMERS’ PERSONAL INFORMATION For example, the Lotte Customer Satisfaction Index (LCSI) calLotte Shopping is committed to protecting customers’ personal inculates customer satisfaction levels at each store. The results formation, or PI, from unauthorized disclosures. This includes ISO ➊ become part of our evaluation of each store to determine what 27001 Information Security Management System, Korea Internet & ➊ ➋ MVG Concierge Service improvements, in any, are needed. We also enhance our service Security Agency Information Security Management System (ISMS), ➌ Field Service Training levels in real time by conducting mobile evaluations. In addition, and Personal Information Management System (PIMS) certificawe hold employee service competitions to encourage voluntary tions, making our PI security management system a world leader. improvements and the use of best practices at all our worksites. Our state-of-the-art security system includes an electronic content management system, a separate network for handling personal VOICE OF CUSTOMERS customer information, and a database encryption and access con➋ Customer compliments and complaints are handled by the custrol system. tomer service center of every Lotte Shopping store. We use them to deal with issues and problems as quickly as we can. Customers’ FOOD SAFETY AND HEALTH opinions that have been received on our online Voice of Customers Lotte Shopping goes to great lengths to ensure the safety and (VOC) system are transferred to the employee in charge of them freshness of its food items, including one-person, fresh, and pet in real time, so they can be replied to within a three-hour window. products. In addition, we suspend or restrict the sale of products ➌ We also share the opinions of our customers with our employees that have a high likelihood of developing bacteria that can lead and our partner companies, allowing us to work together to make to food poisoning. We also carry out our own regular in-store inimprovements. We add to the quality of our customer services by spections and others conducted by the Lotte Safety Center. Our making improvements to our VOC system, sharing important exemployees are also required to participate in food safety training amples and the feedback that arose from them, and attempting to programs. 1st anticipate customer complaints in advance. With regard to cases of VOCs arising from SNS channels, we analyze major examples WORKING COOPERATIVELY TO ENSURE FOOD SAFETY and reflect them in improvement to our business sites. Lotte Mart works with government agencies and other food-related LOTTE Mart ranked first in associations to ensure product safety. This includes the recent Hypermarket category in the 2017 National Customer Service PROFESSIONAL TRAINING FOR CUSTOMER-CENTERED signing of an agreement with the Ministry of Environment regardQuality Index (NCSI) survey for SERVICE ing the safe management of chemicals that are used on household the 7th consecutive year Lotte Department Store is strengthening its level of branch training items. We also signed an MOU with the Korea Water and Wasteto enhance the quality of its customer-centered services. We rewater Waterworks Association to distribute Korean Certification flect customer characteristics that have been analyzed by big data of Hygiene & Safety (KC)-certified water products. In addition, we in this training to help us learn about new service trends as quickly are always on the lookout for products that may cause harm to 1st LOTTE Department Store as possible. In addition, we have developed “Sales Master” training to enhance our knowledge of our products and increase our sales expertise. We also focus on nurturing excellent “customconsumers in our role as a member of the Regular Council of Retailers of the Korea Consumer Agency. ranked first in the Department Store er experts” by offering VIP customer courses. KEEPING STORES SAFE AND ACCIDENT-FREE category in the 2017 National Customer Service Index (NCSI) survey for Lotte Shopping carries out monthly safety inspections of all its fathe 15th consecutive year. HIGH-LEVEL CUSTOMER SERVICE cilities. They include sales floor and back-office facilities, fire supLotte Department Store has been demonstrating its commitment to pression facilities, gas-equipment-related facilities, escalators and high-level customer service by carrying out a “greeting campaign” elevators, construction sites, and hazardous materials. We also since 2014. Our treasured VIP customers enjoy an even wider operate four-times-a-year safety and fire prevention clinics at our variety of custom-tailored services, including shopping assistance multi-use facilities. All our employees are expected to participate and anniversary reminders from their very own concierge. We also in safety education and training classes and to be familiar with indeveloped a “Most Valuable Guest (MVG) Society” to assist our formation contained in our crisis response manual. This booklet inVIP customers with their culturaland sports-oriented activities. In cludes step-by-step advice and recommendations for action in the addition, our VVIP customers can take advantage of our LENITH event of fires, terrorist attacks, gas leaks, heavy rains, typhoons, service, which offers them such additional benefits as valet parkand earthquakes. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 76 77 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 2 LOTTE SHOPPING IS COMMITTED TO HELPING TO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT KEEP THE ENVIRONMENT CLEAN AND HEALTHY. OUR EFFORTS INCLUDE TAKING PART IN ENVIRONMENTAL GREEN CARD ECO-MONEY POINTS PROGRAM Lotte Department Store has been carrying out a Green Card Eco MANAGEMENT AND ECO-FRIENDLY CAMPAIGNS. Money Points program since 2014 as a means of promoting the consumption of eco-friendly products. These promotional credit cards are provided by the Ministry of Environment, retail operators, and product manufacturers. Whenever someone owning one purchases an eco-friendly product that has been certified by the Ministry of Environment, they earn Eco Money Points that are ➊ equivalent to between 1% and 5% of the total purchase price. The ➊ Green Stores ➋ Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Project 5% bonus increases to 25% during special promotional periods ➌ Happy Tree Planting Campaign in June and December. The points that have been saved can be redeemed for gift certificates at retail stores or used in a variety of other ways. ➋ ECO SHOPS Lotte Department Store’s Eco Shops refer to eco-friendly multishops located at its main and Jamsil branches. Established in collaboration with the Korea Green Foundation, they encourage customers to adopt a sustainable lifestyle by buying environmentally friendly products, such as clothing made with eco-friendly materials, kitchen utensils and bath supplies sourced from natural prod➌ ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND ucts, and other items made from recycled materials. The proceeds KEY INITIATIVES from these sales are used to carry out a wide range of eco-friendly Lotte Shopping has established a six-point environmental mancampaigns. agement policy to help protect the environment and promote eco-friendly, sustainable growth. Our commitment to environmental THE ENVIRONMENTAL DOOMSDAY CLOCK management is reflected in our “Green Lotte” slogan, and we are Lotte Department Store installed an “environmental doomsday 40,000 always striving to raise people’s awareness of the importance of clock” in front of its main branch to raise people’s awareness of the environmental values and the need for eco-friendly consumption. importance of a clean and healthy environment. The clock, which Lotte Mart carries out eco-friendly green management practices in has been showing an ecological “doomsday time” since 2008, reNumber of trees planted three main areas: promoting green consumption, selling environminds people of the need to protect and preserve the environment by LOTTE Mart in “Green mentally friendly products, and operating green stores. for future generations. Forests for Carbon Offsets” GREEN STORES GREEN LOTTE CHILDREN’S ENVIRONMENTAL ART FESTIVAL We are constantly adding to our number of Lotte Department and We have been sponsoring the Green Lotte Children’s EnvironLotte Mart green stores, with an eventual goal of making all of mental Art Festival, the largest of its kind, for the past thirty-eight 14,151 them 100% environmentally friendly. This also leads to a reduction in our environmental quality improvement charges. “Green Stores” are designated by the Ministry of Environment and the Korea Enyears. The goal of the event is to make young people aware of the importance of a clean environment and the harm done by environmental pollution. 14,151 children participated in it in 2017. Number of participants in Green LOTTE Children’s vironmental Industry & Technology Institute, and the term refers to Environmental retail outlets that have made significant contributions to a culture HAPPY TREE PLANTING CAMPAIGN Art Festival in 2017 of eco-friendly consumption by means of environmentally friendly Lotte Mart carries out a tree planting campaign to reduce air pollutfacilities, products, environmental awareness campaigns, and simants, such as fine dust and yellow dust, and to offset the producilar efforts. We currently operate one hundred such facilities. tion of greenhouse gases and carbon. In July 2014, we signed an MOU with the Ministry of Environment, the Korea Environmental Lotte Mart has spent KRW 23 billion installing solar power faciliIndustry & Technology Institute, and Future Forests for a carbon ties at thirty-nine stores nationwide, producing 4,586 MW worth of offset forestation project, creating the first-ever “Green Forests for electricity annually. We were also the first player in the nation’s reCarbon Offsets” near the Godeokcheon River in Seoul. This was tail industry to participate in the Ministry of Environment’s “Electric followed by planting over 40,000 trees in the second, third, and Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Project”, taking the lead in expandfourth forests, with more than 1,000 customers assisting with the ing the supply of EV chargers for the future. effort. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 78 79 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 3 DEMONSTRATING NEW WAYS OF GROWING WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS TOGETHER WITH OUR PARTNER COMPANIES, YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS, AND SMALLAND MEDIUM-SIZED as well as buyers working for the company itself, with an opportunity to share common experiences and resolve mutual problems. ENTERPRISES The company also operates a Win-Win Growth Academy targeting the employees of its partner companies. It offers them both shortand long-term service and job training programs. GLOBAL YOUTH & STARTUP BUSINESS PROMOTION PROJECT ➊ Lotte Shopping, in tandem with the Korea Institute of Startup & ❶ Healing Camp for Partner Companies ❷ Purchasing Consultation Meeting Entrepreneurship Development and the Korea Foundation for Co❸ Global Youth Entrepreneur & Startup Expo PROVIDING PARTNER COMPANIES WITH WORKING CAPITAL operation of Large & Small Business and Rural Affairs, has been Lotte Shopping participates in a number of financial support procarrying out a “Global Youth & Startup Business Promotion Projgrams to help its partner companies manage their finances more ect” since 2015. It targets young entrepreneurs who have trouble efficiently. For example, Lotte Department Store operates a KRW finding markets for their products. In 2017, more than 150 of Lotte ➋ 100 billion Win-Win Growth Fund that provides interest-free loans Group’s major affiliates helped support the sale of jewelry-like of up to KRW 400 million per partner. There is also a KRW 105 products made by young people. In addition, two hundred entrebillion Shared Growth Fund that helps reduce their cost of borrowpreneurs and merchandisers engaged in cooperative mentoring ing from financial institutions. We also offer financial assistance to activities to help make their products more attractive and share our partners for the purchase of raw and subsidiary materials, and their sales knowledge. Some of Lotte Shopping’s other helping work with the Industrial Bank of Korea to provide them with lines of initiatives include holding sales promotions in Indonesia, Vietnam, credit. Lotte Mart operates a KRW 90 billion Shared Growth Fund and South Korea. ➌ that includes advance payments and family loan programs for SMEs. Lotte Super assists its partner companies through a KRW “YOUTH RESTAURANT” AND “YOUNG FARMER” PROJECTS 23 billion Shared Growth Fund, interest-free advance payments, The “Lotte Mart Youth Restaurant” is an entrepreneurship incubaand other types of loans and assistance. tion business that supports young entrepreneurs by allowing them to open stores within Lotte Mart sites. Lotte Mart provides full sup1st DREAM PLAZA, ENSURING MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL GROWTH WITH SMES Lotte Department Store provide SMEs with a stable market for their ports for these stores’ interiors, furnishings, equipment, and other expenses. The company also offers their operators advice regarding menu development and customer service. Lotte Mart ranked first in goods through its chain of Dream Plazas, South Korea’s first-ever Win-Win Index Evaluations from 2012 to 2016 outlets dedicated to offering SME-only products. The company The first Youth Restaurant, called “China & Tai,” opened in the currently operates four Dream Plazas, at its Main, Busan, Jamsil, Junggye store in 2016. It was followed by “Pan to Dish” in the and Yeongdeungpo branches. The company covers all the costs of Pyeongtaek store, “Chungmuro” in the Dongnae store, and “Chothe stores’ employees and their interior furnishings. The company myeon” in the Guri store in 2017. The restaurants posted sales of also opened a Global Dream Plaza at its branch in Weihai, China in KRW 300 million in 2017. Lotte Super also carried out a “Young February 2017. It offers SMEs assistance in identifying new markets Farmer” assistance project with collaboration with the Ministry overseas by paying for their initial supply, transportation, customs of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs and Chungcheongnam-do KRW 88.2 billion clearance, and interior decorating expenses. Province. It began selling “Youth Farm” eco-friendly products at its stores from the end of the year, providing their producers with asValue of Lotte Department HELPING SMES IDENTIFY OVERSEAS MARKETS sistance from production to marketing. Store’s financial support Lotte Department Store has a number of programs in place to help for partner companies in 2017 SMEs expand overseas. In 2017, the company hosted Overseas SME MARKETS AND JOB CREATION Purchase Consultation meetings in Ho Chi Minh City to help its Lotte Mart supports the development of locally-produced brands SME partners find new markets abroad. Two hundred meetings made by SMEs and companies operated by women. It also helped were held, attended by twenty-one partner companies. to raise people’s awareness of products made by disabled people by sponsoring the development of a brand called “MOASO” in ENHANCING COMPETITIVENESS THROUGH 2014. In addition, it holds promotional events every year to supWin-win partnership websites COMMUNICATIONS AND EDUCATION port products made by vulnerable populations. Lotte Mart has also Lotte Department Store: https://buying.LOTTEshopping.com Lotte Department Store has been enhancing communications with been promoting sales of a brand called “YEO:UM” to help create Lotte Mart: http://winwin.LOTTEmart.com its partner companies through a “Healing Camp” program since more employment opportunities for women. It began this project in Lotte Super: http://winwin.LOTTEsuper.co.kr 2015. The camp provides employees of the company’s partners, 2017. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 80 81 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR 4 HELPING TO DEAL WITH SOCIAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ISSUES AND CREATE SHARED VALUES Lotte Super assists the communities in which it operates by en➊ gaging in a broad range of volunteer activities through its employ❶ Charlotte Dreamers ❷ Volunteer services by retail affiliates ee-based “Hanultari Volunteer Group”. This includes providing ❸ Concert presented by the Lotte Mart Dream Catchers people in need with meals, working at blood donation clinics, and assisting in environmental maintenance activities. VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES Lotte’s retail affiliates carried out a wide variety of social contriHOPE FOR THE WORLD ➋ bution activities in 2017. They included holding bazaars, visiting Lotte Department Store works with Plan Korea to build “Lotte military units, and helping with the medical expenses of veterans’ Schools” for kindergarten and elementary school children living in families. In September, we held a “Jaemjaem Campaign” as part of isolated regions of Vietnam. As of 2015, the company had helped a national blood donation program, and a “Jaemjaem Concert” to build three Lotte Schools. It also paid for the installation of a 20increase the public’s awareness of the continuing need for blood ton rainwater harvesting and treatment system to provide potable donations. In addition, we delivered a large number of blood donawater to poor people living near Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. In tion certificates to the Severance Hospital, and assisted children addition, it helped install a 40-ton rainwater drinking facility in Ja➌ suffering from cancer with their medical expenses. We also donatkarta, Indonesia in 2017. ed and delivered 500,000 charcoal briquettes to poor people and the underprivileged. DREAM CATCHERS: NURTURING THE TALENTS OF YOUNG MUSICIANS CAMPAIGNS TO HELP FUTURE GENERATIONS Lotte Mart has been operating programs to nurture the talents Lotte Department Store carried out a series of social contribution of young musicians every year since 2011. In 2017, the “Dream 73,000 campaigns in 2017, targeting elementary and college students. Working in groups of thirty “Charlotte Dreamers”, including college students and the children of employees of our partner companies, Catchers” program selected thirty highlypromising future musicians for long-term support for a year or more. Their benefits include lessons by highly-regarded professionals, training in playing Number of Lotte Mart employees participating they participated in a number of volunteer activities in their role as in ensembles and in concerts, and scholarships. in the Charlotte public relations ambassadors for Lotte Department Store’s CSR Volunteer Group activities. CHARLOTTE VOLUNTEER GROUP: CREATING BETTER FUTURES FOR CHILDREN The company helped train children as future environmental leaders Lotte Mart founded the Charlotte Volunteer Group in 2011, with by operating a “Lotte Department Store School on Board for Chila slogan of “Future for Dream Trees”. Since then, 128 volunteer dren”. The group, which was composed of thirty specially-selected teams have formed one-on-one partnerships with an equal numKRW 19.6 billion children of our employees and our partner companies, learned about the history and cultures of East Asia and the importance of ber of children’s social assistance facilities to carry out a variety of caring and sharing activities. As of 2017, 73,000 employees had Value of donations by environmental protection. They also enjoyed a trip on a cruise ship volunteered an average of more than 1,500 hours a month, helpLotte Shopping towards to Russia and Japan. ing more than 6,500 children. Their efforts include supporting the social contribution activities in 2017 children’s emotional development, helping them discover their talHELPING NEIGHBORS IN NEED ents and abilities, and assisting them with their studies and school Lotte Department Store has volunteer clubs at all its stores across supplies. the country. The clubs, whose members include store employees, the employees of our partner companies, and some highly-appreHELPING THE HUNGRY ciated customers, carry out a wide range of volunteer activities, Lotte Mart works with the Food Bank to donate food to social assuch as cleaning up the environment and helping people living in sistance facilities in the areas in which it operates. This is part of broken homes and sole-support senior citizens. They work in tanits strategy to develop “customized sharing” that meets the needs dem with many organizations, such as local governments, NGOs, of both donors and beneficiaries. Donations in 2017 were worth a and social assistance facilities. grand total of KRW 1.5 billion. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 82 83 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Independent Audutors’ Report To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and of Lotte Shopping and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Group ) which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2017 and the consolidated statements of Opinion comprehensive loss, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory inforof Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, mation. 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the 7 Management’s Responsibilities for the Financial Statements year then ended in accordance with Korean IFRS. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of Emphasis of Matter the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to Note 43 to these Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of Korea (Koconsolidated financial statements. As discussed in Note 43, in accorF I NA NC I AL R EVI E W rean IFRS), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. dance with the resolution of the Board of Directors on April 26, 2017 and the approval of the extraordinary meeting of shareholders on August 29, 2017, Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd., Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. and Lotte Food Co., Ltd., spun off each of their investment divisions Auditor’s Responsibilities from their businesses and merged them into the investment division of With the transition into a holding company structure as momentum, Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. as of October 1, 2017. As a result of the Lotte Shopping is now able to focus more on improving its financial structure statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance spin-off and merger, Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and the newly established and generating earnings. This will allow us to deliver greater satisfaction with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we corporation are jointly and severally liable for liabilities of Lotte Shopping and performance to our customers and shareholders by increasing our enterprise value. comply with ethical requirements, and plan and perform the audit to Co., Ltd. that existed before the spin-off. obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Other Matters The consolidated financial statements of the Group as at and for the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about year ended December 31, 2016, prior to the reflection of the disconthe amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. tinued operations, as described in Note 43, were audited by Samjong The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including KPMG Accounting Corp. whose report dated March 15, 2017 expressed the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidatan unqualified opinion on those financial statements. ed financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Auditing standards and their application in practice vary among counentity's preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial tries. The procedures and practices used in the Republic of Korea to austatements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in dit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on and applied in other countries. the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated finanSeoul, Korea cial statements. March 14, 2018 This report is effective as of March 14, 2018, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that there is a possibility that the above audit report may have to be revised to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 84 85 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income(loss) Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Notes 2017 2016 Notes 2017 2016 (Unaudited) Assets Sales 29,36,38,39,41 18,179,871,101,045 24,114,328,795,382 Current assets Cost of sales 8,29,32,41 (10,543,658,424,441) (16,242,709,151,411) Cash and cash equivalents 7,35,42 2,626,243,925,953 2,269,177,234,171 Gross profit 7,636,212,676,604 7,871,619,643,971 Trade and other receivables 5,7,41,42 870,455,686,564 1,031,337,759,860 Other financial assets 6,7,22,42 1,245,665,288,496 9,979,328,621,652 Selling, general and administrative expenses 30,32,41 (7,106,353,540,813) (7,108,293,437,561) Inventories 8 1,354,039,250,052 3,324,376,740,398 Operating profit 529,859,135,791 763,326,206,410 Income tax refund receivable 2,105,153,010 2,961,216,473 Other non-financial assets 9 193,161,093,427 322,866,076,222 Other income 31,41 109,727,140,804 133,340,699,249 Non-current assets held for sale 10 3,640,679,050 2,267,276,611 Other expenses 31,41 (734,162,937,736) (462,993,764,190) 6,295,311,076,552 16,932,314,925,387 Finance income 33 361,908,734,854 196,018,851,071 Non-current assets Finance costs 33 (505,780,747,338) (371,049,029,731) Investments in associates and joint ventures 11,12 443,190,286,833 1,336,699,958,995 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11,12 68,365,883,297 60,890,419,883 Other financial assets 6,7,22,42 1,702,498,327,264 2,319,321,552,805 Profit(loss) before income tax (170,082,790,328) 319,533,382,692 Property, plant and equipment, net 13,41 14,918,310,394,824 15,932,242,057,138 Investment property, net 14 1,149,023,430,144 691,845,360,846 Income tax expense 34 (273,462,908,118) (194,974,075,094) Goodwill 15 1,923,903,641,348 2,591,950,458,583 Profit(loss) from continuing operations (443,545,698,446) 124,559,307,598 Intangible assets, net 15 502,252,395,726 764,747,556,589 Profit from discontinued operations 422,909,005,204 122,315,447,484 Deferred tax assets 34 16,700,982,896 68,585,809,170 Profit(loss) for the year (20,636,693,242) 246,874,755,082 Other non-financial assets 9 997,297,513,495 1,278,198,820,639 21,653,176,972,530 24,983,591,574,765 Other comprehensive income Total assets 27,946,488,049,082 41,915,906,500 ,152 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Liabilities Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities 21 9,423,840,226 11,994,393,106 Current liabilities Share of other comprehensive income of associates 486,911,290 (1,846,524,177) Borrowings and debentures, net of issuance costs 7,17,39,41,42 3,078,792,356,946 5,058,613,133,728 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (2,556,941,618) (3,548,375,037) Trade and other payables 7,16,41,42 3,494,433,704,804 5,785,351,876,559 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 7,353,809,898 6,599,493,892 Other financial liabilities 7,22,42 504,089,415,191 626,344,936,162 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit of loss Income tax payables 122,745,920,601 153,972,170,846 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (22,866,356,631) (15,689,384,633) Unearned revenues 18 132,564,117,803 221,442,319,692 Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations (31,728,367,381) 8,756,132,572 Provisions 19 55,121,565,042 68,755,477,976 Gain on valuation of derivatives 22 1,538,989,881 4,760,000,673 Other non-financial liabilities 20 1,156,782,508,850 1,471,475,190,806 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 11,12 (28,575,417,631) (16,228,547,687) 8,544,529,859,237 13,385,955,105,769 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 11,021,862,504 6,766,926,054 Non-current liabilities Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss (70,629,289,258) (11,634,873,021) Borrowings and debentures, net of issuances costs 7,17,39,41,42 4,588,891,563,125 9,424,335,124,500 Other comprehensive income for the year (63,275,479,360) (5,035,379,129) Other financial liabilities 7,22,42 151,868,082,611 260,489,278,105 Net of defined benefit liabilities and other long-term employee benefits 21 34,713,839,844 68,907,457,812 Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year (83,912,172,602) 241,839,375,953 Deferred tax liabilities 34 1,133,944,793,579 1,342,333,800,344 Unearned revenues 18 7,519,852,356 10,735,884,988 Profit(loss) attributable to: Provisions 19 3,302,633,974 40,024,400,898 Owners of the Parent Company Other non-financial liabilities 20 132,365,102,084 119,083,555,059 Profit(loss) from continuing operations (548,032,529,565) 56,903,906,792 6,052,605,867,573 11,265,909,501,706 Profit from discontinued operations 411,637,356,685 111,290,879,479 Total liabilities 14,597,135,456,810 24,651,864,607,475 (136,395,172,880) 168,194,786,271 Equity Non-controlling interests Share capital 1,23 140,610,235,000 157,454,460,000 Profit from continuing operations 104,486,831,119 67,655,400,806 Capital Surplus 23 3,505,685,532,239 3,910,751,867,924 Profit from discontinued operations 11,271,648,519 11,024,568,005 Hybrid securities 24 269,118,000,000 269,118,000,000 115,758,479,638 78,679,968,811 Capital adjustments 25 (2,904,413,361,094) (116,353,277,534) (20,636,693,242) 246,874,755,082 Retained earnings 26 11,730,312,514,167 11,995,610,433,739 Total comprehensive income(loss) attributable to: Accumulated other comprehensive income 27 -82,728,299,496 87,952,732,018 Owners of the Parent Company (182,926,701,489) 166,351,853,665 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 12,658,584,620,816 16,304,534,216,147 Non-controlling interests 99,014,528,887 75,487,522,288 Non-controlling interest 692,767,971,456 959,507,676,530 (83,912,172,602) 241,839,375,953 Total equity 13,351,352,592,272 17,264,041,892,677 ... ... ... ... Total liabilities and equity 27,948,488,049,082 41,915,906,500,152 The above consolidated statements of financial position should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above consolidated statements of comprehensive income(loss) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 86 87 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income(loss) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Notes 2017 2016 (Unaudited) Share capital Capital Surplus Hybrid Capital Retained Accumuated Total Non-controlling Total equity securities adjustments earnings other interest comprehensive Earnings (loss) per share 28 in come(loss) Basic earnings (loss) per share (in won) Balance at January 1, 2016 157,454,460,000 3,910,751,867,924 269,118,000,000 (79,038,578,686) 11,893,663,354,746 95,501,513,287 16,247,450,617,271 840,391,657,571 17,087,842,274,842 From continuing operations (19,184) 1,491 Comprehensive income (loss) for the year From discontinuing operations 14,082 3,766 Profit for the year 168,194,786,271 168,194,786,271 78,679,968,811 246,874,755,082 Diluted earnings per share (in won) Other comprehensive income From continuing operations (19,201) 1,491 Changes in the fair value of available-for(8,376,367,630) (8,376,367,630) (2,715,964,297) (11,092,331,927) From discontinuing operations 14,074 3,756 sale financial assets Exchange differences on translating 10,171,814,607 10,171,814,607 (1,530,560,324) 8,641,254,283 foreign operations Gain on valuation of derivatives 5,386,202,777 5,386,202,777 205,480,075 5,591,682,852 Remeasurements of net defined benefit 7,415,317,929 7,415,317,929 893,650,046 8,308,967,975 liabilities Share of other comprehensive income of (1,709,469,266) (14,730,431,023) (16,439,900,289) (45,052,023) (16,484,952,312) associates 5,705,848,663 (7,548,781,269) (1,842,932,606) (3,192,446,523) (5,035,379,129) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 173,900,634,934 (7,548,781,269) 166,351,853,665 75,487,522,288 241,839,375,953 Transactions with owners Interests paid for hybrid securities (12,849,147,941) (12,849,147,941) (12,849,147,941) Dividends -(59,104,408,000) (59,104,408,000) (18,449,391,876) (77,553,799,876) Issuance of new shares (293,309,027) (293,309,027) 36,314,479,212 36,021,170,185 Changes in the scope for consolidation -176,530,249 176,530,249 Other -269,118,000,000 (37,021,389,821) 87,952,732,018 (37,021,389,821) 25,586,879,086 (11,434,510,735) Total transactions with owners -(37,314,698,848) (71,953,555,941) (109,268,254,789) 43,628,496,671 (65,639,758,118) Balance at December 31, 2016 157,454,460,000 3,910,751,867,924 269,118,000,000 (116,353,277,534) 11,995,610,433,739 87,952,732,018 16,304,534,216,147 959,507,676,530 17,264,041,892,677 Balance at January 1, 2017 157,454,460,000 3,910,751,867,924 269,118,000,000 (116,353,277,534) 11,995,610,433,739 87,952,732,018 16,304,534,216,147 959,507,676,530 17,264,041,892,677 Changes in acconting policies (61,646,191,077) (61,646,191,077) (3,703,217,169) (65,349,408,246) Adjusted balance at January 1, 2017 157,454,460,000 3,910,751,867,924 (116,353,277,534) 11,933,964,242,662 16,242,888,025,070 955,804,459,361 17,198,692,484,431 Comprehensive income (loss) for the year Loss for the year (136,395,172,880) (136,395,172,880) 115,758,479,638 (20,636,693,242) Other comprehensive income Changes in the fair value of available-for(3,897,679,690) (3,897,679,690) (8,589,707,859) (12,487,387,549) sale financial assets Exchange differences on translating (18,857,184,754) (18,857,184,754) (11,376,721,182) (30,233,905,936) foreign operations Loss on valuation of derivatives (7,563,058,388) (7,563,058,388) 446,575,330 (7,116,483,058) Remeasurements of net defined benefit 4,448,926,222 4,448,926,222 2,822,594,759 7,271,520,981 liabilities Share of other comprehensive income of 147,144,241 (20,809,676,240) (20,662,531,999) (46,691,799) (20,709,223,798) associates 4,596,070,463 (51,127,599,072) (46,531,528,609) (16,743,950,751) (63,275,479,360) Total comprehensive income (loss) for (131,799,102,417) (51,127,599,072) (182,926,701,489) 99,014,528,887 (83,912,172,602) the year Transactions with owners Interests paid for hybrid securities (12,748,218,078) (12,748,218,078) (12,748,218,078) Dividends (59,104,408,000) (59,104,408,000) (21,990,777,300) (81,095,185,300) Spin-off (16,844,225,000) (405,066,335,685) (2,799,190,016,582) (119,553,432,442) (3,340,654,009,709) (321,231,606,801) (3,661,885,616,510) Other 11,129,933,022 11,129,933,022 (18,828,632,691) (7,698,699,669) Total transactions with owners (16,844,225,000) (405,066,335,685) (2,788,060,083,560) (71,852,626,078) (119,553,432,442) (3,401,376,702,765) (362,051,016,792) (3,763,427,719,557) Balance at December 31, 2017 140,610,235,000 3,505,685,532,239 269,118,000,000 (2,904,413,361,094) 11,730,312,514,167 (82,728,299,496) 12,658,584,620,816 692,767,971,456 13,351,352,592,272 The above consolidated statements of comprehensive income(loss) should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes The above consolidated statements of changes in equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 88 89 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in Korean won) Notes 2017 2016 Notes 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Interest paid (250,360,217,103) (239,429,788,402) Cash generated from operations Dividends paid (81,095,185,300) (77,553,799,876) Profit (loss) for the period (20,636,693,242) 246,874,755,082 Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities 74,920,393,351 (21,232,577,203) Adjustments 35 1,528,592,671,146 1,588,488,192,844 Changes in operatings assets and liabilites 35 (77,904,119,302) (619,258,898,122) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 380,993,195,851 517,261,328,912 1,430,051,858,602 1,216,104,049,804 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 2,269,177,234,171 1,751,268,312,375 Income taxes paid (251,396,088,590) (251,972,864,946) Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 557,155,433 168,454,422 Interest received 520,722,917,339 699,177,561,375 Exchangs differences on translating foreign operations (24,483,659,502 479,138,462 Interest paid (130,071,544,153) (156,486,910,259) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,626,243,925,953 2,269,177,234,171 Dividend received 4,823,600 44,755,564 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,569,311,966,798 1,506,866,591,538 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of financial assets 1,126,336,282,920 1,940,735,113,128 Collection of short-term loans 48,254,919,442 10,194,450,475 Collection of long-term loans 7,165,683,299 2,478,645,259 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 13,601,788,696 1,490,419,116 Proceeds from sale of investments in associates and joint ventures 4,196,893,613 2,316,229,370 Proceeds from capital distribution from associates 732,776,169 6,295,749,254 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 35,960,172,183 57,370,137,906 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 222,777,276 339,144,705 Cash inflows from settlement of derivative instruments 2,567,293,802 Decrease in other assets 16,954,179 7,076,678 Purchase of financial assets (1,563,030,073,000) (1,575,056,333,385) Increase in short-term loans (22,468,222,066) (2,727,844,097) Increase in long-term loans (3,991,603,127) (8,967,581,042) Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (13,925,354,217) (87,067,564,807) Purchase of investments in associates and joint ventures (16,792,156,900) (56,162,057,040) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (883,863,398,961) (1,206,957,107,243) Acquisition of intangible assets (69,638,461,406) (102,532,147,782) Acquisition of investment property (27,956,683,570) (17,403,750,947) Increase in other assets (3,202,330,600) (903,619,233) Cash outflows from business combination (7,880,723,546) Interest received 38,569,395,726 40,771,577,113 Dividend received 64,004,182,244 35,287,500,695 Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,263,239,164,298) (968,372,685,423) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 3,798,661,994,108 3,020,549,231,057 Proceeds from issuance of debentures 2,838,760,464,176 2,251,621,042,690 Capital contribution from non-controlling interests 12,453,780 34,797,945,609 Proceeds from finance lease liabilities 5,044,618,730 21,068,025,021 Cash inflows from settlement of derivative instruments 50,680,000,000 2,226,000,000 Repayment of borrowings (2,664,474,942,757) (3,018,855,489,768) Redemption of debentures (2,232,838,800,000) (1,985,866,349,578) Acquisition of additional ownership in subsidiaries (16,799,813,535) Payment of hybrid securities interests (12,748,218,078) (12,849,147,941) Payment of finance lease liabilities (24,865,924,919) (16,940,246,015) Acquisition of treasury shares (3,795,474,701) Cash outflows due to spin-off (1,331,260,561,050) ... ... ... ... The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes The above consolidated statements of cash flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 90 91 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 1. General Information 2017 Subsidiaries Location Main business Fiscal Percentage of (a) The Parent Company year end ownership (%) Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. (the “Parent Company” and the Parent Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group”) was established on July 2, Nantong Fuhua Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 1970, in the Republic of Korea to engage in retail operations through department stores, outlet stores, discount stores, supermarkets and H&B stores. In addiNantong Jinyou Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 tion to the retail operations, the Company’s business includes a chain of multiplex movie theaters under the brand name of Lotte Cinema. The Parent Company Nantong Branda Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 listed its stock on the Korea Stock Exchange on February 9, 2006. The Parent Company also listed its stock on the London Stock Exchange on February 8, 2006 Nantong Fortune Trade Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Fine Spring Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 and delisted it from London Stock Exchange on May 30, 2017. Nantong Fine Port Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Huai An Full Faith Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 The shareholders of the Parent Company as of December 31, 2017, are as follows: Jilin LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Mart (Chongqing) Commercial Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Number of shares Amount NumPercentage Lotte Business Management (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 of ownership (%) Lotte Department Store (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Corporation 7,275,675 36,378,375 25.87 Lotte International Department Store (Weihai) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Shin, Dong Bin 2,781,409 13,907,045 9.89 LOTTE DEPARTMENT STORE (TIANJIN) CO., LTD. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 2,484,338 12,421,690 8.83 Lotte Department Store (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 2,209,819 11,049,095 7.86 LOTTE MART (CHENGDU) COMMERCIAL COMPANY LIMITED China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte IT Tech Co., Ltd. 1,353,510 6,767,550 4.81 Lotte Shopping Business Management (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong SPC Dec. 31 100.00 Shin, Kyuk Ho 262,438 1,312,190 0.93 Lotte Cinema Hong Kong Co., Limited Hong Kong Cinema Dec. 31 100.00 Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 220,326 1,101,630 0.78 LHSC Limited Cayman Islands Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 Shin, Young Ja 207,911 1,039,555 0.74 Lucky Pai Ltd. and its subsidiaries China TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 100.00 Shin, Dong Ju 133,953 669,765 0.48 LOTTE PROPERTIES (CHENGDU) HK LIMITED Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 73.46 Treasury share 18,074 90,370 0.06 Lotte Properties (Chengdu) Limited China Real estate lease Dec. 31 100.00 Others 11,174,594 55,872,970 39.75 LOTTE SHOPPING HOLDINGS (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. Singapore Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 Total 28,122,047 140,610,235 100.00 LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING JOINT STOCK COMPANY Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 99.99 (Formerly, LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING CO., LTD.) PT. LOTTE SHOPPING INDONESIA Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 80.00 (b) Subsidiaries PT. LOTTE MART INDONESIA Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Summarized information for consolidated subsidiaries as at December 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows: PT. LOTTE Shopping Avenue Indonesia Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Shopping India Private Limited India Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 2017 LOTTEMART C&C INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED India Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Subsidiaries Location Main business Fiscal Percentage of Lotte Shopping Plaza Vietnam Co., Ltd. Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 year end ownership (%) Dec. 31 60.00 LOTTE HOTEL & RETAIL VIETNAM PTE. LTD. Singapore Holding company Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. Korea TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 53.03 Lotte Holdings Hong Kong Ltd. (Formerly, Kotobuki Holding (HK) Ltd.) Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte DatViet Homeshopping Co., Ltd. Vietnam TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 90.02 Hai Thanh Kotobuki Joint Venture Company Vietnam Hotel Dec. 31 70.00 NCF Co., Ltd. Korea Apparel manufacturing Dec. 31 99.80 LOTTE CINEMA VIETNAM CO., LTD. Vietnam Cinema Dec. 31 90.00 Lotte Gimhae Development Co., Ltd. Korea Building management service Dec. 31 100.00 LOTTE E-Commerce Vietnam Co., Ltd Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Suwon Station Shopping Town Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate development Dec. 31 95.00 LOTTE PROPERTIES (HANOI) SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore Holding company Dec. 31 80.00 Lotte Songdo Shopping Town Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate development Dec. 31 56.30 LOTTE PROPERTIES HANOI CO., LTD. Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 CS Mart Co., Ltd. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 99.95 PT. LOTTE CINEMA INDONESIA Indonesia Cinema Dec. 31 100.00 LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Consumer electronics Dec. 31 65.25 Lotte Department Store Masan Co., Ltd. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 (*1) During 2013, the Parent Company issued exchangeable bonds which are exchangeable to ordinary shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. Due to the exercise of the put option, Lotte Ulsan Development Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate business, Real estate lease Dec. 31 94.84 the Parent Company early redeemed ₩307,400 million of the issued bonds on January 25, 2016. Therefore, the total number of the exchangeable ordinary shares for the issued bond Lotte Cinema Co., Ltd. Korea Cinema Dec. 31 100.00 changed from 3,538,224 shares to 152,016 shares. If all exchangeable bonds were exchanged to the ordinary shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd., the Parent Company’s percentage of Lotte (China) Management Co., Ltd. China Business management Dec. 31 70.00 ownership on LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. would decrease from 65.25% to 64.60%. Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong) Co., Limited Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 Qingdao LOTTE Mart Commercial Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 LOTTE MART COMPANY LIMITED China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Liaoning LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Mart China Co., Ltd. Cayman Islands Distribution, Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries Hong Kong Distribution, Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Hong Fung Ltd. and its subsidiaries Hong Kong Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Meili Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Zhuji Decheng Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Yaodong Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 ... ... ... ... ... AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 92 93 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2016 2016 Subsidiaries Location Main business Fiscal Percentage of Subsidiaries Location Main business Fiscal Percentage of year end ownership (%) year end ownership (%) Lotte Card Co., Ltd. Korea Credit card, financing Dec. 31 93.78 Lotte Shopping Business Management (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong SPC Dec. 31 100.00 eB Card Co., Ltd. Korea Electronic banking business Dec. 31 95.00 Lotte Cinema Hong Kong Co., Limited Hong Kong Cinema Dec. 31 100.00 Gyeonggi Smartcard Co., Ltd. Korea Electronic banking business Dec. 31 100.00 LHSC Limited Cayman islands Holding company Dec. 31 91.14 Inchon Smartcard Co., Ltd. Korea Electronic banking business Dec. 31 100.00 Lucky Pai Ltd. and its subsidiaries China TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 100.00 The 6th Supreme(*1) Korea SPC Dec. 31 0.90 LOTTE PROPERTIES (CHENGDU) HK LIMITED Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 73.46 The 7th Supreme(*1) Korea SPC Dec. 31 0.90 Lotte Properties (Chengdu) Limited China Real estate lease Dec. 31 100.00 The 8th Supreme(*1) Korea SPC Dec. 31 0.90 LOTTE SHOPPING HOLDINGS (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. Singapore Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 The 9th Supreme(*1) Korea SPC Dec. 31 0.90 LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING JOINT STOCK COMPANY (Formerly, Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 99.99 The 10th Supreme(*1) Korea SPC Dec. 31 0.50 LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING CO., LTD.) PT. Lotte Members Indonesia Indonesia Business support service Dec. 31 100.00 PT. LOTTE SHOPPING INDONESIA Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 80.00 LOTTE Members China China Business support service Dec. 31 100.00 PT. LOTTE MART INDONESIA Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Members Vietnam Co., Ltd. Vietnam Business support service Dec. 31 100.00 PT. LOTTE Shopping Avenue Indonesia Indonesia Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. Korea TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 53.03 Lotte Shopping India Private Limited India Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte DatViet Homeshopping Co., Ltd. Vietnam TV Home Shopping Dec. 31 90.02 LOTTEMART C&C INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED India Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Korea Seven Co., Ltd. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 51.14 Lotte Shopping Plaza Vietnam Co., Ltd. Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Buy the way Inc. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 LOTTE HOTEL & RETAIL VIETNAM PTE. LTD. Singapore Holding company Dec. 31 60.00 NCF Co., Ltd. Korea Apparel manufacturing Dec. 31 99.80 Lotte Holdings Hong Kong Ltd. (Formerly, Kotobuki Holding (HK) Ltd.) Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Gimhae Development Co., Ltd. Korea Building management service Dec. 31 100.00 Hai Thanh Kotobuki Joint Venture Company Vietnam Hotel Dec. 31 70.00 Lotte Suwon Station Shopping Town Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate development Dec. 31 95.00 LOTTE CINEMA VIETNAM CO., LTD. Vietnam Cinema Dec. 31 90.00 Lotte Songdo Shopping Town Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate development Dec. 31 56.30 LOTTE E-Commerce Vietnam Co., Ltd Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 CS Mart Co., Ltd. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 99.95 LOTTE Properties Hanoi (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore Holding company Dec. 31 80.00 LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd.(*2) Korea Consumer electronics Dec. 31 65.25 LOTTE Properties Hanoi Co. Ltd. Vietnam Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Department Store Masan Co., Ltd. Korea Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Members Co., Ltd Korea Business support service Dec. 31 93.88 (*1) Although the Parent Company holds less than 50% of these investees, the Parent Company determined that the Parent Company controlled these investees, since it was exposed, LOTTE.COM INC Korea E-commerce business Dec. 31 50.01 or had rights, to variable returns from its involvement with these investees and had the ability to affect those returns through its power over these investees. LOTTE PS NET Korea Financial support service Dec. 31 63.64 (*2) During 2013, the Parent Company issued exchangeable bonds which are exchangeable to common stocks of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. Due to the exercise of the put option, Lotte Ulsan Development Co., Ltd. Korea Real estate business, Real estate lease Dec. 31 94.84 the Parent Company early redeemed ₩ 307,400 million of the issued bonds on January 25, 2016. Therefore, the total number of the exchangeable ordinary shares Lotte (China) Management Co., Ltd. China Business management Dec. 31 70.00 for the issued bond changed from 3,538,224 shares to 152,016 shares. If all exchangeable bonds were exchanged to the ordinary shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd., Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong) Co., Limited Hong Kong Holding company Dec. 31 100.00 the Parent Company’s percentage of ownership on LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. would decrease from 65.25% to 64.60%. In addition, the Parent Company entered into securities Qingdao LOTTE Mart Commercial Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 lending agreements to lend its shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. owned by the Parent Company up to 50% of the total exchangeable ordinary shares. As at December 31, 2016, LOTTE MART COMPANY LIMITED China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 the total number of the ordinary shares of Lotte Himart Co., Ltd. under securities lending agreements is 1,180,384 shares. On January 25, 2016, the Parent Company collected Liaoning LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 all of the shares it lent. Lotte Mart China Co., Ltd. China Distribution, Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries Hong Kong Distribution, Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Hong Fung Ltd. and its subsidiaries Hong Kong Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Meili Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Zhuji Decheng Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Yaodong Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Fuhua Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Jinyou Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Branda Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Fortune Trade Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Fine Spring Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Nantong Fine Port Properties Limited and its subsidiary China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Huai An Full Faith Properties Limited China Real estate development Dec. 31 100.00 Jilin LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Mart (Chongqing) Commercial Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Business Management (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte Department Store (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 Lotte International Department Store (Weihai) Co., Ltd. China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 LOTTE MART (CHENGDU) COMMERCIAL COMPANY LIMITED China Distribution Dec. 31 100.00 ... ... ... ... ... AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 94 95 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (c) Summarized Financial Information (d) Changes in the scope of consolidation Summarized financial information for significant consolidated subsidiaries as at and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: Subsidiaries newly included in the consolidation for the year ended December 31, 2017: Description Subsidiaries 2017 (in thousands of Korean won) Establishment Lotte Cinema Co., Ltd. Assets Liabilities Equity Sales Profit (loss) for comprehensive The 11th Supreme the year income (loss)(*1) PT. LOTTE CINEMA INDONESIA Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. 950,001,010 300,992,837 649,008,173 914,464,765 99,387,962 89,061,112 Lotte Suwon Station Shopping Town Co., Ltd. 300,872,751 232,798,414 68,074,337 44,179,092 (7,679,662) (7,676,074) Subsidiaries excluded from the consolidation for the year ended December 31, 2017: Lotte Songdo Shopping Town Co., Ltd. 282,337,154 179,952,867 102,384,287 48,641,757 9,916,697 9,923,506 CS Mart Co., Ltd. 164,205,636 49,543,588 114,662,048 394,865,643 5,222,655 5,218,412 LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. 3,204,628,140 1,178,849,678 2,025,778,462 4,099,341,306 148,435,181 141,920,950 Description Subsidiaries Lotte Ulsan Development Co., Ltd. 201,001,185 177,340,075 23,661,110 (1,229,656) (1,244,559) LOTTE MART COMPANY LIMITED 91,697,097 209,852,435 (118,155,338) 75,073,130 (68,522,537) (63,957,401) Spin-off Lotte Card Co., Ltd. Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong) Co., Limited 587,485,106 1,062,876,753 (475,391,647) (1,136,024,639) (1,164,081,242) eB Card Co., Ltd. Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries 393,239,884 816,976,346 (423,736,462) 129,656,956 (300,535,365) (275,188,474) Gyeonggi Smartcard Co., Ltd. LOTTE PROPERTIES (CHENGDU) HK LIMITED 411,616,371 230,665,311 180,951,060 (7,768,766) (31,457,398) Inchon Smartcard Co., Ltd. Lotte Properties (Chengdu) Limited 453,054,117 53,136,832 399,917,285 296,899,262 48,736,431 26,940,128 The 6th Supreme LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING JOINT STOCK COMPANY 407,951,521 399,075,221 8,876,300 262,374,690 (14,226,111) (16,278,343) The 7th Supreme (Formerly, LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING CO., LTD.) The 8th Supreme LOTTE SHOPPING HOLDINGS(SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. 452,387,116 15,908 452,371,208 (53,587,514) (114,340,684) The 9th Supreme PT. LOTTE SHOPPING INDONESIA 286,978,227 155,111,527 131,866,700 857,311,840 11,510,661 (6,209,678) The 10th Supreme PT. LOTTE MART INDONESIA 145,545,224 177,948,111 (32,402,887) 246,934,109 (21,217,165) (18,087,152) The 11th Supreme LOTTE PROPERTIES (HANOI) SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. 145,707,397 39,209 145,668,188 (44,468) (18,687,720) PT. Lotte Members Indonesia LOTTE PROPERTIES HANOI CO., LTD. 148,213,445 4,907,397 143,306,048 (1,553,892) (19,570,117) LOTTE Members China Lotte Members Vietnam Co., Ltd. (*1) Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations are included. Korea Seven Co., Ltd. Buy the way Inc. Lotte Members Co., Ltd 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) LOTTE.COM INC LOTTE PS NET Assets Liabilities Equity Sales Profit (loss) for comprehensive Liquidation Chongqing Yujia Lucky Pai Commercial Co., Ltd. the year income (loss)(*1) (Formerly, Chongqing Yujia Co., Ltd.) Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. 888,217,122 298,270,061 589,947,061 886,033,482 37,990,575 31,785,442 Lotte Suwon Station Shopping Town Co., Ltd. 317,500,602 241,750,191 75,750,411 43,989,245 (8,643,967) (8,642,840) Lotte Songdo Shopping Town Co., Ltd. 241,375,942 152,123,797 89,252,145 40,364,723 (3,988,306) (3,986,679) CS Mart Co., Ltd. 165,638,148 55,849,185 109,788,963 420,599,698 8,729,497 8,733,277 LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. 3,004,858,848 1,109,197,480 1,895,661,368 3,939,442,418 121,428,017 122,984,965 Lotte Ulsan Development Co., Ltd. 65,831,854 41,006,576 24,825,278 (238,002) (47,882) LOTTE MART COMPANY LIMITED 167,016,174 221,214,111 (54,197,937) 306,080,050 (30,973,935) (29,785,787) Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong) Co., Limited 1,061,307,199 772,081,548 289,225,651 689,332 (268,922,172) (254,553,348) Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries 567,493,894 905,169,333 (337,675,439) 696,047,424 (151,585,833) (150,594,962) LOTTE PROPERTIES (CHENGDU) HK LIMITED 442,194,070 229,785,613 212,408,457 (7,129,810) (785,148) Lotte Properties (Chengdu) Limited 623,386,177 250,409,020 372,977,157 (11,832,895) (27,943,365) LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING JOINT STOCK COMPANY 469,970,844 444,816,201 25,154,643 263,150,572 (13,367,117) (13,018,034) (Formerly, LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING CO., LTD.) LOTTE SHOPPING HOLDINGS(SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. 591,378,674 7,740 591,370,934 (45,096,387) (36,610,365) PT. LOTTE SHOPPING INDONESIA 314,895,730 176,819,352 138,076,378 845,570,536 12,642,854 19,245,700 PT. LOTTE MART INDONESIA 184,711,594 199,027,330 (14,315,736) 268,900,920 (15,953,344) (16,337,984) LOTTE PROPERTIES (HANOI) SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. 164,355,907 164,355,907 (89) 4,897,776 LOTTE PROPERTIES HANOI CO., LTD. 162,876,192 28 162,876,164 17,424 2,457,460 (*1) Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations are included. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 96 97 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (e) Non-controlling interests (f) Changes in the Parent Company’s ownership interest in subsidiaries that did not result in loss in control Financial information of non-controlling interests of subsidiaries that are material to the Group for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: Changes in the Parent Company's percentage of ownership due to additional acquisitions or issuance of shares of subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2017, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2017 The Parent Company's The Parent Company's Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. (*2) Percentage of portion in net assets (*1)(*2) ownership (%) Ownership interests held by non-controlling interests 46.97% 34.75% Subsidiaries Transaction Amount Current assets 688,044,238 930,000,739 Before After Before After Non-current assets 320,065,949 782,004,526 LOTTE E-COMMERCE VIETNAM CO., LTD Issuance of new 23,634,450 100.00% 100.00% 3,320,624 26,955,074 Current liabilities 290,715,907 846,911,975 Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong)Co., Limited shares 1,658,160 100.00% 100.00% 410,462,275 412,120,435 Non-current liabilities 11,683,929 378,090,216 LHSC Limited 40,793,530 100.00% 100.00% (26,156,567) 14,636,964 Net assets 705,710,351 487,003,074 Additional acquisition 12,189,816 91.14% 100.00% (23,837,938) (26,156,567) Net assets attributable to non-controlling interests 331,528,473 169,249,206 Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries Issuance of new 16,998,150 100.00% 100.00% (342,659,807) (325,661,657) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year 14,089,515 4,102,219 shares 172,129,300 100.00% 100.00% (325,661,657) (153,532,357) Sales 924,795,177 4,099,341,306 Lotte Cinema Hong Kong Co., Limited 1,453,495 100.00% 100.00% 465,299 1,918,794 Profit for the year 83,521,056 144,357,966 Liaoning LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. 28,267,500 100.00% 100.00% (67,549,591) (39,282,091) Total comprehensive income 72,767,287 137,843,734 Qingdao LOTTE Mart Commercial Co., Ltd. 28,028,200 100.00% 100.00% (53,172,768) (25,144,568) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 39,079,024 50,169,028 LOTTE SHOPPING HOLDINGS (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. 1,699,747 100.00% 100.00% 480,419,551 482,119,298 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 34,005,924 47,905,124 2,016,000 100.00% 100.00% 482,119,298 484,135,298 Cash flows from operating activities 118,547,242 251,737,320 Cash flows from investing activities (79,310,802) (52,820,327) Cash flows from financing activities (30,000,000) (27,497,271) Effect of changes in exchange rate (331,961) 2. Basis of Accounting (d) Use of estimates and judgments Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8,904,479 171,419,722 The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with Korean IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and as(*1) The financial information above is based on the consolidated financial statements. sumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the report(a) Statement of compliance (*2) The information of subsidiaries above is adjusted to reflect goodwill and fair values from business combination, but not intercompany transactions. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance ed amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic differ from these estimates. (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 of Korea (“Korean IFRS”), as prescribed in the Act on External Audits of Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Stock Corporation in the Republic of Korea. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period prospectively. Woori Home Shopping & LOTTE Himart Co., Korea Seven Co., Ltd. LOTTE Himart Co., Television Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2) Ltd. (*1)(*2) (*2) Ltd. (*2) The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2018, which will be submitted for approval (i) Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties Ownership interests held by non-controlling interests 46.97% 6.22% 48.86% 34.75% to the shareholders’ meeting to be held on March 23, 2018. Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a Current assets 606,759,265 9,730,368,157 372,480,770 730,013,020 Non-current assets 326,452,639 495,254,751 736,772,714 787,601,865 significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial Current liabilities 282,042,801 3,192,706,083 628,015,960 450,474,434 (b) Basis of measurement year are included in the following notes: Non-current liabilities 17,963,826 4,882,008,219 162,113,838 706,177,255 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical Net assets 633,205,277 2,150,908,606 319,123,686 360,963,196 Note 13 – Property, plant and equipment cost basis, except for the following material items in the statement of finanNet assets attributable to non-controlling interests 311,612,064 134,981,027 155,543,423 125,446,301 cial position: Note 15 – Goodwill and Intangible assets Dividends paid to non-controlling interests during the year 14,089,515 831,969 3,527,908 896,643,970 1,786,996,488 3,522,759,882 3,939,442,418 Note 19 – Provisions Sales Profit for the year 66,471,849 110,493,897 40,942,125 117,350,802 derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value Note 21 – Employee benefits Total comprehensive income 60,191,436 113,591,873 40,111,393 118,907,749 financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value Note 34 – Tax expense Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 31,034,499 7,107,755 20,005,041 40,783,172 Note 39 – Contingencies and Commitments available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 28,077,953 7,302,932 19,599,132 41,324,261 liabilities for defined benefit plans are recognized at the net of the total present Note 42 – Risk management Cash flows from operating activities 93,250,042 (328,571,979) 102,520,657 236,936,418 Cash flows from investing activities (4,633,353) (58,255,384) (85,924,010) (77,852,580) value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets Cash flows from financing activities (30,000,000) 471,557,368 20,439,034 (130,888,642) (ii) Measurement of fair value Effect of changes in exchange rate (94,570) 264,924 (c) Functional and presentation currency A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 58,522,119 84,994,929 37,035,681 28,195,196 measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and The financial statements of the Parent Company and each subsidiary are prepared in functional currency of the respective operation. These consoliliabilities. The Group has an established control framework with respect (*1) The financial information above is based on the consolidated financial statements (*2) The information of subsidiaries above is adjusted to reflect goodwill and fair values from business combination, but not intercompany transactions. dated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Parent to the measurement of fair values. This includes a valuation team that has Company’s functional currency. overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 fair values, and reports directly to the CFO. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 98 99 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and billion. As at December 31, 2017, both inventories and trade payables de(ii) Statement of comprehensive income All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes creased by ₩1,385.6 billion. With applying Korean IFRS 1115, sales and gross profit decreased by Group’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team ₩4,827.8 billion and ₩135.8 billion, respectively, and operating profit and to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the concluIn addition, under Korean IFRS 1115, the Group deducts logistics considerprofit for the year increased by ₩3.4 billion and ₩8.2 billion, respectively, discrete financial information is available. sion that such valuations meet the requirements of Korean IFRS, including ation received from customers related to purchase of goods, previously recin the statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December The Group has six reportable segments which consist of department stores, the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classiognized as sales, from purchase of goods. Accordingly, both sales and cost 31, 2017. discount stores, finance business, consumer electronics retail, convenience fied. of sales during the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by ₩253.4 stores and other, as described in Note 38. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses marbillion. (iii) Statement of cash flows ket observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorized into differThe changes above do not have an impact on operating profit or profit for With applying Korean IFRS 1115, there is no significant impact on cash flows 4-2. Basis of Consolidation ent levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation the year. from operating activities, investing activities or financing activities for the (i) Business combinations techniques as follows. year ended December 31, 2017. The Group applies the acquisition method for business combination except (b) Accounting for return and refunds for business combinations of entities under a common control. The considLevel 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets When the customer has a right to return the product within a given peAmendments to Korean IFRS 1007 Statement of Cash Flows eration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as or liabilities riod, the Group previously recognized a provision for returns which was are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable measured on a net basis at the margin on the sale. Sales were adjusted Amendments to Korean IFRS 1007 Statement of Cash flows require to proannually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived for the expected value of the returns and cost of sales were adjusted for vide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changprofit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, exfrom prices) the value of the corresponding goods expected to be returned. es in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising cept for the issuance cost of debt or equity securities accounted for accordLevel 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable Under Korean IFRS 1115, if the customer returns a product, the entity is from cash flows and non-cash flows (Note 35). ing to Korean IFRS 1032 and 1039. market data (unobservable inputs) obliged to refund the purchase price. Therefore, a gross contract liability The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the set(refund liability) for the expected refunds to customers is recognized and Amendments to Korean IFRS 1012 Income Tax tlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognized If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability fall into sales are adjusted. At the same time, the Group has a right to collect in profit or loss. different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement the product from the customer when the customer exercises the right Amendments to Korean IFRS 1012 clarify how to account for deferred tax Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquiis categorized in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as of return and recognizes an asset and adjusts cost of sales. The asset is assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. Korean IFRS 1012 sition. If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definithe lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. measured by the carrying amount of the product. Accordingly, sales and provides requirements on the recognition and measurement of current or tion of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured The Group recognizes transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased by ₩1.6 deferred tax liabilities or assets. The amendments issued clarify the requireand settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. billion and ₩1.7 billion, respectively. As at December 31, 2017, contract ments on recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses, to address changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values is asset and contract liability increased by ₩3.4 billion and ₩1.8 billion, diversity in practice. The Group does not expect the amendment to have a profit or loss. included in following note: respectively. The costs incurred in the course of collecting the products significant impact on the financial statements. If share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be are not material as the customer usually returns the product in a saleable exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards), Note 7 Fair value of financial instruments condition at the store. Amendments to Korean IFRS 1112 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business com(c) Accounting for customer loyalty program Amendments to Korean IFRS 1112 clarify when an entity’s interest in a bination. This determination is based on the market-based measure of the 3. Changes in Accounting Policies Under Korean IFRS 1115, the total consideration is allocated to the points subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate is classified as held for sales or replacement awards compared with the market-based measure of the acand goods based on the relative stand-alone selling prices. As a result discontinued operations in accordance with Korean IFRS 1105, the entity is quiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to Korean IFRS 1115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers of recognizing contractual liabilities in relation to VIP system, one of the required to disclose other information except for summarized financial inforpre-combination service. Group’s customer loyalty programs, sales during the year ended December mation in accordance with Korean IFRS 1112. The Group does not expect 31, 2017 increased by ₩4.5 billion and contractual liabilities as at December the amendment to have a significant impact on the financial statements. (ii) Non-controlling interests (“NCI”) The Group early adopted of Korean IFRS 1115 Revenue from Contracts with 31, 2017 increased by ₩60.8 billion. NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable Customers. In accordance with Korean IFRS 1115, new standard was applied net assets at the date of acquisition. retrospectively, and the cumulative effects of applying the standard was adjusted on January 1, 2017, the initial date of application. The effects of the (d) The impacts of Korean IFRS 1115 on the 2017 financial state4. Significant Accounting Policies Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of ments are as follows: control are accounted for as equity transactions. adoption of Korean IFRS 1115 adjustments are explained as below. (i) Statement of financial position The significant accounting policies applied by the Group in preparation of With applying Korean IFRS 1115, assets decreased by ₩1,379.1 billion, in(iii) Subsidiaries (a) Sales its consolidated financial statements are included below. The accounting cluding decrease in inventories by ₩1,378.9 billion. Liabilities decreased by Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an enThe Group previously recognized specific sales and cost of sales as gross policies set below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in ₩1,326.1 billion, including decrease in trade payables by ₩1,378.9 billion tity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involveamount in the status of principal. Under Korean IFRS 1115, the Group recogthese consolidated financial statements, except for the changes in accountand increase in unearned revenues by ₩69.2 billion, in the statement of ment with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its nizes certain specific sales on a net basis after deducting the cost of specific ing policies as explained in Note 3. financial position as at December 31, 2017. power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries sales, in the status of agent. As a result of this change, both sales and cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2017 decreased by ₩4,578.4 4-1. Operating Segment AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 10 0 101 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on 4-4. Inventories (iv) Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value hedge which control commences until the date on which control ceases. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of busithat are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as financial Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated (iv) Loss of control ness, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments or as a fair value hedge are recognized in profit or loss. The gain or loss from When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets The cost of inventories is based on the total-weighted average method, loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value for a derivative hedging and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other components moving average method and retail method except for goods-in-transit of at fair value, which changes in fair value, net of any tax effect, recorded in instrument and the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interwhich cost is determined by the specific identification method. other comprehensive income in equity. Investments in equity instruments hedged risk are recognized in profit or loss in the same line item of the conest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control When inventories are sold, the carrying amount of those inventories is recthat do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair solidated statement of comprehensive income. is lost. ognized as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recogvalue cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrunized. The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realizable value must be settled by delivery of such unquoted equity instruments are meament expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the hedge no longer (v) Interests in equity method accounted Investees and all losses of inventories are recognized as an expense in the period the sured at cost. meets the criteria for hedge accounting. Any adjustment arising from gain The Group’s interests in equity method accounted investees comprise interwrite-down or loss occurs. The amount of any reversal of any write-down or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is amortized to ests in associates and joint ventures. of inventories, arising from an increase in net realizable value, is deducted (v) Derecognition of financial assets profit or loss from the date the hedge accounting is discontinued. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, from cost of sales for the period when such inventories are recognized as The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. cost of sales. the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive Cash flow hedge A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather 4-5. Non-derivative Financial Assets substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset When a derivative is designated to hedge the variability in cash flows attribthan rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. The Group recognizes and measures non-derivative financial assets by the are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or utable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity following four categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, retained by the Group is recognized as a separate asset or liability. highly probable forecasted transaction that could affect profit or loss, the method. They are initially recognized at cost, which includes transaction held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables and available-for-sale If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statefinancial assets. The Group recognizes financial assets in the consolidated the transferred financial assets, the Group continues to recognize the transin other comprehensive income, net of tax, and presented in the hedging ments include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equity statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the ferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration reserve in equity. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the method accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or contractual provisions of the instrument. received. derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. joint control ceases. Upon initial recognition, non-derivative financial assets are measured at their If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accountfair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit (vi) Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities ing, expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or the designation is revoked, (vi) Transactions eliminated on consolidation or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset’s acquisiFinancial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealized income and extion or issuance. presented in the consolidated statement of financial position only when or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognized in other compenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealized gains the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized prehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss in the periods during which arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss amounts, and there is the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the the forecasted transaction occurs. If the forecasted transaction is no longer against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. A financial asset is classified as financial assets are classified at fair value asset and settle the liability simultaneously. expected to occur, then the balance in other comprehensive income is recUnrealized losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealized gains, but through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon ognized immediately in profit or loss. only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. initial recognition. Upon initial recognition, transaction costs are recognized 4-6. Derivative Financial Instruments, including Hedge Accounting in profit or loss when incurred. Financial assets at fair value through profit or Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial rec(ii) Other derivative financial instruments (vii) Business combinations under a common control loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit ognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are Changes in the fair value of other derivative financial instrument not desigThe assets and liabilities acquired under business combinations under comor loss. accounted for as described below. nated as a hedging instrument are recognized immediately in profit or loss. mon control are recognized at the carrying amounts recognized previously in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent. The differ(ii) Held-to-maturity investments (i) Hedge accounting 4-7. Impairment of Financial Assets ence between consideration transferred and carrying amounts of net assets A non-derivative financial asset with a fixed or determinable payment and The Group holds forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, currenA financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at acquired is recognized as capital surplus. fixed maturity, for which the Group has the positive intention and ability to cy swaps and other derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk and each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it hold to maturity, are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Subsequent foreign exchange risk. The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruis impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a 4-3. Cash and Cash Equivalents to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amorments to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with tized cost using the effective interest method. firm commitments (a fair value hedge) and foreign currency risk of highly loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that maturities of three months or less from the acquisition date that are subject probable forecasted transactions or firm commitments (a cash flow hedge). asset that can be estimated reliably. However, losses expected as a result of to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and are used by the (iii) Loans and receivables On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relafuture events, regardless of likelihood, are not recognized. Group in the management of its short-term commitments. Equity investLoans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable paytionship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, including the If there is objective evidence that financial instruments are impaired, impairments are excluded from cash equivalents unless they are, in substance, ments that are not quoted in an active market. Subsequent to initial recrisk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transment losses are measured and recognized. cash equivalents, for example in the case of preferred shares when it has a ognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the action, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveshort maturity with a specified redemption date. effective interest method. ness of the hedging relationship. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 102 103 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (i) Financial assets measured at amortized cost future economic benefits are expected to be consumed on a straight-line 4-10. Investment Property value less costs to sell. The value in use is estimated by applying a pre-tax An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized basis. Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital discount rate that reflect current market assessments of the time value of cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the appreciation is classified as investment property. Investment property is inimoney and the risks specific to the asset or CGU for which estimated future present value of its estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s The estimated useful lives of the Group’s property, plant and equipment are tially measured at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial meacash flows have not been adjusted, to the estimated future cash flows exoriginal effective interest rate. Losses are recognised in profit or loss and as follows: surement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost pected to be generated by the asset or CGU. Useful lives reflected in an allowance account. When the Group considers that there less any accumulated impairment losses. An impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss if the carrying amount of are no realistic prospects of recovery of the asset, the relevant amounts Buildings 5 50 years Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of investment an asset or a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. are written off. If the amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases Structures 2 45 property at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each CGU Machinery 3 30 and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group that is expected to benefit from the synergies arising from the goodwill Tools and equipment 2 15 impairment was recognised, then the previously recognised impairment loss Vehicles 5 10 and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of acquired. Any impairment identified at the CGU level will first reduce the is reversed through profit or loss either directly or by adjusting an allowance Display fixtures 2 20 the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are carrying value of goodwill and then be used to reduce the carrying amount account. Furniture and fixtures 2-8 recognized in profit or loss as incurred. of the other assets in the CGU on a pro rata basis. Except for impairment Other property, plant and equipment 3 40 Investment property except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis losses in respect of goodwill which are never reversed, an impairment loss (“Other PP&E”) (ii) Financial assets carried at cost over 5 to 50 years as estimated useful lives. is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine The impairment loss of financial assets carried at cost is measured as the Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the presend of each reporting date and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is acthat the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that ent value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market The assets' depreciation method, residual values and useful lives are recounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no imrate of return for a similar financial asset. Such impairment losses shall not viewed at the end of each reporting period and, if appropriate, accounted pairment loss had been recognized. be reversed. for as changes in accounting estimates. 4-11. Non-current Assets Held for Sale Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, that 4-13. Leases (iii) Available-for-sale financial assets significant in relation to the total cost of the item is depreciated separately. are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through The Group classifies and accounts for leases as either a finance or operating When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has The gain or loss from the derecognition of property, plant and equipment is continuing use, are classified as held for sale. In order to be classified as lease, depending on the terms. Leases where the Group assumes substanbeen recognized in other comprehensive income and there is objective determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and held for sale, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate tially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leasevidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recthe carrying amount, and recognized in profit or loss when derecognised. sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. The assets es. All other leases are classified as operating leases. ognized in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity or disposal group that are classified as non-current assets held for sale are to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial 4-9. Intangible Assets measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to (i) Finance leases asset has not been derecognized. Impairment losses recognized in profit or Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and, subsequently, are carried sell. At the commencement of the lease term, the Group recognizes as finance loss for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. The Group recognizes an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent writeassets and finance liabilities in its consolidated statements of financial poshall not be reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the Amortization of intangible assets, except for goodwill, is calculated on a down of an asset (or disposal group) to fair value less costs to sell, and a sition, the lower amount of the fair value of the leased property and the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from gain for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, up to the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the imthe date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible cumulative impairment loss previously recognized. inception of the lease. Any initial direct costs are added to the amount recpairment loss was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods A non-current asset that is classified as held for sale or part of a disposal ognized as an asset. reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognized in profit or loss. over which club memberships trademark and trade name are expected to group classified as held for sale is not depreciated (or amortized). Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and be available for use, this intangible asset is determined as having indefinite the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to 4-8. Property, Plant and Equipment useful lives and not amortized. Useful lives 4-12. Impairment of Non-financial Assets each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than asof interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rents are Industrial property rights 5 10 years recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumusets arising from employee benefits, inventories, deferred tax assets and charged as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Rights to use facility 5 20 lated impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes Other intangible assets(*1) 2 10 non-current assets held for sale, are reviewed at the end of the reporting The depreciable amount of a leased asset is allocated to each accounting expenditures arising directly from the construction or acquisition of the asperiod to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any period during the period of expected use on a systematic basis consistent (*1) Among other intangible assets, copyrights for movies are recognized in ‘cost of sales’ set, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. with the depreciation policy the lessee adopts for depreciable assets that are during the periods that the related revenues are realized, and if the revenues are condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intenduncertain to be realized, the assets are recognized as impairment loss Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are owned. If there is no reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain owned by management and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and on intangible assets. not yet available for use, irrespective of whether there is any indication of ership by the end of the lease term, the asset is fully depreciated over the removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Useful lives and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite impairment, are tested for impairment annually by comparing their recovershorter of the lease term and its useful life. The Group reviews to determine useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property, plant and equipment able amount to their carrying amount. whether the leased asset may be impaired. intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accuFor impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support mulated impairment losses. indefinite useful life assessments for those assets. Changes are accounted for as of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the (ii) Operating leases Property, plant and equipment, except for land, are depreciated over estichanges in accounting estimates. cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (“CGU”). The recoverable Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards mated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 10 4 10 5 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognized using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the using the effective interest method. immediately in OCI. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) lease. The Group derecognizes a financial liability from the consolidated statement on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the dis(ii) Foreign operations of financial position when it is extinguished (i.e. when the obligation specicount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign opera4.14. Borrowing Costs fied in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires). of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking tion’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation The Group capitalizes borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisiinto account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods: tion, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of 4.16. Employee Benefits the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, whose functional currency is that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized in expense as incurred. A (i) Short-term employee benefits expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized not the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are translated to presenqualifying asset is an asset that requires a substantial period of time to get Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are expected to in profit or loss. tation currency at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and ready for its intended use or sale. Financial assets and inventories that are be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual reportWhen the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the expenses of foreign operations are translated to functional currency at exmanufactured or otherwise produced over a short period of time are not ing period in which the employees render the related services. When an resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on change rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences qualifying assets. Assets that are ready for their intended use or sale when employee has rendered service to the Group during an accounting period, curtailment is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognizes are recognized in other comprehensive income. acquired are not qualifying assets. the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the setAny goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair To the extent that the Group borrows funds specifically for the purpose of benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. tlement occurs. value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group determines the amount of borrowthe acquisition of that foreign operation is treated as assets and liabilities of ing costs eligible for capitalization as the actual borrowing costs incurred on (ii) Other long-term employee benefits 4.17. Provisions the foreign operation. Thus they are expressed in the functional currency of that borrowing during the period less any investment income on the temOther long-term employee benefits include employee benefits that are exProvisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructhe foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. porary investment of those borrowings. pected to be settled beyond 12 months after the end of the annual reporttive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the transTo the extent that the Group borrows funds generally and uses them for ing period in which the employees render the related service. The Group’s resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the oblilation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group shall determine the net obligation in respect of long-term employee benefits is the amount of gation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization by applying a capitalfuture benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and cirrelevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-conization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization rate shall be current and prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine its prescumstances are taken into account in reaching the best estimate of a provitrolling interest. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relethe weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings ent value. Remeasurements are recognized in profit or loss in the period in sion. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are vant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. of the Group that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowwhich they arise. determined at the present value of the expected future cash flows. ings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The Where some or all of the expenditures required to settle a provision are (iii) Translation of net investment in the foreign operation amount of borrowing costs that the Group capitalizes during a period shall (iii) Post-employment benefits: defined contribution plans expected to be reimbursed by another party, the reimbursement is recogForeign exchange gains or losses arising from a monetary item receivable not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during that period. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the nized when, and only when, it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan received if the entity settles the obligation. The reimbursement is presented planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and which in substance 4.15. Non-derivative Financial Liabilities in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting as a separate asset. is considered to form part of the net investment in the foreign operation, The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities into financial liabilities any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to are recognized in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. at fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities in accordance contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the reflect the current best estimates. If it is no longer probable that an outflow with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the 4.19. Paid-in Capital financial liabilities. The Group recognizes financial liabilities in the consolidatthat the prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash obligation, the provision is reversed. (i) Share capital ed statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the refund. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributcontractual provisions of the financial liability. 4.18. Foreign Currencies able to the issuance of ordinary shares and share options are recognized as (iv) Post-employment benefits: defined benefit plans (i) Foreign currency transactions a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. (i) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional When the Group repurchases its share capital, the amount of the conFinancial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transacsideration paid is recognized as a deduction from equity and classified as held for trading or designated as such upon initial recognition. Subsequent employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that tions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are treasury shares. The profits or losses from the purchase, disposal, reissue, to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. retranslated to the functional currency using the reporting date’s exchange or retirement of treasury shares are not recognized as current profit or loss. measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies If the Group acquires and retains treasury shares, the consideration paid or Upon initial recognition, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculathat are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at received is directly recognized in equity. acquisition are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. tion results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognized asset is limited the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any fuForeign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognized in profit (ii) Other financial liabilities ture refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available-forNon-derivative financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at fair value To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. At the date of to any applicable minimum funding requirements. investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value minus Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise acare recognized in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Subsequent tuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 10 6 107 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 4.20. Revenue The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each (ii) Emission liability (i) Sales of goods and rendering of services 4-21. Finance Income and Finance Costs reporting period and reduces the carrying amount to the extent that it is no Emission liability is a present obligation of submitting emission rights to the The Group operates department stores, outlet stores, discount stores, Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested (including longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the government with regard to emission of greenhouse gas. Emission liability is consumer electronic retails, sup ermarkets, H&B stores and movie theaters. available-for-sale financial assets), dividend income, gains on the disposal of benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. recognized when outflow of resources in performing the obligation is probSales of goods from contracts with customers are recognized when the available-for-sale financial assets, changes in the fair value of financial assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are able and the costs required to perform the obligation are reliably estimable. goods are delivered to the customers. In addition, under Korean IFRS 1115, at fair value through profit or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is Emission liability is an amount of estimated obligations for emission rights to revenue is recognized applying the following five-step process to contracts recognized in profit or loss. Interest income is recognized as it accrues in profit settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or subbe submitted to the government for the performing period. The emission with customers: or loss, using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized in stantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of liability is measured based on the expected quantity of emission for the profit or loss on the date that the Group’s right to receive payment is estabdeferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets reflects the tax consequences performing period in excess of emission allowance in possession and the Identify contracts with customers lished, which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend date. that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end unit price for such emission rights in the market at the end of the reporting Identify the separate performance obligation Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the of the reporting period to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets period. Determine the transaction price of the contract discount on provisions, dividends on preference shares classified as liabilities, and liabilities. Allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations, and changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforce4-25. New Standards and Interpretations not yet Adopted by the Recognize the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. impairment losses recognized on financial assets, and losses on hedging instruable right to offset the related current tax liabilities and assets, and they Group ments that are recognized in profit or loss. Borrowing costs that are not directly relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and they intend to Certain new accounting standards and interpretations that have been Under Korean IFRS 1115, in the case of certain specific sales where the attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. If an additional income published that are not mandatory for annual reporting period commencing Group acts as an agent, the Group recognizes net sales, after deducting the are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method. tax expense is recognized as a result of dividend payments, it is recognized January 1, 2017 and have not been early adopted by the Group are set out cost of specific sales, as revenue upon the delivery to customers. when the liability for the payment of dividends is recognized. below. 4-22. Income Taxes (ii) Customer loyalty program Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and 4-23. Earnings per share Enactment of Korean IFRS 1109 Financial Instruments The Group operates customer loyalty programs. The customer can use the deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it reThe Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its accumulated award credits (“points”) for discount for their future purchase lates to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributThe new standard for financial instruments issued on September 25, of goods or services. The revenue from award credits is recognized when other comprehensive income. able to ordinary shareholders of the Parent Company by the weighted aver2015 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, the points are redeemed or expired and the related contractual liability is age number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for 2018 with early application permitted. This standard will replace Korean recognized until the points are redeemed or expired. The points provide (i) Current tax own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The the customers with benefits that they would not have if there is no conCurrent tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of Group will apply the standards for annual periods beginning on or after tract entered into. Accordingly, providing points to customers is a separate or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects January 1, 2018. performance obligation. Transaction price per performance obligation is end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise convertible notes. The standard requires retrospective application with some exceptions. For allocated based on relative stand-alone selling price of goods and points. of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit example, an entity is not required to restate prior period in relation to clasThe management estimates the stand-alone selling price of points based on for the year since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary 4-24. Emission Rights sification and measurement (including impairment) of financial instruments. discounts to be provided when the points are redeemed and the probability differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit The Group accounts for greenhouse gases emission right and the relevant The standard requires prospective application of its hedge accounting of redemption from past experience. (tax loss) of future periods, and non-taxable or non-deductible items from liability as below pursuant to the Act on Allocation and Trading of Greenrequirements for all hedging relationships except the accounting for time the accounting profit. house Gas Emission which became effective. value of options and other exceptions. (iii) Commissions Korean IFRS 1109 Financial Instruments requires three main areas including: When the Group acts as an agent rather than as the principal in a transac(ii) Deferred tax (i) Greenhouse Gases Emission Right (a) classification and measurement of financial assets on the basis of the tion, the revenue recognized is the net amount of commission equal to the The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets reflects Greenhouse Gases Emission Right consists of emission allowances which entity’s business model for managing financial assets and the contractual value generated by the Group. the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the are allocated from the government free of charge or purchased from the cash flow characteristics of the financial assets, (b) a new impairment model Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the market. The cost includes any directly attributable costs incurred during the of financial instruments based on the expected credit losses, and (c) hedge (iv) Rental income carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. normal course of business. accounting including expansion of the range of eligible hedging instruments Rental income from investment property, net of lease incentives granted, The Group recognizes a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differEmission rights held for the purpose of performing the obligation is classified and hedged items that qualify for hedge accounting or change of a method is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the ences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests as an intangible asset and is initially measured at cost and are carried at cost of hedge effectiveness assessment. lease. in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the less accumulated impairment losses after initial recognition. Emission rights An effective implementation of Korean IFRS 1109 requires preparation timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the held for short-swing profits are classified as current asset and are measured processes including financial impact assessment, accounting policy estab(v) Income of card business temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group at fair value with any changes in fair value recognized as profit or loss in the lishment, accounting system development and the system stabilization. The Group recognizes interest and fee income from cardholders and merrecognizes a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arisrespective reporting period. The impact on the Group’s financial statements due to the application of chants on an accrual basis. Certain fees associated with lending activities ing from investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is The Group derecognizes an emission right asset when the emission allowthe standard is dependent on judgements made in applying the standard, which meet specified criteria, are deferred and amortized over the life of probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future ance is unusable, disposed or submitted to government in which the future financial instruments held by the Group and macroeconomic variables. the loan as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the loan. The amortiand taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference economic benefits are no longer expected to be probable. zation of deferred fee is recognized as operating revenue. can be utilized. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 10 8 109 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (a) Classification and Measurement of Financial Assets According to Korean IFRS 1109, equity instruments that are not held Stage(*1) Loss allowance As at December 31, 2017, the Group applies the hedge accounting to its asWhen implementing Korean IFRS 1109, the classification of financial assets for trading, the Group can make an irrevocable election at initial rec1. No significant increase in credit 12-month expected credit losses (expected credit sets and liabilities amounting to ₩13,112,834 thousand and ₩106,392,160 will be driven by the Group’s business model for managing the financial ognition to classify the instruments as assets measured at fair value risk after initial recognition(*2) losses that result from those default events on thousand, respectively. As at December 31, 2017, the changes in fair values assets and contractual terms of cash flow. The following table shows the through other comprehensive income, which all subsequent changes the financial instrument that are possible within of cash flow hedging instruments recognized in accumulated other compreclassification of financial assets measured subsequently at amortized cost, in fair value being recognized in other comprehensive income and not 12 months after the reporting date) hensive income amount to ₩13,057,038 thousand in loss on valuation, net 2. Significant increase in credit Lifetime expected credit losses (expected credit at fair value through other comprehensive income and at fair value through recycled to profit or loss. As at December 31, 2017, the Group holds of tax. risk after initial recognition losses that result from all possible default events profit or loss. If a hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial asset, the equity instruments of ₩474,147,506 thousand classified as financial 3. Credit-impaired over the life of the financial instrument) Furthermore, when the Group first applies Korean IFRS 1109, it may choose classification of the hybrid contract shall be determined for the entire conassets available-for-sale. as its accounting policy choice to continue to apply all of the hedge actract without separating the embedded derivative. According to Korean IFRS 1109, debt instruments those contractual cash counting requirements of Korean IFRS 1039 instead of the requirements of (*1) A loss allowance for lifetime expected credit losses is required for a financial flows do not represent solely payments of principal and interest and held instrument if the credit risk on that financial instrument has increased significantly Korean IFRS 1109. for trading, and equity instruments that are not designated as instruments since initial recognition. It is also required for contract assets or trade receivables The contractual cash flows characteristics measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are measured that are not, according to Korean IFRS 1115 Revenue from Contracts with Amendments to Korean IFRS 1028 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Business model Solely represent payments All other Customers, considered to contain a significant financing component. Additionally, at fair value through profit or loss. As at December 2017, the Group does of principal and interest the Group can elect an accounting policy of recognizing lifetime expected credit not hold debt and equity instruments classified as financial assets at fair valWhen an investment in an associate or a joint venture is held by, or it held Hold the financial asset Measured at amortized Recognized at fair value losses for all contract assets and/or all trade receivables, including those that contain for the collection of the cost(*1) through profit or loss(*2) ue through profit or loss. a significant financing component. indirectly through, an entity that is a venture capital organization, or a mucontractual cash flows (*2) If the financial instrument has low credit risk at the end of the reporting period, tual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurance Hold the financial asset for the Recognized at fair value (b) Classification and Measurement of Financial Liabilities the Group may assume that the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial funds, the entity may elect to measure that investment at fair value through collection of the contractual through other comprehenrecognition. Korean IFRS 1109 requires the amount of the change in the liability’s fair profit or loss in accordance with Korean IFRS 1109. The amendments clarcash flows and sale sive income(*1) value attributable to changes in the credit risk to be recognized in other ify that an entity shall make this election separately for each associate of Hold for sale Recognized at fair value comprehensive income, unless this treatment of the credit risk compoUnder Korean IFRS 1109, the asset that is credit-impaired at initial recognijoint venture, at initial recognition of the associate or joint venture. These through profit or loss nent creates or enlarges a measurement mismatch. Amounts presented tion would recognize all changes in lifetime expected credit losses since the amendments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after Jan(*1) A designation at fair value through profit or loss is allowed only if such designation in other comprehensive income are not subsequently transferred to initial recognition as a loss allowance with any changes recognized in profit uary 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Group does not expect mitigates an accounting mismatch (irrevocable). profit or loss. or loss. the amendments to have a significant impact on the financial statements (*2) Equity investments not held for trading can be recorded in other comprehensive income (irrevocable). Under Korean IFRS 1039, all financial liabilities designated at fair value because the Group is not a venture capital organization. through profit or loss recognized their fair value movements in profit or As at December 31, 2017, the Group owns debt investment carried at loss. However, under Korean IFRS 1109, certain fair value movements will amortized cost of ₩3,273,812,152 thousand (loans and receivables), debt Amendment to Korean IFRS 1040 Transfers of Investment Property With the implementation of Korean IFRS 1109, the criteria to classify the be recognized in other comprehensive income and as a result profit or loss investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial assets at amortized cost or at fair value through other comprehenfrom fair value movements may decrease. As at December 31, 2017, total which classified as financial assets available-for-sales, of ₩10,820,970 thouParagraph 57 of Korean IFRS 1040 clarifies that a transfer to, or from, sive income are more strictly applied than the criteria applied with Korean financial liabilities is ₩101,173 thousand which are designated at fair value sand. And, the Group recognized loss allowance of ₩20,684,455 thousand investment property, including property under construction, can only be IFRS 1039. Accordingly, the financial assets at fair value through profit or through profit or loss. for these assets. made if there has been a change in use that is supported by evidence, and loss may increase by implementing Korean IFRS 1109 and may result an exprovides a list of circumstances as examples. The amendment will be eftended fluctuation in profit or loss. (c) Impairment: Financial Assets and Contract Assets (d) Hedge Accounting fective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with early As at December 31, 2017, the Group owns financial assets at fair value The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment proHedge accounting mechanics (fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and adoption permitted. The Group does not expect the amendment to have a through profit or loss of ₩46,725,840 thousand, loans and receivables visions based on expected credit losses (ECL) rather than only incurred hedge of net investments in a foreign operations) required by Korean IFRS significant impact on the financial statements. of ₩3,273,812,152 thousand and financial assets available-for-sales of credit losses as is the case under Korean IFRS 1039. It applies to financial 1039 remains unchanged in Korean IFRS 1109, however, the new hedge ₩484,968,476 thousand. assets classified at amortized cost, debt instruments measured at fair accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more Amendments to Korean IFRS 1102 Share-based Payment According to Korean IFRS 1109, a debt instrument is measured at amortized value through other comprehensive income, lease receivables, contract closely with the Group’s risk management practices. As a general rule, more cost if: a) the objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset assets, loan commitments and certain financial guarantee contracts. hedge relationships might be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard Amendments to Korean IFRS 1102 clarify accounting for a modification to for the collection of the contractual cash flows, and b) the contractual cash Under Korean IFRS 1109 ‘expected loss’ model, a credit event (or impairintroduces a more principles-based approach. Korean IFRS 1109 allows more the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classiflows under the instrument solely represent payments of principal and interment ‘trigger’) no longer has to occur before credit losses are recognized. hedging instruments and hedged items to qualify for hedge accounting, fication of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled. Amendments est. As at December 31, 2017, the Group measured loans and receivables at The Group will always recognize (at a minimum) 12-month expected and relaxes the hedge accounting requirement by removing two hedge also clarify that the measurement approach should treat the terms and amortized costs. credit losses in profit or loss. Lifetime expected losses will be recognized effectiveness tests that are a prospective test to ensure that the hedging reconditions of a cash-settled award in the same way as for an equity-settled According to Korean IFRS 1109, a debt instrument is measured at fair value on assets for which there is a significant increase in credit risk after initial lationship is expected to be highly effective and a quantitative retrospective award. The amendments will be effective for annual periods beginning on through other comprehensive income if the objective of the business model recognition. test (within range of 80-125%) to ensure that the hedging relationship has or after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Group does is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial asbeen highly effective throughout the reporting period. not expect the amendments to have a significant impact on the financial sets; and the contractual cash flows represents solely payments of principal With implementation of Korean IFRS 1109, volatility in profit or loss may be statements. and interest on a specific date under contract terms. As at December 31, reduced as some items that were not eligible as hedged items or hedging 2017, the Group holds debt instruments of ₩10,820,970 thousand classiinstruments under Korean IFRS 1039 are now eligible under Korean IFRS Enactment of Interpretation 2122 Foreign Currency Transaction and Advance fied as financial assets available-for-sale. 1109. Consideration AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 110 111 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 According to these enactments, the date of the transaction for the purpose asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease 6. Restricted Deposits of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the relatliability representing its obligation to make lease payments. The lessee may ed asset, expense or income (or part of it) is the date on which an entity elect not to apply the requirements to short-term lease (a lease term of 12 Restricted deposits included in short-term and long-term financial instruments as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows (in thousands of Korean won) initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising months or less at the commencement date) and low value assets. In addifrom the payment or receipt of advance consideration. If there are multiple tion, as a practical expedient, the lessee may elect, by class of underlying Description Depositary 2017 2016 payments or receipts in advance, the entity shall determine a date of the asset, not to separate non-lease components from lease components, and Current: transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration. These instead account for each lease component and any associated non-lease Short-term financial instruments HSBC and others 143,113,450 58,238,021 enactments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after Janucomponents as a single lease component. Industrial Bank of Korea and others 275,717,529 184,681,518 Trust assets Citibank and others 25,874,448 ary 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The Group does not expect the Lessee accounting Non-current: enactments to have a significant impact on the financial statements. Long-term financial instrument Busan Bank and others 2,032,886 9,960,717 A lessee shall apply this standard to its leases either: Available-for-sale financial assets Busan City Hall and others 17,823,742 16,423,576 Enactment of Korean IFRS 1116 Leases 438,687,607 295,178,280 retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented applying Korean IFRS Korean IFRS 1116 Leases issued on May 22, 2017 is effective for annual 1008 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (Full retroperiods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitspective application); or 7. Fair Value of Financial Instruments ted. This standard will replace Korean IFRS 1017 Leases, Interpretation 2104 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recogDetermining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, Interpretation 2015 nized at the date of initial application. (a) Carrying amount and fair value of financial assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Operating Leases-Incentives, and Interpretation 2027 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. The Group has not yet elected the application method. 2017 At inception of a contract, the entity shall assess whether the contract is, The Group performed an impact assessment to identify potential financial Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 2,626,243,926 2,626,243,926 2,269,177,234 2,269,177,234 or contains, a lease. Also, at the date of initial application, the entity shall effects of applying Korean IFRS 1116. The Group is analyzing the effects on Financial assets at fair value Short-term financial instruments 11,110,030 11,110,030 40,002,762 40,002,762 assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease in accordance with the the financial statements; however, it is difficult to provide reasonable estithrough profit or loss Long-term financial instruments 10,022,040 10,022,040 standard. However, the entity will not need to reassess all contracts with mates of financial effects until the analyses is complete. Current derivative assets held for trading 1,312,363 1,312,363 applying the practical expedient because the entity elected to apply the Non-current derivative assets held for trading 35,615,810 35,615,810 15,721,640 15,721,640 practical expedient only to contracts entered before the date of initial appliLessor accounting 46,725,840 46,725,840 67,058,805 67,058,805 cation. The Group expects the effect on the financial statements applying the new Loans and receivables(*1) Current : Trade and other receivables 870,455,687 870,455,687 1,031,337,760 1,031,337,760 For a contract that is, or contains, a lease, the entity shall account for each standard will not be significant as accounting for the Group, as a lessor, will Short-term financial instruments 1,073,213,085 1,073,213,085 865,432,227 865,432,227 lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease not significantly change. Short-term loans 24,089,334 24,089,334 15,007,871 15,007,871 components of the contract. A lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use Accrued income 11,826,412 11,826,412 36,169,095 36,169,095 Current portion of deposits 124,995,104 124,995,104 89,751,301 89,751,301 Card financial assets 8,853,172,273 8,853,172,273 Non-current : 5. Trade and Other Receivables 2,032,886 2,032,886 9,957,717 9,957,717 Long-term financial instruments Long-term loans 30,581,045 30,581,045 52,185,834 52,185,834 Trade and other receivables as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Deposits 1,136,618,599 1,136,618,599 1,462,839,601 1,462,839,601 Accrued income 18,261 18,261 2017 2016 3,273,812,152 3,273,812,152 12,415,871,940 12,415,871,940 Available-for-sale financial assets Marketable (*2) 270,711,624 270,711,624 280,519,592 280,519,592 Trade receivables 732,581,256 692,750,947 Non-marketable (*3) 214,256,852 214,256,852 346,767,908 346,767,908 Other receivables 154,932,606 367,419,629 484,968,476 484,968,476 627,287,500 627,287,500 Allowance for doubtful accounts 887,513,862 1,060,170,576 Derivative assets held for hedging Current 236,515 236,515 78,401,396 78,401,396 (17,058,175) (28,832,816) Non-current 12,876,319 12,876,319 141,368,294 141,368,294 870,455,687 1,031,337,760 13,112,834 13,112,834 219,769,690 219,769,690 6,444,863,228 6,444,863,228 15,599,165,169 15,599,165,169 (*1) Carrying amount is considered as a reasonable approximation of fair value. (*2) Marketable available-for-sale financial assets traded in the active market are measured at fair value based on the market prices. (*3) Some of non-marketable available-for-sale financial assets that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured at fair value based on valuation of external valuation agencies at the end of reporting period. Others are recorded based on acquisition cost because either the fair value cannot be reliably measured or the difference between fair value and acquisition cost is immaterial. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 112 113 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (b) Other financial assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (d) Carrying amount and fair value of financial liabilities as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Current: Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Short-term financial instruments 1,084,323,115 905,434,989 Financial liabilities at fair value Current derivative liabilities held for trading 14,420,293 14,420,293 Short-term loans 24,089,334 15,007,871 through profit or loss Non-current derivative liabilities held for trading 101,173 101,173 11,861,174 11,861,174 Available-for-sale financial assets 194,808 79,334 101,173 101,173 26,281,467 26,281,467 Accrued income 11,826,412 36,169,095 Financial liabilities at amortized Current : Deposits 124,995,104 89,751,301 cost(*1) Trade and other payables 3,494,433,705 3,494,433,705 5,785,351,877 5,785,351,877 Card business financial assets 8,853,172,273 Short-term borrowings 923,395,390 923,395,390 1,537,254,583 1,537,254,583 Derivative assets held for trading 1,312,363 Current portion of long-term borrowings 851,921,363 851,921,363 903,232,958 903,232,958 Derivative assets held for hedging 236,515 78,401,396 Current portion of long-term debentures 1,303,475,604 1,303,475,604 2,618,125,593 2,618,125,593 1,245,665,288 9,979,328,622 Accrued expenses 228,431,288 228,431,288 333,554,026 333,554,026 Non-current: Current portion of guarantee deposit 223,020,057 223,020,057 241,622,167 241,622,167 Long-term financial instruments 2,032,886 19,979,757 Finance lease liabilities 1,642,574 1,642,574 25,720,574 25,720,574 Available-for-sale financial assets 484,773,668 627,208,166 Others 1,547,660 1,547,660 10,131,880 10,131,880 Long-term loans 30,581,045 52,185,834 Non-current : Deposits 1,136,618,599 1,462,839,601 Long-term borrowings 1,099,236,493 1,099,236,493 1,706,079,723 1,706,079,723 Accrued income 18,261 Long-term debentures 3,489,655,070 3,489,655,070 7,718,255,402 7,718,255,402 Derivative assets held for trading 35,615,810 15,721,640 Guarantee deposit 49,308,054 49,308,054 206,948,600 206,948,600 Derivative assets held for hedging 12,876,319 141,368,294 Finance lease liabilities 8,442,631 8,442,631 19,826,492 19,826,492 1,702,498,327 2,319,321,553 Others 37,071,901 37,071,901 17,559,489 17,559,489 11,711,581,790 11,711,581,790 21,123,663,364 21,123,663,364 Derivative liabilities held for Current 49,447,836 49,447,836 895,996 895,996 (c) Available-for-sale financial assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: hedging Non-current 56,944,324 56,944,324 4,293,523 4,293,523 (in thousands of Korean won) 106,392,160 106,392,160 5,189,519 5,189,519 2017 2016 11,818,075,123 11,818,075,123 21,155,134,350 21,155,134,350 Number of shares Percentage of Acquisition cost Carrying amount Carrying amount (*1) Carrying amount is considered as a reasonable approximation of fair value. ownership Marketable available-for-sale financial assets: BNK Financial Group Inc. 8,543,826 2.62% 56,179,407 80,482,841 74,160,410 (e) Other financial liabilities as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Shinhan Financial Group Co., Ltd. 311,118 0.07% 2,247,353 15,369,229 14,078,090 2017 2016 LOTTE FOOD CO.,LTD. 30,619,820 momo.com Inc. 21,333,420 15.02% 37,684,154 166,669,477 154,828,149 Current: Others 5,621,260 8,190,077 6,833,123 Accrued expenses 228,431,288 333,554,026 101,732,174 270,711,624 280,519,592 Guarantee deposit 223,020,057 241,622,167 Non-marketable available-for-sale financial assets: Derivative liabilities held for hedging 49,447,836 895,996 LOTTE Logistics Corp. 17,729,234 Derivative liabilities held for trading 14,420,293 LOTTE rental co., ltd. 1,592,072 13.53% 168,884,280 132,583,302 165,621,658 Finance lease liabilities 1,642,574 25,720,574 SPARX Asset Management Korea Co., Ltd. (Formerly, 65,680 7.76% 22,011,958 6,671,906 29,961,550 Other 1,547,660 10,131,880 Cosmo Asset Management Co., Ltd.) 504,089,415 626,344,936 Lotte Global Logistics Co.,LTD. (Formerly, Hyundai Logis25,291,881 Non-current: tics Co., Ltd.) Guarantee deposit 49,308,054 206,948,600 Lotte Properties (Shenyang) Limited 29,928,756 17.93% 41,918,952 41,918,952 41,918,952 Derivative liabilities held for hedging 56,944,324 4,293,523 Investment in government bonds 11,215,610 10,820,970 10,475,578 Derivative liabilities held for trading 101,173 11,861,174 Others 34,163,524 22,261,722 55,769,055 Finance lease liabilities 8,442,631 19,826,492 278,194,324 214,256,852 346,767,908 Other 37,071,901 17,559,489 379,926,498 484,968,476 627,287,500 151,868,083 260,489,278 (*1) Available-for-sale financial assets amounting to ₩99,124,226 thousand are transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 114 115 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (f) Fair value hierarchy (h) Sensitivity analysis The fair value measurements classified by fair value hierarchy as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) For the fair values of Level 3 financial instruments, reasonably possible changes as at December 31, 2017, to one of the significant unobservable inputs, holding 2017 other inputs constant, would have the following effects on the fair values. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 (i) Equity securities Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 11,110,030 11,110,030 (in thousands of Korean won) Available-for-sale financial assets 270,711,624 10,820,970 139,255,208 420,787,802 Discount rate Terminal growth rate Derivative assets 13,112,834 35,615,810 48,728,644 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 270,711,624 35,043,834 174,871,018 480,626,476 Available-fo r-sale financial assets 11,050,281 (8,985,844) 2,918,924 6,170,074 Derivative liabilities 106,392,160 101,173 106,493,333 106,392,160 101,173 106,493,333 (ii) Stock options (liability-classified) (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 Discount rate Stock price volatility Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 10% Decrease 1% Increase 10% Increase 1% Increase Stock options 48,917 (48,881) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 50,024,802 50,024,802 Available-for-sale financial assets 280,519,592 14,485,010 248,351,532 543,356,134 Derivative assets 219,769,690 17,034,003 236,803,693 280,519,592 284,279,502 265,385,535 830,184,629 8. Inventories Derivative liabilities 5,189,519 26,281,467 31,470,986 5,189,519 26,281,467 31,470,986 (a) Inventories as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 In measuring Level 2 fair values, the Group used Strip & Bootstrapping method, etc. and the Group used the significant observable inputs such as risk-free rate, etc. Acquisition Valuation Book Acquisition Valuation Book In measuring Level 3 fair values, the Group used discounted cash flows model, etc. and the Group used the significant unobservable inputs such as forecasted cost allowance amount cost allowance amount annual revenue growth rate and risk-adjusted discount rate, etc. Merchandise(*1) 1,226,021,789 (44,929,229) 1,181,092,560 2,979,195,177 (27,962,040) 2,951,233,137 Finished goods 18,216,465 (4,592,214) 13,624,251 14,854,673 (4,247,237) 10,607,436 Work in process 901,383 901,383 1,528,600 1,528,600 (g) Level 3 Fair values Raw materials 963,852 (52,435) 911,417 678,452 (125,914) 552,538 Changes in Level 3 fair values for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Supplies 825,573 825,573 2,001,610 2,001,610 Materials-in-transit 1,592,468 1,592,468 4,592,772 4,592,772 (in thousands of Korean won) Unsold apartment units 3,863,640 3,863,640 8,487,810 8,487,810 2017 2016 Unfinished apartment units 151,227,958 151,227,958 345,372,837 345,372,837 1,403,613,128 (49,573,878) 1,354,039,250 3,356,711,931 (32,335,191) 3,324,376,740 Beginning balance 239,104,068 173,425,126 (*1) Inventories expected to be returned of ₩3,340,798 thousand are included. Transfer to Level (*3) 1,500,000 Total profit or loss (27,797,697) 10,675,807 Amount recognized in profit or loss 8,848,928 9,585,678 Amount recognized in other comprehensive income (36,646,625) 1,090,129 (b) For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the amount of inventories recognized as cost of goods sold and changes of allowance Purchases 8,541,609 53,503,135 for valuation losses of inventories are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Disposal, etc. (12,709,513) Changes due to spin-off (32,368,622) 2017 2016 Ending balance 174,769,845 239,104,068 Cost of goods sold: Amount of inventories recognized as cost of goods sold 10,204,552,436 15,917,147,393 Increase in valuation allowance of inventories 18,368,179 5,497,168 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 116 117 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 9. Other Non-financial Assets (in thousands of Korean won) Name of entity 2016 Other non-financial assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Location Major Percentage of Book (in thousands of Korean won) operation ownership (%) amount 2017 2016 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Distribution 25.00 123,880,335 Daehong Communications Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Advertisement agency 34.00 131,288,823 Current: Lotte Capital Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Capital 22.36 214,360,691 Advance payments 18,330,595 80,152,116 LotteGRS Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Restaurant chain 38.68 227,003,678 Prepaid expenses 110,647,336 178,655,039 (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) Prepaid value added tax 64,183,162 64,058,921 FRL Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Import and selling of clothing 49.00 234,138,865 193,161,093 322,866,076 Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Real estate development 39.14 36,717,474 Non-current: Lotte Trading Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Product brokerage 27.68 121,281,547 Long-term advance payments 96,111,001 218,594,542 Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. Netherlands Holding company 26.98 3,063,469 Long-term prepaid expenses 901,186,512 1,055,385,736 Coralis S.A. Luxembourg Holding company 45.00 1,242,209 Other 4,218,543 Others(*1) 143,904,715 997,297,513 1,278,198,821 1,236,881,806 1,190,458,606 1,601,064,897 (*1) Include assets transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017. 10. Non-Current Assets Held For Sale (b) Changes in investments in associates for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows (in thousands of Korean won) Non-current assets held for sale as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2017 2016 Beginning Acquisition Dividends Share of Share of other balance profit (loss) comprehensive Land (*1) 103,290 of associates income of Buildings (*1) 2,163,987 associate Investment in joint venture (*2) 3,640,679 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 123,880,335 (6,095,061) (52,395,657) 2,728,563 Total 3,640,679 2,267,277 Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 131,288,823 (816,000) 2,599,731 10,163,483 Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. 214,360,691 (2,233,522) 21,224,163 (23,168,668) (*1) As Lotte.com, a subsidiary of the Group, decided to dispose of certain portion of its land and buildings in 2016, these assets were classified to non-current assets held for sale. LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 227,003,678 1,569,047 (1,289,054) The assets are measured at the lower amount of their carrying amount or the fair value less costs to sell. During 2017, these assets have been transferred to the newly established FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 234,138,865 (41,503,000) 82,361,604 (25,286,564) corporation from spin-off. Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 36,717,474 5,974,178 5,634,860 (*2) As Lucky Pai Ltd. and seven other subsidiaries decided to dispose of their investment in Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping, during the year ended December 31, 2017, Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 121,281,547 1,901,967 6,151,802 these assets were classified to non-current assets held for sale. The assets are measured at the lower amount of their carrying amount or the fair value less costs to sell. Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 3,063,469 5,893,308 (1,560,582) Coralis S.A. 1,242,209 (3,182,721) 1,940,512 Others 143,904,715 5,550,000 5,266,717 (2,106,332) 1,236,881,806 5,550,000 (50,647,583) 71,212,337 (26,791,980) 11. Investments in Associates (in thousands of Korean won) (a) The details of associates as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 Name of entity 2017 Disposal Others(*1) Changes due to Ending Location Major Percentage of Book spin-off (*2) balance operation ownership (%) amount Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 12,163 (68,130,343) Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Distribution Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 173,277 (143,409,314) Daehong Communications Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Advertisement agency Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. (210,182,664) Lotte Capital Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Capital LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 480,155 (227,763,826) LotteGRS Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Restaurant chain FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 249,710,905 (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 76,319 (48,402,831) FRL Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Import and selling of clothing 49.00 249,710,905 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. (38,330) (129,296,986) Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Real estate development Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 7,396,195 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd.(*1) Korea Product brokerage Coralis S.A. Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. Netherlands Holding company 26.98 7,396,195 Others (1,225,334) (130,992) (38,049,743) 113,209,031 Coralis S.A. Luxembourg Holding company 45.00 (1,225,334) 572,592 (865,235,707) 370,316,131 Others(*1) 113,209,031 370,316,131 (*1) Changes in foreign currency translation and others are included. (*2) Transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 118 119 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 2016 Current Non-current Current Non-current Sales Operating Other Total Beginning Acquisition Dividends Share of Share of other asset asset liabilities liabilities income comprehensicomprehensbalance profit (loss) comprehensive ve income ive income of associates income of (loss) associate (7,382,356) 8,707,230 821,851 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 237,319,968 503,325,152 235,456,909 9,666,868 582,892,426 53,117,037 3,324,257 38,153,178 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 121,724,397 (680,000) 5,582,603 (9,353,310) Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 254,288,140 411,691,016 242,476,804 44,386,690 405,221,512 21,253,069 (24,812,506) (8,494,978) Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 135,242,913 (2,233,522) 23,269,820 (869,545) Lotte Capital Co., Ltd.(*2) 6,895,448,670 5,933,572,280 882,237,498 141,160,540 (3,839,321) 101,589,626 Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. 195,323,080 (11,536,780) (913,445) LotteGRS Co., Ltd. 277,564,856 957,434,378 416,344,747 268,456,341 1,124,880,178 6,489,619 3,615,561 (5,683,723) LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 239,269,265 (13,475,000) 51,182,715 8,805,898 (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 187,625,252 (2,671,150) (8,678,881) FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 515,676,143 149,335,215 186,627,253 549,685 1,208,516,709 127,213,106 17,971,221 122,425,742 Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 49,315,998 593,718 (3,373,604) Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 586,147,437 268,414,481 676,089,068 85,064,858 224,788,444 9,749,522 (23,565,196) (30,389,376) Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 124,077,508 2,740,681 322,788 Lotte Trading Co.,Ltd. 303,708,851 905,071,970 359,721,310 166,813,759 683,148,598 4,634,059 (11,757,768) (9,546,867) Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 4,474,368 (14,244,449) (910,549) Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 106,119,073 445,947,849 151,624,103 379,566,654 103,681,717 10,048,892 1,196,278 56,252,556 Coralis S.A. 11,922,839 27,254,564 (2,572,395) (347,123) Coralis S.A. 41,556,677 393,161,942 130,373,512 336,040,432 30,668,867 (10,774,753) (2,023,443) (33,660,078) Others 131,253,835 1,195,755,087 31,728,932 (23,770,878) 61,051,993 (14,495,920) (*1) Total comprehensive income (loss) stated above excludes attribution to non-controlling shareholder. (*2) Since Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. is a financial institution, it does not present current and non-current assets or liabilities. (in thousands of Korean won) (d) The reconciliation of the net assets of the significant associates to the carrying amount of the equity interest in the associate as at Decem2016 ber 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Impairment Disposal Others(*1) Ending balance 2017 Net Group’s Group’s share Goodwill Others(*2) Changes due Book Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 9,213 123,880,335 assets (a)(*1) ownership % in KRW(a*b) to spin-off amount Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 496,617 131,288,823 (b) Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. (1,129,142) 214,360,691 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd.(*3) 272,521,371 25.00 68,130,343 (68,130,343) LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 184,638 227,003,678 Daehong Communications Co., Ltd.(*3) 415,195,206 34.00 141,166,370 2,242,944 (143,409,314) FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 234,138,865 Lotte Capital Co., Ltd.(*3) 939,818,973 22.36 210,136,419 46,245 (210,182,664) Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. (1,248,493) 36,717,474 Lotte GRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) (*3) 552,084,740 38.68 213,548,578 14,215,248 (227,763,826) Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. (16,075) 121,281,547 FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 509,614,091 49.00 249,710,905 249,710,905 Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 3,063,469 Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. (*3) 122,781,225 39.14 48,059,555 343,276 (48,402,831) Coralis S.A. 1,242,209 Lotte Trading Co.,Ltd. (*3) 467,031,153 27.68 129,296,986 (129,296,986) Others (5,232,909) (6,295,749) (155,508) 143,904,715 Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 33,134,591 26.98 8,940,592 9,676,049 (11,220,446) 7,396,195 (5,232,909) (6,295,749) (1,858,750) 1,236,881,806 Coralis S.A. (41,131,656) 45.00 (18,509,238) 15,162,457 3,346,781 (*1) Changes in foreign currency translation and others are included. (*1) Net assets excluded non-controlling interests. (*2) Others included unamortized amounts of difference of fair value, unrecognized amounts and foreign currency differences arising from translation. (*3) Transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017. (c) Financial information of significant associates as at and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 2017 Net Group’s Group’s share in Goodwill Others(*2) Book Company Current Non-current Current Non-current Sales Operating Other Total assets (a)(*1) ownership % (b) KRW(a*b) amount asset asset liabilities liabilities income comprehensicomprehensve income ive income Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 495,521,342 25.00 123,880,335 123,880,335 (loss) Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 379,546,705 34.00 129,045,880 2,242,943 131,288,823 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 201,288,897 284,592,047 203,672,468 9,687,106 379,906,388 16,998,760 10,962,900 (198,619,727) Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. 958,504,880 22.36 214,314,446 46,245 214,360,691 Daehong Communications Co., Ltd. 277,242,214 448,548,065 259,724,001 51,387,688 299,801,980 11,852,224 30,624,040 38,281,488 LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 550,119,540 38.68 212,788,430 14,215,248 227,003,678 Lotte Capital Co., Ltd.(*2) 7,071,234,786 5,977,611,033 683,163,255 135,268,586 (2,844,588) 96,532,281 FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 477,834,419 49.00 234,138,865 234,138,865 LotteGRS Co., Ltd. 263,469,171 953,678,293 432,511,767 232,502,399 831,288,098 1,026,477 (1,632,000) 2,437,987 Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 92,927,798 39.14 36,374,198 343,276 36,717,474 (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) Lotte Trading Co.,Ltd. 438,078,742 27.68 121,281,547 121,281,547 FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 615,597,749 138,495,490 237,979,152 6,499,996 1,329,770,774 224,078,342 (51,605,233) 116,479,673 Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 20,876,164 26.98 5,632,943 9,676,049 (12,245,523) 3,063,469 Lotte Asset Development Co., Ltd. 182,180,599 314,780,308 263,220,249 104,374,584 174,280,375 31,705,107 14,590,763 29,853,427 Coralis S.A. (31,695,326) 45.00 (14,262,891) 15,162,457 342,643 1,242,209 Lotte Trading Co.,Ltd. 313,426,100 987,802,586 373,341,867 199,557,161 556,487,896 404,440 22,082,354 28,952,411 (*1) Net assets excluded non-controlling interests. Lotte Europe Holdings B.V. 74,526,610 454,047,081 309,890,846 185,548,255 127,896,318 13,535,743 (5,783,650) 12,258,427 (*2) Others included unamortized amounts of difference of fair value, unrecognized amounts and foreign currency differences arising from translation. Coralis S.A. 47,367,400 329,371,453 379,747,045 38,123,463 39,012,791 467,479 4,312,251 (9,436,330) (*1) Total comprehensive income (loss) stated above excludes attribution to non-controlling shareholder. (*2) Since Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. is a financial institution, it does not present current and non-current assets or liabilities AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 120 121 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (e) Current and accumulated unrecognized equity method losses of associates as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: (b) Changes in joint ventures for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) Description Unrecognized losses for the year Unrecognized accumulated losses 2017 Beginning Acquisition Dividends Share of Share of other Coralis S.A. (3,012,106) (3,012,106) balance profit (loss) comprehensive of associates income of associate D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 837,895 (289,323) STL Co., Limited 510,980 (266,229) 12. Investments in Joint Venture LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 7,372,558 745,424 Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Management Co., Ltd. 928,568 (132,227) (48,369) (a) When the Group has rights to the net assets of the joint venture entity, the Group classifies the investment in entity as a joint venture. Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping 9,683,860 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. 3,867,665 (15,763) 68,149 The details of joint ventures as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: International Business Center Company Limited 63,895,260 (4,150,587) 4,862,273 (2,000,774) (in thousands of Korean won) PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 12,721,367 9,410,067 (5,573,160) 323,923 2017 CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COMMERCIAL 1,658,160 (254,498) (48,600) Name of entity Location Major operation Percentage of Book amount MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD. ownership (%) LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. 173,930 (4,561) (9,618) D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Film equipment 50.00 548,572 99,818,153 11,242,157 (4,166,350) (844,152) (1,783,438) STL Co., Limited Korea Import and selling of clothing 50.00 244,751 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. (*1) Korea Travel business Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Management Co., Ltd. China Cinema 49.00 747,972 (in thousands of Korean won) Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping (*2) China TV Home Shopping 27.00 2017 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. China TV Home Shopping Disposal Others(*1) Changes due to spin-off (*2) Ending balance International Business Center Company Limited Vietnam Distribution 50.00 55,240,083 D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 548,572 PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR Indonesia Distribution 50.00 14,704,571 STL Co., Limited 244,751 CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COMMERCIAL MANAGEChina Shopping mall management consulting 49.00 1,228,456 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. (126,700) (7,991,282) MENT CO.,LTD. Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Management Co., Ltd. 747,972 LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. Vietnam Movie investment and distribution 51.00 159,751 Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping (9,683,860) 72,874,156 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. (3,704,336) (215,715) International Business Center Company Limited (7,366,089) 55,240,083 (in thousands of Korean won) PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR (2,177,626) 14,704,571 2016 CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COMMERCIAL (126,606) 1,228,456 Name of entity MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD. Location Major operation Percentage of Book amount ownership (%) LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. 159,751 (3,704,336) (19,696,596) (7,991,282) 72,874,156 D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. Korea Film equipment 50.00 837,895 STL Co., Limited Korea Import and selling of clothing 50.00 510,980 (*1) Changes in foreign currency translation and others are included. LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. (*1) Korea Travel business 50.00 7,372,558 (*2) Transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017. Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Management Co., Ltd. China Cinema 49.00 928,568 Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping (*2) China TV Home Shopping 49.00 9,683,860 (in thousands of Korean won) Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. China TV Home Shopping 49.00 3,867,665 2016 International Business Center Company Limited Vietnam Distribution 50.00 63,895,260 Beginning Acquisition Dividends Share of Share of Others(*1) Ending PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR Indonesia Distribution 50.00 12,721,367 balance profit (loss) othercomprebalance CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COMMERCIAL MANAGEChina Shopping mall management consulting of associates hensive income MENT CO.,LTD. of associate LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. Vietnam Movie investment and distribution D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 1,725,432 (887,537) 837,895 99,818,153 STL Co., Limited 605,821 (94,841) 510,980 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 10,000,000 (2,575,249) (52,193) 7,372,558 (*1) Transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off of the investment division during the year ended December 31, 2017. Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Manage961,446 5,888 (38,766) 928,568 (*2) Reclassified to non-current assets held for sale during the year ended December 31, 2017. ment Co., Ltd. Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping 10,091,313 (407,453) 9,683,860 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. 4,195,955 (205,458) 45,541 (168,373) 3,867,665 International Business Center Company Limited 61,515,707 (4,188,155) 4,314,955 291,687 1,961,066 63,895,260 PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 14,433,125 (451,527) (1,933,356) 673,125 12,721,367 79,095,674 24,433,125 (4,393,613) 357,230 (1,732,628) 2,058,365 99,818,153 (*1) Changes in foreign currency translation and others are included. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 12 2 123 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (c) Financial information of joint ventures as at and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (d) The reconciliation of the net assets of the joint ventures to the carrying amount of the equity interest in the joint ventures as at December (in thousands of Korean won) 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2017 Current Non-current Current Non-current Sales Operating Other Total income (loss) Net assets (a)(*1) Group’s Group’s share Goodwill Others(*2) Changes due to Book asset asset liabilities liabilities comprehcomprehensownership % in KRW(a*b) spin-off amount ensive ive income income (loss)(*1) (b) D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 10,851,613 723,558 4,794,394 5,683,633 2,395,383 (663,379) (578,648) D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 1,097,144 50.00 548,572 548,572 STL Co., Limited 4,036,935 707,378 3,503,628 751,186 18,333,599 (341,838) (532,458) STL Co., Limited 489,500 50.00 244,750 1 244,751 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 59,936,897 4,572,852 44,723,887 3,803,298 19,927,930 1,420,898 (203,861) 1,570,626 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd.(*3) 15,982,565 50.00 7,991,282 (7,991,282) Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Manage725,241 1,176,391 379,818 741,712 (264,426) (98,712) (368,564) Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Manage1,521,814 49.00 745,689 2,283 747,972 ment Co., Ltd. ment Co., Ltd. International Business Center Company 14,669,624 44,345,876 8,930,271 17,448,555 22,890,713 12,424,959 (4,001,765) 5,722,998 International Business Center Company 32,636,674 50.00 16,318,336 40,415,381 (1,493,634) 55,240,083 Limited Limited PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 21,698,223 18,167,114 7,212,358 234,833 46,846 (11,941,327) (3,819,142) (14,965,461) PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 32,418,145 50.00 16,209,073 (1,504,502) 14,704,571 CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COM2,853,969 6,353 94,888 511,650 (545,186) (99,183) (618,567) CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE (SHANGHAI) COM2,765,433 49.00 1,355,062 (126,606) 1,228,456 MERCIAL MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD. MERCIAL MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD. LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. 391,525 25,901 104,187 304,953 (11,061) (18,858) (27,801) LOTTE ENTERTAINMENT VIETNAM CO.,LTD. 313,239 51.00 159,751 159,751 (*1) Total comprehensive income (loss) stated above excludes attribution to non-controlling shareholder (*1) Net assets excluded non-controlling interests. (*2) Others included unamortized amounts of difference of fair value, unrecognized amounts and foreign currency differences arising from translation. (*3) Transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off during the year ended December (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Current Non-current Current Non-current Sales Operating Other Total 2016 asset asset liabilities liabilities income (loss) comprehcomprehensNet assets (a)(*1) Group’s ownership Group’s share in Goodwill Others(*2) Book ensive ive income % (b) KRW(a*b) amount income (loss)(*1) D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 17,198,046 3,013,085 8,148,311 10,387,029 5,328,853 (1,620,266) (1,775,072) D-Cinema of Korea Co., Ltd. 1,675,791 50.00 837,895 837,895 STL Co., Limited 4,094,060 851,971 3,369,420 554,653 16,148,661 (53,045) (189,681) STL Co., Limited 1,021,958 50.00 510,979 1 510,980 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 42,341,802 3,384,346 27,593,320 3,437,251 26,267,410 2,546,532 (49,538) 2,532,636 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 14,695,578 50.00 7,347,789 24,769 7,372,558 Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Manage956,907 1,391,166 457,695 1,249,668 8,536 (79,115) (67,100) Shenyang SL Cinema Investment Manage1,890,378 49.00 926,285 2,283 928,568 ment Co., Ltd. ment Co., Ltd. Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping 43,186,156 3,725,423 26,643,290 Shandong Luckypai TV Shopping 20,268,289 49.00 9,931,462 (247,602) 9,683,860 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. 13,893,665 1,902,500 9,757,490 23,327,915 (1,505,151) 204,443 Yunnan Maile TV Shopping Media Co., Ltd. 6,038,675 49.00 2,958,951 908,714 3,867,665 International Business Center Company 11,672,448 52,699,397 27,801,776 1,355,218 22,104,213 11,336,295 583,373 9,213,283 International Business Center Company 35,214,850 50.00 17,607,425 40,415,381 5,872,454 63,895,260 Limited Limited PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 17,975,185 6,498,979 95,915 281,765 (1,281,498) (3,866,712) (4,769,766) PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 24,096,484 50.00 12,048,242 673,125 12,721,367 (*1) Total comprehensive income (loss) stated above excludes attribution to non-controlling shareholder (*1) Net assets excluded non-controlling interests. (*2) Others included unamortized amounts of difference of fair value, unrecognized amounts and foreign currency differences arising from translation. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 124 125 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 13. Property, Plant and Equipment (b) Changes in property, plant and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 (a) Details of property, plant and equipment as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Beginning Acquisitions Depreciation Impairment Disposals Others (*1 ) Changes due Ending (in thousands of Korean won) book amount to spin-off book amount 2017 Land 8,043,145,478 6,932,398 (15,190,205) (371,133,703) (11,476,076) 7,652,277,892 Acquisition cost Accumulated depreciation Accumulated impairment Book amount Buildings 5,071,332,432 23,292,769 (212,264,471) (136,767) (6,315,611) 150,622,551 (2,020,857) 5,024,510,046 losse Structures 235,587,163 264,582 (13,379,799) (305,599) (28,116) 223,975 (2) 222,362,204 Land 7,652,277,892 7,652,277,892 Machinery 137,501,017 11,261,134 (23,937,151) (1,673,071) (240,679) 41,650,837 (101,047,826) 63,514,261 Buildings 7,545,006,995 (2,520,297,749) (199,200) 5,024,510,046 Vehicles 2,096,237 819,533 (839,710) (93,183) (32,661) (42,798) (127,387) 1,780,031 Structures 344,124,830 (118,497,973) (3,264,653) 222,362,204 Display fixtures 270,354,400 51,224,153 (86,659,744) (8,447,956) (1,406,797) 249,208 (69,316,311) 155,996,953 Machinery 190,572,712 (124,677,676) (2,380,775) 63,514,261 Furniture and fixtures 1,042,097,718 191,628,457 (396,242,525) (59,999,425) (6,754,768) 173,079,832 (141,430,441) 802,378,848 Vehicles 7,970,967 (5,988,350) (202,586) 1,780,031 Tools and equipment 76,536,787 6,268,150 (16,512,668) (23,644,598) (423,675) 6,888,723 (312,007) 48,800,712 Display fixtures 596,249,657 (418,905,344) (21,347,360) 155,996,953 Other PP&E 119,110,361 4,264,292 (12,727,802) (41,921,806) (446,454) (6,817,509) (3,376,642) 58,084,440 Furniture and fixtures 3,780,381,631 (2,882,906,191) (95,096,592) 802,378,848 Construction-in-progress 887,620,416 550,483,239 (3,641,542) (549,444,777) (4,398,935) 880,618,401 Tools and equipment 202,609,079 (122,415,410) (31,392,957) 48,800,712 Finance lease assets 46,860,048 (5,068,420) (248,383) (13,215) (14,110,166) (19,433,257) 7,986,607 Other PP&E 233,890,710 (93,402,707) (82,403,563) 58,084,440 15,932,242,057 846,438,707 (767,632,290) (136,470,788) (34,493,723) (568,833,827) (352,939,741) 14,918,310,395 Construction-in-progress 880,618,401 880,618,401 (*1) Others include reclassifications of construction-in-progress to intangible assets, reclassification to investment property, effects of loss of control of subsidiaries and Finance lease assets 16,554,422 (8,305,784) (262,031) 7,986,607 foreign exchange effects. 21,450,257,296 (6,295,397,184) (236,549,717) 14,918,310,395 (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 Beginning Acquisitions Increase from Depreciation Impairment Disposals Others (*1) Ending (in thousands of Korean won) book amount business book amount 2016 combination Acquisition cost Accumulated depreciation Accumulated impairment Book amount Land 7,991,800,560 71,960,426 (8,668,938) (11,946,570) 8,043,145,478 losse Buildings 5,060,086,032 28,289,602 (207,100,452) (62,433) (3,834,545) 193,954,228 5,071,332,432 Land 8,043,145,478 8,043,145,478 Structures 251,617,230 495,552 (14,733,731) (2,959,054) (1,047,323) 2,214,489 235,587,163 Buildings 7,451,692,901 (2,380,298,036) (62,433) 5,071,332,432 Machinery 121,183,322 23,108,974 (22,791,536) (427,328) (39,654) 16,467,239 137,501,017 Structures 354,614,887 (116,068,670) (2,959,054) 235,587,163 Vehicles 2,732,135 507,875 (914,847) (59,019) (186,431) 16,524 2,096,237 Machinery 304,071,815 (165,732,420) (838,378) 137,501,017 Display fixtures 285,669,201 84,222,398 (94,391,092) (4,994,263) (2,476,422) 2,324,578 270,354,400 Vehicles 7,937,458 (5,731,725) (109,496) 2,096,237 Furniture and fixtures 1,085,827,666 250,481,824 1,606,710 (437,728,349) (29,708,656) (5,371,897) 176,990,420 1,042,097,718 Display fixtures 787,859,979 (503,834,678) (13,670,901) 270,354,400 Tools and equipment 79,721,903 21,919,534 (21,614,141) (7,911,152) (1,083,721) 5,504,364 76,536,787 Furniture and fixtures 4,071,277,798 (2,993,914,302) (35,265,778) 1,042,097,718 Other PP&E 143,489,057 12,876,006 (14,717,859) (25,504,552) (11,383) 2,979,092 119,110,361 Tools and equipment 199,721,202 (113,427,174) (9,757,241) 76,536,787 Construction-in-progress 679,472,784 684,772,245 (21,341,421) (455,283,192) 887,620,416 Other PP&E 260,000,101 (100,308,250) (40,581,490) 119,110,361 Finance lease assets 57,507,026 498,478 (10,035,212) (1,901,238) (14,948) 805,942 46,860,048 Construction-in-progress 887,620,416 887,620,416 15,759,106,916 1,179,132,914 1,606,710 (824,027,219) (73,527,695) (44,076,683) (65,972,886) 15,932,242,057 Finance lease assets 65,139,860 (14,671,568) (3,608,244) 46,860,048 22,433,081,895 (6,393,986,823) (106,853,015) 15,932,242,057 (*1) Others include reclassifications of construction-in-progress to intangible assets, reclassification to investment property, effects of loss of control of subsidiaries and foreign exchange effects. (c) The CGUs of department stores, discount stores and supermarkets which had events indicating that they might be impaired, were tested for impairment, and the impairment loss for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are recognized as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 136,470,788 73,527,695 Impairment loss on intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 69,276,969 46,661,942 Impairment loss on goodwill 370,958,183 154,861,104 Impairment loss on other non-current assets 28,000,742 15,616,274 604,706,682 290,667,015 ₩38,966,193 thousand and ₩4,735,304 thousand of impairment loss are recognized for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively in profit from discontinued operations. (*) The valuation method and discount rate used to calculate the recoverable amount of CGUs indicating potential impairment are the same as those applied when calculating the recoverable amount of CGUs with goodwill. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 126 127 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (d) Pledged property, plant and equipment provided by the Group as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: (c) Income and expense from investment property (in thousands of Korean won) The details of income and expense from investment property for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 Offered assets(*1) Book amount Guaranteed amount Type of borrowings Amount of borrowings Guarantee recipient 2017 2016 Land and buildings 264,722,434 554,849,367 Secured Loan and others 287,000,000 Kookmin Bank and others Rental income 106,760,565 75,182,970 (*1) Provided as collateral for borrowings, security for lease deposit, and provisional attachment of land. Direct operating expense (including maintenance and repair expenses) 52,755,087 29,609,824 (e) The capitalized borrowing costs and capitalization interest rates for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (d) Fair value of investment property as at December 31, 2017, is as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Book amount Fair value 2017 2016 Land and buildings 1,149,023,430 1,395,762,162 Capitalized borrowing costs 7,613,884 8,665,085 Capitalization interest rates 2.24%~5.22% 2.31%~7.42% 15. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 14. Investment Property (a) Intangible assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (a) Investment property as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Acquisition Accumulated ccumulated Book amount Acquisition Accumulated Accumulated Book amount 2017 2016 impairment amortization cost amortization cost impairment Acquisition cost Accumulated Book amount Acquisition cost Accumulated Book amount losses losses depreciation depreciation Goodwill 3,223,325,480 (1,299,421,839) 1,923,903,641 3,558,053,623 (966,103,164) 2,591,950,459 Land 574,579,095 574,579,095 380,714,574 380,714,574 Industrial property rights 144,932,916 (7,273,309) (69,895) 137,589,712 145,347,076 (7,145,821) 138,201,255 Buildings 673,763,861 (99,319,526) 574,444,335 404,926,729 (93,795,942) 311,130,787 Rights to use facility 525,910,450 (193,979,363) (110,220,904) 221,710,183 525,134,514 (170,967,345) (41,320,703) 312,846,466 1,248,342,956 (99,319,526) 1,149,023,430 785,641,303 (93,795,942) 691,845,361 Membership 31,428,712 (2,348,169) 29,080,543 39,965,753 (6,275,753) 33,690,000 Other intangible assets 477,028,638 (362,746,320) (410,360) 113,871,958 544,546,380 (255,675,669) (8,860,876) 280,009,835 (b) Changes in investment property for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 4,402,626,196 (563,998,992) (1,412,471,167) 2,426,156,037 4,813,047,346 (433,788,835) (1,022,560,496) 3,356,698,015 (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 (b) Changes in intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Beginning balance Acquisitions Depreciation Others(*1) Ending balance 2017 Land 380,714,574 60,723 193,803,798 574,579,095 Beginning Acquisition Amortization Impairment Disposals Others(*1) Changes due Ending balance Buildings 311,130,787 28,057,002 (11,578,244) 246,834,790 574,444,335 balance to spin-off 691,845,361 28,117,725 (11,578,244) 440,638,588 1,149,023,430 (*1) Others include reclassification between property, plant and equipment and investment property and foreign exchange effects. Goodwill 2,591,950,459 (370,958,183) (356,467) (9,734,935) (286,997,233) 1,923,903,641 Industrial property rights 138,201,255 439,799 (837,656) (69,895) (28,794) (114,997) 137,589,712 (in thousands of Korean won) Rights to use facility 312,846,466 (23,015,160) (68,900,201) 779,078 221,710,183 2016 Membership 33,690,000 2,557,039 108,193 (154,546) (7,120,143) 29,080,543 Beginning balance Acquisitions Depreciation Others(*1) Ending balance Other intangible assets 280,009,835 69,868,042 (101,709,394) (306,872) (74,215) 4,519,413 (138,434,851) 113,871,958 Land 223,493,583 2,565,540 154,655,451 380,714,574 3,356,698,015 72,864,880 (125,562,210) (440,126,958) (585,228) (4,465,238) (432,667,224) 2,426,156,037 Buildings 297,487,966 13,602,596 (11,939,393) 11,979,618 311,130,787 520,981,549 16,168,136 (11,939,393) 166,635,069 691,845,361 (*1) Others include reclassification of construction-in-progress to intangible assets and foreign exchange effects. (in thousands of Korean won) (*1) Others include reclassification between property, plant and equipment and investment property and foreign exchange effects. 2016 Beginning Acquisition Business Amortization Impairment Disposals Others(*1) Ending balance balance combination Goodwill 2,715,569,131 1,125,000 30,735,338 (154,861,104) (186,444) (431,462) 2,591,950,459 Industrial property rights 138,016,283 1,313,060 (1,148,321) 20,233 138,201,255 Rights to use facility 380,012,817 484,741 (26,517,717) (41,318,475) 185,100 312,846,466 Membership 34,142,353 291,270 (743,623) 33,690,000 Other intangible assets 310,648,563 73,263,772 5,788,433 (109,531,609) (4,599,844) (280,502) 4,721,022 280,009,835 3,578,389,147 76,477,843 36,523,771 (137,197,647) (201,523,046) (466,946) 4,494,893 3,356,698,015 (*1) Others include reclassification of construction-in-progress to intangible assets and foreign exchange effects. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 128 129 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (c) Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill (d) Details of intangible assets with indefinite estimated useful lives as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to CGUs which are expected to create synergy within the Group. Details of the goodwill allocated to the groups of cash-generating units as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Department stores 12,544,709 11,011,709 Discount stores 1,976,374 1,976,374 2017 2016 Finance business 3,531,218 Consumer electronics retail 139,034,275 138,894,275 Department stores 192,600,753 198,463,619 Convenience stores 2,347,971 Discount stores 81,636,940 326,632,037 Others 11,621,520 12,066,837 Finance business(*1) 113,319,928 165,176,878 169,828,384 Consumer electronics retail 1,242,973,285 1,242,973,285 Convenience stores(*1) 202,948,489 Other(*1) 406,692,663 507,613,101 During the year ended December 31, 2017, as a result of the Group’s impairment test on indefinite intangible assets, there is no indefinite intangible asset 1,923,903,641 2,591,950,459 whose book value exceeds its recoverable amount, but the Group recognized an impairment loss of ₩743,623 thousand for the year ended December 31, (*) As at December 31, 2017, goodwill of ₩286,997,233 thousand is transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off. 2016. The value in use of each cash-generating unit was determined by discounting its estimated future cash flows. The approach used to determine value in use as at December 31, 2017 was consistent with those used in 2016. The calculation of value in use was based on the following key assumptions: 16. Trade and Other Payables Cash flows were estimated based on past experience, actual historical results of operations and the five-year business plan. Details of trade and other payables as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: The annual revenue growth rate for the five-year period in the future was estimated based on an analysis of past revenue growth rates. (in thousands of Korean won) The revenues after the five-year period are assumed to grow constantly from zero to two percent (2016: from zero to three percent). 2017 2016 Trade payables 2,175,463,411 3,764,738,397 The Group’s weighted average cost of capital was applied as the discount rate in determining recoverable amount of cash-generating units. Other payables 1,318,970,294 2,020,613,480 The weighted average costs of capital per each cash-generating unit are as follows: 3,494,433,705 5,785,351,877 (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Department stores 7.17% ~ 8.43% 5.71% ~ 14.24% 17. Borrowings and Debentures Discount stores 7.17% ~ 11.96% 5.71% ~ 9.70% Finance business 11.97% 7.00% ~ 11.00% (a) Borrowings and debentures as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Consumer electronics retail 7.80% 7.10% (in thousands of Korean won) Convenience stores 15.64% 13.62% 2017 2016 Others 7.17% ~ 16.97% 5.43% ~ 19.90% Current: Short-term borrowings 923,395,390 1,537,254,583 Current portion of long-term borrowings 851,926,330 903,319,952 Value in use is based on the above assumptions representing management’s estimation of future cash flows, and is calculated using external and internal sourcCurrent portion of discount on long-term borrowings (4,967) (86,994) es of the Group. As a result of impairment testing as at December 31, 2017, recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units in department stores, discount Current portion of long-term debentures 1,303,780,000 2,626,860,000 stores, finance business and others were less than its book amount, including goodwill, therefore impairment losses were recognized. As a result of impairment Current portion of discount on debentures (277,336) (9,117,802) testing, value in use of the other cash-generating units is higher than their respective carrying amount as at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Convertible bonds redemption premium 1,172,659 Conversion rights adjustment (351,602) The impairment losses and recoverable amounts of the impaired cash-generating units for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Exchange rights adjustment (27,060) (437,662) 3,078,792,357 5,058,613,134 (in thousands of Korean won) Non-current: 1,105,273,982 1,706,870,309 2017 2016 Long-term borrowings (6,037,489) (790,586) Impairment losses Recoverable amounts Impairment losses Recoverable amounts Discount on long-term borrowings 3,497,263,515 7,729,855,000 Department stores 5,862,867 Long-term debentures (7,608,445) (11,599,598) Discount stores 239,163,572 610,600,915 83,311,406 539,789,726 Discount on debentures 4,588,891,563 9,424,335,125 Finance business 38,617,464 1,749,439,132 7,667,683,920 14,482,948,259 Consumer electronics retail 39,722,903 1,458,959,268 Others 87,314,280 236,398,194 31,826,795 1,448,482 370,958,183 2,596,438,241 154,861,104 2,000,197,476 The impairment loss of goodwill amounting to ₩38,909,321 thousand is included in ‘profit from discontinued operations’ for the year ended December 31, 2017. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 13 0 131 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (b) Short-term borrowings as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Description Maturity Annual interest rate (%) Lender Details Annual interest rate (%) 2017 2016 Lotte Card Co., Ltd.(*2) 5,783,095,000 HSBC Bank and others General 3M Libor+1.1 ~ 1M Jibor+1.8 520,395,390 849,754,583 LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. Multiple 2.08~3.04 650,000,000 650,000,000 Shinhan Bank and others Financial notes CD(91)+0.34 ~ 2.31 403,000,000 687,500,000 LSBM (foreign currency) Sept. 05, 2020 2.38 325,843,515 923,395,390 1,537,254,583 4,801,043,515 10,356,715,000 Less: Discount on debentures (7,885,781) (20,717,400) (c) Long-term borrowings as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Convertible bonds redemption premium 1,172,659 Less: Conversion rights adjustment (351,602) Lender Details Annual interest rate (%) 2017 2016 Less: Exchange rights adjustment (27,060) (437,662) 4,793,130,674 10,336,380,995 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. and others Local currency 2.38~2.67 657,000,000 1,242,250,000 Less: Current portion of debentures, net of discount (1,303,475,604) (2,618,125,593) Lotte Co., Ltd. (Japan) and others Foreign currency 3M Tibor+1.13 ~ 7.95 1,300,200,312 1,367,940,261 3,489,655,070 7,718,255,402 Subtotal 1,957,200,312 2,610,190,261 Less: Discount on borrowings (6,042,456) (877,580) (*1) The Group issued five-year exchangeable bonds in 2013 which are exchangeable to shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. Due to the exercise of the put option, the Group redeemed Subtotal 1,951,157,856 2,609,312,681 ₩307,400 million of the issued bonds on January 25, 2016. Less: Current portion of long-term bor(851,921,363) (903,232,958) rowings, net of discount 1,099,236,493 1,706,079,723 The terms and conditions are as follows: (a) Type of bonds: Registered overseas unsecured exchangeable bonds (d) Debentures as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (b) Total face value of bonds (KRW): 321,200,000,000 (in thousands of Korean won) (c) Bond interest rate Description Maturity Annual interest rate (%) 2017 2016 Coupon rate (%): 59-2nd placed 230,000,000 Yield to maturity (%): 59-3rd placed Aug. 07, 2019 3.33 200,000,000 200,000,000 (d) Date of bond maturity: January 24, 2018 61th placed Mar. 21, 2018 3.05 100,000,000 100,000,000 (e) Principal redemption method: 62th placed June 21, 2018 2.80 110,000,000 110,000,000 i. Redemption on maturity date: Redemption in lump sum on the maturity date for the principal amount of bonds for which a condition for early 63-1st placed 200,000,000 redemption has not occurred and the exchange right has not been exercised. 63-2nd placed July 02, 2019 3.08 200,000,000 200,000,000 64-1st placed (foreign currency) May 25, 2018 3M USD Libor+0.50 160,710,000 181,275,000 ii. Early redemption: Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. (“Lotte Shopping”) has a call option, whereas bond holders have a put option. 64-2nd placed (foreign currency) May 25, 2018 3M USD Libor 107,140,000 120,850,000 (f) Put option by bondholders: 64-3rd placed (foreign currency) May 25, 2018 3M USD Libor+0.02 107,140,000 120,850,000 The put option can be exercised if any of the following conditions occurs: 65-1st placed Mar. 03, 2020 2.26 160,000,000 160,000,000 i. After the third anniversary of the date of payment (January 24, 2016); 65-2nd placed Mar. 03, 2022 2.45 240,000,000 240,000,000 ii. If any change of control occurs in the LOTTE Himart; or 66-1st placed June 23, 2020 2.40 130,000,000 130,000,000 iii. The issued stocks of the Company are delisted from the stock exchange or their transaction is suspended for 30 consecutive transaction days or longer. 66-2nd placed June 23, 2022 2.64 50,000,000 50,000,000 66-3rd placed June 23, 2025 2.98 140,000,000 140,000,000 (g) Call option by the Company: 67-1st placed (foreign currency) Aug. 17, 2018 3M USD Libor+0.60 160,710,000 181,275,000 The call option can be exercised if any of the following conditions occurs: 67-2nd placed (foreign currency) Aug. 17, 2018 3M USD Libor+0.02 107,140,000 120,850,000 i. If the closing price of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd for 20 transactional days in 30 consecutive transaction days reaches 130% or more of the exchange price 67-3rd placed (foreign currency) Aug. 06, 2018 3M USD Libor+0.60 107,140,000 120,850,000 between 3 years from the issuance date (January 24, 2013) and 30 business days to the maturity date; 68th placed July 31, 2020 2.40 110,000,000 110,000,000 ii. If the balance of bonds that has not been redeemed reaches less than 10% of the sum of the total issued amount (clean up call); or 69-1st placed (foreign currency) Jan. 29, 2019 3M USD Libor+0.55 107,140,000 120,850,000 69-2nd placed (foreign currency) Jan. 29, 2019 3M USD Libor+0.02 107,140,000 120,850,000 iii. Any additional tax burden arises due to the amendments of the related laws and regulations. 70-1st placed Apr. 04, 2019 1.77 100,000,000 100,000,000 (h) Matters relating to exchange: 70-2nd placed Apr. 04, 2021 2.02 170,000,000 170,000,000 i. Exchange ratio (%): 100 70-3rd placed Apr. 04, 2026 2.48 70,000,000 70,000,000 ii. Exchange price (KRW per share): 90,780 71th placed Nov. 29, 2019 1M USD Libor 107,140,000 120,850,000 iii. Type of shares to be issued following exchange: Ordinary shares of LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. 72-1st placed Jan. 23, 2020 1.94 240,000,000 iv. Period to apply for exchange: 72-2nd placed Jan. 23, 2022 2.36 160,000,000 73-1st placed June 15, 2020 2.11 110,000,000 Start date: March 5, 2013 73-2nd placed June 15, 2022 2.50 150,000,000 End date: January 15, 2018 73-3rd placed June 15, 2024 2.69 100,000,000 v. Matters for the adjustment of exchange price: 74th placed June 29, 2022 2.48 50,000,000 In case when a condition for re-adjustment of the exchange price has occurred, such as a stock dividend, the exchange price will be adjusted in accordance 75th placed Aug. 07, 2024 2.74 150,000,000 with the provisions in the relevant bonds purchase agreement. 2nd placed (Global bond) 483,400,000 Exchangeable bonds(*1) Jan. 24, 2018 13,800,000 13,800,000 (*2) During 2017, it has been transferred to the newly established corporation from spin-off. Korea Seven Co., Ltd. (convertible bonds)(*2) 7,920,000 ... ... ... ... ... AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 132 133 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (e) Annual repayment schedule of long-term borrowings and debentures as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Beginning balance Increase Utilization Ending balance 2017 Current: Borrowings Debentures Total Provision for bonus points reward program 27,961,990 54,063,305 (52,766,635) 29,258,660 2018.01.01 ~ 2018.12.31 851,926,330 1,303,780,000 2,155,706,330 Provision for bonus payable 8,525,307 39,426,201 (41,216,653) 6,734,855 2019.01.01 ~ 2019.12.31 266,469,594 951,420,000 1,217,889,594 Provision for sales return 9,023,315 9,347,108 (9,007,736) 9,362,687 2020.01.01 ~ 2020.12.31 838,804,388 1,175,843,515 2,014,647,903 Other provisions(*1) 14,848,386 25,057,426 (16,506,536) 23,399,276 2021.01.01 ~ 2021.12.31 220,000,000 220,000,000 60,358,998 127,894,040 (119,497,560) 68,755,478 2022.01.01 and there after 1,150,000,000 1,150,000,000 Non-current: 1,957,200,312 4,801,043,515 6,758,243,827 Provision for unused credit card limits(*2) 27,290,568 6,269,499 33,560,067 Other provisions(*1) 5,166,992 2,590,627 (1,293,285) 6,464,334 32,457,560 8,860,126 (1,293,285) 40,024,401 92,816,558 136,754,166 (120,790,845) 108,779,879 18. Unearned Revenues (*1) Other provisions include provisions for litigation, provision for closing up stores and others. During 2016, Qingdao LOTTE Mart Commercial Co., Ltd., a subsidiary, closed five discount stores. The Group estimated the expenditures to be incurred in connection with the closures and recognized other provision of ₩4,918,712 thousand as The details of unearned revenues as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) at December 31, 2016. (*2) The Group records a provision for credit card assets at the amount that equals the product of the unused credit commitment multiplied by credit conversion factor 2017 2016 and provision rate per BASEL discounted by the effective interest rate. Current: 1,294,378 100,674,277 Membership point 52,422,630 80,392,152 Other points 5,919,076 8,133,070 20. Other Non-financial Liabilities Unearned rental income 72,928,034 32,242,821 Others 132,564,118 221,442,320 (in thousands of Korean won) Other non-financial liabilities as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 2016 Non-current: 7,519,852 10,735,885 Unearned rental income 7,519,852 10,735,885 Current: 140,083,970 232,178,205 Withholdings 95,082,117 110,149,635 Withholdings of value added tax 115,017,468 92,353,743 Advances received 945,975,150 1,267,944,509 Other liabilities 707,774 1,027,304 19. Provisions 1,156,782,509 1,471,475,191 Non-current: (a) Changes in provisions for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Other liabilities 132,365,102 119,083,555 (in thousands of Korean won) 132,365,102 119,083,555 2017 1,289,147,611 1,590,558,746 Beginning Increase Utilization Changes due to Ending balance spin-off balance Current: Provision for bonus points reward program 29,258,660 56,682,753 (53,256,012) (31,114,777) 1,570,624 21. Employee Benefits Provision for bonus payable 6,734,855 68,058,709 (67,173,386) 7,620,178 Provision for sales return 9,362,687 10,305,962 (9,348,982) (229,109) 10,090,558 (in thousands of Korean won) Other provisions(*1) 23,399,276 49,244,460 (31,077,134) (5,726,397) 35,840,205 (a) Details of defined benefit liabilities as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 2016 68,755,478 184,291,884 (160,855,514) (37,070,283) 55,121,565 Non-current: Present value of defined benefit obligations 640,841,246 719,220,696 Provision for unused credit card limits(*2) 33,560,067 8,208,324 (41,768,391) Fair value of plan assets (659,357,789) (706,365,385) Other provisions(*1) 6,464,334 3,132,581 (2,362,046) (3,932,235) 3,302,634 Net defined benefit liabilities (assets) (18,516,543) 12,855,311 40,024,401 11,340,905 (2,362,046) (45,700,626) 3,302,634 108,779,879 195,632,789 (163,217,560) (82,770,909) 58,424,199 (b) Details of present value of other long-term employee benefits as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (*1) Other provisions include provisions for litigation, provision for restoration and others. 2017 2016 (*2) The Group records a provision for credit card assets at the amount that equals the product of the unused credit commitment multiplied by credit conversion factor and provision rate per BASEL discounted by the effective interest rate. Present value of other long-term employee benefits 53,230,383 56,052,147 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 134 135 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (c) Movements in the defined benefit obligations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (g) The principal actuarial assumptions used as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Beginning balance 719,220,696 640,057,892 Discount rate 2.09~7.32% 1.77~8.20% Current service cost 116,092,963 118,846,763 Expected rate of promotion 1.44~4.00% 0.90~4.00% Past service costs (7,763) (202,904) Expected rate of increase in salaries 1.80~7.50% 1.00~8.00% Interest costs 23,305,216 21,760,653 Remeasurements: (h) Sensitivity analysis Actuarial loss from change in demographic assumptions 1,236,116 5,828,996 Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the Actuarial gain from change in financial assumptions (17,029,171) (21,346,862) Actuarial gain from experience adjustments (2,136,315) (1,720,267) amounts are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (17,929,370) (17,238,133) Benefit payments (64,299,912) (48,388,976) Increase Decrease Others 3,197,192 4,385,401 Changes due to spin-off (138,737,776) Discount rate (1% movement) (64,917,096) 77,782,456 Ending balance 640,841,246 719,220,696 Expected rate of promotion (1% movement) 64,280,681 (55,259,836) Expected rate of increase in salaries (1% movement) 77,372,571 (65,752,047) (d) Movements in the plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown. 2017 2016 (i) The expected maturity analysis of the defined benefit obligation as at December 31, 2017, is as follows: Beginning balance 706,365,385 601,988,788 (in thousands of Korean won) Return on plan assets 20,082,148 17,335,386 Remeasurements (8,505,530) (5,243,740) Less than 1 year Between 1-2 years Between 2-5 years Between 5-10 years Over 10 years Employer contribution 111,473,280 131,651,613 Pension benefits 47,815,482 51,286,703 177,558,049 378,526,150 1,977,638,108 Benefit payments (50,481,117) (39,354,109) Others 2,311,608 (12,553) The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 15.3 years. Changes due to spin-off (121,887,985) Ending balance 659,357,789 706,365,385 22. Derivative Instruments and Hedge Accounting The estimated contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are ₩109,956,633 thousand. (a) Details of derivatives outstanding as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (e) Plan assets as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, consist of: (in thousands of Korean won) Purpose Type Description 2017 2016 Cash flow hedge Currency swaps At the maturity of the swap, the principal and the interest payments for debentures and borrowings in foreign currency based on floating rates are exchanged back with the principal and fixed interest rate payments in local currency. Principal guaranteed insurance policies 659,205,954 706,190,859 Interest swaps Pays fixed interest to receive floating rate Contributions to the National Pension Fund 151,835 174,526 Currency forward At the maturity of the contract, purchase dollars at the fixed exchange rate 659,357,789 706,365,385 Trade Total return swap Exchanges beneficiary certificate of investor’s total profit to constant flow of cash Stock options Holds the right to buy preferred stocks or grants the right to sell preferred stocks of related companies (f) Expenses recognized for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 The Group entered into a contract of settlement for differences based on beneficiary certificates issued by real estate funds with beneficiaries including Shinhan BNPP Specialized Investment Type Private Equity Real Estate Investment Trust No. 22, a real estate collective investment vehicle, during the year ended DecemCurrent service costs 100,215,069 99,026,546 ber 31, 2017. Past service costs (7,763) (202,904) Interest costs 20,450,197 18,392,255 Return on plan assets (17,807,737) (14,861,639) Contributions to defined contribution plans 2,081,589 2,057,107 Long-term employee benefits 10,675,368 15,144,958 115,606,723 119,556,323 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 13 6 137 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (b) Fair value of derivatives outstanding as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 24. Hybrid Securities 2017 2016 Description Type Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Hybrid securities classified as equity as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Cash flow hedge Currency swap 11,531,761 105,923,348 197,075,079 2,177,409 Interest swap 1,581,073 468,812 227,438 3,012,110 2017 2016 Currency forward 22,467,173 Date of issue Date of maturity Interest rate (%) Trade Total return swap 35,615,810 15,721,640 Hybrid security 1-1(*1) Nov.15, 2013 Nov.15, 2043 4.723 240,000,000 240,000,000 Stock option 101,173 1,312,363 26,281,467 Hybrid security 1-2(*1) Nov.15, 2013 Nov.15, 2043 4.723 30,000,000 30,000,000 48,728,644 106,493,333 236,803,693 31,470,986 Issuance cost (882,000) (882,000) 269,118,000 269,118,000 (*1) Details of hybrid securities are as follows: (c) Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments for the years ended December 31, 2017, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Description Type Related accounts Korean won (thousands) Cash flow hedge Currency swap Loss on valuation of derivative instruments(*1) (137,100,000) Hybrid security 1-1 Hybrid security 1-2 Unrealized loss on valuation of derivative (2,891,598) Issue price 240,000 30,000 Interest swap Unrealized gain on valuation of derivative instruments 4,117,760 Maturity date 30 years (The Company has the unconditional right to extend the maturity date) Currency forward Unrealized gain on valuation of derivative instruments 312,828 Interest rate Issue date ~ November 15, 2018: 4.723%, reset every 5 years as follows: Trade Total return swap Gain on valuation of derivative instruments 23,363,142 After 5 years: treasury rate (5 years) + 1.5% Stock option Loss on valuation of derivative instruments (1,049,712) After 10 years: additionally +1% according to Step-up clauses (*1) Fair value hedging is applied to currency rate swap portion of currency swaps. Interest payments condition February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each calMarch 30, June 30, September 30, December 30 of each calenendar year (Conditional deferral of interest payments is available dar year (Conditional deferral of interest payments is available to the Company) to the Company) Others The Group can call the hybrid security at year 5 and interest payment date afterwards. 23. Share Capital and Capital Surplus The hybrid security holder’s preference in the event of liquidation is the same as the preference stock holders; higher than the common stock holders but lower than other creditors. (a) The share capital of the Parent Company as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won, except for number of shares) The Group holds the right to extend the maturity dates of the hybrid securities and to defer interest payments for the hybrid securities. If interest payments for 2017 2016 the hybrid securities are deferred, the Group cannot declare or pay dividends attributable to ordinary share. Since the Group has an unconditional right to avoid delivering cash or another financial asset to settle a contractual obligation, the hybrid securities have been classified as equity instruments. Authorized shares(shares) 60,000,000 60,000,000 Par value per share 5 5 Number of shares issued(shares) 28,122,047 31,490,892 Share capital(*1) 140,610,235 157,454,460 25. Capital Adjustments (*1) Share capital decreased due to spin-off. (in thousands of Korean won) Capital adjustments as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, consist of: 2017 2016 (b) Capital surplus as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, consist of: Treasury sharesl(*1) 3,795,475 1,805,705 (in thousands of Korean won) Other capital adjustmentsl(*2) 2,900,617,886 114,547,573 2017 2016 2,904,413,361 116,353,278 (*1) The Group acquired 18,074 shares of treasury shares for \ 3,795,475 thousand through acquisition of fractional shares after spin-off. Share premiuml(*1) 3,381,364,716 3,786,431,052 (*2) Decrease in net assets due to spin-off was deducted from other capital adjustments within equity. Others 124,320,816 124,320,816 3,505,685,532 3,910,751,868 (*1) Share capital decreased due to spin-off. 26. Retained Earnings Details of retained earnings as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Legal reserves 201,827,258 195,916,818 Voluntary reserves 10,790,052,125 10,810,052,125 Retained earnings before appropriation 738,433,131 989,641,491 11,730,312,514 11,995,610,434 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 13 8 13 9 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 27. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income(loss) (b) Diluted earnings (loss) per share Diluted earnings (loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in Korean won, except for number of shares) Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 (in thousands of Korean won) Continuing operations Discontinued operations 2017 Profit (loss) attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company (548,032,529,565) 411,637,356,685 Beginning Changes Tax effects Changes due to Ending Interests paid for hybrid securities, net of tax (12,748,218,078) balance spin-off balance Effect of convertible notes, net of tax (219,449,077) Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 82,321,921 (4,641,225) 743,545 (25,744,389) 52,679,852 Effect of exchange of exchangeable bond, net of tax (486,903,897) Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations (22,212,409) (20,107,875) 1,250,690 798,499 (40,271,095) Diluted profit (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (561,267,651,540) 411,417,907,608 Effective portion of unrealized changes in fair values of cash flow hedges (6,878,187) 950,074 (8,513,132) 1,384,207 (13,057,038) Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share(in shares) 29,231,757 29,231,757 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 34,721,407 (28,593,580) 7,783,904 (95,991,749) (82,080,018) Diluted earnings (loss) per share (19,201) 14,074 87,952,732 (52,392,606) 1,265,007 (119,553,432) (82,728,299) (in Korean won, except for number of shares) (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 2016 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Beginning Changes Tax effects Ending Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 56,903,906,792 111,290,879,479 balance balance Interests paid for hybrid securities, net of tax (12,849,147,941) Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 90,698,289 (12,106,932) 3,730,564 82,321,921 Effect of convertible notes, net of tax (301,611,682) Exchange rate differences on translating foreign operations (32,384,224) 10,286,693 (114,878) (22,212,409) Effect of exchange of exchangeable bond, net of tax(*1) Effective portion of unrealized changes in fair values of cash flow hedges (12,264,390) 4,488,687 897,516 (6,878,187) Diluted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 44,054,758,851 110,989,267,797 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 49,451,838 (16,183,500) 1,453,069 34,721,407 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share(in shares) 29,552,204 29,552,204 95,501,513 (13,515,052) 5,966,271 87,952,732 Diluted earnings per share 1,491 3,756 (*1) For the year ended December 31, 2016, LOTTE Himart Co., Ltd. exchangeable bonds were excluded when calculating diluted earnings per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 28. Earnings (loss) per Share (c) Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (in number of shares) (a) Basic earnings (loss) per share 2017 2016 Basic earnings (loss) per share for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in Korean won, except for number of shares) Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 29,231,757 29,552,204 2017 Effect of conversion of convertible bonds(*1) Continuing operations Discontinued operations Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 29,231,757 29,552,204 Profit (loss) attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company (548,032,529,565) 411,637,356,685 (*1) For the year ended December 31, 2016, the effect of the convertible bonds was excluded when calculating diluted earnings per share, as the convertible bonds denominated Interests paid for hybrid securities, net of tax (12,748,218,078) in JPY and USD were redeemed. In addition, for the year ended 31, 2016, USD convertible bonds were excluded when calculating diluted earnings per share as Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding(in shares) 29,231,757 29,231,757 their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Basic earnings (loss) per share (19,184) 14,082 (in Korean won, except for number of shares) 2016 29. Sales Continuing operations Discontinued operations Profit attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 56,903,906,792 111,290,879,479 (a) Details of sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Interests paid for hybrid securities, net of tax (12,849,147,941) Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding(in shares) 29,552,204 29,552,204 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share 1,491 3,766 Revenue from contracts with customers Total sales 24,684,929,346 25,316,667,677 Sales of merchandise 22,717,378,011 23,411,178,815 Sales of products 54,451,001 55,395,745 Other sales 1,913,100,334 1,850,093,117 Sales deduction 7,817,382,690 2,496,851,262 Sales discounts and sales returns 985,636,791 1,009,902,937 Reserve for sales return and deferred sales 463,093,718 247,816,431 Cost of specific sales 6,368,652,181 1,239,131,894 Revenue from other sources: rental revenue 1,312,324,445 1,294,512,380 18,179,871,101 24,114,328,795 (*) Sales during the year ended December 31, 2016 include sales VAT refund for mileage usage amounting to ₩127,008,989 thousand. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 14 0 141 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (b) The contract assets and liabilities of the Group that are recognized in relation to the revenue from contracts with customers as at Decem(in thousands of Korean won) ber 31, 2017, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Commission expenses 1,081,394,938 999,657,615 Service commission expenses 943,301,897 919,127,290 Contract assets Advertising expenses 265,341,665 269,311,280 Inventory expected for return 3,340,798 Samples expenses 161,299 91,855 3,340,798 Sales commissions 192,591,250 215,991,590 Contract liabilities 63,116,532 69,002,091 Sales promotion expenses 134,667,612 225,369,774 Customer loyalty program 760,758,460 785,973,686 Decoration expenses 17,119,094 19,181,055 Gift vouchers 185,587,997 328,300,540 Bad debt expense(reversal) 3,544,599 (27,697,931) Other 1,009,462,989 1,183,276,317 Transportation expenses 187,968,688 232,267,674 Research and development expenses 283,749 274,150 (c) The amounts recognized as revenue and collection of gift vouchers during the year ended December 31, 2017, in relation to contract liabiliProvisions 4,363,361 591,076 ties carried forward from the year ended December 31, 2016 are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Compensation expenses 2,194,708 2,407,766 Other 3,680,757 5,254,941 2017 7,106,353,541 7,108,293,438 Revenue (*1) Taxes and dues exclude the comprehensive real estate holding tax refunds of ₩24,302,744 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2016. Customer loyalty program 69,002,091 Other 302,301,831 371,303,922 Collected 31. Other Income and Expenses Gift vouchers 325,874,234 325,874,234 Details of other income and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (d) In relation to gift vouchers, expected collection amount of unperformed performance obligation by period are as follows: 2017 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Other income: Book amount 1 year Between 1-5 years Over 5 years Gain on foreign currency transactions 1,092,461 1,879,628 760,758,460 315,419,696 442,381,778 2,956,987 Gain on foreign currency translation 95,989 786,304 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6,814,354 2,625,948 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 35,455 30. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Reversal of impairment losses on intangible assets 108,194 Gain on disposal of other non-current assets 2,885,979 Reversal of impairment losses on other non-current assets 41,824 9,347 Details of selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 98,652,885 128,039,472 (in thousands of Korean won) Others 109,727,141 133,340,699 2017 2016 Salaries 1,348,605,983 1,335,466,470 (in thousands of Korean won) Post-employment benefits 104,651,878 104,085,128 Long-term employee benefits 10,675,368 15,144,958 2017 2016 Employee benefits 284,925,315 290,462,283 16,132,708 17,604,119 Other income: Training expenses 28,559,929 31,816,878 Loss on foreign currency transactions 875,314 3,662,617 Travel expenses 3,492,168 3,113,111 Loss on foreign currency translation 5,827,309 697,146 Vehicles maintenance expenses 17,416,008 17,059,075 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7,254,421 5,669,448 Insurance premium Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 136,470,788 73,482,235 Taxes and duesl(*1) 194,107,644 150,850,629 4,902,063 8,389,425 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 292,906 183,894 Entertainment expenses 71,912,001 75,728,316 Impairment loss on intangible assets 401,268,959 196,833,202 Supplies expenses 1,933,144 1,982,329 Impairment loss of assets held for sale 2,598,704 431,715 Publication expenses Impairment loss on other non-current assets 28,000,742 15,616,274 Communication expenses 26,733,371 29,389,856 Donation 30,702,503 23,217,484 Utility expenses 327,873,221 345,093,281 Other bad debt expenses 3,017,619 4,544,526 Repairs and maintenance 35,233,875 35,667,047 Taxes and dues 2,784,687 455,295 Rental expenses 1,046,591,416 1,002,681,867 Others 115,068,986 138,199,928 Depreciation 700,925,900 732,570,863 734,162,938 462,993,764 Amortization 45,067,932 49,359,541 Depreciation of low price supplies 127 ... ... ... AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 142 143 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 32. Breakdown of Expenses by Nature (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Details of nature of expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Finance costs: Interest expense 243,733,471 223,847,027 2017 2016 Loss on foreign currency transactions 7,196,788 696,810 Loss on foreign currency translation 63,173,624 96,718,222 Purchase of inventories 10,048,723,993 15,923,332,734 Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3,430,241 419,995 Changes in inventories 86,274,893 (35,586,911) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 17,247,799 1,971,057 Employee benefits 1,755,873,499 1,752,259,810 Loss on valuation of derivative instruments held for hedging 137,100,000 Rental expenses 1,056,868,968 1,014,151,430 Loss on valuation of derivative instruments held for trading 1,049,712 1,673,091 Depreciation and amortization 790,346,871 828,931,955 Loss on transaction of derivative instruments held for hedging 30,598,800 17,906,589 Sales commissions 192,591,250 223,289,530 Loss on transaction of derivative instruments held for trading 914,033 Sales promotion expenses 174,254,186 226,585,507 Loss on redemption of debentures 20,060,299 Commission expenses 1,097,626,925 1,019,058,442 Financial guarantee costs 81,058 7,696,943 Service expenses 990,693,863 958,852,636 Loss on disposal of investments in associates, joint ventures and subsidiaries 1,255,221 58,997 Advertising expenses 288,718,622 292,880,772 505,780,747 371,049,030 Utility expenses 331,041,050 348,561,270 Taxes and dues 194,325,960 157,265,999 Other 642,671,885 641,419,415 17,650,011,965 23,351,002,589 Details of finance income and finance costs by financial instruments category for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 33. Finance Income and Finance Costs Cash and cash Loans and Available-forFinancial assets Derivative Financial Total equivalents receivables sale financial and liabilities assets and liabilities based assets at fair value liabilities held on amortized Details of finance income and finance costs for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: through profit for hedging cost (in thousands of Korean won) or loss 2017 2016 Recognized in profit or loss : Interest income 44,718,373 41,067,851 148,757 85,934,981 Finance income: Interest expense (243,733,471) (243,733,471) Interest income 85,934,981 71,953,991 Dividend income 9,172,054 9,172,054 Dividend income 9,172,054 7,043,255 Valuation / Disposal (1,265,735) 22,423,460 (137,100,000) (115,942,275) Gain on foreign currency transactions 33,088,916 10,783,442 Impairment (6,562,218) (17,247,799) (23,810,017) Gain on foreign currency translation 207,878,857 38,755,861 Exchange differences (444,823) (13,228,851) 27,502 650,013 178,079,347 165,083,188 Gain on valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 110,030 Others (901,679) (30,598,800) (81,058) (31,581,537) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 2,164,506 8,470 44,273,550 21,276,782 (9,165,221) 22,171,794 (167,698,800) (65,735,182) (154,877,077) Gain on valuation of derivative instruments held for hedging 46,200,000 Recognized in other comprehensive income (22,886,357) (22,886,357) Gain on valuation of derivative instruments held for trading 23,363,142 15,754,477 (loss)(*1): Gain on transaction of derivative instruments held for hedging 12,354 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale 1,538,990 1,538,990 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 183,895 5,519,355 financial assets 1,538,990 361,908,735 196,018,851 Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (22,886,357) (21,347,367) 44,273,550 21,276,782 (32,051,578) 22,171,794 (166,159,810) (65,735,182) (176,224,444) (*1) The gain/loss on valuation are amounts before tax effects. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 14 4 145 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) (c) Reconciliation between profit before income tax and income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Cash and cash Loans and Available-forFinancial assets Derivative Financial Total equivalents receivables sale financial and liabilities assets and liabilities based 2017 2016 assets at fair value liabilities held on amortized through profit for hedging cost Profit before income tax expense 280,347,495 489,420,581 or loss Income tax based on statutory tax rate 68,306,094 124,970,108 Recognized in profit or loss : Tax effects of: Interest income 45,136,685 778,856,419 54,352 131,800 824,179,256 Tax effects on non-taxable income (110,465,112) (21,305,761) Interest expense (412,446,232) (412,446,232) Tax effects on non-deductible expense 19,421,786 19,891,384 Dividend income 7,115,010 7,115,010 Tax credit (1,041,129) (276,101) Valuation / Disposal 31,262,509 (255,205) 14,103,426 86,658,358 131,769,088 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1,013,909 11,785,555 Impairment (186,691,761) (4,495,708) (191,187,469) Tax effects on share of profit of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 26,271,957 27,390,591 Exchange differences 179,593 7,176,269 52,755 (83,000,067) (75,591,450) Unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognized 171,049,140 75,287,711 Commission revenue 846,135,351 846,135,351 Deferred tax expense due to changes in tax rate 121,463,179 Others (811,409,395) (834,194) (20,084,775) (26,923,048) (859,251,412) Other 4,964,365 4,802,339 45,316,278 665,329,392 2,471,204 13,401,032 66,573,583 (522,369,347) 270,722,142 Income tax expense 300,984,189 242,545,826 Recognized in other comprehensive income (15,689,385) (15,689,385) Effective tax rate 107.4% 49.6% (loss) (*1): Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale 4,760,001 4,760,001 (d) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the expected future tax rate to be applied for the year in which temporary differencfinancial assets es are expected to be reversed. Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (15,689,385) 4,760,001 (10,929,384) 45,316,278 665,329,392 (13,218,181) 13,401,032 71,333,584 (522,369,347) 259,792,758 (e) Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (*1) The gain/loss on valuation are amounts before tax effects. (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 Beginning Profit or loss Equity Spin-off Ending balance balance 34. Tax Expense Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 6,843,204 7,087,257 (5,854,852) 8,075,609 Buildings (12,817,693) 1,213,261 (11,604,432) (a) Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, consists of: Depreciation 63,232,737 12,533,601 (712,300) 75,054,038 (in thousands of Korean won) Allowance for bad debt expense 1,971,353 876,885 (1,813,278) 1,034,960 2017 2016 Accrued income (958,355) (515,581) 84,240 (1,389,696) Unearned revenues 13,639,112 3,020,286 (16,074,775) 584,623 Current income taxes 260,192,034 271,490,625 Long-term prepaid expenses (38,012,675) 4,935,967 441,902 (32,634,806) Deferred tax due to temporary differences 21,745,255 (32,180,287) Losses on valuation of inventories 6,927,312 1,085,123 (291,637) 7,720,798 Total income tax effect 281,937,289 239,310,338 Provision for sales return 2,281,459 (205,879) (58,169) 2,017,411 Income tax charged directly to equity 19,046,900 3,235,488 Property, plant and equipment (capitalization of (9,361,945) (1,970,656) (11,332,601) Income tax expense 300,984,189 242,545,826 borrowing costs) Land 32,548,494 4,438,431 36,986,925 Land (asset revaluation) (1,021,725,693) (134,666,103) 1,195,866 (1,155,195,930) (b) Details of income tax expense recognized directly to equity for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 7,450,137 (135,541) (6,962,860) 351,736 Provision for mileage program (in thousands of Korean won) Accrued expense 25,283,776 8,040,684 (1,352,461) 31,971,999 2017 2016 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 1,409,558 229,173 1,638,731 Construction-in-progress 1,625,189 146,367 1,771,556 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1,840,323 4,597,053 Other intangible assets (48,529,722) 1,556,023 (805,745) (47,779,444) Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 1,494,461 (114,878) Rental guarantee deposits 12,078,206 7,504,348 (88) 19,582,466 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments (8,655,473) 831,682 Goodwill (44,946,456) 26,830,605 3,252,103 (14,863,748) Remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities (3,429,507) (3,685,425) Exchangeable bonds (105,914) 98,472 (7,442) Share of other comprehensive income of associates 7,379,283 1,590,119 Other capital surplus 62,285,769 (62,285,769) Effect of changes in revenue recognition 20,417,813 Investments in subsidiaries and associates (361,120,804) (28,910,280) 7,379,283 285,030,116 (97,621,685) Other 16,937 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale finan(70,075,957) 1,840,323 11,517,706 (56,717,928) Income tax charged directly to equity 19,046,900 3,235,488 cial assets Loss (gain) on valuation of derivatives 12,690,430 (4,976,298) (8,655,473) (7,540,214) (8,481,555) Salaries and retirement benefits 23,786,040 (924,072) (3,429,507) (3,620,441) 15,812,020 Income tax related to changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, cumulative effect of foreign currency translation, losses (gains) on valuation Translation difference of foreign subsidiaries 2,314,916 1,494,461 3,809,377 of derivatives, remeasurements of defined benefit liabilities and share of other comprehensive income of associates are recognized in other comprehensive inOthers 57,539,531 51,915,772 20,417,813 (15,899,909) 113,973,207 come. (1,273,747,991) (40,792,155) 19,046,900 178,249,435 (1,117,243,811) AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 14 6 147 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) (b) Adjustments for cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Beginning Profit or loss Equity Ending 2017 2016 balance balance Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 5,758,755 1,084,449 6,843,204 Income tax expense 300,984,189 242,545,826 Buildings (13,877,427) 1,059,734 (12,817,693) Post-employment benefits 119,308,268 123,069,126 Depreciation 46,462,050 16,770,687 63,232,737 Long-term employee benefits 13,148,057 17,660,297 Allowance for bad debt expense 2,557,509 (586,156) 1,971,353 Depreciation 779,210,534 835,966,612 Accrued income (1,380,621) 422,266 (958,355) Amortization 125,562,210 137,197,647 Unearned revenues 14,449,783 (810,671) 13,639,112 Impairment loss on intangible assets 440,235,152 201,523,046 Long-term prepaid expenses (40,002,009) 1,989,334 (38,012,675) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 292,906 183,894 Losses on valuation of inventories 5,169,616 1,757,696 6,927,312 Loss on foreign currency translation 69,140,151 97,426,659 Provision for sales return 2,185,676 95,783 2,281,459 Loss on foreign currency transactions 1,651,918 161,706 Property, plant and equipment (capitalization of borrowing costs) (9,783,124) 421,179 (9,361,945) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8,082,134 7,404,482 Land 32,548,494 32,548,494 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 136,470,788 73,527,695 Land (asset revaluation) (1,021,654,638) (71,055) (1,021,725,693) Bad debt expense (reversal of bad debt expense) 8,014,283 (19,599,846) Provision for mileage program 14,396,960 (6,946,823) 7,450,137 Impairment loss on other non-current assets 28,000,742 15,616,274 Accrued expense 24,151,999 1,131,777 25,283,776 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 117,870 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 1,831,744 (422,186) 1,409,558 Loss on transactions of derivative instruments 31,512,833 19,995,791 Gain (loss) on valuation of convertible bonds (450,291) 450,291 Loss on valuation of derivative instruments 138,149,712 1,673,091 Construction-in-progress 1,650,728 (25,539) 1,625,189 Share of loss of associates and joint ventures 67,623,942 42,741,069 Other intangible assets (51,020,918) 2,491,196 (48,529,722) Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 1,255,221 58,997 Rental guarantee deposits 12,432,455 (354,249) 12,078,206 Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 5,232,909 Goodwill (50,986,986) 6,040,530 (44,946,456) Rental expenses (amortization of discount on deposit, etc.) 81,904,334 94,602,352 Exchangeable bonds (4,705,250) 4,599,336 (105,914) Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3,430,241 419,996 Other capital surplus 62,270,219 15,550 62,285,769 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 17,247,799 1,971,057 Investments in subsidiaries and associates (332,893,713) (29,834,147) 1,607,056 (361,120,804) Loss on redemption of debentures 20,060,299 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (74,673,010) 4,597,053 (70,075,957) Miscellaneous losses 7 51,100,941 Loss (gain) on valuation of derivatives 16,960,692 (5,101,944) 831,682 12,690,430 Loss on disposal of assets held for sale 19,752 Salaries and retirement benefits 20,682,472 6,788,993 (3,685,425) 23,786,040 Impairment loss on assets held for sale 2,598,704 431,715 Translation difference of foreign subsidiaries 2,429,794 (114,878) 2,314,916 Other expenses 7,490,605 52,900 Others 29,560,763 27,978,768 57,539,531 Cost of card business 393,235,201 472,122,023 (1,305,928,278) 28,944,799 3,235,488 (1,273,747,991) Interest expense 252,581,674 237,071,927 Financial guarantee costs 81,058 7,696,943 Gain on foreign currency translation (207,975,731) (39,814,705) (f) As at December 31, 2017 and 2016, the amounts of total deductible temporary differences related to investments in associates, joint venGain on foreign currency transactions (32,715,551) (12,044,681) tures and subsidiaries for which deferred tax assets were not recognized are as follows: Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (6,990,305) (2,786,412) (in thousands of Korean won) Gain on disposal of intangible assets (35,455) (56,093) 2017 2016 Gain on transactions of derivative instruments (12,354) Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (23,363,142) (61,954,477) Investments in associates 260,175,535 321,551,841 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (137,992,127) (104,150,292) Investments in subsidiaries 2,549,394,175 2,105,461,603 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (2,164,506) (8,470) 2,809,569,710 2,427,013,444 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (183,895) (5,519,355) Miscellaneous gains (1,609) Other income (8,313,961) (1,172,284) Gain on settlement of spin-off (377,543,489) 35. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Income of card business (596,245,400) (777,813,152) Interest income (96,048,035) (87,037,059) (a) As at December 31, 2017 and 2016, the details of cash and cash equivalents are as follows: Dividend income (9,172,054) (7,070,255) (in thousands of Korean won) 1,528,592,671 1,588,488,193 2017 2016 Cash 38,432,887 54,891,505 Deposits 353,446,409 655,860,784 Other cash equivalents 2,234,364,630 1,558,424,945 2,626,243,926 2,269,177,234 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 14 8 149 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (c) Changes in operating assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 36. Operating Leases 2017 2016 (a) Lessee Increase in trade receivables (131,190,771) (117,044,577) The Group has entered into the operating leases for buildings, furniture and fixtures and vehicles. Future lease payments under operating leases of land and Increase in other receivables (143,035,577) (145,272,002) buildings as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Increase in other financial assets (616,108,830) (763,588,776) Decrease (increase) in inventories 295,448,130 (47,093,234) (in thousands of Korean won) Decrease in other non-financial assets 107,184,718 1,139,187 2017 2016 Increase in trade payables 357,827,733 38,871,673 Increase in other payables 273,389,483 285,729,729 Within 1 year 880,254,546 850,684,871 Increase in other financial liabilities 4,924,352 43,165,398 1 ~ 5 years 2,851,160,381 2,922,003,066 Decrease in unearned revenues (8,070,337) (8,968,487) Thereafter 6,230,582,885 6,844,820,931 Increase (decrease) in provisions 7,390,659 (8,473,636) 9,961,997,812 10,617,508,868 Increase (decrease) in other non-financial liabilities (96,922,724) 248,064,918 Payment of post-employment benefits and other long-term employee benefits (63,857,203) (53,491,587) Increase in plan assets (64,883,752) (92,297,504) Operating lease payments recognized as rental expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, amount to ₩1,056,868,968 thousand and (77,904,119) (619,258,898) ₩1,014,151,430 thousand, respectively. (d) Non-cash transactions for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (b) Lessor The Group has entered into operating leases of certain of its properties and equipment. Future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases as at 2017 2016 December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Other payables for acquisition of property, plant and equipment 37,424,692 27,824,193 2017 2016 Reclassification of borrowings to current portion 2,155,396,967 3,521,358,551 Reclassification of equity related to spin-off 2,249,498,681 Within 1 year 112,945,129 142,714,106 1 ~ 5 years 195,029,401 206,794,357 (e) Changes in liabilities arising from financial activities for the year ended December 31, 2017, are as follows: Thereafter 122,734,293 129,865,095 (in thousands of Korean won) 430,708,823 479,373,558 Other assets Liabilities from financing activities Total Current derivative Short-term borrowings Long-term borrowings liabilities (assets) held and debentures and debentures Operating lease revenues recognized as rental income for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, amount to ₩1,289,288,323 thousand and for hedging ₩1,271,153,246 thousand, respectively. Beginning balance (214,580,171) 5,058,613,134 9,424,335,125 14,268,368,088 Net cash flow from financing activities 102,686,976 176,708,552 1,511,393,188 1,790,788,716 Non-cash flows Spin-off (1,831,531) (2,998,888,255) (5,178,058,030) (8,178,777,816) 37. Greenhouse Gases Emission Rights Others(*1) 207,004,052 842,358,926 (1,168,778,720) (119,415,742) Ending balance 93,279,326 3,078,792,357 4,588,891,563 7,760,963,246 (a) Emission Right (*1) Others include gain (loss) on valuation and transaction of derivative assets (liabilities), interest expenses of borrowings and debentures, gain (loss) on foreign currency translation, The Group participates in the allocation and trading system of emissions. The commitment period is from 2015 to 2017. The emissions were allocated to each reclassification of non-current portion into current portion, and others. compliance year as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Emission (tCO2-eq) 2015 860,971 2016 983,180 2017 945,425 2,789,576 There is no pledged emission and the Group has 994,053tCO2-eq of emissions as at December 31, 2017. The emissions submitted to the government in 2015 and 2016 were 806,687 tCO2-eq and 833,836 tCO2-eq, respectively. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 15 0 151 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (b) Emission liability (c) Reconciliations of total segment sales and profit to their respective consolidated financial statements line items The Group disposed of 155,000tCO2-eq of emission and estimated to emit 859,455tCO2-eq of CO2 during the year ended in December 31, 2017. for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Sales Operating profits 2017 2016 2017 38. Operating Segment 2016 Department stores 3,204,171,296 8,029,764,197 395,619,052 614,358,707 Discount stores 6,577,410,809 8,200,735,851 (228,585,496) (96,649,019) (a) The Group’s reportable segments consist of department stores (retail), discount stores (retail), finance business, consumer electronics retail, Finance business 1,427,695,896 1,786,996,488 82,989,524 137,775,827 convenience stores and others (television home shopping, supermarkets, movie theaters and clothing retail) as follows: Consumer electronics retail 4,099,341,306 3,939,442,418 207,463,228 174,539,881 Convenience stores 2,850,988,211 3,704,192,803 37,460,542 49,539,071 Others 4,641,156,572 4,406,322,299 160,813,244 79,864,160 Department Discount Finance Consumer Convenience Others 22,800,764,090 30,067,454,056 655,760,094 959,428,627 stores stores business(*1) electronics retail stores(*1) Retail stores for middle Retail and whole-sale stores for Credit financial Retail store for General retail stores for Others Elimination of inter-segment amounts (398,907,411) (541,041,484) (16,034,636) (19,067,985) Main Discontinued operations (4,221,985,578) (5,412,083,777) (109,866,322) (177,034,436) business and higher-end merchanmiddle and discounted price services home appliance mainly beverages and After consolidated adjustments 18,179,871,101 24,114,328,795 529,859,136 763,326,206 dise merchandise groceries Major products Sales of merchandise and Sales of merchandise and leasCredit card and Sales of home Sales of merchandise Sales of merchandise, (in thousands of Korean won) or services leasing ing loan services appliance and others leasing and others Major customers General consumers Depreciation and amortization Profit (loss) for the period 2017 2016 2017 2016 (*1) Certain segments of financial business, convenience stores and others are classified to discontinued operations due to spin-off. Department stores 335,453,562 363,461,291 377,415,234 519,479,645 Discount stores 234,158,850 233,027,356 (781,718,791) (510,989,503) (b) Information about reportable segments as at and for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Finance business 45,089,518 50,503,548 34,459,964 110,493,897 (in thousands of Korean won) Consumer electronics retail 49,193,332 52,412,507 148,435,181 121,428,017 2017 Convenience stores 46,913,578 65,104,759 30,984,493 16,256,488 Department Discount Finance Consumer Others 180,314,599 194,261,316 78,756,614 16,241,706 stores stores business electronics retail 891,123,439 958,770,777 (111,667,305) 272,910,250 Revenue from external customers 3,178,228,816 6,566,502,004 1,281,790,032 4,098,829,215 Elimination of inter-segment amounts 13,649,306 14,393,483 136,396,128 70,205,528 Inter-segment sales 25,942,480 10,908,805 145,905,864 512,091 Discontinued operations (114,425,874) (144,232,305) (45,365,516) (96,241,023) Total segment sales 3,204,171,296 6,577,410,809 1,427,695,896 4,099,341,306 After consolidated adjustments 790,346,871 828,931,955 (20,636,693) 246,874,755 (in thousands of Korean won) (d) Segment assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 Convenience Others Discontinued Total stores operations Assets Liabilities Revenue from external customers 2,841,620,215 4,434,886,397 (4,221,985,578) 18,179,871,101 Inter-segment sales 9,367,996 206,270,175 (255,005,008) 143,902,403 Department stores 14,006,561,723 9,225,475,580 Total segment sales 2,850,988,211 4,641,156,572 (4,476,990,586) 18,323,773,504 Discount stores 8,576,096,060 2,908,405,739 Finance business Consumer electronics retail 3,204,628,140 1,178,849,678 (in thousands of Korean won) Convenience stores 2016 Others 7,354,760,503 3,202,592,688 Department Discount Finance Consumer 33,142,046,426 16,515,323,685 stores stores business electronics retail Elimination of inter-segment amounts (5,193,558,377) (1,918,188,228) Revenue from external customers 7,997,834,606 8,147,207,862 1,588,513,965 3,934,231,366 27,948,488,049 14,597,135,457 After consolidated adjustments Inter-segment sales 31,929,591 53,527,989 198,482,523 5,211,052 Total segment sales 8,029,764,197 8,200,735,851 1,786,996,488 3,939,442,418 (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Assets Liabilities 2016 Department stores 16,725,046,124 9,817,551,560 Convenience Others Discontinued Total Discount stores 9,510,129,051 2,821,322,022 stores operations Finance business 10,225,622,908 8,074,714,302 Revenue from external customers 3,688,009,223 4,170,615,550 (5,412,083,777) 24,114,328,795 Consumer electronics retail 3,004,858,847 1,109,197,480 Inter-segment sales 16,183,580 235,706,749 (374,934,773) 166,106,711 Convenience stores 1,223,553,492 821,700,756 Total segment sales 3,704,192,803 4,406,322,299 (5,787,018,550) 24,280,435,506 Others 7,341,040,793 2,987,128,467 48,030,251,215 25,631,614,587 Elimination of inter-segment amounts (6,114,344,715) (979,749,980) After consolidated adjustments 41,915,906,500 24,651,864,607 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 15 2 153 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (e) Sales, before consolidated adjustments, by geographical areas for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (c) As at December 31, 2017, the Group is involved in 45 lawsuits as a plaintiff with damage claims totaling ₩52,978,190 thousand and the (in thousands of Korean won) Group is involved in 283 lawsuits as a defendant with damage claims totaling ₩148,238,570 thousand. Regarding 81 lawsuits out of various 2017 2016 with damage claims as a defendant, the Group recorded ₩22,869,768 thousand as provision as at December 31, 2017. Among ₩148,238,570 thousand of damage claims against the Group, ₩23,264,793 thousand is related to victims of humidifier disinfectant. The Domestic 20,697,801,804 27,346,192,030 Group recognized other liabilities of ₩9,055,349 thousand in regard to the claim on victims of humidifier disinfectant as at December 31, 2017. China 634,132,715 1,243,674,603 The management believes that the ultimate resolutions of other legal actions, except lawsuits above, will not have a material effect of the Vietnam 341,001,495 339,418,972 financial position or results of operations of the Group. Indonesia 1,127,828,076 1,138,168,451 22,800,764,090 30,067,454,056 As Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of the Group, received a six-month suspension (6 hours per day) penalty from the Discontinued operations (4,476,990,586) (5,787,018,550) government in 2016, Woori Home Shopping & Television Co., Ltd. won the first trial of the administrative litigation for cancellation of business 18,323,773,504 24,280,435,506 suspension. However, Ministry of Science and ICT filed an appeal and the litigation is in progress as at December 31, 2017. The Group cannot reliably estimate the impacts from litigation results. 39. Contingencies and Commitments (d) As at December 31, 2017, the Group has entered into loan agreements securing trade receivables with Industrial Bank of Korea and others amounting to ₩2,894,721,209 thousand. (a) As at December 31, 2017, the Group has the following credit facility commitments with financial institutions: (in thousands of Korean won) (e) As at December 31, 2017, the Group is provided with 145 performance guarantees from Seoul Guarantee Insurance and others for its business amounting to ₩76,877,333 thousand. Credit line Amount used under credit facility General loan KRW 423,000,000 211,000,000 (f) Brand usage contract, etc. CNY 1,409,500,000 889,870,832 The Group has entered into contracts with Lotte Corporation (formerly, Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.) for the use of brand, management consulting, and manVND 2,192,900,000,000 2,042,632,651,072 agement support service as at December 31, 2017. The cost of use of brand is 0.15% of sales less advertising expenses. The Group pays for management conUSD 1,112,532,146 1,074,532,146 sulting and management support service the amount allocated by Lotte Corporation, based on objective and reasonable allocation criteria, from the costs that IDR 2,826,440,000,000 2,270,000,000,000 have incurred in the course of performing such relevant business plus 5% of such allocated amount. Discount of bill KRW 803,000,000 553,000,000 Buyer’s credit KRW 481,000,000 98,266,318 Bank overdraft KRW 73,000,000 (g) The Group disposed of land and buildings to structured entities and the Group has been leasing back the assets. The details are as follows: CNY 219,395,975 219,395,975 i) The Group disposed of land and buildings of 3 stores including Lotte mart Jeju store to KTB Confidence Private Real Estate Investment Trust for ₩220 billion Letter of credit and others USD 30,500,000 6,941,791 in 2008 and the Company has been leasing the assets. The Group has the options to purchase the assets at a fair value at the end of the lease. ii) The Group disposed of land and buildings of 6 stores including Lotte department store Bundang store to Lotte Retail Real Estate Investment Trust for ₩595 bil(b) Material contracts of the Group are as follows: lion in 2010 and 2011, and the Company has been leasing the assets. The Group has the options to purchase the assets at a fair value at the end of the lease. Company Contractor Description of contract Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. Providing management services iii) The Group has been leasing the building of Lotte outlet esiapolis store from KB Star Retail Private Real Estate Investment Trust since 2013 and the Group has Woori Home Shopping & Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. Contract of operating leases the preferential right of negotiation to purchase the building. Television Co., Ltd. Shinhan Card Issuing credit cards Lotte Card Co., Ltd. BC CARD CO., LTD. iv) In 2014, the Group disposed of land and buildings of 2 Lotte department stores including Ilsan store and 5 Lotte mart stores including Bupyeong store to KB LOTTE LOGISTICS CORP. Logistics services Lotte Master Lease Private Real Estate Investment Trust for ₩602 billion and the Group has been leasing the assets. The Group disposed of land and buildings Lotte Global Logistics Co., LTD. (formerly, Hyundai Logistics Co.,Ltd.) of 2 Lotte department stores including Dongnae store and 3 Lotte mart stores including Sungjung store to Capstone Private Real Estate Investment Trust for CJ Korea Express Corporation ₩500 billion and the Group has been leasing the assets. The Group has the preferential right of negotiation to purchase the assets at the end of the lease. HANJIN TRANSPORTATION CO., LTD. Cable TV operators Providing broadcast programs NCF Co., Ltd. Nice Claup Co., Ltd. Royalty payments based on net revenue of selling and manuv) In 2015, the Group disposed of land and buildings of Lotte outlets store Gwangmyeong to KTB Confidence Private Real Estate Investment Trust for ₩147 facturing amounts billion and the Group has been leasing the assets. And the Group disposed of land and buildings of Lotte mart Yangdeok to KTB Confidence Private Real Estate Investment Trust for ₩55 billion and the Group has been leasing the assets. The Group has the preferential right of negotiation to purchase the assets at the end of the lease. The Group does not consolidate these structured entities. (h) Uncertainty in business in China As at December 31, 2017, many of the discount stores operated by the Group in China are not in operation due to suspension of business by the Chinese authorities. If any additional measures are taken by the Chinese authorities, it is difficult to predict how the relevant uncertainty will affect the Group. Accordingly, such effect is not reflected on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 154 155 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 40. Inter-company Transactions and Balances with Consolidated Companies 41. Related Party Transactions (a) The Group has provided guarantees for consolidated companies as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: (a) As at December 31, 2017, the Group’s major shareholders are as follows: Related company Percentage of ownership (%) Consolidated company Type of Subsidiaries(*1) Provided by Guarantee recipient Guaranteed amount (thousands) borrowings Lotte Corporation(*1) 25.87 Lotte Business Management (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. BNP Paribas CNY 150,000,000 June 21, 2016 ~June 21, 2018 Working capital Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 8.83 LOTTE DEPARTMENT STORE (TIANJIN) CO., LTD. KEB Hana Bank CNY 170,000,000 June 15, 2016 ~June 15, 2018 Working capital Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 7.86 Lotte Department Store (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. BNP Paribas CNY 50,000,000 July 11, 2016 ~July 11, 2018 Working capital LOTTE IT TECH CO., LTD. 4.81 PT. LOTTE Shopping Avenue Indonesia JP Morgan IDR 200,000,000,000 December 21, 2015 ~December 21, 2018 Working capital Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 0.78 JP Morgan USD 20,000,000 September 22, 2017 ~September 22, 2020 Working capital (*1) It has a significant influence over the Group. Jiangsu Lotte Mart Co., Ltd.(*2) DBS CNY 330,000,000 August 30, 2017 ~August 29, 2018 Working capital HSBC KRW 74,706,405,586 December 27, 2017 ~ June 30, 2018 Working capital (b) Sales and purchases with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: LOTTE MART COMPANY LIMITED HSBC KRW 12,288,411,266 December 27, 2017 ~June 30, 2018 Working capital (in thousands of Korean won) Liaoning LOTTE Mart Co., Ltd. HSBC KRW 30,267,000,000 December 27, 2017 ~June 30, 2018 Working capital 2017 PT. LOTTE MART INDONESIA Standard Chartered IDR 300,000,000,000 March 30, 2017 ~March 30, 2018 Working capital Related parties(*1) Sales Purchase Acquisition of Other income Other expenses BNP Paribas IDR 400,000,000,000 April 14, 2017 ~April 14, 2018 Working capital property, plant and HSBC IDR 250,000,000,000 April 14, 2017 ~April 14, 2018 Working capital equipment and JP Morgan USD 30,000,000 May 23, 2017 ~May 23, 2018 Working capital intangible assets LOTTE VIETNAM SHOPPING JOINT STOCK COMPANY HSBC VND 763,300,000,000 April 28, 2017 ~May 28, 2018 Working capital Shareholders: HSBC USD 35,000,000 May 29, 2017 ~June 22, 2018 Working capital Lotte Corporation(*4) 849,718 12,411 10,489,383 LOTTE CINEMA VIETNAM CO., LTD. DBS USD 8,000,000 October 5, 2016 ~October 5, 2019 Working capital Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. (existing corporation)(*4) 8,917,362 119,093,906 24 15,351,490 DBS USD 8,000,000 October 5, 2016 ~October 5, 2019 Working capital Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 108,798,680 203,606 124,874,200 Standard Chartered VND 112,000,000,000 December 26, 2016 ~December 25, 2019 Working capital Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 1,541,342 609,342 135 21,828 HSBC VND 267,332,651,072 March 3, 2017 ~November 26, 2018 Working capital LOTTE IT TECH CO., LTD.(*5) 3,002,112 1,710,183 61,483,808 224,390 202,321,748 DBS USD 10,000,000 April 17, 2017 ~April 17, 2018 Working capital Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 9,899,931 827,083 7,714 25,409,682 Kookmin Bank USD 14,000,000 July 7, 2017 ~July 6, 2018 Working capital 133,009,145 121,413,431 62,310,891 448,280 378,468,331 The Export-Import Bank of Korea USD 10,000,000 September 27, 2017 ~September 27, 2018 Working capital Associates: Lotte Shopping Holdings (Hong Kong) Co., Limited ING USD 120,213,804 January 20, 2015 ~January 19, 2018 Working capital FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 39,689,860 80,691,092 106,846 6,629 HSBC USD 95,297,610 November 30, 2015 ~November 30, 2018 Working capital Others 12,650,297 137,917 1,005,300 BNP Paribas USD 104,818,169 May 16, 2016 ~May 16, 2019 Working capital 52,340,157 80,691,092 244,763 1,011,929 KEB Hana Bank USD 65,000,000 April 25, 2017 ~March 13, 2020 Working capital Others(*2): Shinhan Bank USD 49,818,783 June 1, 2017 ~June 1, 2020 Working capital LOTTE Engineering & Construction Co.,Ltd 9,575,148 257,401,332 21,535 1,466,999 BNP Paribas USD 28,209,857 June 1, 2017 ~June 1, 2020 Working capital Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.(newly established corporation)4 1,294,575 30,822,479 68,368 2,703,742 Credit Agricole USD 29,526,898 July 27, 2017 ~June 30, 2020 Working capital Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. 13,423,388 99,937,532 106,704 694,977 Kookmin Bank USD 35,000,000 November 30, 2017 ~May 30, 2018 Working capital Lotte Data Communication Company(newly established 295,465 14,268,519 20,964,328 HSBC HKD 280,000,000 December 1, 2017 ~December 1, 2018 Working capital corporation)(*5) Lotte Shopping Business Management (Hong Kong) Limited The Export-Import Bank of Korea USD 300,000,000 September 5, 2017 ~September 5, 2020 Working capital Daehong Communications Inc. 8,877,056 1,722,365 37,786 80,582,393 LOTTE PROPERTIES (CHENGDU) HK LIMITED The Export-Import Bank of Korea USD 190,000,000 March 15, 2017 ~March 16, 2020 Working capital Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 16,424,307 1,353,837 5,603,853 KEB Hana Bank USD 25,000,000 March 15, 2017 ~March 13, 2020 Working capital LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 20,670,078 6,594,575 286,580 4,904 1,382,927 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 1,618,362 177,990,273 422,701 (*1) The related party classification reflects the changes in the ownership interest due to spin-off and merger during the year ended December 31, 2017. LOTTE FOOD CO., LTD. 16,134,850 237,350,061 8,771,800 (*2) The subsidiary is included in 'Swift Harvest Ltd. and its subsidiaries'. Lotte Aluminum Co., Ltd. 2,379,191 10,717,937 29,484,362 30,313,407 Lotte Logistics Co., Ltd. 47,147,844 1,811,313,401 667,397 247,381,874 (b) In 2015, the Group entered into an agreement to provide financial support for Suwon Landmark the Second Co., Ltd. in default of the prinOthers 191,070,861 64,175,833 19,236,292 28,639,281 321,939,923 cipal and interest on the Asset Backed Commercial Paper (“ABCP”, ₩250,000,000 thousand of par value in maturing in 36 months) issued by 328,911,125 2,438,902,091 323,066,847 30,232,415 722,228,924 Total(*3) 514,260,427 2,641,006,614 385,377,738 30,925,458 1,101,709,184 Suwon Landmark the Second Co., Ltd. on May 28, 2015, which was collateralized with the assets of LOTTE Suwon Station Shopping Town CO., LTD. In 2016, the Group entered into an agreement to provide financial support for KS the First Co., Ltd. in default of the principal and interest (*1) The related party classification reflects the changes in the ownership interest due to spin-off and merger during the year ended December 31, 2017. on the Asset Backed Commercial Paper (“ABCP”, ₩266,000,000 thousand of par value in maturing in 27 months) issued by KS the First Co., Ltd. (*2) Although the entities are not defined as related parties under Korean IFRS 1024, the entities are considered to be part of the Large Enterprise Group in accordance with the Monopoly on August 30, 2016, which was collateralized with the assets of Lotte Ulsan Development Co., Ltd. Regulation and Fair Trade Act and overseas affiliates. (*3) Includes amount reclassified as profit for the year from discontinued operation. In addition, effects from early application of Korean IFRS 1115 are reflected, and therefore, there may be some differences from what the counterparty recognized for certain transactions. (c) The Group has provided guarantees for Lotte Suwon Station Shopping Town Co., Ltd. to pay the rent during the term of the lease (20 (*4) As at October 1, 2017, Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. spun off Lotte Confectionery’s investment division to be an existing corporation and its confectionery division to be a newly years) from the beginning of the lease contract in 2014. established corporation (the name is Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.). The existing corporation changed its name to Lotte Corporation after the spin-off and merger. Also, other expenses include cost of brands usage and other (Note 39). (*5) On November 1, 2017, Lotte Data Communication Company established Lotte Data Communication Company (newly established corporation) by spining off its information and communication business division and changed its name to Lotte IT Tech Co., Ltd. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 15 6 157 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2016 2016 Related parties Sales Purchase Acquisition of Other income Other expenses Related parties Borrowings Repayment Capital increase Capital deduction property, plant and Associates: equipment and LOTTE Accelerator Corporation 5,000,000 intangible assets BUSAN-LOTTE CREATIVE FILM FUND 6,000,000 Shareholders: Coralis S.A. 4,474,368 Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 91,918,520 43,710 391,715 528,917 120,625,818 LOTTE Giants Co., Ltd. 9,000,000 Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. 16,132,502 164,822,765 18,000 216 18,774,688 Stonebridge Innovation Quarter Fund 3,000,000 Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. 17,232,291 110,741,284 146,086 730,770 Capital One Middle-Low Budget Cinema Fund 1,350,000 Lotte Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. 7,428,723 295,712,725 4,590 333,422 Lotte Capital Co., Ltd. 20,000,000 21,125,278 Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 9,735,719 10,051 20,760,180 Others 4,134,100 4,945,749 Lotte Data Communication Company 3,211,307 1,331,426 83,921,151 228,450 209,589,659 20,000,000 21,125,278 31,608,468 6,295,749 Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 1,376,609 841,805 45,213 Joint ventures: 147,035,671 277,780,990 380,043,591 918,310 370,859,750 LOTTE JTB Co., Ltd. 10,000,000 Associates: PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 14,433,125 Daehong Communications Inc. 39,409,050 144,457 581,891 85,743,033 24,433,125 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 24,788,221 217,073 2,212,513 4,732,610 Others: Lotteria Co., Ltd. 20,335,335 6,246,575 132,815 90,835 1,443,276 LOTTE rental Co., ltd. 3,805,639 350,463 27,054,868 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 6,011,764 196,633,961 225,370 Lotte Capital Lease & Finance (China) Co., Ltd. and others 21,588,587 5,064,572 Others 103,059,220 83,355,833 8,942,348 83,974 69,533,101 25,394,226 5,415,035 27,054,868 193,603,590 286,380,826 9,874,127 2,387,322 161,677,390 45,394,226 26,540,313 83,096,461 6,295,749 Others: LOTTE FOOD CO., LTD. 24,503,965 262,140,221 8,848,621 Lotte Aluminum Co., Ltd. 3,502,692 21,023,262 36,885,775 32,552,123 (d) Outstanding balances arising from sales/purchases of goods and services as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Lotte Logistics Co., Ltd. 52,175,350 2,335,490,138 2,138,285 266,183,099 Others 64,265,155 39,740,338 24,882,917 20,294,431 219,143,349 (in thousands of Korean won) 144,447,162 2,658,393,959 63,906,977 20,294,431 526,727,192 2017 Total 485,086,423 3,222,555,775 453,824,695 23,600,063 1,059,264,332 Receivables Payables Trade Loans Other Trade Borrowings Other During 2016, the Group acquired 660,805 shares and 59,273 warrant of Lotte Global Logistics Co.,LTD.(formerly, Hyundai Logistics Co., Ltd.) from IGIS I CorpoRelated parties(*1) receivables receivables payables payables ration for ₩26,448,267 thousand. Shareholders: Lotte Corporation(*3) 269,568 10,263,907 3,637,867 Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 281,090 54,282,922 60,200,357 (c) Fund transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 4,772 129,345 1,500,744 2017 Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 17,869,470 2,968,670 Related parties(*1) Loans Borrowings Repayment Capital increase Capital deduction 555,430 82,416,299 129,345 68,307,638 Shareholders: Associates: Stonebridge Innovation Quarter Fund 3,000,000 FRL Korea Co., Ltd. 568 10,981,944 19,117,065 Lotte-IMBC Contents Fund 1,500,000 Others 4,794,515 27,080 5,578,826 Lotte Shopping Rus Ltd. 4,794,515 4,794,515 27,648 10,981,944 24,695,891 Others 1,223,930 1,222,700 Others(*2): 4,794,515 5,723,930 1,222,700 LOTTE Engineering & Construction Co.,Ltd 101,200 5,071,899 82,421,937 Joint ventures: Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.( newly established corpora433,206 410,925 13,003,030 2,810,225 PT. INDO LOTTE MAKMUR 9,410,067 tion)(*3) CITIC PACIFIC LOTTE(SHANGHAI) COMMERCIAL MAN1,658,160 Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. 231,238 4,087,834 6,357,784 6,235,661 AGEMENT CO.,LTD. Lotte Data Communication Company(newly established 47,574,999 3,912 27,333,753 11,068,227 corporation)(*4) Others(*2): Daehong Communications Inc. 6,473,428 286,607 7,062 27,182,611 LOTTE rental Co., ltd. 1,814,826 362,272 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 5,739,967 11,887,824 6,796,964 Lotte Global Logistics Co.,LTD. 978,064 LotteGRS Co., Ltd. (formerly, Lotteria Co., Ltd.) 47,016 479,373 401,066 9,624,352 LOTTE CAPITAL CO., LTD. 50,000,000 25,001,878 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 82,137 711,249 9,860,971 19,538 Mybi.Co.Ltd 10,000,000 10,000,000 LOTTE FOOD CO., LTD. 278,663 1,611,317 13,206,768 8,728,890 Lotte Capital Lease & Finance(China) Co., Ltd. and others 9,805,092 26,868,153 Lotte Aluminum Co., Ltd. 244,713 39,809 1,882,119 4,580,111 71,619,918 62,232,303 978,064 Lotte Logistics Co., Ltd. 49,490 336,965 900,664 15,865,447 4,794,515 71,619,918 62,232,303 17,770,221 1,222,700 Others 158,705,111 21,654,705 4,182,612 149,142,415 190,696,481 172,386,169 94,153,506 49,805,988 149,142,415 382,295,970 (*1) The related party classification reflects the changes in the ownership interest due to spin-off and merger during the year ended December 31, 2017. Total(*5) 172,941,599 4,794,515 176,597,453 60,917,277 149,142,415 475,299,499 (*2) Although the entities are not defined as related parties under Korean IFRS 1024, the entities are considered to be part of the Large Enterprise Group in accordance with the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and overseas affiliates. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 158 159 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (*1) The related party classification reflects the changes in the ownership interest due to spin-off and merger during the year ended December 31, 2017. The Group guarantees fulfillment of the contracts on behalf of Burger King Japan Co., Ltd. and Korea Seven Co., Ltd. and Buy the Way Inc. The contracts are (*2) Although the entities are not defined as related parties under Korean IFRS 1024, the entities are considered to be part of the Large Enterprise Group in accordance with the Monopoly as follows: royalty contract (3% of net sales, USD 25,000 per every new store open) between Burger King Japan Co., Ltd. and BK Asiapac, Pte. Ltd. and royalty Regulation and Fair Trade Act and overseas affiliates. contract (0.6% of net sales) among Korea Seven Co., Ltd., Buy the Way Inc., and 7-Eleven, Inc. (USA). (*3) As at October 1, 2017, Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. spun off Lotte Confectionery’s investment division to be an existing corporation and its confectionery division to be a newly established corporation (the name is Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd.). The existing corporation changed its name to Lotte Corporation after the spin-off and merger. The Group entered into an agreement to jointly provide financial support for HND able 2nd limited (“HND able”), Invest Farmland Co., Ltd. and Mars L D, LLC. (*4) On November 1, 2017, Lotte Data Communication Company established Lotte Data Communication Company (newly established corporation) by spining off its information and in default of the principal and interest on the Asset Backed Commercial Paper (“ABCP”, ₩700,000,000 thousand of par value in maturing in 57 months) iscommunication business division and changed its name to Lotte IT Tech Co., Ltd. sued by HND able on May 27, 2013, which is collateralized with the assets of Lotte Incheon Development Co., Ltd., on the asset backed loan (₩144,000,000 (*5) Effects from early application of Korean IFRS 1115 are reflected, and therefore, there may be some differences from what the counterparty recognized for certain transactions. thousand of par value in maturing in 29 months) issued by Lotte Incheon Town Co., Ltd on December 26, 2016, and on the asset backed loan (₩620,000,000 thousand of par value in maturing on October 27, 2021) issued by LOTTE Town Dongtan Co.,LTD. (in thousands of Korean won) In 2013, the Group issued hybrid securities, among which ₩20,000 million is held by Lotte Non-Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 2016 Receivables Payables (f) Details of purchasing card transactions with related parties as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: Trade Other Trade Borrowings Other (in thousands of Korean won) Related parties receivables receivables payables payables Shareholders: Type(*1) Related parties(*2) Used amount Collected amount Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 2,920,019 94,287,673 500 50,788,677 Perspective of provider Lotte Chemical Corporation 1,529,424,366 1,505,159,876 Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. 598,487 12,310,780 21,422,147 3,275,492 Lotte Skyhill CC 571,886 732,486 Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. 1,048,852 57,290,423 6,594,415 6,243,432 M.Hub Inc. 6,089,859 5,180,991 Lotte Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. 14,505 55,136,364 108,179,528 CANON KOREA BUSINESS SOLUTIONS INC. 89,934,231 90,212,611 Hotel Lotte Pusan Co., Ltd. 149,875 12,382,150 7,596,950 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 69,331,000 69,331,000 Lotte Data Communication Company 30,531 72,735,514 367,993 56,644,049 Lotte Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. 455,381,746 383,563,664 Korea Fuji Film Co., Ltd. 9,792 124,494 167,465 1,548,579 Lotte Aluminum Co., Ltd. 143,327,047 135,300,585 4,772,061 304,267,398 28,552,520 234,276,707 Lotte Data Communication Company 79,053,041 79,068,506 Associates: Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., Ltd. 125,410,026 148,622,793 Daehong Communications Inc. 4,308,987 2,334,132 98,710 30,411,920 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 96,061,503 95,990,730 Lotte Station Building Co., Ltd. 8,259,999 14,498,151 373 16,240,164 MOBIZAP MEDIA INC. 736,751 1,232,009 Lotteria Co., Ltd. 313,464 1,271,460 593,581 13,290,651 Lotte Asahi Liquor Company Ltd. 7,601,194 7,601,194 Lotte Trading Co., Ltd. 135,493 1,089,954 8,642,822 104,092 Lotte Logistics Co., Ltd. 1,402,267,886 1,402,267,886 Others 2,476,234 15,932,290 14,489,824 15,000,000 38,976,823 LOTTE Corporation 142,035,868 152,731,513 15,494,177 35,125,987 23,825,310 15,000,000 99,023,650 LOTTE FOOD CO., LTD. 192,616,096 191,515,733 Others: Hotel Lotte Co., Ltd. 119,967,499 137,885,216 LOTTE FOOD CO., LTD. 292,772 5,361,169 25,472,267 8,409,529 Lotte Advanced Materials Co., Ltd 83,936,243 83,936,243 Lotte Aluminum Co., Ltd. 12,496,546 3,039,118 12,471,286 (*1) Due to spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017, the purchasing card transactions between the Group and the related parties are shown from January 1, Lotte Logistics Co., Ltd. 1,903 1,078,435 253,238,599 30,609,363 2017 to September 30, 2017 in the perspective of the provider. Others 2,450,809 112,416,384 4,312,456 135,335,421 84,754,811 (*2) Although the entities are not defined as related parties under Korean IFRS 1024, the entities are considered to be part of the Large Enterprise Group in accordance with the Monopoly 2,745,484 131,352,534 286,062,440 135,335,421 136,244,989 Regulation and Fair Trade Act. Total 23,011,722 470,745,919 338,440,270 150,335,421 469,545,346 (g) Details of purchasing card transactions with Lotte Card Co., Ltd. as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: (e) Details of payment guarantees and collateral provided by the Group for the financial supports to the related parties as at December 31, (in thousands of Korean won) 2017, are as follows, and no collateral and payment guarantees are provided by the related parties: Type(*1) Company name Contractual amount(*2) Used amount Repayment Unsettled amount (*2) Perspective of user LOTTE SHOPPING CO.,LTD. 325,000,000 735,448,194 679,212,664 98,068,076 LOTTE Himart Co.,Ltd 150,000,000 401,149,396 401,149,396 Guarantee recipient Guaranteed amount Guarantee period Remark LOTTE DEPARTMENT STORE MASAN CO.,LTD 6,000,000 1,015,054 816,812 198,242 Associates: Shandong Longzhile Cinema Co., Ltd. Industrial Bank of Korea CNY 13,000,000 (*1) Due to spin-off during the year ended December 31, 2017, the purchasing card transactions between the Group and the related parties are shown from October 1, January 11, 2017 ~ January 11, 2020 Working capital Joint ventures: The Export-Import Bank of Korea USD 15,000,000 2017 to December 31, 2017 in the perspective of the provider. April 6, 2016 ~ April 6, 2019 Woori Bank (*2) As at December 31, 2017 International Business Center Company Limited USD 4,000,000 April 6, 2017 ~ April 6, 2018 Others: The Export-Import Bank of Korea USD 30,500,000 March 30, 2016 ~ March 30, 2019 Lotte Properties (Shenyang) Limited Woori Bank USD 31,500,000 April 25, 2016 ~ April 25, 2019 Korea Development Bank USD 57,500,000 May 4, 2016 ~ May 4, 2019 AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 16 0 161 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 42. Risk Management 2016 Receivables that Receivables that are Receivables Total are neither past past due but not impaired(*1) 42.1 Management of Financial Risks due nor impaired impaired(*1) Trade and other receivables 999,280,195 31,632,525 29,257,856 1,060,170,576 (a) Objectives and Policies of the Group Other financial assets (current) 9,777,180,207 196,387,723 215,577,367 10,189,145,297 Other financial assets (non-current) 1,706,519,063 4,621,074 1,711,140,137 Risk management activities of the Group identify credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk and any other potential risk that may affect financial performance and 12,482,979,465 228,020,248 249,456,297 12,960,456,010 by eliminating, avoiding and abating the possible risk level to an acceptable range and to support to a stable and consistent business performance with the (*1) Provision for impairment is recognized for financial assets that are determined individually impaired. intention to contribute to strengthening the Group’s competitiveness by reducing costs of finance through improving the financial structure and enhancing the efficiency of its capital operations. In order to install and implement the financial risk management system, the Group has established risk management policies in an integrated perspective, and is Movements in the allowance provision of trade and other receivables for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: complying with the risk management policies and procedures by strictly performing control and review of internal managers. (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 (b) Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations in an ordinary Beginning balance 28,832,816 51,227,639 transaction or investment activity. Provision 8,249,330 13,105,977 Reversal of impairment loss (442,926) (34,923,652) Most of the Group’s profit is generated from individual clients and carries low credit risk. Also, the Group deposits its cash and cash equivalents and short-term Write-offs (3,059,671) (7,275,388) financial instruments with financial institutions. Credit risks from these financial institutions are very limited due to their high solvency. Recoveries 25,040 49,904 Others (328,413) 6,648,336 i) Exposure to credit risk Changes due to spin-off (16,218,001) The book amount of a financial asset represents the maximum exposure to credit risk. The maximum exposures to credit risk as at December 31, 2017 and Ending balance 17,058,175 28,832,816 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Movements in the allowance provision of other financial assets (current) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 2016 (in thousands of Korean won) Cash equivalent(*1) 2,587,811,039 2,214,285,729 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables 870,455,687 1,031,337,760 Other financial assets (current) 1,245,665,288 9,979,328,622 Beginning balance 209,816,675 206,989,961 Other financial assets (non-current)(*2) 1,228,350,821 1,706,519,063 Provision 167,006,689 206,405,720 5,932,282,835 14,931,471,174 Reversal of impairment loss (3,068) Write-offs (179,431,966) (221,663,327) (*1) Cash held by the Group are excluded as there is no exposure to credit risk. Recoveries 13,527,497 18,079,485 (*2) Equity securities within available-for-sale financial assets are excluded as there is no exposure to credit risk. Others 4,836 Changes due to spin-off (210,881,849) Ending balance 33,978 209,816,675 ii) Impairment loss Trade and other receivables, other financial assets (current), and other financial assets (non-current), before deducting the allowance for doubtful accounts as at The movement in the allowance provision of other financial assets (non-current) for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follow: December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2017 2016 Receivables that Receivables that are Receivables Total Balance at beginning of the year 4,621,074 4,056,980 are neither past past due but not impaired(*1) Provision 2,931 2,249,740 due nor impaired impaired(*1) Reversal (2,938) (211) Trade and other receivables 853,503,714 16,951,973 17,058,175 887,513,862 Write-offs (1,000,000) (1,680,599) Other financial assets (current) 1,245,665,288 33,978 1,245,699,266 Transfer (4,836) Other financial assets (non-current) 1,228,350,821 3,592,302 1,231,943,123 Changes due to spin-off (28,765) 3,327,519,823 16,951,973 20,684,455 3,365,156,251 Balance at end of the year 3,592,302 4,621,074 (*1) Provision for impairment is recognized for financial assets that are determined individually impaired. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 162 163 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 iii) Financial assets that are past due but nor impaired (d) Market Risks An analysis of the age of trade and other receivables, and other financial assets (current) that are past due but not impaired as at the end of the reporting periMarket risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Group’s income or the value od is as follows: of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parame(in thousands of Korean won) ters, while optimizing the Group’s return. 2017 The Group buys and sells derivatives, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks. All such transactions are carried out under strict superCarrying 3 months 3~6 6 ~ 12 months More than amount or less months 1 year vision of the internal risk management. Generally, the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit or loss. Trade and other receivables 16,951,973 8,359,912 5,374,345 2,636,802 580,914 16,951,973 8,359,912 5,374,345 2,636,802 580,914 i) Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than Korean won, the respective functional currency of (in thousands of Korean won) the Group. Currencies that generate exchange positions include USD, JPY and others. The objective of exchange risk management is to continue stable financial 2016 activities by minimizing uncertainty and profit and loss fluctuations. Foreign currency trade for speculation is strictly prohibited. Carrying 3 months 3~6 6 ~ 12 months More than The Group enters into currency swap transactions with financial institutions to hedge currency risks of foreign currency denominated borrowings and debenamount or less months 1 year tures. When the Group needs foreign currencies, the Group enters into a forward exchange contract with major financial institutions to avoid the risks of exTrade and other receivables 31,632,525 19,327,531 4,821,642 2,975,138 4,508,214 Other financial assets (current) 196,387,723 193,702,849 2,684,874 change rate fluctuations. 228,020,248 213,030,380 7,506,516 2,975,138 4,508,214 Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies other than the Group’s functional currency as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) iv) Payment guarantees 2017 2016 As at December 31, 2017, the Group has provided financial guarantees to associates and joint ventures. Should the Group be liable for payment upon defaults Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities of the associates and joint ventures, the expected amounts which the Group is liable to pay within 1 year are ￦150,516,350 thousand. USD 5,661,773 1,755,032,286 35,930,637 3,293,726,474 EUR 230,345 1,620,287 33,650 1,105,265 (c) Liquidity Risks JPY 4,433 94,911,000 145,245 103,697,902 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash HKD 5,104,927 13,462,922 1,247,484 CNY 7,210,297 26,274 40,936,143 25,553,170 or another financial asset due to an adverse managerial or external environment. VND 3,044 In order to systematically manage liquidity risk, the Group predicts and corresponds to potential risks through consistently analyzing the schedule of cash flow GBP 82 and establishing short-term and long-term capital management plans. SGD 238 Also, the Group currently deposits a considerable amount with financial institutions with high credit ratings to make proper provisions for potential liquidity 18,212,013 1,851,589,847 90,511,723 3,425,330,295 risks. The Group maintains a credit line for overdraft and general loans with various financial institutions, and can raise funds through the domestic and foreign financial markets based on high credit ratings. The management of the Group believes that it is possible to redeem liabilities using cash flows from operating activities and cash in-flow from financial assets. The average rates for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the closing rates as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in Korean won) Aggregate maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest, as at December 31, 2017, are as follows: Average rate Closing rate (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2017 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 USD 1,130.84 1,160.50 1,071.40 1,208.50 3 months or less 3 ~ 6 months 6 ~ 12 months More than 1 year EUR 1,276.39 1,283.30 1,279.25 1,267.60 Current portion of borrowings and debentures(*1),(*2) 583,405,641 1,082,181,588 1,458,991,918 JPY 10.0852 10.6817 9.4911 10.3681 Trade and other payables 3,459,569,016 34,713,012 151,677 HKD 145.13 149.51 137.07 155.83 Other financial liabilities (current) 374,399,827 45,008,417 82,667,502 CNY(*1) 167.46 174.40 163.65 173.26 Borrowings and debentures (non-current)1 59,852,042 36,979,540 109,727,203 4,835,441,972 VND 0.0519 0.0531 Other financial liabilities (non-current) 2,899,471 7,160,002 10,759,450 160,790,271 GBP 1,572.18 1,480.17 Acceptances and guarantees 150,516,350 SGD 818.91 800.63 4,630,642,347 1,206,042,559 1,662,297,750 4,996,232,243 (*1) The Group had translated with CNY rate calculated by arbitrating USD/KRW and USD/CNY until December 31, 2015. However, the exchange rate has not been announced (*1) Interest expenses are included. any longer from January 4, 2016, and the Group applies direct CNH/KRW exchange rate in translation from January 1, 2016. (*2) The borrowing (amount: ￦102.1 billion, maturity: November 2018) which has a clause for maintenance in credit rating is included, and accordingly, there is a possibility of events of default.It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 164 165 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 The Group regularly measures exchange risks on Korean won against foreign currency fluctuations. The Group assumes that foreign currency exchange rates iii) Price risk fluctuate 10% at the end of reporting period with all other variables held constant. Sensitivity analysis of income before taxes from changes of foreign currency The Group is exposed to fluctuations of price in available-for-sale financial assets. The book amounts of the marketable available-for-sale financial assets as at exchange rate as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: December 31, 2017 and 2016, are ￦270,711,624 thousand and ￦280,519,592 thousand, respectively. (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 The Group assumes that prices of the marketable available-for-sale financial assets fluctuate 10% at the end of reporting period with all other variables held constant. Sensitivity analysis of other comprehensive income from changes of price as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, is as as follows: 10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease USD (56,541,795) 56,541,795 (9,524,913) 9,524,913 (in thousands of Korean won) EUR (138,994) 138,994 (107,162) 107,162 2017 2016 JPY (9,490,657) 9,490,657 (10,355,265) 10,355,265 10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease HKD 510,493 (510,493) 1,221,544 (1,221,544) Other comprehensive income 27,071,162 (27,071,162) 28,051,959 (28,051,959) CNY 718,402 (718,402) 1,538,297 (1,538,297) VND 304 (304) GBP 8 (8) SGD 24 (24) 42.2 Capital Management (64,942,527) 64,942,527 (17,227,187) 17,227,187 The objective of the Group’s capital management is maximizing shareholders’ profit through maintaining a sound capital structure. The Group makes necessary improvements to the capital structure through monthly monitoring of financial ratios such as liabilities to equity ratios and net borrowings to equity ratios in Borrowings and debentures with currency swaps and overseas convertible notes designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are not inorder to achieve an optimal capital structure. cluded. The sensitivity analysis above is related to the monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in a currency other than the Group’s functional currency, as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, of the Group entities in Korea. The liabilities to equity ratios and net borrowings to equity ratios as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) ii) Interest rate risk 2017 2016 Interest rate risk is the risk of changes in interest income and expense from deposits and borrowings due to fluctuations in the market interest rate. Interest rate Liabilities (a) 14,597,135,457 24,651,864,607 risk of the Group arises on variable interest rate financial instruments and borrowings. The purpose of interest rate risk management is to minimize value fluctuEquity (b) 13,351,352,592 17,264,041,893 ation of financial assets and liabilities that occur from uncertainty caused by changes in interest rates. Financial instruments (c) 3,674,134,541 3,129,594,935 The Group makes interest swap transactions with financial institutions for hedging interest rate risk of variable borrowings and debentures. Borrowings (d) 7,667,683,920 14,482,948,258 Liabilities to equity ratio (a/b) 109.33% 142.79% Net borrowings to equity ratio ((d-c)/b) 29.91% 65.76% The book amounts of the Group’s variable interest-bearing financial instruments as at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 43. Spin-off Variable rate instruments: Financial assets 413,705,109 1,029,846,268 On April 26, 2017, the Group’s Board of Directors approved the spin-off of the respective investment divisions of Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd., Lotte Chilsung BevFinancial liabilities 2,307,905,569 4,147,528,202 erage Co., Ltd., and Lotte Food Co., Ltd. which are merged into the investment division of Lotte Confectionery Co., Ltd. The shareholders approved the spin-off and merger during the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting on August 29, 2017. After the spin-oiff and merger, newly established and existing corporation are jointly liable for the liabilities that existed before the spin-off in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 530 and severally 9 of the Commercial Code of Korea. The table below summarizes the impact of increases/decreases of interest rates in deposits and borrowings with floating interest rate on the Group's interest income and expense that would incur in relation to the deposits and borrowings for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The analysis is based on the assumption that the interest rate has increased/decreased by 100 basis points with all other variables held constant. (in thousands of Korean won) Category Details Method of stock split Spin-off 2017 2016 Companies subject to spin-off Business division of Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd.(existing corporation) 100bp increase 100bp decrease 100bp increase 100bp decrease Investment division of Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. (newly established division) Interest income 4,055,226 (4,055,226) 10,298,463 (10,298,463) Date of Spin-off and merger October 1, 2017 Interest expense 8,563,921 (8,563,921) 6,781,104 (6,781,104) Borrowings and debentures for which the Group has entered into interest rate swap transactions are not included. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 166 167 LIFE T IME VA LU E CR E ATOR Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Lotte Shopping Co., Ltd. and Subsidiaries Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 Details of assets and liabilities transferred to the newly established corporation are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Details of profit from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: 2017 (in thousands of Korean won) 2017 2016 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,331,260,561 Sales 4,221,985,578 5,412,083,777 Trade and other receivables 416,563,572 Cost of sales (3,064,342,284) (3,953,571,846) Other financial assets 9,774,822,779 Gross profit 1,157,643,294 1,458,511,931 Inventories 105,649,696 Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,047,776,972) (1,281,477,495) Income tax refund receivable 194,378 Operating profit 109,866,322 177,034,436 Other non-financial assets 138,813,066 Other income 8,124,292 27,850,182 Non-current assets held for sale 1,733,777 Other expenses (48,108,753) (32,186,196) 11,769,037,829 Finance income 10,127,119 17,247,574 Non-current assets Finance costs (9,124,486) (20,577,600) Investments in associates and joint ventures 873,226,989 Share of profit of associates 2,002,303 518,802 Other financial assets 486,234,327 Profit before income tax 72,886,797 169,887,198 Property, plant and equipment 352,939,741 Income tax expense (27,521,281) (47,571,751) Goodwill 286,997,233 Profit for the year 45,365,516 122,315,447 Intangible assets 145,847,339 Gain on settlement of spin-off 377,543,489 Deferred tax assets 55,055,420 Profit from discontinued operations 422,909,005 122,315,447 Other non-financial assets 42,935,918 2,243,236,967 Total assets 14,012,274,796 There is no additional profit and loss recognized as the group of assets classified as held for distribution to owners included in discontinued operations were measured at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with Korean IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operation. Current liabilities Borrowings and debentures 2,998,888,255 Trade and other payables 2,045,973,482 Cash flows related to the discontinued operation for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows: (in thousands of Korean won) Other financial liabilities 136,682,763 Current tax liabilities 20,805,849 2017 2016 Unearned revenues 113,147,028 Provisions 37,070,283 Cash flows from operating activities (267,677,136) (211,042,062) Other non-financial liabilities 271,697,622 Cash flows from investing activities (113,334,464) (311,286,226) 5,624,265,282 Cash flows from financing activities 464,422,545 519,673,199 Non-current liabilities 83,410,945 (2,655,089) Borrowings and debentures 5,178,058,030 Other financial liabilities 196,529,992 Net of defined benefit liabilities and other long-term employee benefits 27,002,404 Gain on settlement of spin-off Deferred tax liabilities 233,304,855 For non-cash assets that are non-reciprocal distributions, and where the owners of the same equity are treated equally, the Group recognizes dividends payable Unearned revenues 2,269,664 Provisions 45,700,626 using the fair value at the date when the Group declares a distribution and has an obligation to distribute the assets and liabilities to its owners. In measuring 5,682,865,571 the fair value of non-cash assets subject to distribution, the Group used the estimate of independent external valuation and the valuation model. The difference 11,307,130,853 between the non-cash assets held for distribution and dividends payable amounting to ₩377,543,489 thousand was recognized as gain on settlement of spinoff on October 1, 2017, the spin-off and merger date. The Group measured the fair value based on projected financial statements for the next five years. These financial statements were developed based on the Group’s past performance, future plans, market forecast, and applied a present value technique. These measurements are classified in Level 3. Significant inputs used in the fair value measurement are as follows: Discount rate applied to FCFF model: 6.86% ~ 12.04% Terminal growth rate applied to cash flows for the next five years : 0.00% ~ 1.00% 44. Subsequent Event The Board of Directors of the Group made a resolution to merge with Lotte Department Store Masan Co., Ltd. (ownership: 100%) on November 9, 2017 and approved the merger on December 21, 2017. On February 1, 2018, the Group merged with Lotte Department Store Masan Co., Ltd. AN N UAL R EPOR T 2017 16 8 LOTTESHOPPINGIR.COM LOTTE SHOPPING ASPIRES TO BE A LIFETIME VALUE CREATOR , ADDING VALUE TO THE LIVES OF CUSTOMERS. FROM ENJOYABLE SHOPPING TO DIVERSE EXPERIENCES, RELAXED LEISURE, AND HAPPY MEMORIES, WE ARE CONSTANTLY OFFERING INNOVATIONS THAT MAKE CUSTOMERS’ LIVES MORE BEAUTIFUL AND ENRICHED. IN ADDITION, WE WILL REMAIN DEDICATED TO CREATING A BROAD SPECTRUM OF SOCIAL VALUES SO AS TO GROW TOGETHER WITH ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS, INCLUDING CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, PARTNERS, AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES. THROUGH THESE INITIATIVES, WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK TOWARD THE FUTURE OF RETAIL WHILE PROVIDING OUR CUSTOMERS WITH THE ULTIMATE IN SHOPPING CONVENIENCE AND ENJOYMENT.
