Enabling susta nability UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Goodpoint 2018 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 INTRODUCTION About Goodpoint Goodpoint is an advisory consultancy for sustainable growth and development. Our mission is to share our knowledge to enable sustainable change at our client organizations. Our advise include a broad span of sustainability issues. For example services on how to phase out toxins and chemicals in products, tools on how to integrate sustainability into businesses through strategies and management systems, sustainability reporting to be transparent about progress, and models to drive responsible sourcing. Goodpoint has been a signatory, and advocate, of Global Compact since May 2012. As managing director of Goodpoint AB I am pleased to confirm our continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, as well as our commitment to continually encourage and support our clients to do so as well. Goodpoint integrates the Global Compact principles into our code of conduct, our organizational culture and business strategy. The following report describes our direct and indirect impact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption during the reporting year June 2017–June 2018. Stockholm, September 6, 2018 Magnus Boman Managing director and owner Goodpoint AB 2 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 INTRODUCTION Goals and principles Goodpoint supports and respects the ten principles of the Global Compact. We actively integrate respect for human rights, labour and the environment into our business operations and take an absolute stand against corruption and unethical business conduct. It is through our work with our clients that we have the greatest impact on the ten principles, and together with our clients we work to pursue an agenda of sustainability beyond the ten principles, with the principles as a solid basal building block. The Global Compact principles cover the fundaments of responsible conduct, and together with the Sustainable Development Goals make up a useful tool to formulate the foundational values and agenda of organizational growth/organizations and businesses. Through our work at client organizations, Goodpoint contributes to all the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. We support clients in their work to align their organization with Agenda 2030 and in communicating progress towards the goals publicly. The Sustainable Development Goals During the past year we have helped seven clients with training, mapping and integrating the SDG:s into the company strategy. Read more about Agenda 2030 here. 35 9 15 Quick facts Environmental trainings conducted Sustainability trainings, Environmental audits during the reporting period as well as general introductions to susconducted during the developing an e-learning course. tainable business conduct. reporting period. 3 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Core values Goodpoint is a values-driven company. Our values as individuals working here are fundamental in delivering value to our clients. During 2017 we started a values-project to make sure that the organizational values balance the personal values of the employees. Our values are the foundation of our recruitment process and we spend time discussing our values and making sure that the candidates’ personal values can connect with the culture that governs Goodpoint. Strong governance through our management system enable us to deliver on our commitments and help our clients to lead their business in a more sustainable way. Our management system includes inter alia, policy document, action to address risk and opportunities and procedures for non-conformity reporting and follow-up. All employees have access to, and know how to use, the system. Internal and external audits are conducted on an annual basis and followed up through bi-annual management reviews. Goodpoint was one of the first companies in Sweden to be certified according to the new version of the ISO:9001 and ISO:14001 standards released in 2015. Our first management system was implemented in 1998. Goodpoint is headed by a managing director/owner who reports to the board. The board has an advisory function only. Employee representatives are invited to board meetings on occasion when issues of particular concern are on the agenda, such as business development or issues concerning key accounts. Employees have the oppor­ tunity to raise issues or concerns regarding their work situation in weekly group meetings as well as biweekly meetings with all staff and the managing director. Goodpoint’s code of conduct provides support on internal human rights related issues and labour law, including discrimination and the right to privacy. Employees New client projects Revenue 2000 1500 1000 500 Women (TSEK) 0 Men 2015 2016 2017 4 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS Protecting human rights Management approach Human rights are the fundamental rights and freedoms that belong to all humans, PRINCIPLE 1 regardless of where you are from, what you believe in, or how you choose to live Businesses should support and your life. We often take our human rights for granted, and risk to overlook abuses respect the protection of inter­ or risks of abuses within or associated with our businesses. Goodpoint takes a nationally proclaimed human rights. strong stand for the universal human rights, and work to respect rights and miti­ gate abuses within our organization as well as throughout our clients’ value chains. Our Impact Goodpoint’s most important contribution to the implementation of the human rights principles is through helping our clients manage human rights-related risks PRINCIPLE 2 within their own operations. During the reporting year we helped our clients to: Businesses should make sure that • Conduct human rights risk assessments and identify gaps in handling such risks. they are not complicit in human • Advise our clients on how to manage and work with human rights within their internal business rights abuses. operations and supply chain. • Produce human rights policies. • Produce and update Code of Conducts including human rights. • Conduct supplier audits including human rights criteria. • Organize events and workshops to raise awareness, for example organizing a public breakfast seminar about the importance of city planning for integration. • Communicate their work related to human rights in sustainability reports. Our advisory services have helped raise awareness about human rights issues and risks within our clients’ operations. We believe helping clients understand and protect human rights within their value chain is our greatest impact. During the reporting period we have also assisted clients in implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as incorporating the Sustainable Development Goals into their sustainability strategies and activities. Our operations The introduction of GDPR during the spring of 2018 has introduced new practices on the careful handling of personal details within our computer systems, in order to respect the human right of integrity. 5 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 LABOUR Respecting labour rights Management approach Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and respects labour standards set by the PRINCIPLE 3 International Labour Organization (ILO). Our code of conduct provides support Businesses should uphold the in the field of labour rights. Goodpoint has procedures for dialogue on labourfreedom of association and the related issues between management and the local independent trade union effective recognition of the right representatives. Our code of conduct provides a foundation for our work together to collective bargaining. with our organizational values. Goodpoint strives for equality and diversity in the workplace and we do not accept any forms of discrimination, harassment or other types of abuse. All employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement under Swedish law. PRINCIPLE 4 Our impact Our greatest impact on improving labour rights occur when we advise our clients Businesses should uphold the on responsible sourcing practices – including authoring policies and code of elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. conducts and supplier code of conducts, follow-ups on site and desktop audits. During the reporting year our advisory services included: • 35 on-site audits and 22 desktop audits with audit criteria on social and labour rights. • A large-scale project for a big non-profit organization owned by large constructors and property owners on how to integrate social criteria in the sourcing of construction material. • 7 projects mapping clients’ sustainability work towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals. • 11 trainings on sustainability where social and labour criteria were included. • 15 risk-analyses including labour rights. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the Our operations effective abolition of child labour. Goodpoint welcomes an open dialogue within its own organization. Regular individual performance reviews take place with all employees, which provide an opportunity to bring forward opinions and encourage discussion. Employees are given the opportunity to influence their work situation through anonymous employee surveys that are conducted at least once a year. In these anonymous surveys, employees can openly comment on their job satisfaction and work environment. PRINCIPLE 6 Salary negotiations are held yearly between management and labour union Businesses should uphold the representatives. Employees are also invited to an individual salary negotiation elimination of discrimination with management. During the reporting year work took place to improve trans­ in respect of employment and parency on performance and remuneration, which resulted in a new remuoccupation. neration policy and a skills scorecard. During fall 2018 the new policies will be introduced and implemented into the organization. All permanent employees are covered by a health insurance. 6 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 ENVIRONMENT Reducing environmental impact Management approach A lion share of our work specializes in environment, chemicals and climate. We PRINCIPLE 7 contribute to the Swedish Environmental Objectives, the overarching generation goal as our vision, as well as the specific goals through our main competence areas. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Goodpoint contributes to objective 1 and 15, Reduced Climate Impact and A Good environmental challenges. Built Environment, through our advisory and environmental management teams, and objective 4, A Non-Toxic Environment, through our expert team of chemists and toxicologists. Our operations Goodpoint is committed to conducting business responsibly, including our own environmental work. During the past year we reduced our CO₂ emissions from PRINCIPLE 8 travels (air and rail) by 17 %, from 5,7 to 4,7 tonnes CO₂, following a halving of our Businesses should undertake emissions per employee from 2015 to 2016. Besides actively reducing our carbon initiatives to promote greater footprint, we compensate for all emissions from our travels, as well as applying environmental responsibility. environmental requirements on procured goods and services. Goodpoint has also joined the initiative Fossil Free Sweden (Fossilfritt Sverige) to commit to becoming fossil free as well as contribute to the national transition to fossil fuel independence. PRINCIPLE 9 2015 Businesses should encourage 617 kg CO₂/ the development and diffusion employee 7,4 of environmentally friendly technologies. 2016 285 kg CO₂/ 5,7 employee Emissions from travels by air and rail (tonnes CO₂) 261 kg CO₂/ 2017 employee 4,7 7 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 ENVIRONMENT Our impact Our greatest environmental impact is indirect through helping our clients reduce their environmental footprint. The majority of Goodpoint´s work covers environmental aspects. During the reporting year we helped our clients to: Carry out investigation on hazardous substances in product groups for private actors and ! public authorities Provide advisory services regarding chemical legislation and requirements for clients’ products Perform REACH-registrations for clients Help several clients apply, analyse and follow up environmental requirements on suppliers Help suppliers analyze and adhere to imposed environmental requirements from customers Perform over a thousand of environmental assessments of building products annually Investigate and analyze organizations and businesses environmental footprint, for example through Environmental Impact Assessments for the ISO 14001 management system Carry out climate analysis and calculations for sustainability reporting and materiality analysis Produce sustainability strategies and policies for companies to reduce environmental impact Carry out several environmental trainings, ISO 14001-training and how to apply environmental requirements in public procurement Help clients implement and use chemical management systems Conduct audits of environmental adherence and compliance with ISO 14001 8 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION Working against corruption Management approach Goodpoint follows and respects the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 and complies, needless to say, with Swedish law, including anti-corruption and comBusinesses should work against petition laws. Goodpoint’s code of conduct covers these areas and stipulates that we corruption in all its forms, incluhave a zero-tolerance thinking on all forms of corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has ding extortion and bribery. also developed guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits. The guidelines are meant to help Goodpoint employees act ethically and avoid doubtful situations. Goodpoint has procedures for reporting any cases of corruption or bribery directly to the Managing director. Any law violations will be reported to the appropriate authorities. Our impact Goodpoint has a robust expertise in anti-corruption work. We help our clients to increase their knowledge about anti-corruption legislation and manage corruption-­ related risks through qualified advice, risk analyses, training sessions, workshops and development of policy documents on corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has assisted clients in developing e-learning modules on anti-corruption and business ethics and organized several anti-corruption trainings and workshops. Our operations Goodpoint has a code of conduct and guidelines on the giving and acceptance of gifts and other benefits, which is communicated to all new employees and available through the management system. No cases of violation of the principles, suspected corruption or bribery has occurred or been suspected within Goodpoint’s operations. 9 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018 Thank you! Our vision is to enable sustainable change at our client organizations. The realization of our vision requires continuous work to both mini­mize negative, unsustainable impacts as well as to maximize the positive development and contributions to a sustainable society. Our mission is therefore to help companies understand and manage the impacts and opportunities, and to adapt and innovate for their own sustainable development. If you’re interested in finding out more about our work, please contact us:  Goodpoint AB, Norrtullsgatan 6, 113 29 Stockholm, Sweden  info@goodpoint.se  +46 8-789 04 00 GOODPOINT ― COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ― 2018
