REPORT 2017 ELG HANIEL GROUP FACTS AND FIGURES 2017/ Established 1962 Head Oﬃce: Duisburg, Germany 1.44 million metric tons in total 1.70 EUR billion turnover 1,278 employees 50 20 5 operations countries continents 01 INTRODUCTION What we want to achieve with this report 7–8 Reporting standards and scopes 9 02 KEYNOTE FROM THE ELG BOARD OF DIRECTORS 10 – 11 03 CORPORATE STRUCTURE ELG's business activities 13 – 16 ELG within the Haniel Group 17 – 20 ELG operations 21 – 23 04 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Organizational structure and governance 25 – 26 Corporate responsibility throughout the organization 26 – 27 Risk / Opportunity management CON 28 Memberships and initiatives 29 TENTS/ 05 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Management approach to corporate responsibility 31 – 33 06 ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS 35 OPERATIONAL FOCUS ELG's carbon footprint 36 – 40 Radioactivity alarms 40 – 41 COMPLIANCE FOCUS Collective participation worldwide 42 – 48 EMPLOYEE FOCUS Expanding health and safety measures at ELG 49 – 53 COMMERCIAL FOCUS Carbon ﬁber recycling 54 – 56 GRI-G4 Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures 57 GRI-G4 Content Index 58 01 / INTRODUCTION 6 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 01 / 1 What we want to achieve with this report We are proud to say that ELG Haniel GmbH (“ELG”) brings to you its third full Sustainability Report. The content of this report shows ELG's activities and measures taken over the past three years. It is based on our last update published in 2017 and contains all relevant key ﬁgures that INTROELG collects and communicates. DUCTION We trust that readers will know that corporate responsibility (“CR”) and the understanding of sustainability have become increasingly important, in society, the corporate world, and politics alike over the past few years. In 2017, the German Parliament (“Deutscher Bundestag”) implemented a new European Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) guideline for German companies (1) with more than 500 employees (annual average) (2) that are capital market-oriented as per article 264d of the Commercial Code or (3) under article 267, paragraph 3, sentence 1 of the Commercial Code. The new European CSR Directive came into force on April 19, 2017. It shall help ensure transparency regarding economic and social aspects in organizations within the EU. The CSR directive focuses on the following ﬁve aspects: Environment, Employees, Social Matters, Human Rights, and Corruption & Bribery. Although ELG is not subject to the abovementioned criteria, we will start to focus and report on the ﬁve aspects of the CSR directive in the future. For the purposes of this report, we will continue to illustrate our eﬀorts, clustered into the four main areas Operational, Compliance, Employees, and Commercial. As one of the leading recyclers of high-performance materials, we try every day to excel in our business – and by the same token in the impact we have on society and the environment. G4-3, G4-18, G4-29 7 01 / INTRODUCTION ELG's full Sustainability Reports give you detailed insight into our daily business and how we have determined our core areas with respect to corporate responsibility. Our stakeholders have helped us with this. As mentioned in our last full report, it is possible that some aspects appear familiar to you in light of previous publications. Our wish is to be transparent and consistent, so we pursue our goals and adjust them over time depending on our achievements. ELG's Corporate Responsibility Team and the CR department of ELG's parent company Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH (“HANIEL”) are in a regular exchange. ELG's report and our four core issues are closely coordinated with HANIEL and can partly be found in their recently published Annual Report. For more details, see www. haniel.de/en/responsibility. HANIEL's aﬃliated companies are CWS-boco International GmbH (“CWS-boco”) www.cws-boco. com/en-US/home, TAKKT AG (“TAKKT”) www.takkt.de/en/ sustainability, METRO GROUP (“METRO”) https://reports. metroag.de/corporate-responsibility-report/2016-2017/ as well as Bekaert Deslee (“BD”) www.bekaertdeslee.com/ en. If you are interested in their activities, their CR reports are available for download on the respective websites. HANIEL's latest acquisitions at the end of 2017, ROVEMA www.rovema.com/ en/company/about-us/our-mission and OPTIMAR www. optimar.no, are fully engaged to corporate responsibility as well. G4-3, G4-18 8 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 01 / 2 Reporting standards and scopes For the the last time, ELG will report in accordance with the GRI-G4 guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Which has its headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The report is “In Accordance” with the GRI-G4 Guidelines – Core option. This report follows the structure stipulated by the latest sustainability reporting format to allow for maximum transparency and comparability. This structure aims to inform you about ELG in general and more speciﬁcally about subjects that have been identiﬁed as being vital to us, as the party reporting, and to the stakeholders that are aﬀected or potentially impacted by our activities. At the end of this report, you will ﬁnd the full Content Index according to GRI-G4. As with previous reports, ELG did not seek an external assessment of this report. ELG publishes in alternating years a full report and an update, respectively. The next update on 2018 will be available in spring 2019, and the next full Sustainability Report on 2019 will be released in spring 2020. The report at hand comprises ELG's ﬁscal year 2017, which starts January 1, 2017 and ends with the date of December 31, 2017. On the last page, you will ﬁnd the contact details of our Corporate Responsibility Team, in case of any queries or valuable recommendations. G4-18, G4-28, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 9 02 / KEYNOTE Dear Reader, This ELG Sustainability Report 2017 shows how our Group has evolved since we ﬁrst invited you to join us on our journey to continue shaping the future of steel recycling back in 2016. Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) is inherent to everything ELG does, and we have chosen to intensify our reporting eﬀorts. Our corporate values have long corresponded to those promoted by the United Nations, and, in order to cement this, ELG has joined the UN Global Compact, making the respective commitments to publish regular progress reports. KEYNOTE FROM THE ELG BOARD OF DIRECTORS In addition, we will, together with the other business units in the Haniel Group, adapt our sustainability reporting to the new “CSR Directive” legislation relevant to Europe from next year on. As to the evolution of ELG in the operative and business sense, you will see on the following pages that we continue to build on our heritage as the environmentally-conscious and future-oriented recycling expert and are broadening our global reach, so that we, together with our suppliers and customers, can save even more precious resources. In the innovation section of this report (see Commercial Focus), you will learn about the energy and passion with which our people are embracing the opportunities that digitization is opening up in our areas of business. “Stay bold, be conﬁdent, embrace and spearhead the future” – with this mission statement on our mind at all times, we will continue leading the industry toward an exciting future in the recycling of high-performance materials. 10 G4-1 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Last but not least, we would like to inform you about changes in ELG’s Board structure and responsibilities in 2018. Due to extension of ELG’s Board by a new member in April 2018, the competencies of ELG’s Management Board are now split as follows: Karsten Müller, Silke Landwehrmann, Detlef Drafz, Chief Executive Manager (“CEO”) of ELG, is now reDetlef Drafz sponsible for ELG’s Corporate Development & Innovation, Sales & Marketing, Corporate Communication, Human Resources, and ELG’s Asia Stainless Development. Dr. Silke Landwehrmann, Chief Financial Oﬃcer (“CFO”) of ELG, is responsible for Controlling & Accounting, Finance, Compliance & Legal as well as Internal Audit. She has been responsible for CR until 2018 and handed over this important topic to Karsten Müller, the new Chief Operating Oﬃcer (“COO”). Besides Corporate Responsibility, the COO is responsible for Operations, IT, and the global ERP System. Enjoy the read and the ride – with ELG. Detlef Drafz Silke Landwehrmann Karsten Müller CEO CFO COO ELG Haniel GmbH ELG Haniel GmbH ELG Haniel GmbH G4-1 11 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE 12 03 / 1 ELG's business activities ELG is a global leader in the business of trading and processing raw materials. We endeavor to continuously provide our customers and suppliers with ELG's CORtrusted materials and services in all market segments we PORATE work in. The raw materials we deal with mainly come from urban mining, i. e. various STRUCqualities of man-made scrap metal, which can be used and reused endlessly. TURE Our previous two full Sustainability Reports in 2013 and 2015 featured a detailed description of ELG's approach to the global recycling of high-performance materials. The following is an abstract of our business, including important facts about ELG as well as our products and services. Figure 01 on page 14 provides an overview of the stage in the metal life cycle that we help shape. To recycle this secondary raw material, ELG collects both industrial arisings and reclaimed materials at its yards worldwide, processes it to customer speciﬁcations, and provides it to steel mills across the globe. Via this method, the materials are re-introduced into the recycling cycle, see Figure 02 on page 15. ELG works with thousands of trusted suppliers in order to source smalland medium-sized lots of material of manifold compositions and qualities. G4-4, G4-8, G4-12 13 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE Figure 01 THE METAL LIFE CYCLE Reclaimed Scrap Small / MediumConsumption sized Collectors Reclaimed Scrap Finished Products Industrial Secondary Scrap Raw Materials Fabrication Production Sheets & Coils, etc. Our suppliers, in turn, collect these and often other materials from their downstream trade partners, and so on. It is a characteristic of the scrap metal trade that supplier relationships are built on mutual trust. At the same time, however, all traders of this raw material diligently keep their respective sources secret, as access to the source of arising constitutes a potential competitive advantage. This may imply that it is impossible to oversee the full cycle of the material stream, yet our employees' years and years of experience paired with modern investigative tools ensure that our suppliers adhere to ELG's high standard of values. G4-9, G4-12 14 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 It is this relationship between ELG's supplier base and our traders that safeguards the high volume of material that ﬂows into ELG's yards across the globe. Subsequently, ELG's value creation then consists of, to put it simply, transforming the heterogeneous collection of materials into a tailor-made, homogeneous, and constant stream of valuable raw material to be used by its global customers, see Figure 03 on page 16: tonnages pertaining to stainless steel scrap. Figure 02 THE PROCESSING CHAIN IN METAL RECYCLING Small / Mediumsized Collectors Collection 500 – 10,000 Stainless Mills 5 – 25 tons Analysis per shipment tons per and Consumers Processing shipment Industrial Arisings At ELG, we contribute to reducing the stream of metal waste by turning it back into raw material, and we enable our customers to transform it into new products. Together, we serve to close the loop every day for what was formerly a limited resource. G4-9, G4-12 15 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE Figure 03 KEY FIGURES FOR ELG Total tonnage in million metric tons 2017 1.44 2016 1.41 Alloys tonnage in million metric tons 2017 1.24 2016 1.17 Turnover in EUR billion 2017 1.70 2016 1.39 Proﬁt before taxes in EUR million 2017 30 -7 2016 Employees as at Dec 31 2017 1,278 2016 1,174 16 G4-9 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 03 / 2 ELG within the Haniel Group ELG was founded in Germany in 1962. The company was acquired by HANIEL in two steps, the ﬁrst in 1983 and the second in 1989. For more than 260 years, HANIEL has been a 100 percent familyowned company. As reported in our previous full Sustainability Reports, HANIEL aims to constantly expand and develop its portfolio by maintaining and supporting lasting and sustainable investments. Following HANIEL's purchase of BEKAERT Textiles in 2015 and subsequent addition of the Deslee Clama Group, which led to the formation of BEKAERT DESLEE, HANIEL has broadened its portfolio with two new acquisitions. In November 2017, the parent company added Germany-based ROVEMA to the mix, a leading manufacturer of packaging machines and systems for a wide range of products and applications. Just one month later, HANIEL closed another deal and took over Norwegian company OPTIMAR, a global leader in automated ﬁsh handling systems. HANIEL's aﬃliated company METRO Group decided to formally split its two market segments (food and electronics) and founded a new company CECONOMY, now a leading European platform for consumer electronics. METRO is still one of the leading companies for wholesale and food service. Alongside HANIEL's latest acquisitions, ELG's parent company also founded its own digital business structure, Schacht One, in Essen, Germany, in April 2016. Schacht One will act as the digital workbench of the HANIEL Group. G4-7, G4-13, G4-22, G4-23 17 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE As of the end of 2017, HANIEL's portfolio of operational companies comprised six divisions, each of which holds a leading position in its ﬁeld of expertise. One of these divisions is ELG. While supported by HANIEL through administrative advice and strategic feedback, ELG is in charge of operational management and strategy development and implementation. Initially focused on recycling scrap metal for the stainless steel industry, ELG has expanded the scope of its services to include trading in primary raw materials and recycling of high-performance materials, in particular superalloys, titanium, and carbon ﬁbers. Figure 04 on page 19 shows the sales contribution of the diﬀerent business segments where ELG is active as well as ELG's main global brands. As mentioned in our last two reports, ELG strengthened its standing in the superalloy market segment in 2013 by means of two acquisitions. ELG acquired the UK-based ABS Group (“ABS”) in February 2013 in order to enrich our global network for the beneﬁt of our customers. In July 2013, ELG acquired Metal Management Aerospace, Inc. (“MMA”), situated in Hartford, Connecticut, USA, allowing us to continue our growth strategy in aerospace scrap processing and revert management. At ELG's superalloys division, ELG Utica Alloys (“EUA”), items such as nickel-based turnings are treated in a multi-step procedure in order to make the material ready for shipment. ELG has invented and enhanced specialized processing equipment to enable it to reliably deliver the appropriate results requested by its customers. G4-7, G4-13, 18 G4-22, G4-23 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Figure 04 ELG'S BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND THEIR CONTRIBUTION TO ELG'S GLOBAL SALES ELG HANIEL GMBH Duisburg STAINLESS ELG UTICA OTHER STEEL RECYCLING ALLOYS MATERIALS RECYCLING OF ­ LLOYED SCRAP A RECYCLING OF FERROCHROME, (NICKEL, CHROME, SUPERALLOYS AND CARBON FIBERS MOLYBDENUM, TITANIUM IRON) 87 % 12 % 1% of sales of sales of sales G4-4, G4-13, G4-17, G4-22, G4-23 19 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE Adherence to the highest degree of quality in terms of composition and purity is key to success in this industry segment. We achieve this by maintaining a strict focus on quality management and via our long-term and trust-based cooperation with our valued customers and suppliers. By 2015, the Hartford facility and the former ABS operations had been successfully integrated into the ELG Group. Subsequently, they, along with the existing recycling activities for high nickel alloys and titanium, were merged together and renamed “ELG Utica Alloys Group” in order to emphasize the powerful unity of the Utica Division and demonstrate the strong connection with the ELG Group. In April 2017, ELG founded a legal entity speciﬁcally designed to allow each individual within the ELG Group to engage in innovative ideas and embrace the opportunities of digitization. To ensure consistency, the entity was named EIE Services GmbH (“EIE”), alluding to the launch of the broad-based innovation approach. Innovators from every operation within the ELG Group can voice and present ideas and work on them together with the EIE team and their partners. EIE is there to provide the space and the necessary resources that will see promising ideas thrive and ensure that ELG spearheads the future in the recycling of high-performance materials. G4-7, G4-13, 20 G4-22, G4-23 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 03 / 3 ELG operations In 2017, ELG beneﬁtted from a signiﬁcant easing of the market environment and was able to increase its outward tonnages at both divisions: Stainless Steel Scrap and Superalloys. In particular, higher raw material prices in the stainless steel sector and better scrap availability increased the ELG Group's sales. China again had a major impact on the stainless steel market in 2017. In the US and European markets, which are particularly relevant for ELG, stainless steel production also increased as a result of the improved market environment. Compared to the previous year, higher raw material prices led to a relaxation in scrap availability on the procurement market. ELG Utica Alloys, the specialty superalloys division of ELG, also beneﬁtted in 2017 from price and volume improvement in this market environment. Markets have shown a positive price trend upwards in the main base metals traded by ELG (nickel, chrome, iron, molybdenum) with chrome reaching its highest average price in the last ten years. Based on this, ELG achieved a signiﬁcant increase in operating proﬁt compared to the previous year. To ﬁnd out more about ELG's activities and business situation, please see HANIEL's Annual Report 2017. With currently 50 scrapyards worldwide, ELG is eager to further expand and optimize its network. As shown, ELG is now represented in 20 countries and operates 50 operations worldwide, see Figure 05 on pages 22 and 23. G4-6, G4-8 21 03 / CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1 3 2 4 6 5 Figure 05 ELG OPERATIONS 1 2 International sales 2017 Americas 32% Europe 48% Australia / Asia 20% G4-6, 22 G4-8 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 1 EUROPE Duisburg, Karlsruhe, Dresden, Essen, Rotterdam, Irvine, Sheﬃeld, Hyde, Darlaston, Gloucester, Barking, Rowley Regis (CSR), Mexborough, Manvers / Rotherham, Coseley, Limay, Lyon, Toulouse, Rodekro, Rogeno, Muttenz, Madrid, Brno, St. Petersburg 2 AMERICA McKeesport, Houston, Mobile, Los Angeles, Chicago, Louisville, New York, Herkimer, Hartford, Monroe, Burlington, Mexico 3 & 4 ASIA Shanghai, Xi'an City, Singapore, Mumbai, Oyama City, Osaka, Kita-Kyushu, Tokyo, Yokohama, Kaohsiung 5 AUSTRALIA Melbourne, Sydney 6 AFRICA Johannesburg ELG yard / oﬃce ELG joint venture 3 4 5 6 International sourcing 2017 Americas 34% Europe 60% Australia / Asia 6% G4-6, G4-8 23 04 / MANAGEMENT APPROACH 24 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 04 / 1 Organizational structure and governance A principle of ELG's concept of eﬃcient and responsible governance is that of decentralization: While local executive management throughout the Group is empowered to optimize its scrap sourcing and operative footprint, the sub-holding companies and particularly ELG Haniel GmbH is to coordinate matters of group-wide relevance. In that sense, it is the responsibility of ELG's Group holding company, based in Duisburg, to control the key central administrative departments where information on such matters from ELG's subsidiaries worldwide converges. At the same time, ELG's shareholder requests and governance parameter are being served, attended to, and broken down by ELG's headquarters to suit the multinational group of companies in the raw materials sector. MANAGEMENT APPROACH ELG is led by a Board of Directors consisting of Detlef Drafz (Chief Executive Oﬃcer, CEO), Dr. Silke Landwehrmann (Chief Financial Oﬃcer, CFO), and Karsten Müller, who joined the Group shortly prior to publication of this report as Chief Operating Oﬃcer (COO). G4-5, G4-26, G4-34 25 04 / MANAGEMENT APPROACH Few levels of hierarchy and lean personnel structures provide for direct communication and swift decision-making all through ELG's organization. We take pride in the fact that our decentralized operations and headquarters alike are managed where we do business. Our global scrap processing hubs for stainless steel are located in Duisburg (Germany), Rotterdam (the Netherlands), Sheﬃeld (UK), Pittsburgh (USA), Kaohsiung (Taiwan), as well as Connecticut (USA) and New York (USA) for superalloys and titanium. Our facilities are always close to the market and our management is always close to the shop ﬂoor – and that proximity is not only a physical one, but even more so a matter of mindset. ELG's headquarters and its subsidiaries try to ﬁnd a common understanding in terms of targets, values, and strategy. Several times per year, the leaders of our local operations attend management meetings involving ELG's top executives whereby cohesion and mutual knowledge transfer is fostered further. The same holds true for the relationship between ELG and our colleagues at HANIEL, who work just around the corner from ELG's headquarters. Regular management meetings, round tables, and workshops safeguard constant interaction and strong relationships not only with our shareholders but also with our sister companies within the HANIEL Group. 04 / 2 Corporate responsibility throughout the organization We have deliberately designed ELG's sustainability management and reporting to be a joint eﬀort between the departments headquartered in Duisburg and our decentralized operational units worldwide. We believe that sustainability only lives up to its name if and as long as it ﬂows through the veins of the entire corporate organization. This is particularly important in an organization with operations as far-scattered as within ELG. We trust in the principle of small local units enjoying great entrepreneurial freedom paired with wide-ranging responsibilities for proﬁts, compliance, and sustainable business conduct. At the same time, each operation forms part of the global ELG family, providing a great sense of unity. Thus, gathering all the necessary information for our previous reports as well as this one, deﬁning appropriate goals to achieve, and ultimately changing ELG for the better is always an eﬀort by people throughout the company. G4-18, 26 G4-26 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 In the past, sustainability was the direct responsibility of ELG's CFO, Dr. Silke Landwehrmann. This important topic is now more closely linked to where it can be inﬂuenced the most and will form a part of the operations organization headed by COO Karsten Müller, who is supported by a core Corporate Responsibility Team. As ELG's corporate responsibility is deeply rooted in our organization and naturally touches all businesses and projects, Detlef Drafz and Dr. Silke Landwehrmann, as well as our local executives are closely involved in all CR activities. To align the targets identiﬁed by ELG's Corporate Responsibility Team with HANIEL's group corporate responsibility strategy and to always stay up to speed on sustainability trends, a formal exchange process has been established with the corporate responsibility teams of HANIEL, TAKKT, CWS-boco, BEKAERT DESLEE, and METRO Group (now divided into METRO + Ceconomy) since 2015, see Figure 06. Figure 06 STARTING POINT AND HANIEL'S APPROACH HANIEL CWS-BOCO HANIEL GROUP CR Reporting Strategy BEKAERT TAKKT DESLEE METRO CECONOMY G4-18 27 04 / MANAGEMENT APPROACH 04 / 3 Risk / Opportunity management Corporate risks are commonly the ﬂip side of business opportunities. Exploiting the latter to the beneﬁt of ELG and its stakeholders is our management objective. At the same time, it is imperative to identify and, where possible, minimize threats to our business success. We do everything we can to keep potential risks as low as possible. Opportunity management at ELG is aligned with our strategic direction. In a broad strategic planning process, our options are systematically assessed, and initiatives are developed. Such initiatives are further ﬂeshed out in the operational planning process, which produces deﬁnite targets to strive for and measures to be taken. Both the strategic and operational planning processes are developed in close cooperation between the ELG Board of Directors and local management. We see risk management as interlocking with the planning process, so the risks covered are not only of a ﬁnancial nature but also comprise operational and external (market) risks. Risk management in the narrower sense is the responsibility of ELG's Internal Audit Department and comprises a periodic analysis of the risks identiﬁed as well as the deﬁnition, assessment, and monitoring of possible countermeasures. Risk management reporting forms an integral part of our standardized planning and budgeting processes and is governed by guidelines and handbooks. In accordance with long-term audit planning, all ELG subsidiaries are examined systematically by ELG's Internal Audit Department. As we follow a risk-oriented auditing approach, all subsidiaries of ELG are additionally subject to audits with varying focus areas; where appropriate, these are conducted in close cooperation with HANIEL's Internal Audit Department. The eﬃciency of the risk management system is supervised internally and assessed externally via annual auditing plans. 28 G4-14 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 04 / 4 Memberships and initiatives We are active members of several associations and initiatives, namely: Stainless Steel Business Segment • Association for Iron & Steel Technology • British Metals Recycling Association • Bundesvereinigung Deutscher Stahlrecyclingund Entsorgungsunternehmen e.V. • Bureau of International Recycling • California Metals Coalition • Canadian Association of Recycling Industries • French Federation of Recycling Companies • Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, Inc. • International Chromium Development Association • International Precious Metal Institute • Metal Recycling Association of India • National Demolition Association • Precision Metalforming Association • Verband Deutscher Metallhändler e.V. Superalloys Business Segment • Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association • Bundesverband der Deutschen Luftund Raumfahrtindustrie e.V. • International Precious Metal Institute • International Titanium Association • Minor Metals Trade Association • Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center ELG Carbon Fibre (“ELG CF”) is part of initiatives such as: • British Plastics Federation • Carbon Composites e.V. • Composite UK – Trade Association • Industrievereinigung Verstärkte Kunststoﬀe e.V. • Institute for Advanced Manufacturing Innovation ELG reports its sustainability eﬀorts in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and supports and promotes the Mission and Principles of the UN Global Compact. Beyond this, we are delighted to announce that we will join the UN Global Compact in 2018.1 1 ELG will have already joined the UN Global Compact by the time of publication. G4-15, G4-16 29 05 / CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 30 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 05 / 1 Management approach to corporate responsibility For ELG, sustainability management is a permanent process of enhancement. Therefore, CR is not only inherent in our business model, it inﬂuences virtually all decisions made on a daily basis. In this sense, all employees within ELG, rather than just one distinct department are ambassadors of CR. Figure 07 on page 32 shows how ELG's CR Department merely monitors, supports, and connects the corporate initiatives and takes a leading role in communication internally and externally. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Building on this approach, we conducted a formalized stakeholder dialogue in 2013, which was transformed into ELG's Sustainability Materiality Matrix, see Figure 08 on page 33. In our ﬁrst full Sustainability Report in 2013, we reported in great detail on what the mechanics of our stakeholders were and how ELG's Sustainability Materiality Matrix evolved. In essence, we distilled a tentative ranking of 20 corporate responsibility topics and selected the groups of people and organizations that are connected with or have an interest in ELG. Next, we deemed it important to listen closely to the people inside our organization ﬁrst and to ﬁnd those who act as key contact persons to potential stakeholders. The identiﬁed contact persons were then asked to report on the nature and intensity of their relationship with the respective ELG stakeholder they serve. The list of stakeholders this elicited included our employees, customers, suppliers, banks, and our shareholder HANIEL. By means of this process, we were able to conﬁrm that the stakeholders already spoke to their respective contact persons about many relevant topics on a frequent basis. G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 31 05 / CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We feel it necessary to work on, respond to, and explain some of the issues and clusters that formed the most important quadrant of the ELG Sustainability Materiality Matrix. Figure 07 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ELG HR DEPT Employees ELG ELG SALES DEPT FINANCE DEPT Customers Banks ELG CR DEPT ELG ELG BOARD TRADERS HANIEL Suppliers As we are in constant interaction with all our stakeholders on various topics, we were, again, able to derive from this interaction the key focus areas we wanted to work on. G4-18, G4-24, 32 G4-25, G4-26 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Figure 08 SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY MATRIX AND CLUSTERS Operational focus Compliance focus Employee focus Commercial focus FOR STAKEHOLDERS Integrity and compliance Sustainable increase Responsible employer in corporate value Quality of products and services Occupational health and safety VERY IMPORTANT Compliance with standards in the supply chain Innovation of new techniques Transparency Avoidance of corruption Environmental protection Human rights Security of supply Radioactivity Resource conservation protection controls Data protection Responsible investments Support of social initiatives Incorporation of stakeholders Community involvement at our business locations IMPORTANT Donations and sponsorships IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT FOR ELG G4-19, G4-27 33 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS 34 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 As a result of our stakeholder dialogue and analysis, we have deﬁned the “Operational Focus”, “Compliance Focus”, “Employee Focus”, and “Commercial Focus” as the clusters for our main CR areas over the past years. This ELG'S report will give you a comprehensive overview of 2017 in this traditional format. With respect KEY to the European CSR Directive, we will, however, start to lean FOCUS on the ﬁve aspects outlined in the Directive beginning with our next full report. AREAS On the following pages, you will ﬁnd a detailed insight into the activities pursued in 2017 within the respective focus area. Figure 09 ELG'S FOCUS AREAS OPERATIONAL FOCUS COMPLIANCE FOCUS ELG's carbon Collective footprint participation worldwide ELG'S FOCUS AREAS EMPLOYEE FOCUS COMMERCIAL FOCUS Expanding health and Carbon ﬁber safety measures at ELG recycling G4-20, G4-21 35 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS 06 / 1 OPERATIONAL FOCUS ELG's carbon footprint Recognizing the fundamental role that recycling service providers play in the value chain, ELG's approach to sustainability is to go beyond material collection and trading and place a speciﬁcally high emphasis on environmental protection, transparency, and innovation. Our last full Sustainability Report in 2015 detailed the greenhouse gas emissions saved per material in the ELG product portfolio – inconel, titanium, carbon ﬁbers, and stainless steels – based on data from a study that ELG conducted in cooperation with environmental experts from Fraunhofer UMSICHT. The study also identiﬁed areas with greenhouse gas emission savings potential, and these insights are supporting our eﬀorts to pinpoint the processes and areas within ELG's operations where we can further increase emissions savings. ELG's direct inﬂuence on the carbon emitted during production of high-performance materials is minimal, yet our commitment to reducing their carbon footprint is unshaken. Convincing customers to increase the scrap ratio within their production process is the biggest lever here, and our customers' eﬀorts to make their work even less carbon intensive are impressive. Parallel to this, we are dedicated to optimizing energy and resource eﬃciency in our own operations. In this Sustainability Report, we outline the measures being realized to reduce ELG's carbon footprint. The carbon footprint of ELG's product portfolio In line with the aforementioned study, ELG calculates its greenhouse gas emissions savings annually for all major material groups. As part of this, the amount of recycled products produced from scraps is multiplied by the speciﬁc greenhouse gas emissions savings of each material, totaling 4,407,817 tons of CO2-eq saved by ELG in 2017; of this, stainless steel represents the largest share, see Figure 10 on page 37. G4-20, 36 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Figure 10 DISTRIBUTION OF GHG SAVINGS PER MATERIAL 80.6% 304 (StSt) 18.9% 316 (StSt) Total 2017 4,407,817.52 0.1% Inconel (SA) tons of CO2-eq 0.3% Titanium (SA) 80.3% 304 (StSt) 19.4% 316 (StSt) Total 2016 4,212,534.31 0.1% Inconel (SA) tons of CO2-eq 0.2% Titanium (SA) ELG's data collection is substantial and the processing and handling of titanium and inconel vary at ELG's sites. Thus, we decided to extend our carbon footprint study of 2015 and plan to launch a new study into ELG's diﬀerent superalloys materials worldwide in cooperation with the environmental experts at Fraunhofer UMSICHT in 2018. Identifying areas of inﬂuence The Fraunhofer UMSICHT study demonstrates the signiﬁcant, positive impact that recycling service providers such as ELG can have when their recouped material is used in the production process instead of primary resources. It must be noted, however, that their inﬂuence on reducing the absolute CO2 footprint of a ton of manufactured stainless steel remains comparatively small even if a theoretical ratio of 100% recycled material is used. This is due to the fact that the preparation of scrap by processors like ELG – i. e. checking it for quality and radioactivity, cutting, burning, blending, and packaging – accounts for only 2% of the total greenhouse gases emitted when manufacturing one ton of high-performance material. G4-20, G4-21 37 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS We are conscious of the impact that products made from materials ELG works with have on the environment, and to this end, we are committed to saving emissions during scrap preparation itself across all our operations, encouraging partners and customers to raise their scrap ratio, and increasing our overall recycling volume. More tonnage means more emissions saved The amount of CO2 saved in 2017 (4,407,817 tons) was 5% higher than in 2016. This is mainly the result of increased tonnage, which grew from 1.41 million tons in 2016 to 1.44 million tons in 2017. The amount of CO2 saved per year is, thus, strongly dependent on the market environment and the availability and valuation of raw materials, inevitably leading to a certain degree of volatility from year to year, see Figure 11. Figure 11 ELG TONNAGE IN 2016 AND 2017 2017 1,442,126 2016 1,410,072 Initiating sustainable measures ELG is pursuing an even lower CO2 contribution per ton by implementing initiatives that promote sustainability within company practices, prioritizing the use of smart technologies and increasing resource and energy eﬃciency. New electric cranes are replacing a number of diesel cranes at various locations where we use stationary cranes, with an additional three to be introduced in 2018. These emission-free models result in 5,275 gallons (19,968 liters) of diesel fuel saved per crane per year, resulting in a total saving of 52 t CO2 per crane per year. With less heat produced by the motor and diesel fuel eliminated, they also substantially reduce ﬁre hazards. Air source heat pumps are being installed at ELG's new feeder yard in the Midlands, UK. These inverter-driven pumps extract energy from the air in one area (i. e. outside a building) and convert it into heat in another (i. e. the building's interior, radiators, and hot G4-20, 38 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 water systems). Compared with direct electrical heating, air source heat pumps can lead to a 40% saving in greenhouse gas emissions 2. Solar photovoltaic panels will help power the new Midlands building and charge company cars. Such panels are already in use in Duisburg. In 2017, ELG saved 369 t CO2 due to renewable energies. Shifting toward renewable energy sources demonstrably reduces greenhouse gas emissions. An eight-year study by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that using wind and solar energy cut emissions of CO2, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and ﬁne particulate matter (PM2.5) by 20%, 72%, 50%, and 46% respectively 3. Working toward higher customer and partner scrap ratios The lion's share of ELG's carbon footprint derives from the large scope of a material's end uses on the customer or inand outbound logistics side – in other words, the CO2 emitted for each ton of material produced as a ﬁnished product. With this in mind, ELG is committed to helping its customers increase their scrap ratios and works with steel plants that place the highest value on sustainability. The road ahead: plans for 2018 and beyond ELG will continue to work on bringing about emission savings on each ton of material handled. The orchestration of our UK operations, for instance, will be improved: Once the new Midlands site is ﬁnished in summer 2018, the majority of its deliveries will go directly to Outokumpu in Sheﬃeld, instead of ﬁrst being tipped and loaded at ELG's Templeborough yard. This will eliminate emissions that would otherwise result from trucks transporting the material and cranes unloading, sorting, and reloading it. Beginning in 2018, the new ELG yard in Houston will reduce internal transport needs between the yard and the harbor. As soon as ELG's Houston site goes into operation, it will result in approximately 82 t CO2 savings for 2019. 2 Mattinen, Maija; Nissinen, Ari; Sampsa, Hyysalo; Juntunen, Jouni K., 2014, “Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Air-Source Heat Pump and Innovative Ground-Source Air Heat Pump in a Cold Climate”, Journal of Industrial Ecology 19. 10.1111/jiec.12166. 3 Millstein, Dev; Wiser, Ryan; Bolinger, Mark; Barbose, Galen, 14 August 2017, “The climate and air-quality beneﬁts of wind and solar power in the United States”, Nature Energy, Vol. 2, Article No. 17134. G4-20, G4-21 39 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS ELG is constantly striving to develop and improve its approach to sustainability. To monitor the eﬀect the measures outlined in this chapter have on our carbon footprint, we will, in 2018, launch an update to the 2015 study. The objective here will be to determine the inﬂuence these internal procedures have had, and thus provide insight into how we can meet our environmental targets and ensure our eﬀorts have the most positive impact possible. Radioactivity alarms As one of the ﬁrst companies in the industry, ELG has, over the last two decades, introduced state-of-the-art radiation detection devices and made it imperative to use them at our yards across the globe. By using detection devices on inbound and outbound material as well as on material that is being moved in the yard, we are aiming to consistently apply ELG's Triple Validation Scheme. To measure success, we monitor radioactivity alarms in accordance with ELG's Radiation Guideline. The purpose of this guideline is to minimize the risk of radioactively contaminated material entering the production process of ELG's customers. No company within the ELG Group is to receive, accept, process, or sell material that has not been duly checked for radioactivity. ELG's measuring instruments are set up to detect and alert personnel at extremely low levels of radioactivity, which are generally very small deviations from the background radiation and harmless to health, and upwards. The responsible ELG employees are trained to act according to ELG's own radiation principles and procedures in case of an alarm. Since 2012, we have had an average of ten alarms per year, mainly owing to the improved measuring equipment, which is very sensitive and shows radiation more precisely. In 2015, we reported an alarm number of 13, but over the past two years, the number has decreased from 11 in 2016 to 10 alarms last year, see Figure 12 on page 41. ELG's total tonnage increased from 2016 to 2017, and we were able to reduce the alarms per ton. Ideally, we would like to see “zero” alarms at our customers' facilities. The detectors are very sensitive, and the exact cause that set the alarm oﬀ can be tracked. G4-20, 40 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 We know that our eﬀorts in the area of radiation have tangible beneﬁts, and we aspire to make our goal of zero alarms a reality. Figure 12 TOTAL TONNAGE in million metric tons 2017 1.44 2016 1.41 ALARMS number 2017 10 2016 11 ALARMS per ton 2017 0.000007 2016 0.000008 G4-20, G4-21 41 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS 06 / 2 COMPLIANCE FOCUS Collective participation worldwide In our last full Sustainability Report 2015, we outlined in great detail ELG's Compliance Management System (“ECMS”); the report at hand presents once again the main facts of the ECMS. Designed to safeguard a constant awareness and a uniform understanding of compliance at ELG, ECMS helps to control compliance risks to ensure that internal and external rules are being adhered to by the entire ELG staﬀ, see Figure 13. In case of abuse, and especially in cases where there is uncertainty as to how a situation should be judged or handled, ELG's Group Compliance Oﬃcer (“GCO”) shall be informed immediately. The ELG Board of Directors, the GCO, and the Head of Internal Audit work very closely with one another to assess potential cases and the risks involved. Together, they form ELG's Compliance Committee. Figure 13 ELG COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (“ECMS”) Compliance Monitoring & Improvement Compliance Compliance Organization Culture Compliance Management (CM) Compliance Compliance Communication Objectives Compliance Compliance Programs Risks G4-20, G4-21, 42 G4-56 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Thanks to the strength of the ECMS, ELG is an industry forerunner in compliance management. ELG has continually developed the system over the past few years, implementing speciﬁc measures such as “Tone from the Top” trainings, capturing and rolling out the “6 Principles of ELG”, creating new “Rules of Procedure”, conducting regular local management trainings worldwide, as well as annual compliance workshops with all business divisions of HANIEL, alongside delivering several E-Learning trainings on compliance topics. Employee e-learning ELG has been organizing online trainings on compliance-related issues for all employees worldwide with online access since 2015. As announced in our Sustainability Update 2016, we carried out our second module, “Anti-Discrimination”, at the end of 2016 with all employees worldwide; the module was completed in February 2017. ELG's Legal Department ensures that every registered new employee who joins the ELG Group receives training in “Prevention of Corruption” and “Anti-Discrimination”. The intention behind the trainings is to create awareness and build knowledge of the respective compliance topic at hand. Via this model, ELG has trained more than 600 employees per module over the last few years and plans to roll out the third module, “Antitrust Law”, in Q2 / 2018. G4-20, G4-21, G4-56 43 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS Local Compliance Trainings Local Compliance Trainings take place at suitable ELG Group locations in accordance with ELG's internal compliance risk matrices. Accompanied by specialized compliance experts, the ELG Group CEO, Detlef Drafz, and ELG's GCO trained and updated all US Managers and Executives within the ELG Utica Alloys Division in all compliance matters during a two-day workshop on-site. In November 2017, the key executives of ELG's Asian undertakings, ELG Taiwan and ELG Japan, took part in a training about Antitrust Law, Anti-Corruption / Bribery, and Property Crimes. In our last full Sustainability Report 2015, we explained in detail the procedure of our Local Compliance trainings. Conveying rules and values personally and directly to teams on the ground forms one important cornerstone of the ECMS. Shared_Matters@ELG In 2015, ELG launched “Shared_Matters@ELG”, a project designed to inform about acute issues at ELG entities that are bound to be of importance for other operations, too. Every employee, oﬃcer, or manager is free and, in fact, asked to inform the ELG Board of Directors, Corporate Communications, or the Group GCO about a current issue that might be also of signiﬁcance to other branches of the company. Topics may be of an operational, ﬁnancial, legal, complianceor audit-related, or other nature. To foster communication and knowledge exchange, an e-mail is shared among ELG's Executive Managers worldwide. In accordance with the ELG Principles “Independence” and “Empowerment”, each manager then decides whether the information is relevant for his / her area of responsibility and whether it gives rise to action or not. G4-20, G4-21, 44 G4-56 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 The Shared_Matter@ELG e-mail is, by nature, concise: It provides information about the incident or issue in question, which areas of our business are concerned, oﬀers some words of advice, and names the relevant people to contact on the speciﬁc matter. As such, Shared_Matters@ELG makes use of our global, connected footprint and serves to spread learnings and signal early warnings across the ELG Group swiftly. A strong ECMS via collaboration between legal, compliance, and audit departments The concerted eﬀort undertaken by responsible ELG Departments and Executive Managers to constantly enhance the ECMS is reﬂected in the “ELG 6 Principles” – Empowerment, Innovation, Integrity, Independence, Responsibility, and Mutuality – see Figure 14 on page 46: The principles were drafted by ELG Legal and the ELG Board of Directors to serve as ELG's code of conduct, and it is the responsibility of the Local Executives and, in fact, every single employee to interpret and apply the Principles in the context of the relevant operation. The GCO is the guiding force here; as previously mentioned, the GCO is responsible for ELG Local Compliance Trainings worldwide. The 6 Principles are an essential part of the Rules of Procedure (RoP) and are reinforced in every training conducted. To instill the values captured therein in colleagues working in the yard, ELG has implemented a “6 Principles” poster campaign and has distributed the posters in eight diﬀerent languages to all 50 operations worldwide. G4-20, G4-21, G4-56 45 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS It is ELG Internal Audit's job to point out weaknesses, check awareness of, and implement the ECMS, and, in the course of this, help make ELG's systems even more robust. In that sense, colleagues from Internal Audit also make sure that every legal entity has put up the “6 Principles” poster in a spot that ensures maximum visibility. Figure 14 6 PRINCIPLES OF ELG: G4-20, G4-21, 46 G4-56 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 New Terms & Conditions and “Know Your Supplier” policy Due to the ever-evolving nature of legal frameworks, ELG Corporate Legal and Compliance has initiated a global project to streamline and standardize our Terms & Conditions (“T & Cs”) of Purchase and Sale. In close collaboration with local management, standard T & Cs have been adapted to the legal requirements of each countryspeciﬁc jurisdiction, while particular provisions that reﬂect the individual local business and material were included. True to our ELG Principle “Integrity” and our desire to integrate the topic of corporate responsibility further into our daily business, we have supplemented a paragraph in the T & Cs with information including minimum wage law, law on the posting of workers (Arbeitnehmer-Entsendegesetz “AEntG”), prohibition of illegal employment, compliance etc., see http://www.elg.de/en/locations/ europe/germany/duisburg.html. To facilitate the exclusion of blacklisted business partners, including suppliers, ELG has rolled out the IT tool “ID.prove”. The tool is also part of full scope audits, and it is used in conjunction with ELG's “Know Your Supplier” policy, a checklist that provides guidance to assess potential counterparty risks. Country, product, business partner, and transaction risks are part of the checklist, which serves as a support tool to validate the long-term experience and “gut feeling test” of our trusted employees. G4-20, G4-21, G4-56 47 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS Compliance update calls and compliance workshop The company's Chief Compliance Oﬃcers gather for bi-monthly conference calls, allowing them to exchange feedback and ideas and thus support the spread of knowledge and best practices across HANIEL's diverse business units. Each year, relevant compliance personnel within ELG and all HANIEL divisions meet for a Compliance Workshop at the Haniel Academy. This workshop is initiated by the HANIEL Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer. The divisions discuss current legal and compliance issues. To encourage new ideas and ways of thinking, HANIEL concentrates on current concerns and invites guest speakers from national and international law ﬁrms to educate participants on pertinent compliance issues and cases. In 2017, the workshop focused on the European General Data Protection Regulation, antitrust, and the challenges involved with digitization. G4-20, G4-21, 48 G4-56 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 06 / 3 EMPLOYEE FOCUS Expanding health and safety measures at ELG For the past three years, ELG has been building on its Health & Safety PLUS Project to minimize future accidents and employee absences. As a result, we were able to collect data and ﬁnd and establish measures to reduce the risk of accidents and absences. We take the health and safety (H & S) of our employees very seriously and strive toward a goal of “zero” accidents. As can be seen in ELG's Sustainability Materiality Matrix, “Occupational Health & Safety” and “Being a Responsible Employer” rank very highly and are two of the most important values, both for us and for our stakeholders. After collecting and evaluating relevant data in 2015, we introduced measures in 2016 and 2017 in all ELG locations worldwide to further ensure that employees work even more carefully and cautiously. We had no fatalities in 2017 or in recent years, and the number of serious workplace accidents at any of ELG's sites across the world continues to be low. Most injuries are cuts and bruises that result from the physical handling of scrap. ELG's target to keep the number of accidents at work at an average of 15 per one million working hours was narrowly missed in 2017, with the average at ELG's yards being 18 accidents per one million working hours. The number of employee absence days per FTE is consistently lower than ELG's target of 7.5; in 2017, the overall average was 6.5 days per FTE. While we are conscious that our aim of zero accidents may be overly ambitious, we have recognized a positive trend and can report that since 2015, the number of employee absence days has decreased. H & S is a mandatory part of the agenda in all management meetings, which take place twice a year with the ELG Board of Directors. Here, ELG's top executives discuss the relevant H & S key performance indicators as well as tailor-made measures for the respective ELG companies to meet them. As a result, both centralized and decentralized measures have been taken throughout the whole ELG Group such as information campaigns, Industrial Safety Committee meetings, Board of Directors and Oﬃcer Instructions at all sites, as well as special trainings for all employees in areas such as how to use a deﬁbrillator, First Aid, and more. G4-20, G4-21 49 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS ELG's headquarters and ELG's local management units worldwide take the Health & Safety PLUS Project very seriously and work tirelessly to improve employee well-being every day. In 2017, ELG implemented technical, organizational, and behavioral measures to minimize and improve the number of accidents and absences. In cooperation with an external work safety specialist, ELG's Superalloys yard manager and the technical audit company DEKRA carried out a new comprehensive risk assessment at ELG's Duisburg site. The individual measures are sorted by high, medium, and low and are processed one after the other. As temporary workers suﬀer from accidents and/or absences strongly above average, the German Management at Eisenlegierungen Handelsgesellschaft mbH decided to reduce temporary work as much as possible. Thus, many temporary workers receive a permanent employment or ﬁxed-term contract with ELG companies. Overall, 20 temporary workers were taken on as permanent employees in 2017. It must be noted that the companies within ELG abide by relevant trade union agreements, as and when applicable. Temporary workers are utilized on an occasional basis by some operations within ELG in line with all pertinent regulations. There are no relevant seasonal implications for the composition of ELG's workforce. In 2016, we reported on the “Biggest Loser Competition” in ELG's US operations, which aimed to improve employees' overall ﬁtness. The competition was not only helpful; it was also fun for the employees. Consequently, the ELG Metals management team decided to start a new competition in 2017 called “FitBit challenge”, another initiative to encourage employees to get active. A ﬁtness watch tracks employees' steps and distances walked / run / biked, G4-20, 50 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 their calories burned, active minutes, and so on. The management incentivized employees to join the challenge by oﬀering the device itself as well as prize money. The steps were tracked over a period of four months, and the employee at each ELG location with the most steps won. Supported by our insurer, the goal of this challenge was to continue our journey to becoming a healthier company and to boost team spirit. Monthly “salad bar” luncheons have also been in place since 2016 and are very popular. Other local initiatives include the following: • Implementation of International QHSE Standards at all UK divisions (“Quality, Health, Safety & Environment”): OHSAS 18001 – H & S, ISO 14001 – Environment and ISO 9001 – Quality. The QHSE systems are regularly audited by BSI (British Standards Institute), who decides whether ELG meets the criteria set in each of the standards • Insurance healthcare program for all US locations, resulting in a reduction in the number of absence days • Preventive medical checkups such as complimentary annual ﬂu vaccinations oﬀered to all employees at the Duisburg branch • Cooperation with the Employer's Liability Insurance Association: Hand-out with instructions for drivers of company vehicles. The instructions include the main rules and international traﬃc rules (e. g. taking medications, drugs, premeditation, insurance coverage, etc.) • Monthly reporting of HR key performance indicators by the Head of HR to the ELG Board G4-20, G4-21 51 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS Figure 15 EMPLOYEE STATISTICS Employee ﬁgures Headcount 1,175 103 2017 Total headcount 1,278 1,065 109 2016 Total headcount 1,174 2017: Regular employees Executive staff 2016: Regular employees Executive staff Gender structure (total) Headcount 200 Female Total 2017 Total 2016 1,278 1,174 1,065 Male 974 Male Age structure Headcount 323 304 120 105 208 204 Total 2017 Total 2016 1,278 309 1,174 276 318 285 < 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 51 – 60 > 60 Years of Age G4-10, G4-11, 52 G4-20, G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 Structure by type of contract Headcount 57 Part-time 59 Part-time Total 2017 Total 2016 1,278 1,174 1,221 Full-time 1,115 Full-time Regional structure Headcount 510 449 77 71 18 20 Total 2017 Total 2016 1,278 1,174 673 634 Europe Americas Australia & Asia Africa Executive staﬀ: gender structure Headcount 9 Female 10 Female Total 2017 Total 2016 103 109 94 Male 99 Male G4-10, G4-11, G4-20, G4-21 53 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS 06 / 4 COMMERCIAL FOCUS Carbon ﬁber recycling In 2015, we reported and explained in great detail about ELG's carbon ﬁber recycling activities: ELG Carbon Fibre, the world's ﬁrst and largest commercial carbon ﬁber recovery plant located in Coseley, West Midlands UK. The key focus is to develop and industrialize the conversion technologies to manufacture recycled carbon ﬁber products that can be re-introduced to the composites and compounding industries. In cooperation with Formula One Designers Gordon Murray Design (“GMD”), a range of recycled carbon mats were produced in 2017 to test and qualify the material to be used in volume production. ELG and GMD work together to develop panels for the iStream Carbon vehicle. The iStream® Carbon process is derived directly from Gordon Murray Design's iStream® Manufacturing System. It is the world's ﬁrst aﬀordable high-volume carbon ﬁber chassis structure brings Formula One materials and technology within reach of the everyday motorist. ELG continues to expand the product range and developed a masseﬀective product for the manufacture of structural parts for the automotive industry. The TVR Griﬃth, a sports car that uses iStream technology and features ELG's materials, was unveiled to the public at the Goodwood Revival in September 2017. Besides this, several prototype vehicles will start going through the various automotive approval processes, and the supply chain for the production vehicles will be established. To provide GMD with the ability to manufacture prototype and production vehicles, Gordon Murray Automotive put up a special building on the Dunsfold Aerodrome in 2017. ELG's recycled carbon ﬁber mats continue to be a mainstay for both structural and body panels on many of the iStream vehicles. The ELG team continues to work with GMD's engineers to optimize the construction of the carbon ﬁber mats and the production process. Building on this work, ELG's non-woven carbon ﬁber mats G4-20, 54 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 will be used on several electric commercial vehicles that are in development. This includes high-volume vehicles in both the US and Europe, where prototype vehicles are being evaluated by customers such as the US Postal Service and Royal Mail. As manufacturers continue to demand the most advanced material innovations to promote lightweight structures, ELG CF has responded with the development of a unique range of isotropic recycled carbon ﬁber products, in particular Carbiso ™ Milled CF, Carbiso ™ Chopped CF, and Carbiso ™ Non-Woven Mats. In 2017, ELG CF and the UK's Rail Safety Standards Board (RSSB) entered into a partnership that is funded by the UK government, with £1.25 million dedicated to development of the Alstom bogie frame for the next two years. The aim is to reduce weight and improve vertical and transverse rigidity to decrease environmental impact, costs, and infrastructure damage. ELG Innovation Experience Using innovative technology, the team at ELG CF is on its way to shaping the future market of reusable ﬁbers. Parallel to this, our stainless steel and superalloys divisions have been leading their market segments for several years. We view it as our duty and as an opportunity, however, to stay innovative and groundbreaking in these areas, too. For this purpose, we gathered, in January 2016, a diverse group of participants from all parts of the world and from diﬀerent departments and hierarchy levels for the ELG Innovation Experience (“EIE”) in Berlin. The objective of this three-day moderated workshop was to reﬂect on how we do business, which (mega) trends have an impact on ELG's core and adjacent markets, and what opportunities are out there to be seized. To showcase which creative and digital energy is already working in the operative units the team around Jewometaal and Eisenlegierungen presented their new “MyELG App”, developed to lift scrap trading and information sharing with suppliers to a new level. G4-20, G4-21 55 06 / ELG'S KEY FOCUS AREAS Inspired from the creative and constructive atmosphere, several concepts were derived, transformed into projects manned with international colleagues of suitable occupations and driven forward. The project team members did this with dedication and energy albeit often on top of their normal workload. To build on the projects and to spark others to involve more and more ELG employees, we founded EIE Services GmbH in April 2017. This separate entity is located close to Duisburg in the heart of Düsseldorf 4, which has become a hotspot for Europe's digital economy, thanks to the city's unique cluster of mobile communication ﬁrms, start-ups, and industrial manufacturing companies. EIE is home to a team of ELG natives, young entrepreneurs, and external experts and is meant to be a hub for every ELG employee with an innovative drive. The core idea behind a dedicated unit is to assist our operative teams in maintaining their respective leading roles and to foster their great initiatives in digitization and beyond while also allowing them to focus on their daily business at the same time. Ultimately, it is ELG's aspiration to provide each and every employee of the ELG family with a distinct lasting and true self-conception: “Stay bold, be conﬁdent, embrace and spearhead the future.” This means entrepreneurial daring in the implementation of innovative ideas, a basic trust in the future viability of ELG, an eye for the great opportunities of digitization, and the certainty of the ELG Group staying at the top at all times and in all respects. EIE Services is a vehicle to ensure the implementation of this strategy, i. e. to create or reinforce the deﬁned self-image and thus make ELG a team of “Innovators”. The claim “Your idea – Your project!” displays how close we want the relationship between EIE and operative units to be: whoever sees an opportunity which ELG should pick up on, is asked to speak up and take ownership of the idea. EIE is designed to act as a sounding board and to provide the necessary resources to act quickly to tackle the challenge at hand or develop the idea Into possible future business. 4 Moving from Essen to Düsseldorf in 2018. G4-20, 56 G4-21 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 GRI-G4 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES External Material Aspects Page DMA, Indicators and Targets Timeline Assurance Operational Focus “Compliance with 36 – 40 Target: Quantiﬁcation of CO₂ savings By the end of NONE standards in the at the customer through the use of 2017 supplier chain”, recycled material in comparison to “Quality of products the use of primary raw materials; and services” the target is to obtain an increase in CO₂ savings of 5% for each product category. Compliance Focus “Integrity and compli42 – 48 Global rollout of the second online By the end of NONE ance”, “Avoidance of training on compliance-related 2017 corruption” issues worldwide, focusing on “AntiDiscrimination”. The aim was to create awareness and build knowledge of the respective compliance topic at hand. Global rollout of new Terms & Conditions (“T&Cs”) of Purchase and Sale. Employee Focus “Responsible employer”, 49 – 53 Assessment & veriﬁcation of the By the end of NONE “Occupational health & collected data; 2. Analyzing data; 2017 safety” 3. Identifying appropriate countermeasures; 4. Optimizing reporting and measures to reduce. Commercial Focus “Innovation of new 54 – 56 Development and introduction By the end of NONE techniques”, “Sustainof recycled isotropic mat into 2017 able increase in automated production process. corporate value” 57 GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX Material External Aspects Page Comments and Cross-References Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4 -1 10 – 11 NONE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4 3 7–8 NONE G4 4 13,19 NONE G4 5 25 NONE G4 6 21 – 23 NONE G4 7 17 – 18, 20 NONE G4 8 13, 21 – 23 NONE G4 9 14 – 16 www.haniel.de/en/creditor-relations/­financialNONE reports/consolidated-financial-statements for details G4 -10 52 – 53 NONE G4 -11 52 – 53 NONE G4 -12 13 – 15 NONE G4 -13 17 – 20 NONE G4 -14 28 haniel.corporate-report.com/2017/en NONE (pages 52 f. of the Annual Financial Report) for details G4 -15 29 NONE G4 -16 29 NONE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4 -17 19 www.haniel.de/en/creditor-relations/­financialNONE reports/consolidated-financial-statements for details G4 -18 7 – 9, 26 – 27, 31 – 32 NONE G4 -19 33 NONE G4 20 35, 36 – 41, 42 – 48, 49 – 53, 54 – 56 NONE G4 21 35, 36 – 41, 42 – 48, 49 – 53, 54 – 56 NONE G4 22 17 – 20 NONE G4 23 17 – 20 NONE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4 24 31 – 32 NONE G4 25 31 – 32 NONE G4 26 25 – 26, 31 – 32 NONE G4 27 33 NONE REPORT PROFILE G4 28 9 NONE G4 29 7 NONE G4 30 9 NONE G4 31 9, 59 NONE G4 32 9 NONE G4 33 9 ELG did not seek external assessment NONE for this report GOVERNANCE G4 34 25 NONE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 56 42 – 48 58 ELG Sustainability Report 2017 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS ELG HANIEL GmbH Kremerskamp 16 47138 Duisburg Germany ON BEHALF OF THE ELG Corporate Responsibility Team Susann Börsch susann.boersch@elg.de ELG Corporate Communications Team Vera Heinz vheinz@elg.de PHOTO CREDITS Dominik Asbach, Duisburg Uwe Hüttner, Hamburg CONSULTING, CONCEPT AND DESIGN Silvester Group www.silvestergroup.com 59 WWW.ELG.DE
