Sustainability Report MTU Aero Engines AG GER 06/18/MUC/00000/DE/XX/E MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de 2 Table of contents Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer ..................................... 5 About this report ............................................................................... 6 MTU Aero Engines AG ..................................................................... 8 1 Sustainable governance 10 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization ............................... 11 1.2 Compliance and human rights................................................. 20 2 Responsibility for products and 24 for the supply chain 2.1 Product quality and flight safety ............................................. 25 2.2 Eco-efficient engines .................................................................. 29 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain ....................................... 36 3 Environmental protection in production 40 3.1 Operational environmental protection ................................... 41 3.2 Energy and emissions................................................................ 44 3.3 Water ............................................................................................. 50 3.4 Material efficiency and waste .................................................. 52 4 Employees and society 56 4.1 Occupational health and safety................................................ 57 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer...................................... 60 4.3 Employee development ............................................................. 65 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities .......................................... 69 Masthead 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility ............................................... 72 Publisher MTU Aero Engines AG Eckhard Zanger Goals set and achieved in 2017...................................................... 76 Senior Vice President Corporate GRI-Index ............................................................................................ 81 Communications and Public Affairs Project management and contact point for questions regarding content Ute Schwing Senior Manager Corporate Online Services, Internal Communications and CR corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Photo credits Cover Airbus Page 2 jetBlue Airways Pages 4-5 MTU Aero Engines Pages 8-9 jetBlue Airways, Airbus, Boeing, IAE, MTU Aero Engines Pages 10 Airbus Pages 14-23 MTU Aero Engines Pages 24-25 MTU Aero Engines, Airbus Pages 26-28 MTU Aero Engines Page 29 Embraer Pages 31-34 MTU Aero Engines Page 35 Bauhaus Luftfahrt, MTU Aero Engines Lufthansa, Pratt & Whitney Pages 39-75 MTU Aero Engines Geared Turbofan™ is a registered trademark of von Pratt & Whitney. 3 4 Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Dear readers, For us, “Clean Air” is more than just a slogan. As we We also have our eye on the supply chain: Our manshape the future of aviation, we see it as our core datory social and environmental standards place responsibility to work with our partners to develop important sustainability demands on our suppliers. and to bring fuel-efficient, low-emission, quiet engines to market. We already brought you up to speed on Digitalization and technological transformation are this and other select issues in our first non-financial increasingly shaping working life at MTU, and so statement in the 2017 Annual Report. However, this we are also training our employees to be equipped new legal reporting obligation is not the reason for their long-term effects. We secure the employsustainability is important to us. For years now, we ability of our workforce primarily through highhave been in dialog with our stakeholders and have quality and comprehensive training, and create an produced an annual sustainability report outlining attractive and safe working environment based on our far-reaching sustainability strategy and the proimportant social standards. We value a corporate gress we have made with it. We plan to intensify culture that promotes innovation. Clear and reliable our efforts in this regard. leadership plays a key role in this, as does diversity and equal opportunity. After all, we rely on each With our Clean Air Engine program, we and every one of our 10,000 employees around the aim to play a key role in the sustainable world. Their ideas, their skills and their commitment development of the environment and soare the decisive foundation for our success. ciety in the years up through 2050. Our objective is to cut CO2 emissions from airThank you for your interest in our sustainability craft engines by up to 40 percent, and their activities and strategies. In this report, you will learn noise emissions by as much as 65 percent. what we have achieved on our path towards a And we are confident that we will succeed: more sustainable world and what we have planned the new PW1000G Geared Turbofan™ enfor the future. gine family signals the start of our journey towards an innovative and sustainable We hope you will join us on this journey! future for aviation. It already reduces CO2 emissions by 16 percent, lowers noise by 40 percent, and has entered regular service with some 20 customers. We achieved important goals this financial year as we Reiner Winkler drove our eco-efficient technology forward: further Chief Executive Officer engine designs for new aircraft models have MTU Aero Engines AG either been certified or flown for the first time. And in keeping with our Clean Air Engine Agenda, we have applied additional innovations to make the geared turbofan even better. All this is quite simply part and parcel of our responsibility as Germany’s leading engine manufacturer and globally active partner. With our Clean Air Industrial Site program, we plan to lower CO2 emissions at our Munich location by 25 percent. After all, we are tackling the challenges of climate change and resource scarcity not only in our product responsibility, but along the entire value chain. Our manufacturing facilities employ energy-efficient, low-emission processes that we continuously strive to improve, and with our state-of-the-art co-generation plant, we are producing more of our own carbon-neutral energy than ever before. 5 About this report MTU Aero Engines AG Communication on Progress 2017 Sustainability Report for UN Global Compact MTU Aero Engines AG has compiled this sustainThis Sustainability Report also provides inforability report to inform its stakeholders about mation on progress made in accordance with corporate responsibility (CR) within the company. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The report provides information about the comCross-references to those principles can be pany’s CR strategy, objectives and performance found in the GRI Index at the end of the report. and describes the priorities and progress for the various spheres of CR activity in 2017. It builds on the previous report and supplements our first non-financial statement in the 2017 Annual Reporting period and scope Report. of validity The Sustainability Report is available on our The reporting period covers financial year 2017 website for download as a PDF in both German (January 1 to December 31, 2017). To better and English. organize how information is presented and pro>MTU Sustainability Report (German) vide explanatory context for readers, activities >MTU Sustainability Report (English) from outside the reporting period are also cited in some cases. The report covers all of the MTU Readers can address questions about the report Group sites that are treated as fully consolidated to corporateresponsibility@mtu.de in the company’s financial reporting. This includes: • MTU Aero Engines AG, Munich, Germany Reporting in accordance (headquarters, OEM business) • MTU Maintenance Hannover, Germany with GRI (MRO business) • MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg, The 2017 Sustainability Report was drawn up in Ludwigsfelde, Germany (MRO business) compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative • MTU Aero Engines Polska, Rzeszów, Poland (GRI) guidelines and meets the GRI G4 standard (OEM business) (“Core” option). Accordingly, we report on all • MTU Maintenance Lease Services B.V., required standard disclosures as well as on manAmsterdam, Netherlands (MRO business) agement approaches for key aspects and on • MTU Maintenance Canada, Vancouver, selected indicators for each aspect. The GRI Index Canada (MRO business) at the end of the report indicates how the con• MTU Aero Engines North America, Rocky Hill, tents are mapped to the GRI requirements. Tables, USA (OEM business) graphics and text passages with statements • Vericor Power Systems, Alpharetta, USA relevant to GRI have been appropriately marked (OEM business) (for example, GRI G4-EN1). A materiality matrix in Chapter 1.1, Sustainability strategy and organiOverview of MTU sites: www.mtu.de zation, presents the sustainability topics that are relevant for the MTU Group and shows how The 2017 information and key performance they are weighted from an internal (x-axis) and indicators in the report refer to the above group external (y-axis) perspective. It serves as the reporting entity, if not otherwise indicated. basis for selecting the key aspects and perforThere were no significant year-on-year changes mance indicators for this report. in the company’s supply chains in 2017. 6 Key performance indicators Forward-looking statements (KPIs) This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the current underAll data and information for the reporting period standing, expectations and assumptions of MTU was collected by the relevant departments using Aero Engines and are based on the information representative methods. Environmental KPIs are available to management at the present time. collected via the environmental management Forward-looking statements provide no guarantee systems at the individual sites and then consolithat certain results and developments will actudated centrally in the CR database according ally occur in the future, and they entail risk and to agreed criteria. The HR KPIs are collected uncertainty. Consequently, for a variety of reasons, and evaluated centrally at the headquarters in the actual future results of MTU Aero Engines Munich for Germany, and using an electronic HR may deviate substantially from the expectations management system for all non-German sites. and assumptions expressed here. MTU Aero Once the data is evaluated, it is sent to the CR Engines assumes no obligation to update the database. All other data is requested from the statements contained in this communication. CR coordinators in the relevant departments and compiled centrally in the CR database. Financial The next Sustainability Report is expected to be KPIs are collected and published in accordance published in summer 2019, and the next nonwith the International Financial Reporting Standfinancial statement will be issued in the 2018 ards (IFRS). Annual Report in accordance with the German CSR Directive Implementation Act. External validation of the report The CR reporting for this sustainability report is not subject to external auditing or validation. The majority of corporate processes that underlie data collection for CR reporting are certified. More information: MTU’s certifications www.mtu.de Further information You can find supplementary information, more detailed analyses and older publications online: • MTU’s non-financial statement for financial year 2017 • Corporate responsibility at MTU • Compliance at MTU • MTU annual reports In addition, we regularly report on important sustainability topics in central MTU publications and through various communication channels. 7 MTU Aero Engines AG In the aviation industry, three simple letters stand for top-notch engine technology: MTU. With a Commercial engine workforce of about 10,000 people (including Asia) business Germany’s leading engine manufacturer has been providing propulsion systems to power aircraft With its products, MTU has content on engines for more than 80 years now, having become an in all thrust and power categories, from powerestablished global player. The company engages plants for small business jets to the world‘s in the development, manufacture, marketing most powerful jetliners. The company is a and support of commercial and military aircraft risk-and-revenue-sharing partner in the major engines and industrial gas turbines. commercial engine programs. Under the partnership arrangements, MTU assumes full development and production responsibility for MTU Aero Engines in figures the components and modules forming part of its work share. Its cooperation partners are the • 1934 launched in Munich world‘s big-league players in the engine indust• approx. 10,000 employees ry—Pratt & Whitney, GE Aviation, and Rolls(including Asia) Royce. • 14 company locations around the world • around 5.0 billion euros in sales in fiscal year 2017 MTU program work shares As part of its commercial activities, MTU Aero depending on the valuation Engines designs, develops and manufactures engine modules and components. Its technologiof the module cal expertise in the field of low-pressure turbines, high-pressure compressors and turbine center •up to 20 % frames as well as manufacturing processes and repair techniques have made MTU a leading To gird for the future, MTU has taken stakes in manufacturer of subsystems and components in a number of significant engine programs and the global engine business. is well positioned in the marketplace. Among the programs are the GP7000 for the Airbus A380, the GEnx engine to power the Boeing 787 DreamThe engine programs of liner and Boeing 747-8 long-range widebody airliner and the GE9X for Boeing’s 777X. The MTU that currently yield advanced geared turbofan™ technology is applied in Pratt & Whitney’s PurePower® engine family. the highest sales To date, five major aircraft manufacturers have selected the PW1000G models to power their • V2500 for the A320 family of aircraft latest aircraft. Airbus is offering the PW1100G-JM • GP7000 for the A380 for the A320neo. Bombardier has chosen the • for Boeing 787 and 747-8 propulsion system as the sole engine choice for • PW2000 and CF6-80 for mediumand its C Series, as has Mitsubishi for its MRJ regional long-haul aircraft jet. Irkut will equip its MS-21 with the engine. Last, but not least, Embraer has opted for the PW1000G family as the exclusive powerplant for its second-generation E-Jets. To date, over 80 airlines world-wide have ordered more than 8,000 geared turbofan engines. In the military arena, the company is the German Armed Forces’ major industrial partner for practically all engine types flown by them. MTU provides a full range of services, from maturing enabling technologies through developing and manufacturing engines and engine components, to providing maintenance and comprehensive customer support services. 8 Commercial engine The Munich headquarters maintenance Munich is home to MTU Aero Engines’ corporate headquarters. This is from where the group’s MTU Maintenance, a division of MTU Aero subsidiaries and most of its research and Engines, is one of the top five providers of development activities are controlled and where maintenance services for aircraft engines and military and commercial engine components industrial gas turbines. With more than 30 engiare produced in various shops. With its stake in ne types, it boasts one of the largest portfolios Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan engines, worldwide, including the bestsellers V2500 and MTU’s production volumes are growing rapidly: CFM56, and the world’s largest engine, the Whereas the company manufactured around GE90-110/-115B. New engine programs are 600 blisks a year so far—for various engine procontinuously added to offer customers the most grams—the total number produced will exceed popular variants and to secure the company’s 5,000 blisks annually from 2020 on. To cover position in the aftermarket for next generation the demand for titanium compressor blisks, engines. MTU has built a blisk center of excellence that boasts a high degree of automation and an intelligent control and logistics system. The MTU Maintenance in shop on the company’s premises in Munich accommodates the most advanced production figures system of its kind worldwide. • approx. 4,500 employees • over 18,000 Shop Visits • 36 years of company history The Munich site in figures • approx. 500,000 square meters area Apart from its outstanding technical and • approx. 5,000 employees engineering know-how, customer proximity is one of MTU’s greatest strengths. A network of locations in Europe, Asia and North America as well as representative offices, IGT service centers and joint ventures around the globe ensure that its customers’ expectations are fulfilled timely and with the same high standard of quality. These include dedicated centers of excellence, e.g. for parts and accessory repairs. In addition, on-site teams are able to carry out repair jobs at every corner of the world at short notice. 9 1 Sustainable governance We manage MTU’s business in a responsible and forwardlooking manner. Our efforts are supported by our sustainability strategy and the embedding of that strategy in our organizational structures. Ethics, integrity and respect for human rights provide the necessary foundation. 10 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Sustainability is the overarching principle in the MTU Group, firmly embedded in its organizational structures and implemented in corporate processes. We aim to continuously improve in all key corporate responsibility topics and also further develop our sustainability management concept. We are committed to adding value in a responvations that contribute to the sustainable develsible and sustainable way. As the executive body opment of society and the environment. These of MTU, the Executive Board acts at its own support airlines in improving their energy footdiscretion to pursue this goal in the company’s print and in reducing emissions and aircraft noise. interests while taking into account the interests That is why product responsibility is at the heart of its stakeholders. In consultation with the of our sustainability strategy, which addresses Supervisory Board, the Executive Board decides the topics of product quality and flight safety, fuel on the company’s strategic direction, sees that efficiency, CO2 emissions and noise emissions. this is implemented, and ensures that the comOther topics that are highly relevant to MTU and pany has appropriate risk management and its stakeholders include innovations, a steady incontrol systems in place. The Executive Board is crease in shareholder value, and anti-corruption/ also responsible for ensuring compliance with bribery. Compliance and respect for human rights statutory requirements and the company’s own are the basis for our conduct. guidelines. It works as a team, with all members holding joint responsibility. The Supervisory Board We see the ten principles of the UN Global Comadvises and monitors the Executive Board’s pact, which we joined in 2011, as a guide to management of MTU’s business. The MTU-wide responsible corporate governance. As a signatory, code of conduct, which the Executive Board and we are committed to respecting human rights, the group works council agreed on and rolled ensuring fair working conditions, protecting the out together, forms an important basis for the environment, preventing corruption and concompliance of all employees and managers with tinuously improving the way in which we implelegal and ethical principles. ment it across the company. This report also serves as our annual UNGC Communication on We see sustainability as part of our corporate Progress. The International Labour Organization’s social responsibility to ensure long-term business (ILO) core labor standards serve as another point success. In the process, we consider not only of reference for us. Furthermore, in 2018 we economic but also ecological and social aspects, will take a closer look at the United Nations’ and we promote dialog with our stakeholders as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which a way for us to keep informed about society’s were set in 2015 under the title “Transforming key demands and expectations. Sustainability is our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable enshrined in our annual corporate objectives as Development.” We will analyze which of the 17 a strategic goal. SDGs are most relevant to MTU’s sustainability strategy and how we can support this global Our sustainability strategy covers every area of agenda. MTU’s business. It focuses on key topics that we identify and evaluate using a materiality analysis. More information: We weight each topic according to its importance Working procedures of the MTU Executive Board to MTU and our stakeholders, and we take a and Supervisory Board: 2017 Annual Report, holistic perspective along the entire value chain Corporate Governance Report, page 22ff. including the supply chain and the use of our MTU code of conduct: Chapter 1.2 Compliance products and services. Our sustainability strategy and respecting human rights addresses the global challenges and trends that Sustainability topics along the entire value MTU’s business faces. Climate change, mobility chain: Materiality principle according to GRI, and resource scarcity are important drivers of page 88 that business. We create products and innoProduct responsibility as a focus of CR: Chapter 2.2 Eco-efficient engines < With our engine products, we help airlines improve their UN Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org energy footprint, reduce CO2 emissions and aircraft noise. That is why product responsibility is at the heart of our sustainability strategy. 11 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Materiality analysis engines, such as nitrogen oxide, are not within When it comes to sustainability, we focus on MTU’s sphere of influence, since the company key topics that are relevant to MTU’s business does not develop combustors. Therefore, exhaust success and have an impact on society and the emissions are less significant for our sustainenvironment, which makes them of particular ability strategy. interest to our stakeholders. We identify these important topics using a materiality analysis that One topic of particular importance is compliance. we conduct every year. The materiality analysis To examine it more closely, we broke it down covers all our key business areas and fully coninto individual issues so that we could weight solidated locations as well as the experience and them more carefully. One example here is IT insights gathered from our dialog with stakesecurity and data protection, which is becoming holders. We insert the relevant aspects into a more relevant due to current developments such materiality matrix, which weights the topics as the Euro-pean Data Protection Regulation. according to their importance from an in-house Other key compliance issues for MTU include: perspective (X-axis) and from the point of view anti-corruption/bribery, trade compliance (export of our most important stakeholders (Y-axis). In regulations and customs law), and environmental the materiality analysis, we also take up new and occupational safety as required by law. topics and review them to see how they fit with All compliance topics are highly or very highly our CR strategy. Through direct contact with key relevant to MTU and its stakeholders. stakeholder groups, we determine their expectations and demands (e.g. at recruiting and The supply chains for MTU’s business segments— customer fairs, employee and customer quesOEM (new and spare parts) and MRO (commertionnaires, Annual General Meeting). We also cial maintenance, repair and overhaul)—each have have a survey on the MTU website that addresses their own organizational units at the company all CR topics. and are subject to various general and market conditions. In general, public interest in the susThe materiality analysis is conducted by the cortainability aspects of supply chains and regulations porate responsibility (CR) coordinators in the is on the rise. To better take these requirements relevant departments, in collaboration with the into account, we have evaluated responsible CR steering committee as the central body. For sourcing separately for the OEM and MRO segthe first non-financial statement required by ments. the new European guideline as implemented in Germany (CSR-RUG), which we published in Our matrix breaks down the focus topic of spring 2018 as part of our management report, “Environmental protection in production” (previMTU reevaluated all topics in the financial year ously known as “Environmental management/ using uniform criteria according to CSR-RUG’s performance”) into individual categories such as updated definition of materiality. In addition to energy, emissions, waste and water so as to shareholder expectations, the analysis also looked conduct a more nuanced assessment. These at social, ecological and economic impact to caltopics are less relevant for us as we have a much culate a position for the Y-axis. When evaluating greater impact on the environment through our a topic for relevance to the company (X-axis), the products. first aspect considered is its economic impact on MTU—measured by its effect on the balance As for social issues, occupational safety and emsheet or the company’s reputation—using a preployee development rank as the most important. determined scale. As a result, the materiality Diversity & equality of opportunity have become matrix produced new positions for the focus topics more important for MTU, as it is a high-profile of MTU’s CR strategy in financial year 2017. issue in the United States and can have an impact on MTU’s business. In assessing our The materiality analysis rated product-related sustainability strategy with regard to relevance topics (quality, safety and eco-efficiency) as very to business and impact on third parties, we also highly relevant. We recategorized “Product quality reexamined human rights. For MTU, these apply and product safety” as “Product quality and to all stakeholder groups equally, but we pay flight safety,” and also split our focus topic of special attention to our employees, suppliers eco-efficient engines into “Fuel efficiency/CO2 and business partners. emissions” and “Noise emissions of our products,” since fuel consumption is directly proportional MTU’s report on donations/sponsoring can now to CO2 emissions. Other emissions of aircraft be found under “Corporate citizenship.” 12 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Materiality matrix: Important sustainability topics for MTU >GRI G4-19 Long-term value Product quality and creation flight safety Innovation very high Trade Compliance Fuel efficiency and CO2 emission of products Environmental and occupational safety Corporate Citizenship compliance Occupational safety Anti corruption Employee development Noise emission of products IIT security and data protection Relevance for Stakeholders Work-life balance Diversity & equality of opportunity Exhaust emission of products Human rights Noise CO2 missions Health abatement at production management at production sites Environmental management: energy sites Environmental management: Stakeholder dialog Responsible Sourcing OEM business water Demographic change Environmental management: waste Responsible Sourcing MRO business very high Relevance for MTU Group Evaluation of topics for the financial year 2017 adopts the new materiality concept in accordance with the legal guidelines for CSR in Germany (CSR-RUG) 13 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization CR management We have integrated sustainability into organizational structures throughout the entire MTU Group. Through our CR management system, we monitor our sustainability strategy, performance and goals. The supervising body is a CR Steering Eckhard Zanger Committee whose members consist of the tier-1 Senior Vice President senior management team. It submits multiple Corporate Communications and Public Affairs reports during the financial year to the Executive MTU Aero Engines AG Board, which sets the direction of the sustainability strategy. As the highest decision-making “Sustainability is part of our corporate identity. body, the Executive Board holds overall responOur responsibility to the environment and to sibility for sustainability at MTU. A central CR society has been integrated into our decisioncoordination team manages implementation of making processes. Because we aim to continuously the sustainability strategy in the Group, commake progress in this area, we are further munication with stakeholders, and reporting on expanding our sustainability management system.“ CR topics. MTU’s CR management An important role in the operational implemenpartners, suppliers and shareholders. We are system tation of the strategy is played by the CR Divialso in dialog with scientists, researchers, analysts, sional Coordinators: they develop goals and journalists, politicians, associations, NGOs, Supervisory Board measures in their divisions, implement them, employee representatives, neighbors and com(Key Topics) and take responsibility for monitoring progress. munities. In collaboration with the managers and experts Board of Management in their technical areas, the coordinators are To involve our stakeholders and gather feedback, heavily involved in shaping the strategic focus of we use a variety of communication channels and their CR goals and developing these goals over platforms that are tailored to the target group in CR Steering Committee time. question. For instance, in 2017 we began holding CR Coordination a Sustainability Day for our employees. We also Every year, they report validated KPIs and inforuse an online survey to invite all stakeholders to CR Divisional mation on sustainability activities and progress evaluate and discuss our sustainability strategy. Coordinators to the CR coordination team by means of an integrated database. They also meet regularly We pick up and act on topics that come to our over the course of the year to exchange inforattention through the stakeholder dialog. Our mation, coordinate measures and approve susstakeholders are interested primarily in ecotainability goals. In one project, we are reviewing efficient engines, product responsibility, comour current sustainability organization and propliance, MTU as an attractive employer, human cesses for transparency, completeness and rights and the regional responsibility of MTU’s efficiency. The overall goal is to improve our CR sites. We have taken up data security as an management. For example, we are planning to important new topic in our stakeholder dialog. expand the CR Steering Committee into a CR We wish to intensify our dialog on CR topics Board and involve other key management funcin particular. Preparations for interviews with tions so that we can better address the scope selected representatives of key stakeholder of sustainability issues. groups as well as for an evaluation of our first non-financial statement in the annual report are Stakeholder dialog under way. >GRI G4-24-27 We strive to conduct a proactive and mutually Political dialog supportive dialog with all our stakeholders in >GRI G4-SO6 which we communicate about sustainability As a matter of principle, MTU takes no political topics openly and transparently. By so doing, position. The company purposely cultivates we aim to achieve broad acceptance among the relationships with parties and factions on certain general public. This dialog gives us the opportopics, as aviation is affected to no small degree tunity to respond to suggestions, expectations by political decision-making, especially at the and feedback and act on new topics and chalnational and European levels. Key points of conlenges in a timely manner. Stakeholders are tact for the company include elected represenindividuals, groups or organizations that have tatives and decision-makers from ministries at a regular relationship with MTU. Our key stakethe state, federal and EU levels as well as from holders are employees, customers, business subordinate authorities and the German Armed 14 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Stakeholder dialog >GRi G4-24, 26 Stakeholder Topics Forms of dialog Employees • Health and safety • Internal media • Career and advanced training opportunities • Employee surveys • Compensation and Benefits • HR services • Work-Life-Balance • Dialog and information events • Diversity & Equality of opportunities • Company suggestion scheme • Co-determination Business partners • Product quality and safety • Voice of the customer and customers • Sustainable technologies • Trade fairs • Product fuel efficiency • Corporate communications • Human Rights media channels • Compliance Suppliers • Product quality and safety • Supplier Collaboration Center • Environmental Protection • Audits • Responsible Sourcing • Supplier surveys • Compliance with MTU standards • Supplier Days Capital market • Product innovation/eco-efficiency • Annual General Meeting • Responsible corporate governance • Conferences and roadshows • Human rights • Investor discussions • Compliance • Trade fairs • Environmental protection • Ratings • Risk management • Financial communications • Supplier management Science and research • Developing new technologies • Joint research projects • Promoting research and teaching • Work in MTU centers of excellence • Networking between industry and research • Trade fairs • Study of engineering and scientific disciplines • Visits from university student groups • Recruiting • Presentations/discussions at universities Media • Innovation and technologies • Press releases • Aviation sector/eco-efficiency • Press conferences and briefings • MTU as employer • Plant tours • Financial issues • Internet/Social Media • Site development • Trade fairs • Compliance Region • Social commitment • Museum open house days • Environmental protection • Community partnerships • MTU as employer • Internet/Social media • Site development • Plant tours • Compliance Politics, • Developing and promoting technology • Parliamentary evening public agencies • Environmental protection, eco-efficiency • Plant visits • Political frameworks and regulations • Trade fairs • Mobility concepts • Political discussions • Site development • Background talks • Demographic change • Visits by political delegations • Globalization • Compliance Associations and • Eco-efficiency • Meetings and committees organizations • Promoting innovation and technology • Participation in forums and events • Economic and labor policies 15 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Forces. To ensure transparency and adherence to external and internal regulations, MTU manages its political dialog centrally through the Corporate Communications and Public Affairs department. Topics of discussion with political decision-makers include innovation, technology development and funding, environmental protection and noise rePeter Kameritsch duction, the relevance of air traffic to society, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer site development, economic and labor market MTU Aero Engines AG policy, and support for exports. MTU pursues its industry-specific interests through memberships “2017 was another record-breaking year for MTU. in various professional associations. This means we were able to continue writing our success story of sustained value creation. Our MTU does not make any financial or in-kind commercial success has a positive impact on donations to political parties. All transactions MTU as an employer and as a client, and makes are carried out in compliance with the applicable our stocks an attractive capital investment. It legal and regulatory requirements and with also allows us to invest heavily in expanding our MTU’s Code of Conduct, and must be granted locations.” central clearance. Mandatory requirements are stipulated in the MTU compliance management system and Code of Conduct, including those we launched a quarterly risk survey of the most relating to donations, sponsorship, customer important sustainability topics at the behest events, in-house events, hospitality and corporate of the CR control board. Department managers gifts. Compliance with these rules and regulations conduct the survey. The results are reported is the responsibility of the relevant manager in regularly to the CR Steering Committee. If neceseach case and is safeguarded by an internal sary, the Steering Committee passes the report control system. to the risk management team and, if appropriate, to the Executive Board. More information: MTU memberships: GRI index in annex Adding value by steadily increasing shareholder value Managing sustainability risks We take a long-term approach to our company’s We integrate sustainability risks into our internal success, aiming to steadily increase shareholder control system, and map and evaluate them using value with a view to profitable growth. Our comdefined processes. MTU has established a groupmercial success generates added value for our wide integrated risk management and control stakeholders and contributes to society’s prossystem, based on the leading international perity and the economic development of the COSO II ERM Framework standard, with which it communities where our business activities are manages risks and opportunities for its business. located. We create attractive jobs in a high-tech The system also takes into account non-financial industry and offer professional training as part risks. For the topic of compliance, MTU has of Germany’s dual-track system. At present, the established a separate risk assessment and a MTU Group employs 8,846 people at fully conseparate reporting line, which the Compliance solidated locations around the world, with 287 Board coordinates. young apprentices training in Germany. We are a major employer at all major international The top issues for financial year 2017 identified locations, offering an appropriate return for in the materiality process have been reviewed by shareholders and competitive salaries for our the departments and the CR Steering Committee employees. We also contribute to society through for potential risks that may arise from MTU busithe tax we pay on our profits. As a local investor ness activities and impact the environment, and patron, we promote education and the society and the company’s workforce. Building academic landscape, for example by maintaining on the existing risk management system, the risk close ties to local universities. We invest in our assessment was carried out in a similar fashion locations and are in the process of expanding on a scale referencing the likelihood of occurrence our plants in Rzeszów, Munich and Berlin. Through and the impact of the risk. The analysis identified our innovative capabilities, we create upstream no significant risks that had a high probability of value chains and jobs in the supply chain. severe negative impact. Based on this, in 2018 16 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Key financial data (in EUR m) >GRI G4-EC1 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 2,250 2,500 2,750 3,000 3,250 3,500 3,750 4,000 4,250 4,500 4,750 5,000 Revenues 2013 3,574.1 2014 3,913.9 2015 4,435.3 2016 4,732.7 2017 5,036.3 Earnings before 2013 317.3 interest and tax 2014 333.5 (EBIT) 2015 385.6 2016 452.8 2017 555.3 Income taxes 2013 107.1 2014 83.3 2015 103.2 2016 103.0 2017 133.5 Earnings after tax 2013 166.3 2014 195.4 2015 217.6 2016 312.6 2017 381.8 Capital expenditure 2013 251.2 on property, plant 2014 395.5 and equipment and 2015 309.7 intangible assets 2016 274.8 2017 311.5 Reported figures All that we contribute is based on a sound finanpart of our Clean Air Engine Agenda and climate cial foundation: in 2017, we continued on our strategy. We expect a moderate increase in both growth trajectory and set new records. MTU adjusted EBIT and earnings after tax for 2018. Maintenance (MRO business) had its best year in its more than 36 years of history. The MTU Group as a whole reported a record adjusted EBIT of 555.3 million euros, and earnings after tax (adjusted) reached 381.8 million euros for the first time. The company’s order backlog ran to 13.2 billion euros in 2017, which in purely numerical terms translates to production capacity utilization of up to three years. In addition to the V2500, the most important engine programs in the order backlog are the PW1000G Geared Turbofan™ family, which serves as the basis for reducing aircraft noise and CO2 emissions as 17 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization Value added, 2016 and 2017 (in EUR m) >GRI G4-EC1 2016 2017 Cost of materials/ Cost of materials/ Other expenses Other expenses 3,473.4 3,592.9 73.2% Gross value 71.5% Gross value added added 4,749.0 5,027.1 Employees Group Employees Group 664.0 215.0 707.6 263.4 60.5% 19.6% 57.1% 21.3% Net value Net value added added 1,098.1 Share 1,238.0 Share holders holders 97,6 118.4 8,9 % 9.6% Public Public Lenders authorities Lenders authorities 18.5 103.0 15.1 133.5 1.7% 9.4% 1.2% 10.8% Depreciation and Depreciation and amortization amortization 177.5 196.2 3.7% 3.9% Net value added Net value added 1,098,1 1,238.0 23.1 % 24.6 % Consistent with our goal of steadily increasing Ratings & rankings shareholder value, we continued our pattern of MTU’s performance with regard to non-financial previous years with positive development this indicators is also regularly assessed by capitalyear. Net value added has remained at a consismarket analysts and independent experts. The tently high level over several years, and rose to company is currently listed in the following sus1.2 billion euros in 2017. Most of that (57.1 pertainability indexes and rankings: cent) went to our employees in the form of • oekom prime Status wages, salaries and other benefits, while the • CDP Group retained 21.3 percent to make forward• STOXX ESG Leadership looking investments. The proportion allocated to • Transparency International pay taxes levied by public authorities accounted for 10.8 percent; at 133.5 million euros it was More information: above the previous year’s value. Shareholders Ratings & Rankings: www.mtu.de participated in 2017’s success with dividends totaling 118.4 million euros (9.6 percent of net value added). More information: MTU as a local player: Chapter 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility > MTU locations are the company’s face around the world. Their common goal: to shape the future of aviation also in the spirit of increased sustainability. 18 Sustainable governance • 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization 19 Sustainable governance • 1.2 Compliance and human rights 1.2 Compliance and human rights Our long-term commercial success is founded on responsible actions carried out in full compliance with all applicable laws. This includes our commitment to respecting human rights, which is firmly embedded in our corporate culture. Management approach MTU acts as a fair employer, business partner and customer, and advocates transparent competition where all parties are on an equal footing. Integrity and responsible conduct are core values of our corporate culture and are embedded in our code of conduct, which is binding for all employees, managers and members of the Executive Reiner Winkler Chief Executive Officer Board. Key parts of the MTU code of conduct are: MTU Aero Engines AG • Safeguarding human rights • Observing labor laws “The only way we can be successful over the long • Maintaining fair working conditions and term is if we conduct our business responsibly. business relationships This includes complying with all laws as well • Occupational health and safety for all as our own principles and guidelines in all units employees of the MTU Group. Compliance is a key pillar • Refraining from corruption, bribery and of our corporate culture. Our aim goes beyond accepting undue advantages preventing corruption and bribery and ensuring • Providing employee training fair competition; we also want to respect fundamental values such as human rights within MTU In addition, each employee is to be familiar with and along the supply chain.” the legal requirements relating to their role and observe both the terms of their employment contract and company regulations. Managers As a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), have a particular responsibility to uphold these we are committed to protecting human rights requirements and regulations and to act as role (UNGC Principles 1 and 2) and preventing cormodels. Acting with integrity is a fundamental ruption within our company (UNGC Principle 10). part of our working and business relationships. In the interests of maintaining sustainable corpoCompliance strengthens the trust our stakerate leadership, we take our lead from the German holders place in our company and bolsters MTU’s Corporate Governance Code and international good international reputation. We also expect compliance standards (set by the Institute our business partners to fully comply with all of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW Auditing applicable laws. Standards) and the guidelines issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and “We shape the future of aviation” is the title of Development, or OECD (Good Practice Guidance the MTU Principles. As an integral part of our on Internal Controls, Ethics, and Compliance)). corporate culture, they help MTU to act in a MTU also participates in the anti-corruption initiconsistent and reliable manner. The MTU Prinatives of the Aerospace and Defense Industries ciples define the company’s future orientation Association of Europe and of TRACE International. and its basic goals and values, and provide for the observance of MTU’s code of conduct and More information: ethical principles. They are based on five pillars: MTU code of conduct: www.mtu.de • Products, technology and growth Declaration of conformity with the German • Cooperation and conduct Corporate Governance Code: MTU Annual • Employees and management Report 2017, page 22 • Partners, customers and shareholders UN Global Compact: unglobalcompact.org • Environment and society TRACE International: traceinternational.org The MTU Principles are regularly updated to reflect new developments and challenges. 20 Sustainable governance • 1.2 Compliance and human rights Anti-corruption The company has instituted a global whistleblower One focus of our compliance activities is the system that allows employees and external stakeprevention of corruption and bribery. MTU conholders to report suspected cases of corruption demns corruption of any kind, including bribery or bribery, or any general suspected cases of and all other forms of white-collar crime. The non-compliance with the MTU code of conduct, long-term success of any business is founded on internal guidelines or applicable laws, to an compliance with applicable laws and regulations ombudsman (ombudsmann@mtu.de). MTU does and the company’s own internal guidelines. In not tolerate any kind of conduct that violates laws addition to obligations to act responsibly and or regulations. Any detected violations will be with integrity, the group-wide framework of compunished. In such cases, MTU applies a principle pliance rules obliges the adherence to statutory of zero tolerance. Should there be clear grounds requirements and internal regulations. MTU guidefor suspecting a violation, the Compliance Board lines also provide clear rules for day-to-day will take appropriate action. dealings with officials and when it is appropriate to accept gifts. Further internal regulations conIn the reporting year, no suspected or confirmed cerning the prevention of corruption relate to cases of corruption were identified. In addition, invitations, hospitality, customer events, donaas in previous years, no violations of the code of tions, sponsoring and the approval process for conduct were reported by employees or external sales consultants. stakeholders in the reporting period. No significant fines were levied against the company for Trade compliance breaches of applicable laws. MTU also faced no MTU acts in accordance with all customs laws legal action due to anti-competitive, antitrust and export regulations our products are subject or monopoly practices. In 2017, no reportable to and has implemented standardized processes incidents of data protection breaches occurred throughout the company to ensure this. These within the MTU Group. >GRI G4-SO5, 7-8, PR8 processes include the review of all data and parts prior to shipping to make sure they are in line The ways of reporting non-compliance are comwith export control regulations. MTU’s own export municated to employees through internal media controls include checks for any existing and/ channels and explained to external stakeholders or required authorization requirements. Before in writing or on our website. The identity of the deliveries are dispatched, MTU performs an whistleblower and the information he or she additional system check using SAP. Compliance imparts are treated as strictly confidential—even with customs laws and export regulations is if the suspicion turns out to be unfounded. It explicitly laid out in the code of conduct. goes without saying that whistleblowers acting in good faith shall not be penalized or disadvanCompliance organization taged by the company in any way. In addition, MTU has established a compliance system for employees can confide in their superiors, the the entire company. As the final decision-making legal department or HR. authority, the CEO is responsible for the company’s business ethics and anti-corruption policy. The key tool for ensuring the ethical conduct of business activities is a group-wide Compliance Board comprising members on the management level. The Compliance Board holds both regular and ad hoc meetings and provides quarterly updates on its activities to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee, which for its part informs the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee oversees the Executive Board’s compliance activities. Employee representatives make up half of the members of the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee and of the full Supervisory Board. 21 Sustainable governance • 1.2 Compliance and human rights Training employees on compliance Respecting human rights >GRI G4-SO04 MTU respects the internationally proclaimed MTU puts a high priority on preventing possible human rights set out in the United Nations’ Uniforms of misconduct and raising awareness of versal Declaration of Human Rights and enforces compliance issues among employees. When new and protects these rights within the company. employees are taken on, they are informed MTU pursues the goal of preventing human rights about the code of conduct and sign a declaration violations occurring in its own business activities to uphold it. We also present and discuss the (zero-tolerance principle) and has also implecode of conduct during the induction event for mented measures for upholding human rights for new employees at all our locations. the upstream supply chain. In the case of investment agreements with suppliers, the suppliers Furthermore, we run regular training sessions must follow the MTU code of conduct, which is on the code of conduct for selected business laid out in the purchasing agreement and requires units as part of our regular compliance activities. the adherence to human rights. >GRI G4-HR1 Raising awareness of compliance issues is done first and foremost by organizing mandatory antiMTU is committed to respecting the individuality corruption and compliance training courses for and dignity of all, maintaining equality of oppormanagers and employees who hold positions of tunity in the workplace and preventing discrimitrust. In the reporting year, we trained 190 emnation. The protection of human rights, the right ployees on antitrust law. We also trained various to appropriate remuneration, and recognition employee groups plus a further 165 employees of regulations governing employee and union on compliance issues through an e-learning representation under labor and works constitution course. The training methods are monitored by law as well as constructive collaboration with the Compliance Board. employee representatives and labor unions are implemented group-wide through the code of Addressing risks of non-compliance conduct. As an employer, we want to create fair To ensure sound and reliable business relationworking conditions based on legally binding ships, the Compliance Board inspects sales supemployment contracts with appropriate remuneport consulting contracts for possible corruption ration. This includes the right to unionize and to risks before they are placed or renewed. The adopt collective agreements. Compliance with potential consultants are also reviewed by an the code of conduct and ethical principles is independent provider of due diligence services. enshrined in the MTU Principles, and our commitThe corporate audit department conducts regular ment to respecting human rights is reinforced compliance audits in which it checks business by our status as a signatory to the UN Global processes and procedures for conformity to legal Compact since 2011. In addition, we respect requirements and adherence to internal guidethe United Nations’ Universal Declaration of lines. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee Human Rights and the principles set out in the reviews the framework of compliance rules International Labor Organization’s (ILO) core and deliberates on the measures and employee labor standards. The adherence to and protection training recommended by the Compliance Board. of human rights is also covered under national legislation. In Germany, MTU is bound by the Moreover, MTU is regularly evaluated by TransGeneral Act on Equal Treatment (AGG), which parency International, a non-governmental orgaprohibits discrimination against employees and nization dedicated to fighting corruption. MTU job applicants. For employees in Germany, there achieved an overall rating of B (Good Evidence), are also internal guidelines on fair and cooperawhich means that the company has provided tive conduct that are designed to prevent bullying, good evidence that it has established an antisexual harassment and discrimination. corruption and ethics program. MTU has established points of contact within Monitoring and improvement the company for reports or complaints of human MTU wants to continuously improve its comrights violations. It is ensured that the company pliance system and so underwent a review in investigates all claims. Reports can be directed 2017. Recommended measures, such as a new to the ombudsman. In line with the provisions of compliance reporting system, enhancement of the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG), every the whistleblower system and organizational site in Germany has an appropriately trained changes in the structure of compliance responcontact to whom employees can address any sibilities, are being successively implemented. complaints of discrimination. Employees can 22 Sustainable governance • 1.2 Compliance and human rights also report complaints to managers, the works council or the head of human resources. The Executive Board is informed about infringements depending on the severity of their impacts. When they join the company, new employees are informed about the regulations laid down in the code of conduct and—in Germany—in the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG), and they undertake to comply with these requirements. In addition, MTU provides regular training on the code of conduct at all the company’s sites and across all hierarchical levels. At our locations in Germany in 2017, we trained a total of 4,431 participants on legal issues for 1,064 training days. Employees at all fully consolidated locations within the MTU Group were given training on the MTU code of conduct. There was one well-founded complaint under the German General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG) in 2017. This complaint was followed up and appropriate action taken. Other than this, there were no substantiated breaches of the code of conduct within the MTU Group. >GRI G4-HR3, 12 MTU considers the risk of human rights violations among its employees to be low at all its locations, as these activities are governed by the relevant national legislation that upholds human rights. The company thus puts its focus in the area on the supply chain. We have taken steps here to ensure the protection of human rights, for example to increase transparency in the procurement of certain raw materials classified as conflict minerals, which we therefore procure only from secure and trusted sources. In 2017, we MTU is committed to respecting human rights in its own workforce, along the supply chain launched a due diligence process to assess risks and in its collaboration with business partners. to human rights in the supply chain to prevent human rights violations. Our approach is laid out in detail in Chapter 2.3 “Responsibility for the supply chain.” >GRI G4-HR4-6, 9 23 2 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain We pursue product responsibility over the entire product lifecycle of an engine. Our priority are the safety, quality and eco-efficiency of our products, above all in their use, and we take this into account starting in the product development stage. We include the supply chain in a sustainable process of adding value. 24 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.1 Product quality and flight safety 2.1 Product quality and flight safety Every day, some 100,000 aircraft around the world take off and land safely back on the ground. Our part in this is the safety and quality of our engine products. Safety first—this is our maxim, too. Management approach Safety plays a special role in aviation. Legal requirements concerning the safe operation of flights are closely monitored by the aviation authorities. This is mirrored in the high importance MTU places on product quality and flight safety. The company must comply with the legal requireMartin Schäffner ments imposed upon it as a development, manuSenior Vice President Corporate Quality facturing and maintenance organization in the MTU Aero Engines AG aviation industry. These include the requisite aviation-authority licenses, approvals and certi“We strive for nothing less than first-class perforfications as well as safety and environmental mance. The MTU name stands for high-quality requirements as legally mandated by regulatory and reliable aviation products around the world. authorities. Through stringent quality standards, Our extensive quality management guarantees we ensure that these are implemented across that our exacting quality standards for products the Group and at all levels of the value chain in and processes will be upheld. Safety is our accordance with the law, thus adding value for number one priority.” our customers and partners. A group-wide integrated management system Quality control and its standards are undergoing (IMS) ensures compliance with laws and internal continuous development. Impetus for this comes, regulations and clear assignment of responsifor example, from collaboration in the Aero Engine bilities within the company. One principle of the Supplier Quality Group or from regular meetings IMS policy is that “safety takes priority in what of the quality managers. The framework of rules, we do.” The quality framework is enshrined in too, is continuously reviewed and amended as a management manual that is binding for all needed. employees and managers across the Group. Corporate Quality is a separate department directly subordinate to the Chief Operating Officer (COO) and reports quarterly to the Executive Board on quality aspects and flight-related incidents. MTU Safety Management in accordance with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard is part of the IMS and defines how to handle safety-related air-traffic events. Appropriate organizational structures and responsibilities, such as a Flight Safety Board and a flight safety manager, have also been established. High quality standards together with product safety and reliability are enshrined in the MTU Principles as an important corporate objective. The effectiveness of MTU’s IMS is certified by independent and accredited external auditors. < As an engine manufacturer, we are working hard to MTU at its best: Our key components for the PW1100G-JM powering the A320neo are minimize the fuel consumption, carbon footprint and innovative and of premium quality. noise of aircraft engines. We have achieved particular success here with the new PW1100G-JM Geared Turbofan™. 25 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.1 Product quality and flight safety We include our employees in our high quality standards and provide basic information with our group-wide Q.net quality network. Furthermore, the company publishes its quality information, Q-Info, group-wide on the intranet several times a year, with the aim of raising awareness among employees. At MTU’s principal maintenance site in Hannover, this is supplemented by the local QM-Info. We provide training on quality issues for managers and employees at the individual sites. Shopfloor/office management in Germany and Poland, where employees and managers exchange views on quality and other issues several times a week and initiate short-term measures if problems arise, also supports continuous improvement. Shopfloor/office management was also rolled out at MTU’s Vancouver location in Canada For our technically demanding designs, we use in 2017, with more locations to be included in highly precise measuring technology—here is a contourograph in use. the future. More information: use, and compliance must be documented as IMS policy: www.mtu.de part of the certification process. We employ a Certifications: www.mtu.de comprehensive testing program involving test builds and series tests to validate the safe flight operation of our products. This includes being Sustainable product lifecycle able to ensure safe operation during a bird strike, >GRI G4-PR1-4, 9 bird ingestion event or hailstorm and complying We examine our engine modules for their impact with strict limits on pollutants and noise emison the environment, health and safety throughout sions. MTU components frequently exceed avitheir development, production and operation ation authority requirements. Our customers lifecycles. Accordingly, we cover all major stages demand high standards when it comes to fail-safe of a product’s service life completely. The key to operation and eco-efficiency. In addition, the our continuous progress is development. Our manufacture of engine parts and modules our mission in any collaboration is to design every production shops meets all required standards new engine so that it is more fuel-efficient, with concerning occupational safety and environmenless emissions, and quieter than its predecessor. tal protection. We take into account all safety and environmental requirements of regulatory authorities in the early stages of planning new engines for later Sustainability over the entire product lifecycle Phase Measures Development • Clean Air Engine agenda (Claire) • New technologies for a longer service life of life-limited parts Production • Environmental management (mostly compliant with EMAS and/or ISO 14001) • Production processes that conserve resources, such as additive manufacturing • Sustainability standards for suppliers Service life • MTUPlus Engine Trend Monitoring • MTU repairs, such as MTUPlus ERcoateco (patented erosion protection for compressor blades) Recycling* • For older engines, we offer tailored solutions such as MTUPlus Mature Engine Solutions for disassembling and recycling components *Due to their highly valuable materials (titanium, nickel and alloying elements such as platinum and rhenium), aircraft engines have very high recycling rates. As a vendor, MTU has no direct influence over the scrapping of engines, which is carried out by specialist companies. 26 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.1 Product quality and flight safety We use only fault-free and clearly identifiable Harmless materials components that have been approved by the >GRI G4-PR3 appropriate aviation authority, are based on Wherever possible, we avoid using dangerous approved development documentation and have and environmentally hazardous materials in our been produced or repaired in compliance with manufacturing processes and products. Accordaviation regulatory processes by a certified ing to the European REACh (Registration, Evalucompany. ation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation, certain substances of very high conThe aviation sector has strict rules governing cern (SVHCs) containing chromium6+ have been documentation in order to verify the airworthiness subject to authorization since September 2017. of components and engines. There must be no MTU uses chromium trioxide in its production gaps in documentation for the entire product processes and the European Chemicals Agency lifecycle. MTU holds its suppliers to the same (ECHA) has authorized continued use until 2029. standards. To ensure compliance with quality In a project to implement the REACh regulation, and safety requirements, the company has imwe are pushing ahead with the long-term elimiplemented comprehensive monitoring and testing nation of SVHCs that require authorization, insofar processes throughout the entire value chain. as possible, either by replacing them or by reSafety-critical components (engine components jecting new authorizations. We obtain further are categorized into various safety classes) are REACh substances necessary for our processes subjected to very rigorous testing to verify their exclusively from authorized suppliers, and comtechnical quality. Strict requirements also apply municate the REACh requirements to the supto materials. Fail-safe materials are a basic prepliers of our various sites in our General Terms requisite for aviation safety, and all engine comand Conditions of Purchase. MTU is duly impleponents, including all materials we use, must be menting all provisions of the EU regulation for approved by the aviation authorities. protecting employees and the environment. In 2017, we once again fulfilled all our product compliance requirements. In the previous financial year, once again no breaches of statutory regulations were observed in connection with the purchase or operation of our products, nor were any fines imposed on MTU. Neither were there any incidents or breaches of statutory regulations or internal guidelines in relation to the effect on health or safety of our products and services. More information: Clean Air Engine agenda: 2.2 Eco-efficient engines Environmental protection in production: Chapter 3 of this report MTU maintenance technologies: www.mtu.de We have established comprehensive monitoring and testing processes in our component production operations. 27 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.1 Product quality and flight safety Focus on customer satisfaction >GRI G4-PR5 A high level of product quality and safety is crucial for customer satisfaction. Corporate objectives for 2017 were to deliver products and services in the required quality and increase customer satisfaction. Our certified quality management system serves to ensure customer satisfaction, Michael Schreyögg Chief Program Officer process orientation and continuous improvement MTU Aero Engines AG in all phases of development, production and maintenance. We are also setting “on-time deli“Thirty percent of commercial aircraft are equipped very and quality at a high level” as a core objective with our technology. We are the partner of choice for 2018. for high-pressure compressors, low-pressure turbines and turbine center frames, and we are One way in which we continually monitor quality the maintenance sector’s number one independent is by sending monthly reports on quality KPIs to service provider. MTU has made a name for executive managers or shopfloor/office manageitself based on premium quality, on-time delivery ment, so that they can take the necessary steps and competitive pricing, and customer satisfaction to achieve sustainable improvement. Providing is something we take very seriously.” customers and partners with safe, top-quality products and services helps to keep MTU’s business competitive. In 2017, the goal was to lower MTU Maintenance offers repair and additional or at least keep the number of customer comservices for aircraft engines and industrial gas plaints stable at all locations. To ensure uniformly turbines, and is thus active in the end-customer high standards and compliance with legal requirebusiness. Direct interaction with customers, ments, MTU routinely conducts internal and specifically airlines, leasing companies, and energy external audits. These audits are managed locally producers, forms the basis of customer care. by the respective sites. A defined process enFor this purpose, customer advisers use a cussures that all customer complaints relating to tomer relationship management tool containing substandard quality of delivered MTU products a “voice of the customer” module to regularly are followed up and analyzed, and appropriate measure current satisfaction levels. The survey measures are defined and implemented so as to takes place once a quarter for all major sites, eliminate the cause of the defects. In mainteincluding Hannover, Ludwigsfelde and Vancouver, nance operations, too, a procedure is in place and for all main products. Each customer has for examining customer complaints using quality the option of providing feedback about product methods in order to eliminate the root causes quality, service, logistics and commercial terms. permanently. We closely monitor the progress We actively use this feedback in order to identify of those measures. A cross-divisional CI project areas for improvement and initiate measures (CI = Continuous Improvement) carried out at accordingly. Doing so allows us to improve our the Munich location in 2017 systematically anaperformance and continuously increase customer lyzed complaints by key accounts from the two satisfaction as means of staying competitive. previous years for causes of failure, and initiated In addition, MTU Maintenance Lease Services appropriate measures to eliminate them. We runs its own measurement system in the area of processed individual cases using problem-solving engine leasing and asset management. methods that have proven their effectiveness at MTU. Customer complaints are evaluated at the individual MTU sites, and for the majority of locations, these declined compared with 2016. In the reporting period, 410 internal audits including certification audits and 96 external quality audits by customers or aviation authorities were conducted. MTU was able to improve its ranking by customers in 2017 as well. 28 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines 2.2 Eco-efficient engines Last year, 4.1 billion passengers boarded a plane—giving the aviation industry another record-breaking year. This growth presents us with new challenges and new tasks. Joint efforts in the sector are focusing on innovative and sustainable mobility concepts. As an engine manufacturer, we are working hard to minimize the fuel consumption, carbon footprint and noise of aircraft engines. Management approach • Participating in various discussion forums, MTU is working on solutions to make flying more for example run by the German Aviation environmentally friendly, with a focus on reducing Association (BDL), Friends of the Earth fuel consumption, CO2 emissions and noise Germany (BUND), Greenpeace, Munich Airport emissions of engines—factors it can directly in• Giving consideration to new scientific insights, fluence with its high-pressure compressors and for example research findings of the Interlow-pressure turbines. This commitment is congovernmental Panel on Climate Change tained in the MTU Principles under the maxim of concerning the impact of aviation on climate sustainable product development with reduced change fuel consumption and noise emissions. There is • Working on committees such as the German a direct link between fuel consumption and CO2 Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) or emissions. Because CO2 emissions are a contribthe Advisory Council for Aviation Research in uting factor to climate change caused by aviation, Europe MTU is working on solutions to make engines more fuel-efficient. The MTU code of conduct More information: also contains guidelines on product development MTU Code of Conduct: www.mtu.de according to environmental criteria. MTU also SRIA: http://www.acare4europe.org/sria contributes to the European industry and research sector’s Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) and supports its targets to reduce its impact on the environment. With our own longterm Clean Air Engine agenda (Claire), we are implementing concepts for developing innovative and sustainable products by 2050. And thanks to the technology roadmap embedded in that agenda, we are concentrating on future-oriented products and promising key technologies for the next generation of engines in 2030 and beyond. The development of innovative, sustainable products and processes is firmly anchored in our organizational structures and established by means of a company-wide process. MTU is committed to the principle of integrated environmental protection, which takes a precautionary approach to how the company’s products impact the environment and integrates insights from this into entrepreneurial decisions. MTU’s technology and innovation process incorporates environmental and societal driving forces for aviation and takes them into account when defining its own concepts and targets. The company identifies negative impacts of air traffic on the environment and on society for instance by Certified in 2017: the PW1900G for the new generation of E-Jets from Embraer. Thanks to the Geared Turbofan™, the E190-E2 consumes 17 percent less fuel and thus produces 17 percent less CO2. 29 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines Research and development We are currently working on about 150 technoInnovation and research are cornerstones of the logy projects from all departments, which we company and part of our strategy. Leading techsystematically align to our corporate objectives. nology is one of three pillars that help the company Our system of intellectual property management achieve profitable growth. Further expanding ensures that we protect our technological exMTU’s leading technological position is a continpertise. On average, MTU employees file 400 uous corporate goal, and one key topic is digipatents and make about 200 invention disclosure talization of the entire value chain. To that end, reports each year. At the end of 2017, MTU’s MTU launched the group-wide MTU 4.0 initiative patent portfolio encompassed 3,510 property in order to utilize that potential for all areas of rights, primarily in the technology areas of manuthe company. The initiative takes into account facturing, compressors and turbines. the entire product lifecycle, from development to production to maintenance. One focus in 2017 To sustain MTU’s technological expertise, it is was the greater use of simulation techniques in important to be adequately plugged into the development and manufacturing—a corporate research landscape. The company is involved in goal in technology. In 2018, we plan to continue all major national and European research prodriving our digitalization strategy forward, and grams. In addition, MTU cooperates with numerhave enshrined the virtual engine in our targets ous universities and research institutions in as a key technology of the future. Germany and maintains centers of excellence devoted to specific priority research topics at An Innovation Board regularly discusses all topics selected universities. related to technology and innovation and initiates technology projects and studies. The Technology In financial year 2017, MTU launched an ideation steering committee, of which the Chief Operating challenge intended to intensify the use of its and Chief Program Officers are members, apemployees’ knowledge and creativity and thus proves MTU’s technology roadmap and regularly grow its capacity for innovation. The ideation receives progress reports. MTU maintains a cenchallenge kicked off with a pilot project on tral department for the development of future additive manufacturing and bionic designs. Over technologies, which in turn works hand in hand the next few years, innovation management will with in-house product development. become more of a focus than in the past; it is firmly enshrined in the corporate strategy and, MTU manages its shortto long-term product for the first time as of 2018, in the corporate development in a multi-level technology and innoobjectives. We are currently developing a concept vation process. Short-term product development for an interdisciplinary, future-oriented innovation is oriented toward concrete customer specificamanagement system. tions on the basis of existing technologies; in the medium term (up to 15 years), advanced product More information: designs are created from which technology reTechnology and EU research programs: quirements are derived; and long term (up to www.mtu.de 2050), a technology radar is used to develop pilot MTU Centers of Competence: www.mtu.de concepts and initiate enabling technologies. Product and technology development is concentrated at the Munich location, with some activities being carried out at the Hannover, Ludwigsfelde and Rzeszów sites. In 2017, 199.7 million euros (2016: 208.6 million euros) were spent on research and development. R&D as a proportion of revenues was 4 percent, slightly below the previous year’s level of 4.4 percent. A large portion of research and development spending goes toward improving the environmental sustainability of aircraft engines (lower fuel consumption, weight reduction, lower CO2 emissions, noise reduction). 30 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines New aircraft engines of the future: MTU research for Clean Sky 2 Clean Sky 2 is an important European research program in which MTU is involved as lead partner. Launched in 2014, Clean Sky 2 aims to make aviation even cleaner and more efficient. MTU is working on the next generation of Geared Turbofans™, designed to be more fuel-efficient, cleaner and quieter—thanks to new technologies for the low-pressure turbine and high-pressure compressor components, which MTU develops and validates. To this end, MTU experts are building an experimental apparatus for low-pressure turbines and a demonstrator for the compressor system at the German Aerospace Center (DLR) in Cologne. The DLR is where the test campaign kicked off at the end of 2017 (see image left). And by 2020, a demonstrator for the new inner workings of the lowpressure turbine (image below) will be built and tested. The focus is on new, lighter materials that are more temperature-resistant. < 31 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines MTU’s Clean Air Engine Agenda Implementation of the Clean Air Engine Agenda >GRI G4-EN7, 27 2030 is based on the Geared Turbofan™, a new The aviation industry is characterized by long type of engine co-developed by MTU in collaboproduct cycles, with aircraft engines as a rule ration with Pratt & Whitney. In the next generation, spending 30 years in service before they are this engine will be refined into an ultra-high bydecommissioned. Goals to produce more ecopass engine with higher bypass ratios, pressure efficient engines therefore have a long-term ratios and temperatures, with the aim to lower perspective and are established in memoranda CO2 and noise emissions. MTU is already working of understanding by the aviation stakeholders on the preliminary design of this engine. (airlines, aviation industry, research, aviation authorities). In Europe, goals aimed at cutting MTU develops the requisite technologies for this fuel consumption as well as CO2 and noise emisgeneration of engines, such as integrated comsions are defined in the SRIA, which forms the pression and expansion systems or high-tempebasis for all national and European technology rature lightweight materials, within the German programs as well as for the MTU Clean Air Engine national aviation research program LuFo and Agenda (Claire). The International Air Transport European technology programs. These technoloAssociation (IATA) has set similarly ambitious gies are being further developed in collaboration goals. with partners in initiatives such as the Clean Sky technology program, until they are mature enough to be applied in product development. Our Clean Air Engine Agenda sets our own ecoefficiency targets, derived from the SRIA, through In the next stage, which runs until 2050, entirely to 2050 (change compared with an engine from new concepts will be put into practice, such as the year 2000, per passenger kilometer). These integrated and distributed fans to increase thrust targets concern fuel consumption, CO2 emissions efficiency or highly efficient heat engines. and noise emissions. The next MTU goal is set for 2030 and intends to reduce the fuel consumpDue to the long-term approach to improving the tion and carbon footprint of future engines by 25 aviation industry’s environmental performance, percent and cut noise by 50 percent. By 2050, no annual targets are set for eco-efficient engines the company aims to cut fuel consumption and or corresponding performance indicators colcarbon footprint by 40 percent, and noise by 65 lected. Several European technology programs in percent. which MTU was involved—Clean Sky 1, E-BREAK Clean Air Engine (Claire) >GRI G4-EN27 Entry into Propulsion Core engine CO2 emissions Service component Noise Stage 1 ✓ Geared turbofan Gas turbine -15 % Geared Turbofan bypass ratio ~ 12 overall pressure ratio ~ 50 -40% Stage 2 2030 Geared turbofan Gas turbine -25 % Ultra-High Bypass bypass ratio 15-20 overall pressure ratio Ratio Engine up to 70 -50% Stage 3 2050 Integrated engine Highly efficient heat -40% Integrated Ultra low specific thrust exchanger Efficient Engine -65% 32 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines Climate goals* Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) ACARE 2020** SRIA 2020 SRIA 2035 SRIA 2050 CO2 emissions, aviation -50% -43 % -60 % -75 % CO2 emissions, engine -20% -20 % -30 % -43%*** NOX emissions, mainly engine -80% — -84 % -90 % * Changes compared to year 2000, per passenger kilometer ** By way of comparison: original ACARE 2020 targets (ACARE=Advisory Council for Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe) 32 *** Based on same improvement of aircraft and engine and LEMCOTEC—were completed at the end of MTU’s climate strategy 2017. With the new technologies derived from >GRI G4-EN27 LEMCOTEC, E-BREAK and ENOVAL, the European Climate change is one of the greatest global engine industry has achieved the SRIA target challenges of our time. It is generally accepted for 2020 with respect to fuel and CO2 reduction. that CO2 emissions caused by human activity are The SRIA goal for 2020 for cutting flight noise largely responsible for global warming, and that has not yet been achieved. Some milestones that the increasing mobility of the human population we have reached in connection with our Clean is a contributing factor. According to the InterAir Engine Agenda 2017 are described in detail national Energy Agency, global air traffic is resin the 2017 Annual Report’s non-financial stateponsible for some 2.4 percent of CO2 emissions ment on page 100 and in the objectives in the around the world (data from 2011). MTU has annex to this report. committed to environmental protection and pursues specific goals as part of its climate strategy, particularly for products, as the vast Upgrade for existing products majority of CO2 emissions are caused during the >GRI G4-EN7 products’ service life. Besides developing new engine models, engine manufacturers are also introducing upgrades for existing products to improve their energy and carbon footprint and increase their service lives—even though every change subsequent to type approval has to be recertified for safety reasons. Examples from the MTU product portfolio include the V2500 SelectOne (1% reduction in fuel consumption/approx. 20% increase in service life) and the V2500 SelectTwo (1.5% reduction in fuel consumption/approx. 20% increase in service life). The fuel efficiency of the GEnx-2B was improved by 1.6 percent as part of a Performance Improvement Package, and a further upgrade extending its service life is planned for mid-2018. Saving fuel not only minimizes resource consumption and environmental impact, but also reduces airlines’ operating costs, of which the fuel kerosene accounts for about 30 percent. Winding up Clean Sky 1: the European technology program finished at the end of 2017. MTU was in charge of testing an engine demonstrator on its test rig. 33 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate With the climate strategy enshrined in the overChange (IPCC) reports that the climate impact of arching Clean Air Engine Agenda (Claire), we air traffic is due mainly to CO2 emissions, ozone are pursuing a multi-stage plan for reducing CO2 production as a consequence of NOX (nitrogen emissions by 25 percent by 2030 and 40 percent oxide) emissions, and the formation of contrails by 2050. This will also let us secure a decisive and cirrus clouds. CO2 emissions have the greatest competitive edge in the market, since engines with impact on climate. For MTU, the greatest potential improved carbon footprints consume less fuel, lies in reducing greenhouse gases by developing which translates into lower operating costs for engines that are more energy efficient. New comthe customer. The ICAO is successively tightening bustor concepts can significantly reduce NOX its environmental regulations for aviation, and emissions, but as combustors are not a core MTU further limits, such as for non-volatile particulate component, the company cannot directly affect matter, are to be expected. in-flight NOx production. However, we can have an indirect impact by making efficiency improveAs an integral part of our research activities, we ments. With the new heat-exchanger concept, we regularly compile interim reports in which we are developing an engine that produces considercompare our progress to our objectives and ably lower NOX emissions due to the lower presmeasure our goal attainment. All points of the sures involved. Depending on the weather conClean Air Engine Agenda concerning CO2 emisditions, contrails and cirrus clouds are generated sions are proceeding on schedule. The milestones at higher flight altitudes and can be mitigated by achieved in reporting year 2017 are listed on means of different flight paths or flying at lower page 77 of this report and are also described in altitude. detail in the Annual Report’s non-financial statement on page 100. Furthermore, MTU actively promotes efforts to spread the use of sustainable fuels with low carbon content through aireg e.V. (Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany). The company co-founded the initiative with airlines, manufacturers and research institutes and heads the Lars Wagner working group on fuel utilization. In addition to Chief Operating Officer MTU Aero Engines AG increasing the energy efficiency of engines, using alternative fuels is also an important approach “We are systematically reducing noise and CO2 for reducing the CO2 emissions produced by emissions and are fully committed to the aviation aviation. By 2025, aireg aims to have Germany industry’s overarching climate goals. We have using 10 percent biokerosene. MTU supports enshrined climate and resource protection in our this undertaking as an active member of the MTU Principles—these Principles apply to our organization. products and our production process in equal measure.” Challenges & trends >GRI G4-EC2 As air traffic continues to see strong growth, ecoA much-discussed topic concerning the future of efficiency is a key topic for the future of the aviaviation is electric flying. MTU is also looking at ation industry. Forecasts by aircraft manufacturers this issue, collaborating with research partners Airbus and Boeing indicate that global air traffic to conduct studies on all conceivable concepts will double every 15 to 20 years. The number of in order to be prepared. The key findings are that airline passengers was a record-breaking 4.1 bilcurrent technology is still several decades away lion in 2017. By 2036, IATA predicts this number from electric-powered passenger aircraft the size will grow to 7.8 billion. Ambitious climate targets of an A320. If development of battery storage such as the SRIA agenda, the IATA targets, or the capacity continues to advance (at 5 percent 2016 climate agreement on offsetting CO2 emisannually), electric-powered regional aircraft might sions reached by the UN civil aviation organization be possible in 30 years. Initial concepts have ICAO are intended to make air flight more susbeen drawn up for batteries with the necessary tainable. capacity to power shortand medium-haul aircraft, but implementation in practice will require a few more decades of development. At present 34 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.2 Eco-efficient engines MTU helps reduce CO2 in aviation with new technologies and new engine concepts. 5 Relative change 4 Air traffic +5 %/year 3 the development of CO2 emissions CO2 emissions 2 Business as usual Efficiency +2%/year 1 IATA targets • CO2 neutral growth from 2020 onwards • absolute reduction of CO2 emissions by 2005 compared 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 New aircraft New engines/ Air traffic Alternative fuels concepts propulsion concepts management The aviation industry has committed itself to ambitious climate targets: starting in 2020, all growth is to be carbon-neutral (goal of the trade association for the world’s airlines, IATA). There are four pillars to the implementation plan. there are no known battery concepts that would More information: provide the capacity sufficient for long-haul SRIA: www.acare4europe.org/sria aircraft. IATA goals: www.iata.org/policy/environment/ climate-change Hybrid drive concepts that combine electric ICAO climate agreement: www.icao.int motors, generators, gas turbines and batteries aireg e.V.: www.aireg.de are opening up completely new possibilities in Alternative fuels: www.mtu.de aircraft design and propulsion technology. They will continue to use kerosene, a fuel with high energy density for greater range. MTU is already testing these drive concepts as part of stage 3 of its Clean Air Engine Agenda. 35 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain We work with suppliers around the globe, whose services and products are a key part of the value that our plants add. This is why we value sustainable sourcing that complies with ecological and social criteria and upholds human rights within our sphere of influence. Management approach environmental, social and compliance requireThe value created by an MTU product contains ments. To a large extent, the same standards important pre-production stages at external supapply to both of MTU’s business segments: new pliers. In keeping with our claim of sustainable and spare parts (OEM) and commercial maintevalue creation and the expectations of our stakenance, repair and overhaul (MRO). However, they holders, we uphold certain standards in purchaseach have their own organizational units for ing. “Responsible sourcing” for us encompasses sourcing production material. environmental and social aspects as well as transparency in the supply chain. We have enshrined Because today’s supply chains are so global, the essential requirements for sustainability in extensive and complex, we concentrate our efforts a code of conduct for suppliers, with which we regarding sustainability aspects on the supply apply the same standards to our supply chain step immediately upstream (tier 1). However, that we do to our own business activities. MTU our direct suppliers are contractually obliged to requires every supplier to comply with this code ensure that their subcontractors also abide by of conduct and communicate the requirements our defined standards. In 2017, the MTU Group on to its subcontractors. Moreover, MTU’s General purchased goods and services from 6,521 supTerms and Conditions of Purchase also contain pliers around the world (up from 6,249 the year MTU suppliers 2017, by region >GRI G4-12 4.119 Germany 247 940 EMEA 167 43 Asia Pacific 36 OEM business MRO business 436 The Americas 533 5,538 983 New suppliers New suppliers 900 114 Supplier base for production material and non-production material for OEM (new and spare parts) and MRO (commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul) segments EMEA = Europe (excl. Germany), Middle East, Africa; The Americas = North, Central and South America plus the Caribbean; Asia Pacific = East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania 36 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain before), of which 67 percent were from Germany parts. MTU procures only a small proportion of alone, and 83.9 percent from Europe. The its raw materials directly. For commercial engine purchasing volume was about 476 million euros modules, the average proportion of sourced parts for the OEM business, 1.5 billion euros for MRO lies between 51 and 74 percent. We were able (in each case, production material only) and a to freely source 96.3 percent of the total OEM total of 447 million euros for non-production purchasing volume and 100 percent of non-promaterial. duction material. By contrast, MRO purchasing volume is subject to strict requirements imposed Measured in procurement volume, the Western by the relevant original equipment manufacturers Europe and North American markets, which are (OEMs). As a result, MTU Maintenance has less so important generally for the aviation industry, room for maneuver in selecting suppliers. account for the lion’s share of MTU’s procurement. Suppliers in the Americas (primarily the United Local value creation is particularly important when States) deliver 46.8 percent of OEM purchasing purchasing non-production material and services, volume and 85.3 percent of MRO purchasing as is the wide variety of goods and services. We volume (production material only). Germany procure non-production materials predominantly accounts for 23.5 percent of OEM purchasing in the regions in which we operate. The local volume (production material only). In the business proportion of the purchasing budget (production for new and spare parts, we procure across the and non-production material) was 23.3 percent entire breadth of the supply chain, from blanks in Germany, 7.8 percent in Poland, and 9.5 perto finished parts. We always source castings and cent in Canada. Overall, MTU sourced 21.9 perforgings externally, and the same goes for special cent of its entire purchasing volume from local materials for which MTU has not built up manusuppliers. facturing expertise, such as electronic control systems. If possible, we source our supplies directly from manufacturers of blanks or finished Purchasing volume by region in 2017 (in EUR m) >GRI G4-12 112 Germany 67 95 EMEA 95 Production material 46 Asia Pacific 61 Production material (OEM business) 223 The Americas 1.290 (MRO business) 476 1,513 366 Germany 35 EMEA 0 Asia Pacific Non-production material (OEM and MRO) 46 The Americas 447 Purchasing volume for OEM (new and spare parts) and MRO (commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul) segments EMEA = Europe (excl. Germany), Middle East, Africa; The Americas = North, Central and South America plus the Caribbean; Asia Pacific = East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania 37 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain Setting sustainable standards in purchasing >GRI G4-EN33, LA15, HR1, HR5-6, HR11, SO9-10 We have established a binding code of conduct for suppliers that is a fixed component of the contract. The code is informed by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and contains the following social and environmental standards: respecting internationally recognized human rights, observing the International Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) core labor standards, protecting Code of Conduct MTU Aero Engines the environment and combating corruption. Each Code of Conduct for MTU Suppliers contract signed by a supplier includes the commitment to abide by these principles and to communicate them to subcontractors. The code of conduct applies to suppliers of the European manufacturing sites and of MTU Maintenance Canada and MTU Aero Engines North America, We have established a code of conduct for our own and therefore to 75 percent of the group reporting workforce and one for suppliers as a way to secure our business activities. entity. In our General Terms and Conditions of Purchase for our European sites, we also insist on compliance with the EU’s REACh chemicals tenance Lease Services in Amsterdam for engine regulation. leasing has its own separate but similar process. To cover environmental aspects, we demand Suspicions that the code of conduct for suppliers proof of certification to standards such as ISO may have been breached can be reported to MTU’s 14001. We have revised our guidelines on the ombudsman (ombudsmann@mtu.de). Should a approval of suppliers in order to take greater acsupplier be implicated in charges of corruption, count of environmental aspects, such as hazardous extortion, embezzlement or the utilization of child materials. Using periodic evaluations, we regulabor in the execution of a contract for MTU, the larly review existing suppliers, including with collaboration agreement will be terminated withrespect to their ISO 14001 certification. In 2017, out notice. If other principles of the code are we carried out a total of 403 audits on all major violated, the supplier must demonstrate that suppliers, which included on-site inspections suitable corrective measures have been initiated and interviews. Once approved, suppliers of proand implemented and must guarantee this in duction material must regularly demonstrate their writing. No accusations of possible breaches of ISO 9001 compliance for quality management the code of conduct were reported during the via re-certifications. period under review. Neither were there any complaints about suppliers. MTU reserves the To raise awareness of sustainability standards in right to carry out on-the-spot audits to verify the supply chain, we regularly provide purchasers compliance with the code of conduct. with training on professional compliance behavior and on the MTU code of conduct, which applies More information: to all the company’s employees and prohibits Code of conduct for suppliers: www.mtu.de corruption, bribery, the granting of undue advantage, and anti-competitive behavior. MTU purRisk management and assessment chasers are also trained on the code of conduct We seek out long-term relationships with suppliers. for suppliers. In addition, we offer special corIn the OEM business unit for aircraft engines, for porate responsibility trainings, including some example, a large proportion of the materials and specifically for MTU purchasers. services is based on contracts with a typical term of two or more years. Contractually agreed buffer inventories allow us to respond quickly to fluctuations in demand. In the reporting year, the MTU Group worked together with 1,014 new suppliers, or 15.5 percent of the total. All suppliers are vetted before being accepted into MTU’s supply chain. This process includes a binding supplier disclosure and contractual undertaking to comply with the code of conduct. MTU Main38 Responsibility for products and for the supply chain • 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain for suppliers moreover prohibits the use of child labor. MTU reserves the right to terminate any contract with a supplier using child labor to manufacture products supplied to MTU, without prior notice. We are closely following developments in the EU vis-à-vis new regulations on the use of conflict minerals, which will go into effect in 2021, so that we can implement the provisions in good time and as required. Moreover, during the reporting period a risk analysis was conducted for the first time for suppliers of sites in Germany, Poland and Canada. The analysis looked at the individual countries as well as sourced products and services (for A and B suppliers, corresponding to about 95 percent We conducted the first risk analysis of our key of total purchasing volume). The risk analysis by suppliers in 2017. country was based on the annual Global Slavery Index compiled by the Walk Free Foundation, which assesses countries according to standarFocus on human rights dized criteria on forced and child labor and legal >GRI G4-HR6-7 frameworks. MTU’s risk matrix was established In procurement, we take various steps to safein the OEM segment at the management level guard the respect of human rights in the supply and then adopted by MRO. This assessment found chain. The issue of human rights plays a particuno MTU suppliers in countries that represent a larly significant role in the sourcing of certain risk according to these criteria. In addition, MRO raw materials, specifically “conflict minerals” like conducts a supplier evaluation twice a year for tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, which can be suppliers of the German sites. The evaluation found in certain components of engines manucovers sustainability aspects as well as a review factured by MTU. These minerals can cause proto check suitability for ISO 14001 certification. blems in procurement because they are sometimes In the future, we aim to incorporate information mined in Central African countries, where the on critical minerals into the overall supplier evalprofits are used to finance armed conflicts in uation with a view to creating a parts-based which human rights are not respected. MTU’s lifecycle assessment. commitment to sustainability includes a transparent value chain that excludes the use of conflict Throughout MTU in 2017, no cooperation was minerals. We never deliberately purchase conflict terminated because of sustainability deficiencies minerals, but they can find their way into our or other complaints, nor did we discover any risk production or pre-production at the various levels of compulsory, forced or child labor at any of our of our global supply chain. According to the prosuppliers. visions of the Dodd-Frank Act applicable to companies listed on stock exchanges in the United More information States, MTU’s American partners and customers Compliant Smelter List: require that MTU disclose the origin of minerals www.conflictfreesourcing.org used and limit its sources to certified mining comGlobal Slavery Index: www.globalslaveryindex.org panies and primary-alloy producers (Compliant Smelter List). In turn, MTU demands that its relevant suppliers should specify the origin of such minerals, in order to ensure that the value chain contains only conflict-free raw materials. MTU’s procurement guidelines require suppliers to provide information about the source of minerals in accordance with the EICC/GeSi Conflict Minerals Reporting Standard. To date, no infractions have come to the knowledge of MTU that infringe on the principles of the Dodd-Frank Act. The code of conduct 39 3 Environmental protection in production Climate change and the scarcity of resources are global challenges of our time that are also relevant for our company. MTU develops, manufactures and maintains engines and modules in a way that is as energy-efficient as possible and minimizes emissions and raw material consumption. We view environmental protection as our corporate responsibility for our products and our manufacturing operations. 40 Environmental protection in production • 3.1 Operational environmental protection 3.1 Operational environmental protection Environmental protection is an important maxim guiding how we do business. At all our sites around the globe, we aim to be efficient in our use of energy and resources, limit our emissions and avoid environmental risks. We strive for continuous improvement in all these areas. Management approach are laid down in documented process flows and Environmental protection is an important principle special standards. Minimum operating standards guiding our corporate behavior and is implefor our machines and facilities, such as engine mented in our business processes. It is also test cells, are stipulated by national legislation and enshrined in the global code of conduct for all local specifications. For machines and facilities employees, where we express our commitment with environmental implications, this body of rules to a policy of integrated environmental protection and regulations is supplemented by approvals that starts at the causes of pollution and evalufrom the authorities. We conduct measurements, ates in advance the environmental impact of our tests and inspections at regular intervals to production processes and products. We apply the ensure our machines and facilities are operating precautionary principle so as to keep negative invariably in accordance with these rules and environmental impact to a minimum, and interegulations. grate insights from this into entrepreneurial decisions. The most significant way we can help protect the environment is by means of ecologically efficient products, as the environmental impact (energy consumption, CO2 emissions, noise) of our products is greatest during their use. Integrated environmental protection covers: • Making continuous improvements • Taking a precautionary approach • Involving employees • Limiting environmental impact • Carefully complying with statutory limits and requirements • Using resources and energy sparingly Furthermore, we have embedded our environmental responsibility in the MTU Principles in the section entitled “Environment and society,” and our annual corporate objectives hold us to high standards of environmental protection. To this end, we take various steps at our locations. Responsibility for company-wide environmental protection is assumed by the Executive Board. Uniform high standards are applied across the MTU Group at the site level through an environmental management system that defines processes, responsibilities and targets. Environmental protection is part of our integrated management system (IMS). Internal standards are binding for MTU’s sites and, in some cases, exceed the When building the blisk production center at our Munich location, we paid careful attention legal requirements. The stringent environmental to the energy efficiency of the structure. It uses waste heat from compressed air generation and well water for cooling. criteria apply to all divisions and processes and < A GE90 on a test rig at MTU Maintenance Hannover. We seek to conserve resources and protect the climate, not only in our products, but in our manufacturing and maintenance operations, too. 41 Environmental protection in production • 3.1 Operational environmental protection Investment and expenditure for environmental protection 2017 (Euro) >GRI G4-EN31 Ongoing Investments expenses Waste management 1,310,000 597,000 Water protection 1,624,000 822,000 Noise and vibration abatement 32,000 2,000 Air pollution control 667,000 285,000 Protection of biodiversity and landscape 164,000 — Remediation of soil, groundwater and surface water 31,000 — Climate protection 2,545,000 3.240,000 Use of renewable energy — 2.383,000 Energy efficiency/conservation — 858,000 Total 6,373,000 8,187,000 Production sites only; no previous-year data for comparison, as this is the first time group-level consolidation was possible. Environmental management is handled locally; Monitoring and assessments all of MTU’s production sites have a dedicated >GRI G4-EN29, 34 environmental department in charge of implemenOur goal is to constantly develop and refine our tation. The Executive Board receives a quarterly operational environmental protection measures. report on the consumption of energy (Scope 2) Independent external auditors and environmental and potable water at all the Group’s production consultants conduct annual reviews to confirm sites. Individual managers are directly responsible implementation of and adherence to the applifor environmental protection. They are advised cable environmental protection management and supported in their environmental protection requirements, and provide recommendations for efforts by the relevant technical departments at improvement. MTU usually passes these reviews their site. The environmental departments reguwith flying colors, as it did in financial year 2017. larly share their innovations and best practices This monitoring is supplemented by internal across all sites. Employees are trained regularly inspections and audits. MTU’s management conon matters relevant to the environment, such as the ducts reviews to monitor and steer environmental safe handling of hazardous goods or chemicals. management in the company and to influence its further development. Some of the sites are certified to ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental manageAll production and repair facilities are state of ment systems, or are validated according to the the art and are also subject to regular internal EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). and external monitoring and reviews. Emergency management plans have been prepared to deal Through our environmental management system, with interruptions to operations with a negative we continually improve energy and resource environmental impact. This includes regular efficiency and minimize emissions of CO2 and staff drills and instruction on what to do in the pollutants in production and maintenance. In this event of an emergency. Furthermore, we inform way, we meet the expectations of our stakeemployees, external staff and visitors to the preholders. We use various measures to achieve mises of the Munich site as well as neighboring improvements in our energy and carbon footprints. buildings about the effects of potential malfuncIn 2017, we spent some 14.6 million euros in tions, as required by Germany’s Hazardous total on investments and ongoing expenses in a Incident Ordinance. MTU has comprehensive fire bid to increase our environmental compatibility. protection measures in place that comply with The lion’s share of that went to climate protection. legal directives. More information: In 2017, there were once again no incidents at the Environmental protection in product responsibiproduction sites with a negative environmental lity: Chapter 2.2 Eco-efficient engines impact, nor were any fines levied against the MTU’s IMS policy: Chapter 2.1 Product quality company for breaches of statutory requirements and flight safety relating to the environment. Site certifications: www.mtu.de 42 Environmental protection in production • 3.1 Operational environmental protection Environmental protection in dialog with events, information campaigns and training stakeholders courses at all our locations. These form part of >GRI G4-EN34 our code of conduct on environmental protection. We are in a dialog with our stakeholder groups We launched our “mission zero” campaign in about MTU’s environmental impacts. StakeMunich. With the projects in this campaign, we holders can direct complaints and report abuses aim to reduce resource consumption and emisto us and we will follow up; this applies to emsions and encourage employees to take the ployees, suppliers, residents and other stakeinitiative. An employee program for saving energy holders. In the reporting year, MTU’s production is planned as part of the “mission zero” campaign sites received no substantiated complaints about for 2018. negative environmental impacts caused by our operating activities. All fully consolidated production sites of the MTU Group worldwide are included in our environWe inform the public annually about our environmental reporting (Munich, Germany; Hannover, mental impacts and environmental management Germany; Berlin, Germany; Rzeszów, Poland; through statements issued by MTU for its sites and Vancouver, Canada). Smaller office sites are in Munich, Hannover and Berlin. We promote not relevant for our environmental impacts and greater environmental protection in industry and are therefore not included. business through the following global and local initiatives: • UN Global Compact • German Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M.) • Bavarian Environmental Pact (Umweltpakt Bayern) • Energy Efficiency Network for Munich and Upper Bavaria • Munich Business Climate Pact (Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft) • YVR Airport Authority’s environmental initiative We involve our employees in active environmental protection endeavors and promote environmentally conscious behavior through awareness Umwelterklärung 2018 Umwelterklärung 2018 Aktualisierte Fassung über das Berichtsjahr 2017 der MTU Maintenance Hannover GmbH für den Standort München der MTU Aero Engines AG (Daten und Zahlen 2017, aktualisierte Fassung) German versions only 43 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions 3.2 Energy and emissions When producing engine modules or engines in our plants, or when maintaining them in our maintenance shops, we aim to conserve resources as far as possible. Energy-efficient processes require less energy and produce fewer emissions. In this way, we are able to contribute to resource conservation and climate protection. Management approach since 2006 with renewable energy, generating With the help of our environmental management carbon-neutral heat and electricity. We procure system, we aim to drive our resource-conserving the renewable vegetable oil on which it runs from production forward, and gradually improve energy certified sources. We began modernizing the efficiency in the manufacture of our products and BHKW in 2017, and it will be operated using biothe maintenance of engines and modules. Our methane starting at spring 2018. The Hannover goal is highly efficient production and maintefacility uses solar energy with the aid of a solar nance with minimal emissions of greenhouse thermal power plant. We also achieve greater gases and airborne pollutants. We use raw mateenergy efficiency through having the sites use rials and energy sparingly. This maxim is exwaste heat from compressed air generation as pressed to employees as a requirement via the thermal energy (combination principle). code of conduct and the MTU Principles. In this way, we also create added financial value for the company through lower energy costs. The Measures for energy-efficient production/ use of resources depends on batch sizes in promaintenance duction and maintenance. Given the current phase >GRI G4-EN6 of increasing capacity utilization in manufacturing • Using well water for cooling purposes and maintenance, reducing the consumption of • Modernizing the district heating network resources and energy presents a particularly tough • Improving thermal insulation challenge. • Using building automation systems • Using heat recovery systems MTU relies on a mix of renewable and non-re• Using renewable energy newable energy sources and chooses energy • Using energy-efficient compressed air supply resources based on security of supply, cost • Using energy-efficient lighting systems effectiveness and environmental sustainability. • Using waste heat from compressed air As non-renewable primary energy, we use natural generation gas, the aviation fuel kerosene, diesel and a very • Using electric transport in the plants small amount of heating oil. In Munich, we have • Shutting down machines during disruptions been operating a cogeneration plant (BHKW) of production to reduce the base load MTU’s upgraded BHKW 2.0 runs on biomethane and, compared to conventional co-generation plants, generates power much more efficiently and cleanly. 44 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions Energy sources used in 2017, Scope 1 and 2 (consumption in MWh and as a % share) >GRI G4-EN3 Scope 1: Fossil fuels MWh % Natural gas Total 91,872 32.7 Production related 91,841 Development 31 Kerosene All test facilities 56,689 20.2 Production related 56,590 Development 99 Diesel Plant filling station, emergency power, BHKW 586 0.2 Scope 1: Non-fossil fuels Vegetable oil 0 Scope 1: Total 149,147 53.1 Scope 2: Purchased energy Electricity Production/development 121,935 43.4 District heating Heating 9,683 3.4 Scope 2: Total 131,618 46.9 Energy consumption Total 280,765 Production related 280,635 Production sites only; the vegetable-oil-powered BHKW was decommissioned in 2017 and a new facility went live at the end of 2017. We used less energy in 2017 than in the preBecause BHKW 1.0 was decommissioned, the vious year. Overall demand for Scope 1 and 2 use of certified palm oil as a renewable energy was 280,765 megawatt hours (MWh) (2016: source in the reporting year was zero. BHKW 2.0, 299,158 MWh). The decline is due to lower conwhich we inaugurated at the end of 2017, is sumption of kerosene for test runs in developeven more efficient and runs on biomethane ment. With our energy management system, we since spring 2018. Compared to conventional manage primarily the consumption of our main power plants, cogeneration plants produce energy energy sources electricity and natural gas and much more efficiently and emit less pollution. In implement improvements. Together, these energy the reporting year, we invested some 2.4 million sources supplied about three-quarters (76.1 pereuros in upgrading and modernizing our facilities cent) of the required energy in 2017. Only a very to expand our use of renewable energy. small amount (<1 percent) of energy demand was not related to production. Kerosene is used In 2017, we procured a total of 131,618 MWh of as fuel for testing engines on the test cell, so external energy (Scope 2), somewhat more than consumption depends on how extensive the tests in the previous year (129,254 MWh). Purchased are and on engine size. As the Munich site conenergy is mainly electricity (92.6 percent of the ducted no comprehensive development tests, total energy in Scope 2). Our use of green electhe amount of fuel used in 2017 dropped by tricity is determined by the extent to which our some 23 percent. MTU has no influence on the suppliers feed it into the grid. In the reporting type and duration of test runs. Our digitalization year, the proportion of green electricity at the campaign is making strides toward increasing European production sites ranged from 13.5 perthe use of simulations in development and manucent (Rzeszów) to 59.7 percent (Hannover). facturing; the hope is that the latest computerMTU Maintenance Canada gets all its electricity assisted simulation processes will reduce the from hydroelectric power stations and therefore amount of development tests for new engines. 100 percent from renewable resources. In MRO and for newly manufactured engines, all engines must complete a test run prior to delivery for safety reasons and to demonstrate their performance. 45 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions Energy supply, production, Scope 1 and 2 (in MWh) >GRI G4-EN3 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 80,000 90,000 100,000 110,000 120,000 130,000 140,000 150,000 160,000 Fossil fuels 2013 146,893 (natural gas, diesel, 2014 125,593 heating oil, kerosene) 2015 164,022 2016 161,592 2017 149,069 Non-fossil fuels 2013 9,886 (vegetable oil)* 2014 10,134 2015 11,291 2016 8,312 2017 0 Electricity, district 2013 116,945 heating 2014 117,524 (external) 2015 122,289 2016 129,254 2017 131,618 Production sites only. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland; since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group *The vegetable-oil-operated BHKW had a shorter running time in 2016 than in the previous year, and was decommissioned in 2017. A new facility went live at the end of 2017. We aim to continuously improve our energy Emissions management, and last year we invested some >GRI G4-EN15-17, 19, 21 860,000 euros in actions designed to increase The use of energy for manufacturing and mainteenergy efficiency and savings. nance in our plants results in emissions of greenhouse gases and airborne pollutants. We continuously assess these emissions according to the Progress in energy management in 2017 international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol in (selection) order to permanently reduce them. Of all the >GRI G4-EN6 greenhouse gases that the Kyoto Protocol lists as • Turning machines off instead of putting them having an impact on the climate—such as carbon on standby (Munich, Hannover) dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), • Connecting more machines to the well-water hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons cooling facility (Munich) (PFC) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)—only the CO2 • Fixing compressed air leaks (Munich) emissions are relevant for MTU. Our carbon foot• Using waste heat from compressed air print is made up of direct greenhouse gas emisgeneration to heat a warehouse (Hannover) sions (Scope 1) from sources owned by the com• Renovating the roof to increase heating pany and of indirect greenhouse gas emissions efficiency (Hannover) (Scope 2) that come from the consumption of • Moving a server room to an outer location to bought-in electricity and district heating. CO2 allow for more effective cooling via outside air emissions from business trips and transports in (Hannover) the logistics chain fall under Scope 3. • Reducing compressed air leaks through use of ultrasound technology (Hannover) In the reporting year, MTU emitted a total of • Switching to LED lighting 74,954 tons (2016: 77,546 tons) of CO2. Natural (Hannover, Berlin, Vancouver) gas accounted for the lion’s share of Scope 1 CO2 emissions at 24.6 percent, and aircraft fuel kerosene accounted for 19.5 percent of all CO2 emissions. The main source of energy, electricity (Scope 2/external), caused the most greenhouse 46 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions CO2 emissions (in t) Scope 1 und 2 >GRI G4-EN15, 16 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 80,000 90,000 100,000 Scope 1 2013 Old EF* 32,668 2014 Old EF* 27,962 2015 Old EF* 37,641 2016 Old EF* 36,755 New EF* 36,778 2017 New EF* 33,280 Scope 2 2013 Old EF* 61,730 2014 Old EF* 44,006 2015 Old EF* 45,748 2016 Old EF* 44,242 New EF* 40,768 2017 New EF* 41,669 Total 2013 Old EF* 94,397 2014 Old EF* 71,968 2015 Old EF* 83,390 2016 Old EF* 80,997 New EF* 77,546 2017 New EF* 74,954 Scope 1, 2013 Old EF* 39 biogenic 2014 Old EF* 40 (additional) 2015 Old EF* 45 2016 Old EF* 33 New EF* — 2017 New EF* — Production sites only. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland; since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group *Emission factors (EF) were adjusted in 2017. To enable a direct comparison, we included both old and new emission factors for 2016. Source for emission factors: Probas; as of 2017 (and for 2016 comparison values) partly from suppliers’ local data as well. Scope 1 (biogenic): The vegetable-oil-operated BHKW had a shorter running time in 2016 than in the previous year, and was decommissioned in 2017. gases: 55.8 percent. Demand for electricity and for two weeks over New Year’s 2016-2017, we natural gas is dependent on production volume; were able to save some 800 tons of CO2. This is the amount of kerosene, on the type and duration roughly equivalent to the annual emissions attriof test runs. butable to 80 average German consumers. In 2017, capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets amounted to a total of 3.2 million euros. The goal of this investment is to reduce emissions caused by our operating activities. The Clean Air Industrial Site (CLAIR-IS) program operates at MTU’s headquarters in Munich. With the help of this program, we are engaged in reducing the CO2 emissions at the company’s largest plant by 25 percent by 2020 (baseline year: 1990). In total, we have already saved roughly 395,000 tons of CO2. Simply by shutting down our production machines 47 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions Examples of annual CO2 savings Transport and logistics >GRI G4-EN19 >GRI G4-EN17 • Use of well water for cooling purposes: We also involve our transport and logistics chain roughly 2,600 tons in climate protection. Measures include opti• Turning machines off instead of putting them mizing routes for in-plant transport and using on standby: 340 tons vehicles with better environmental performance • BHKW 2.0: 520 tons (Full load only from 2018) or electric motors to reduce fleet consumption. In Munich, for example, we are reducing the As a member of the Munich Business Climate company fleet’s CO2 emissions by setting a new Pact, MTU launched solutions in 2017 to make emissions limit and using two electric cars for its machinery more energy efficient. It also upthe internal mail system and site security. MTU’s graded its BHKW to produce more electricity on principal maintenance site in Hannover has also site. The carbon-neutral BHKW will be powered added two electric cars to its fleet. Other meaby biomethane; this should reduce annual CO2 sures are currently in the planning stage. emissions by 7,500 tons versus the previous facility. The 15 major Munich companies in the Furthermore, MTU promotes sustainable comClimate Pact have committed to reducing CO2 by muting practices among its workforce, for example a total of 40,000 tons during the Pact’s threethrough a special discounted “job ticket” for the year term. MTU committed to a target of 5,500 local public transportation network. tons, but was able to achieve a total of 7,000 tons by the end of 2017. In addition, the “mission zero” Emissions from the transport and logistics chain campaign has launched various actions to mini(excluding owned company vehicles) fall under mize consumption and emissions. Scope 3, for which we do not have comprehensive data. To make our company’s environmental impact still more transparent, we take part in the annual assessment by the international non-profit organization CDP. CO2 emissions (in equivalents/t) Scope 3 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 >GRI G4-EN17 Train travel 2016 43 2017 6 Air travel 2016 10,929 2017 9,237 Cars (rental cars) 2016 168 2017 216 Total 2016 11,140 2017 9,459 Production sites only; data can currently be gathered only for Germany and Canada. 48 Environmental protection in production • 3.2 Energy and emissions Airborne emissions >GRI G4-EN21 The energy sources we use generate other airborne emissions aside from CO2 emissions. The use of kerosene, natural gas, electricity and district heating from fossil fuels causes the emission of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and dust, which we also determine. In 2017, absolute emissions of air pollutants in the atmosphere totaled 248 tons. This is roughly on par with the previous year (269 tons). At 159 tons, nitrogen oxides made up the majority. We aim to reduce these emissions, too. For example, generation of electricity and heat in the new BHKW 2.0 cuts emissions of nitrogen oxides by 80 percent and of carbon monoxide by 66 percent compared to its predecessor. New in the MTU fleet: MTU Maintenance Hannover acquired an E-Golf and an electric van in 2017. Airborne emissions (in t) Scope 1 und 2 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 >GRI G4-EN21 Carbon monoxide Old EF* 2013 47 (CO) Old EF* 2014 45 Old EF* 2015 51 Old EF* 2016 54 New EF* 31 New EF* 2017 31 Nitrogen oxide Old EF* 2013 125 (NOX) Old EF* 2014 115 Old EF* 2015 153 Old EF* 2016 148 New EF* 187 New EF* 2017 159 Sulfur dioxide Old EF* 2013 43 (SO2) Old EF* 2014 43 Old EF* 2015 51 Old EF* 2016 51 New EF* 53 New EF* 2017 53 Fine particles Old EF* 2013 2 (dust) Old EF* 2014 3 Old EF* 2015 3 Old EF* 2016 3 New EF* 5 New EF* 2017 5 Production sites only. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland; since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group *Emission factors (EF) were adjusted in 2017. To enable a direct comparison, we included both old and new emission factors for 2016. Source for emission factors: Probas; as of 2017 (and for 2016 comparison values) partly from suppliers’ local data as well. 49 Environmental protection in production • 3.3 Water 3.3 Water Water is a vital natural resource for industry and society in general. Accordingly, we protect water sources and use water efficiently in the manufacture and repair of our products. We aim to use as little potable water as possible. Management approach Water use We use valuable resources such as water spa>GRI G4-EN8, 10, 22 ringly. We have effective water management We use drinking water for production and maintesystems in place at all production sites. Our water nance processes, in sanitary facilities and in the use also depends on production capacity. In cafeteria. We use well water for cooling processes. keeping with the precautionary principle, we treat In 2017, the production sites of the MTU Group wastewater properly and in accordance with the required a total of just under 7 million cubic applicable legal requirements. We spent some meters of water (2016: 7.1), with 2.5 percent 2.4 million euros on water protection in 2017. potable water vs. 97.5 percent groundwater. The “mission zero” campaign we launched at MTU increasingly uses Quaternary groundwater headquarters also aims to decrease water conextracted from its own on-site wells in Munich. sumption overall (absolute reduction) or, when Increased consumption of potable water, having production increases, to keep the increase in gone up to 19,531 cubic meters (+12.7 percent), water consumption at a lower rate than in the is part of a multiyear trend and corresponds to past (relative reduction). The production sites increases in production and the number of emin Europe and Canada are not located in waterployees. We use recirculated water as much as stressed regions, which are regions in which possible in chemical process baths for applying water is a scarce resource. protective coatings to blades and also for the process water in installations for testing component damage. This means we are able to reuse large volumes of water and have to treat only a small amount of waste water before discharging it into the municipal sewers. As a result, we saved some 600,000 cubic meters of water in 2017. Our sustainable water management also includes a systematic inspection and renovation of the well water and sewer canal networks. At the Rzeszów site in Poland, for instance, we were able to optimize use of cooling water. Water quality >GRI G4-EN9, 24 MTU treats waste water in suitable sewage systems according to the type and extent of pollution. The quality of the discharged waste water complies with the official requirements issued for the respective location. Strict monitoring at the sites ensures that legal limits are observed. Neither water sources nor water surfaces have been negatively impacted or polluted by our operating activities. This also applies to our site in Canada, which is located directly on Sea Island in the Fraser River estuary in Richmond, British Columbia. The surrounding nature conservation areas are crucial for salmon migration and the Pacific route of migratory birds. In its production processes that use water, such as the PECM process shown here, MTU is careful to ensure efficient consumption. 50 Environmental protection in production • 3.3 Water Water balance (in m3) 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 4,000,000 4,500,000 5,000,000 5,500,000 6,000,000 6,500,000 7,000,000 7,500,000 8,000,000 >GRI G4-EN8, EN22 Intake 2013 129,822 Potable water 2014 147,611 2015 147,555 2016 153,343 2017 172,874 Intake 2013 6,243,741 Groundwater 2014 6,956,148 2015 7,245,645 2016 6,925,390 2017 6,741,593 Total 2013 6,373,563 2014 7,103,759 2015 7,393,200 2016 7,078,733 2017 6,914,467 Discharge 2013 216,721 Sewer system 2014 150,768 2015 133,489 2016 145,471 2017 132,028 Discharge 2013 1,319.482 Surface water 2014 1,442.397 2015 1,563.758 2016 1,095.519 2017 1,179.390 Discharge 2013 4,631,510 Groundwater 2014 5,401,000 2015 5,807,605 2016 6,130,456 2017 5,862,839 Total 2013 6,167,713 2014 6,994,127 2015 7,504,852 2016 7,371,446 2017 7,174,257 Production sites only. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland; since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group Estimated value for Canada and Berlin for discharge of waste water into sewer system 51 Environmental protection in production • 3.4 Material efficiency and waste 3.4 Material efficiency and waste MTU seeks to ensure that its activities are environmentally friendly and uses raw materials and other materials sparingly in production and maintenance. We conserve resources throughout the material cycle and see to it that we have safe and proper waste streams with high rates of recycling. Management approach into in a way that holds great promise for engine The long service life of our products and the conconstruction. Additive manufacturing enables the tinuous improvement of our maintenance procesquick 3D production of highly complex composes reduce our demand for raw materials. In all nents and allows for more freedom in designing of our methods, we pay attention to efficiency them. Components are laser-melted directly and seek to avoid waste. MTU develops its own from a powder bed according to CAD data—with production and repair methods that are characno excess material. This significantly reduces terized by their high material efficiency. With its the amount of resources used. MTU is already “repair beats replacement” philosophy, MTU producing its first production components using Maintenance achieves a truly impressive depth in additive methods and is gradually expanding the aircraft engine repair. Using special techniques range of components as part of its digitalization the company has developed in-house, we repair strategy. Preparations are currently under way engine components that in other maintenance for manufacturing highly complex parts such as shops would have to be replaced with new parts. seal carriers. For example, we manage to give around 70 percent of all engine blades a second, third or even Material consumption of alloys sourced for profourth lease on life. We are gradually expanding cessing new parts and of consumables and this product recycling approach to include new supplies was 9,755 tons in 2017, or about the processes with an eye to achieving even longer same level as the previous year (10,561 t). In service lives and thus greater material efficiency. our push to establish a “green office,” we have For instance, in the case of life-limited parts, already decreased the amount of paper used in we have succeeded in repairing integrally manuour printers, but we want to go a step further factured engine blades and disks, known as and increase our use of office supplies from “blisks.” These used to have to be replaced with sustainable sources. new ones when overhauling an engine. More information: A key new field is that of additive manufacturing Product recycling: Chapter 2.1 Product quality (similar to 3D printing), which MTU has tapped and flight safety A combustor after being fitted with a new insulation layer: with in-depth repairs, MTU Maintenance aims to ensure that components enjoy a long service life 52 Environmental protection in production • 3.4 Material efficiency and waste Material consumption (in t) >GRI G4-EN1, EN28 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 Nickel-based alloys 2013 1,703 2014 2,061 2015 2,020 2016 1,904 2017 2,163 Titanium-based alloys 2013 128 2014 255 2015 192 2016 222 2017 319 Consumables and 2013 5,474 supplies 2014 4,232 2015 11,417 2016 8,435 2017 7,273 Production sites only, 2013-2014: German sites only; 2015: Germany and Poland; since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group, externally sourced material only; consumables and supplies include oils, cooling lubricants, fuels, paper, packaging and chemicals. Increase in 2015 due to an endurance test of the GP7000 on the test rig at the Munich site. For engine parts, MTU uses returnable packaging that can be reused several times. Experts estimate that by 2030, at least 30 percent of an aircraft will consist of additively manufactured parts. 3D printing with a computer goes a long way toward conserving resources, and MTU already manufactures several components using this new technique. 53 Environmental protection in production • 3.4 Material efficiency and waste Waste management waste amounted to 596 tons and is due to >GRI G4-EN23-24 construction activities at the Munich site and MTU practices sustainable waste management renovations in Hannover. with the safe disposal of waste sorted according to waste type and recycling process. Our chief In 2017, no soil contamination was found at MTU priority is to try to avoid waste in the first place. sites that resulted from hazardous materials or Leftover materials are reused, while waste is used pollutants. either for its materials or as energy; if recycling is not possible, waste is disposed of properly. In this way, we seek to minimize material consumption and waste disposal volumes. As a result, we achieve high rates of recycling. For the reporting period, we introduced international reports based on uniform waste categories. These indicated that total waste produced came to 7,103 tons. Measured against that total, the MTU Group achieved an overall recycling rate of 87.5 percent; just 12.5 percent was disposed of. The amount of waste produced and recycling routes are dependent on production capacity utilization and on building activities. The share of hazardous waste in the reporting period was 42.3 percent. 73.5 percent of that was able to 2 be reused after proper processing. Construction With sustainable waste management, MTU is able to achieve high rates of recycling: in 2017, the rate was about 88 percent. 54 Environmental protection in production • 3.4 Material efficiency and waste Waste footprint (in t) >GRI G4-EN23 500 1,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,500 6,000 6,500 7,000 7.500 Total waste 2013 4,640 2014 4,611 2015 5,072 2016 5,656 2017 7,103 Recycled 2013 4,080 2014 3,899 2015 4,362 2016 5,008 2017 6.212 Disposed of 2013 560 2014 712 2015 709 2016 648 2017 891 ,0001,500 Hazardous waste 2013 1,353 2014 1,407 2015 1,354 2016 1,512 2017 3,008 Recycled 2013 837 2014 737 2015 691 2016 906 2017 2,211 Disposed of 2013 516 2014 670 2015 663 2016 605 2017 797 Production sites only; not including construction waste *2013-2016: Germany only; as of 2017: fully consolidated MTU Group according to uniform waste categories 55 4. Employees and society Our employees are essential for MTU’s success. We create secure, attractive jobs in a future-oriented environment, and our corporate culture enables our employees to make the most of their potential. The company promotes cultural and personal diversity, flexible working arrangements and high-quality training and development opportunities. Science and research are the cornerstones of our corporate social responsibility. 56 Employees and society • 4.1 Occupational health and safety 4.1 Occupational health and safety We design MTU sites to be safe places to work, and our workplace health management (BGM) system helps keep our employees healthy and productive over the long term. In this way, we are laying the foundation for a competitive workforce. Management approach We strive to minimize health and safety risks to MTU places a great deal of importance on the our employees and third parties as far as possible, safety of its employees. Occupational safety and while also seeking to make continuous improveemployee health are enshrined as one of the key ments. Workplaces are regularly assessed for principles of corporate social responsibility in any risks and hazards they present for employees MTU’s code of conduct. Compliance with national so that appropriate measures can be implestatutory regulations on occupational safety is mented where necessary. With the aim of perembedded in the code of conduct as a mandamanently reducing the number of accidents and tory minimum standard for all international MTU reaching a level of safety that aspires to prevent subsidiaries. In addition, we have set up internal any accidents whatsoever, the local occupational standards that lay down generally valid parasafety officers record all accidents according to meters, rules and KPI definitions. A group report uniform criteria and investigate them together is submitted to the Executive Board each quarter. with the affected employees and their managers. Occupational safety is organized and impleWhere the analysis reveals notable accident mented at the operational level within MTU at hotspots, the causes are investigated and apthe individual locations: occupational safety is propriate steps taken to prevent a recurrence. the responsibility of the site managers and occuIn addition, the company has a system in place pational safety officers are appointed at the to record and evaluate near-misses at all promanagement level at each of the company’s duction sites. All employees across the group’s production sites. Local technical departments production sites receive regular safety training, take action on occupational safety issues on and first-responders trained by charities are site and report regularly to the site management. appointed for all areas. Every two years, firstThe workforce at the company’s production responders are obligated to attend a refresher sites in Germany, Poland and Canada is reprecourse. The local technical departments are sented in locally organized occupational safety continually carrying out prevention work at the committees, the composition of which includes company’s sites through training sessions and members of the works council. >GRI G4-LA 5 information on occupational safety issues. Occupational safety forms part of MTU’s IMS More information: policy (integrated management system for quality, Overview of certified MTU locations: industrial health & safety and environmental www.mtu.de protection). The occupational safety systems are IMS policy: Chapter 2.1 Product quality and regularly reviewed and improved. At each of the flight safety European production sites, workplace regulations that are mandatory for all employees contain important safety rules pertaining to accident prevention, fire protection and what to do in the event of workplace or commuting accidents. The occupational safety systems in place at the German production sites are certified externally in accordance with the international Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard, which covers 84.8 percent of all MTU jobs. < Some 10,000 people work for MTU around the world. We offer them long-term career prospects and nurture individuals with talent and potential, so they can keep Occupational safety is a top priority for us—group-wide standards, such as wearing protaking us forward tomorrow, too. tective gear, are in place. 57 Employees and society • 4.1 Occupational health and safety Clear objectives for occupational safety nately saw an increase compared to last year. >GRI G4-LA6 The accident rate per 1,000 employees is lower High standards in occupational safety across the this year than last in both Germany and North group are one of the company’s annual corporate America; the rate for Europe (excluding Germany) objectives. For each location, we define annual is higher as a result of two accidents at the MTU tolerance thresholds for category 4 reportable Aero Engines Polska plant, but still low overall. workplace accidents (accidents that entail more than three days lost). MTU’s comprehensive ocOccupational safety takes account of the concupational safety systems reach a level of safety ditions prevailing at the individual business locathat produced a group-wide accident rate for tions. We develop proactive measures based 2017 of 3.7 reportable workplace accidents per on regularly updated risk assessments, routine 1,000 employees. This is significantly below the inspections and audits. At the end of 2017, the average for the German metalworking industry “mission zero” campaign was launched at our (Wood and Metal Trade Association—BG Holz und headquarters in Munich with the aim of miniMetall) of 37 accidents per 1,000 employees. mizing the number and severity of workplace Our actual objective is zero accidents, but we accidents. A local occupational safety initiative use the tolerance thresholds mentioned above has also been launched at MTU’s principal mainbecause experience tells us that at this extremely tenance site in Hannover. This and other sitelow level, there is no certainty that a lasting specific measures across the MTU Group for annual reduction towards zero can be achieved. 2017 are described in detail in the non-financial statement in the 2017 Annual Report, page 103. MTU’s accident statistics for 2017 showed a positive trend, with a decrease in accident numbers at almost all locations. For the group as a whole, the number of reportable workplace accidents entailing more than three days lost was 33 in 2017, down from 43 in 2016—a reduction of 25 percent. The number of days lost following reportable accidents is falling overall (2017: 486, 2016: 606). This drop is accounted for primarily by the German locations; other regions unfortuOccupational safety 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 >GRI G4-LA6 Reportable workplace accidents (entailing more than three days lost) Germany 13 26 31 35 27 Rest of Europe* 0 1 1 1 2 North America 7 4 Fatal industrial accidents per location 0 0 0 0 0 Days lost as a result of reportable accident Germany 273 542 551 550 355 Rest of Europe* 0 21 22 18 52 North America 38 79 Accident rate per 1,000 employees Germany 1.9 2.1 5.0 5.6 3.6 Rest of Europe* 0 2.0 1.8 1.8 2.7 North America 12.2 6.6 *2013-2015 Poland location only, as data collection was not yet fully consolidated The accident statistics relate to the total workforce including apprentices, interns, pupils and students, and employees on fixed-term contracts, excluding temporary agency workers and employees from external companies. Workplace accidents do not include any commuting accidents. The day of the accident does not count as a day lost. Accidents involving temporary agency workers in 2017: 14 58 Employees and society • 4.1 Occupational health and safety Health management Health is a key success factor when it comes to meeting entrepreneurial challenges. The only way for MTU to stay in the lead is with healthy— and hence motivated and high-performing—employees. We also want to integrate health more strongly into our processes and structures than before, especially considering demographic change at MTU’s German locations. That is why we have a project to further develop the existing company health promotion campaign at the three German locations into a sustainable and effective workplace health management (BGM) system. When it comes to promoting the health of our employees, we place special emphasis on In 2016, we joined with the University of Heidelprevention— here, a campaign at the Rzeszów location in Poland. berg in identifying eight strategic spheres of activity for our two largest locations, Munich and Hannover. These spheres will serve as a basis for sites, which are run either in-house or by external a successful BGM system, which we will systepartners, as well as physiotherapy, ergonomics matically improve in this reporting year and betraining and on-site vibration training. All our yond. As part of this initiative, in 2017 we preGerman locations provide employees and manpared an information and awareness campaign agers with access to occupational health profeson the BGM offerings in Munich, Hannover and sionals (in-house or external) as well as social Ludwigsfelde, and launched it at the start of counselors and supplementary in-house and 2018. After a successful pilot project on systemic external services. Starting in June 2017, we ergonomics management (SEM) at our headlaunched Active Days at our Munich location, a quarters in Munich, we expanded SEM to all health management training initiative designed to German locations in this reporting year. We also raise awareness of our diverse range of offerings. draw up an ergonomics map as the basis for In Germany, the health rate for the reporting measures and standards. Our next step is to period held constant at 94.6 percent (compared develop a concept that focuses on age-approto 94.4 percent last year; this rate is determined priate workstations in a time of demographic only for Germany). change in Germany. Our sites outside of Germany offer a range of Key BGM measures that were developed, health-related services. For example, employees expanded or rolled out in 2017 in Vancouver, Canada and Rocky Hill, USA, have access to a free Employee Assistance Program. • Manager qualification: Health-Oriented It offers a wide variety of health and counselling Leadership options on topics such as financial planning, • Further development of offerings designed mental health, and personal or family counselling, to promote health in the workplace as well as advice on equipping workplaces in a • Risk assessments of psychological stress way that promotes good health. At our location • Workplace reintegration management in Rzeszów, Poland, the basic medical services • Systematic ergonomics management for employees include a doctor who is on-site • Offering screenings for early diagnosis once a week, psychological support as needed, and flu shots. In addition, in 2017 the location ran campaigns for cancer screenings and prevention We systematically promote the health of our of cardiological conditions. workforce with a clear emphasis on prevention. Our goal is to motivate our employees to adopt healthy lifestyles and take more responsibility for their choices. Health services at the German sites cover occupational and emergency medicine as well as general preventive medicine, while counseling services offer employees support with performance and work-related issues as well as mental health issues. Additional benefits offered by MTU include fitness centers at our German 59 Employees and society • 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer As an employer, we offer an attractive working environment that is marked by a sense of social responsibility. This should enable employees to develop themselves over the long term and contribute in their own personal way to the success of MTU. For us, this is also the basis for finding the right talent for our future projects and activities. Management approach attractive employer also helps us in our efforts We are an important driver of technology in the to promote diversity in the workforce. high-tech sector of aviation. Being perceived as an attractive employer by existing and potential As an employer, we not only want to be seen employees is one of the key ways in which MTU as attractive, we also want to demonstrate resbolsters its innovative capabilities and componsibility towards our employees. We create petitiveness. In addition, we are competing with long-term, secure employment based on key other companies for the best people in Germany principles of corporate social responsibility. and at our international locations in Canada and These social and labor standards are defined in the United States. We want to expand our locaa group-wide code of conduct and incorporate: tion in Rzeszów, Poland, adding some 200 new jobs at MTU Aero Engines Polska by 2020, pre• Observance of human rights dominantly in the areas of new technologies and • Equal opportunities in the workplace projects. In Germany, we are currently looking for • Dealings with suppliers, customers and several hundred specialist staff. Being perceived business partners in industrial relations as an attractive and future-oriented employer is • Cooperation with employees, employee therefore important for all international MTU subrepresentatives and labor unions sidiaries. We support a wide range of initiatives • Entitlement to appropriate remuneration to give our employees more options and enable • Occupational health and safety them to take more responsibility. More flexible • Employee training and development working arrangements make it easier to achieve a better work-life balance. Our reputation as an MTU Group employees by region >GRI G4-10 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 7,278 578 7,227 574 7,172 592 7,182 587 7,500 604 487 532 570 599 742 Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees 8,695* 8,333 8,334 8,368 8,846 Germany Rest of Europe North America *includes MTU Maintenance Zhuhai (50%) in line with consolidation group reporting for 2013 (321 employees) As at December 31 each year. Total workforce including apprentices, interns, thesis students and doctoral candidates, students on work experience and holiday staff, temporary part-time employees on parental leave, and marginal workers, but excluding temporary agency workers and inactive employment contracts. 60 Employees and society • 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer Employee structure by region >GRI G4-10, LA12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Blue collar workers Germany 48.5% 49.4 % 49.7 % 49.2 % 50.0 % Rest of Europe 51.8% 51.4 % 49.9 % 46.5 % 49.7 % North America ---52.5 % 47.9 % White collar workers Germany 51.5% 50.6 % 50.3 % 50.8 % 50.0 % Rest of Europe 48.2% 48.6 % 50.1 % 53.5 % 50.3 % North America ---47.5 % 52.1 % Employees on temporary contracts Germany 249 198 164 177 346 Apprentices Germany 343 381 345 311 287 Supervised workers Germany --332 395 539 Rest of Europe --0 7 40 North America ---0 0 Information on the proportion of women by employment type and employment contract is treated as confidential at MTU. We have been collecting data on supervised workers since 2015. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland / since 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group Reporting procedures for suspected breaches of the code of conduct, statutory requirements and internal company guidelines, and our principle of zero tolerance are described in detail in Chapters 1.2 Compliance and human rights and 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities. Hans-Peter Kleitsch As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are Senior Vice President, Human Resources committed to observing its principles of respect MTU Aero Engines AG for human rights and the implementation of fair working conditions in accordance with the Inter“We have highly motivated and skilled employees national Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) core labor and we are looking for new talent to help us standards. master tomorrow’s challenges. We offer a wide range of services and benefits that make working We are committed to respecting employees’ rights at MTU an appealing prospect. These include and safeguarding their freedom of association flexible working arrangements for achieving a through the code of conduct. When drafting embetter work-life balance, attractive remuneration, ployment contracts, we observe national statua wide variety of options for personal and tory requirements as well as internal company career development, a holistic corporate health agreements and notice periods as laid down by management system, and promoting diversity. law. It is the duty of managers to ensure that At MTU, the way we work is based on mutual company agreements are properly observed on respect and appreciation and promotes fair and a day-to-day basis in their areas of responsibilicooperative conduct.” ty. In 2017, 98 percent of the people employed by the company in Germany were covered by collective agreements, a figure that stood at 86.6 percent worldwide in the same year. 61 Employees and society • 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer Responsibility for employment issues lies with the Dialog with our employees Executive Board. The CEO is also the Director of For us, employment is a question of consistently Labor Relations. MTU’s human resources center fostering an atmosphere of trust and respectful sets policy in line with the annual and long-term collaboration in which we take our employees’ growth targets laid down in our corporate strategy. concerns into account. In accordance with the It also assists in efforts to achieve these targets. German Works Constitution Act (BetriebsverAll members of the Executive Board receive regufassungsgesetz), MTU’s sites in Germany have lar reports on human resources policy. Responworks councils that maintain regular, open and sibility for successful implementation lies with trust-based dialog with management. The German local human resources departments and the sites have a group works council that handles respective technical departments and managers. group-related issues. At the company’s international sites in Poland and Canada, elected We adapt our human resources policy to take employee representatives support the interests account of changes relevant to us and reflect of the workforce in dealings with management. these in the measures and initiatives derived from In addition, the interests of employees are rethis policy. In times of digitalization and technopresented on the supervisory board, where seats logical change, we face new challenges. We are are filled on the basis of parity. fully engaged with the key topics of digitalization, leadership and health. Digitalization was one of We carry out an employee survey at regular our corporate objectives for 2017; we provide intervals to provide important impetus for the training in future-oriented skills and platforms, company’s ongoing development. This enables and are bringing virtual technologies into everyemployees and managers to identify potential day working for all MTU employees. In addition, for improvements and ways to tap that potential. and with a view to the successful progress of Surveys of this kind are regularly conducted at the MTU Group, we promote key aspects of an our German sites, in Poland, in Canada and in innovative corporate culture, a creative environthe US (MTU Aero Engines North America). In ment in which motivated employees can play financial year 2017, we implemented measures their part in maintaining the company’s leading from the previous survey in Germany, introducing position. what is known as silent working for uninterrupted working in various areas. We will be surveying our employees in Germany again in 2018; once more, we will be collecting data for the High Performance Organization Index, which measures an organization’s performance in terms of commitment, leadership, goals/strategy and processes/structures, and for the MTU Work Ability Index, which gives an indication of whether a team’s working environment is conducive to good health. We will also conduct an employee survey in Poland in 2018. MTU Maintenance Canada is the MTU subsidiary Vericor Power Systems Since 2009, MTU Aero Engines Polska In Munich, a number of halls house North American mainstay of the mainspecializes in gas turbines for marine has been responsible for the Group’s manufacturing of various engine parts. tenance business segment. and industrial applications. development and production activities. 62 Employees and society • 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer Employees can also make use of other wellestablished forums, such as information events Staff turnover 2016 2017 for managers and for employees not covered by >GRI G4-LA1 collective agreements, as well as employee No. of employees that meetings in Germany, quarterly meetings with left the company the General Manager in Poland and town hall Germany 253 186 sessions with employees in the US. Additional Rest of Europe 18 39 channels for feedback include instruments such North America 48 56 as leadership feedback and the Team Barometer, which gauges the mood within a team and helps Turnover rate (%)* to develop the way teams and managers work Germany 4.1 2.9 together. Finally, our ideas management system Rest of Europe 3.2 14.5 takes up suggestions for improvement made North America 8.4 9.9 by the workforce and coordinates the evaluation *as a proportion of core workforce, annual and implementation of these suggestions. average, data collected since 2016 The outside view of MTU Alongside internal employee surveys and feedWe also regard our low staff turnover rate of back channels, external rankings offer valuable just 3.8 percent in this reporting year as yet pointers as to whether our recruiting and HR another sign of high employee satisfaction processes are heading in the right direction. In across the MTU Group (previous year: 4.3%). comparative analyses with other companies, MTU has received consistently positive ratings. This is especially underscored by the fact that MTU regularly receives awards ranking it as a top employer in Germany, Poland and British Columbia (Canada). In the latest ranking, MTU once again scored well in all three countries. Certifications and rankings in 2017 • TOP Employer Germany • TOP Employer Poland • TOP Employer British Columbia (Canada) • trendence Graduate Barometer Engineering • Universum Ranking • Top Company and Open Company on Kununu Selected four times as one of Poland’s top employers: • Women’s Career Index MTU Aero Engines Polska. The core of the MTU Maintenance MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg MTU Aero Engines North America MTU Maintenance Lease Services Group is the MTU site in Hannover, is the center of excellence for mainteis MTU’s engineering location in the in Amsterdam specializes in engine right next to the airport. nance of industrial gas turbines. U.S., with some 180 employees. leasing. 63 Employees and society • 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer Remuneration and additional benefits ment group. We also offer an employee stock >GRI G4--LA2, 11, 13 option program. Some of our international locaThe right to appropriate remuneration is one of tions offer their own long-term bonus schemes the pillars of MTU’s code of conduct. A stand(Rzeszów, Poland) or year-end and leaving bonuses ardized, transparent compensation structure (Vancouver, Canada). ensures that employees receive competitive remuneration that reflects their performance. The remuneration of pay-scale employees in Achieving a better work-life balance Germany is based on collective bargaining agree>GRI G4-10, LA3 ments. Compensation for senior managers is MTU promotes initiatives to improve employees’ tied to the company’s long-term performance. work-life balance and is placing an increasing emphasis on responding to their specific needs MTU applies a consistent methodology for evaland various life phases. This is recognized in the uating performance at all levels of the hierarchy, form of top marks in the Secondary Benefits from senior managers to employees included and Work-Life Balance categories of national in collective bargaining agreements. The peremployer rankings covering all the company’s formance criteria are based on corporate, center major sites in Germany, Poland and Canada. or departmental objectives and are designed to measure how employees and managers contribute Our initiatives include: to reaching these objectives. Goal attainment • Flexible working hours and flextime accounts is discussed during the year (milestone meeting) • A wide variety of part-time working and at year-end (goal attainment meeting). All arrangements managers undergo performance reviews to eval• Educational leave uate achievement of their personal targets, and • Teleworking 96.5 percent of MTU employees worldwide • Sabbaticals regularly receive an evaluation of their perfor• Part-time work for older employees mance (at least once a year). • Parental leave • Job sharing MTU offers a broad range of additional perquisites. • Services to assist families One example is the range of social benefits the (e.g. childcare, nursing services) company offers in Germany in addition to its • Mobile working statutory obligations. These include accident insurance, profit-sharing, family-related and mobiWe are continuously improving these initiatives lity benefits, a healthcare service and disability to give people more job flexibility and meet the coverage. The company has a pension scheme expectations of our employees and job applicants. for all its employees. At our international locations Since 2017, employees at our headquarters in we offer a range of additional benefits such as Munich have had the option of mobile working private life insurance, health insurance and thanks to a new works agreement. In this way, retirement planning support. In financial year we have laid solid foundations for greater auto2017, the company made social contributions nomy and personal responsibility among MTU totaling 114 million euros (2016: 102.6 million employees. Part-time working and parental euros). leave are core initiatives that employees avail themselves of. Part-time work accounted for 6.6 MTU enables its employees to share in the compercent of employment (data collected only in pany’s success. In Germany, this profit-sharing Germany). scheme is made available to the entire workforce and defined in special rules for each employAlternative working arrangements (Germany) 2013 2014 2015 2016* 2017 >GRI G4-10, LA3 Part-time employees (in %) 6.1 6.8 7.5 6.4 6.6 Employees on parental leave --251 281 261 *Not comparable with previous year’s figures due to changes in workforce reference values The right to parental leave applies to the entire workforce in Germany and is governed by the German Parental Allowances and Parental Leave Act. This stipulates that anyone employed in Germany has a right to time off regardless of their gender. We have been collecting these figures since 2015; given discrepancies between national legal considerations, we do not consider it useful to consolidate them at the Group level. 64 Employees and society • 4.3 Employee development 4.3 Employee development The expertise of our employees is one of our most important success factors; that’s why we offer a wide range of opportunities and avenues for personal development. We promote lifelong learning to ensure the best possible employee training, which makes jobs at MTU an attractive longterm proposition. Management approach group-wide. The Executive Board is kept informed Qualified and motivated employees are indispensabout training indicators through the annual able for driving innovation and ensuring compeeducation and training report, and occasionally titiveness in the technically demanding aviation discusses important training initiatives. industry. In many areas in which we are active, aviation authorities prescribe additional qualifiThe great importance placed on training and cation measures, such as mandatory training development is reflected in a group-wide works for employees with certification authorizations agreement in Germany that guarantees access under aviation legislation. In addition to industryto training for all employees and requires manspecific vocational training and dual courses of agement to conduct an interview with each study aimed at building up knowledge over the employee once a year to discuss their training long term, MTU supports and promotes employee and development. This applies to 84.8 percent of training—this is a key principle of corporate social the workforce. At MTU’s three sites in Germany, responsibility as defined in the company’s code the works council is also involved in employee of conduct. Promoting vocational training opportraining in accordance with the German Works tunities and avenues for personal development Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz) and for employees and managers is also enshrined in has a say in the annual training and development the MTU Principles and group-wide HR strategy. program. The head of human resources is responsible for the training and development of employees We move with the times: starting last year, our employees have been able to take advantage of an e-learning portal. 65 Employees and society • 4.3 Employee development Employee training >GRI G4-LA9 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Training days (total) 21,507 20,012 18,889 22,324 21,971 Training days per employee 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.7 2.3 Proportion of women in training courses* 15 % 15 % 13.6% Investment in training (EUR million) 3.3 2.4 2.8 3.7 3.9 2013-2015: Only Germany and Poland/as of 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group/2017: without Vericor, USA, as insignificant for group-level consolidation; investment in training without MTU Maintenance Canada, as data is not collected locally. Investment in training without travel costs; MTU assumes the costs of training and development programs. *Employees who participated in training courses (includes multiple counts), compiled starting in 2015 using the sustainability database for Germany, as of 2017 fully consolidated MTU Group Lifelong learning and development courses are documented for >GRI G4-LA10 each employee in a training history. Training Employee development and lifelong learning are officers at MTU Group sites can be consulted at designed to hone and develop employees’ skills. any time for advice on needs-focused training. Our employees should enjoy opportunities for professional and personal development througTo put employee development on a more futurehout their careers. We systematically review oriented footing, we have set up an e-learning employees’ training requirements on an annual portal for all employees in Germany that makes basis as part of a standard process, either in a access to training more mobile and more readily direct conversation (training interview) or in available. This gives 7,500 employees the oppordivisional / company-level interviews. Training tunity to actively help shape their own developcourses are evaluated in a personal meeting betment, and managers receive improved training ween the employee and their superior, or in some reporting for their area of responsibility. Since cases via a feedback form. All completed training the end of 2017, employees have been able to use new electronic learning programs wherever and whenever they want. By connecting digital learning content with face-to-face training—an approach known as blended learning—we have expanded the variety of training options to put MTU at the forefront of learning methods. At this time of digital change, we are giving our employees the chance to improve their futureoriented skills. Against this backdrop, high-quality employee development plays an important part in helping MTU make the most of the opportunities that digitalization presents to secure its long-term position as a technology leader in the aviation industry. We invested 3.9 million euros in training schemes group-wide in the 2017 reporting year, roughly the same amount as in the previous year. On average, each employee attended 2.3 days of training, or a total of 21,971 training days. This is less than in the previous year (22,324) because of the large number of short-term courses. Women made up 13.6 percent of participants in training courses, which is in line with the group-wide proportion of women in the workforce MTU supports and promotes employee training, and has enshrined this of 14.1 percent. idea in its social responsibility policy. 66 Employees and society • 4.3 Employee development Strengthening leadership Management training MTU attaches great importance to furthering the (cross-site and local) personal and professional skills of all employees • Management transition coaching on an ongoing basis. Key areas of focus in 2017 • Business Challenge were consolidating leadership responsibility and • Building on Talent promoting internationalization and diversity in the • International Building on Talent workforce. This was also one of MTU’s corporate • International Leadership Program objectives in 2017. Through effective leadership, • Future Dialog discussions as part of the managers help to empower employees and also RESPONSE program (Hannover, Germany) contribute to the successful management of the • Management development program company. We want to support managers in their (Ludwigsfelde, Germany) important role through targeted measures. • Management Growth (Rzeszów, Poland) With this in mind, MTU has continued with its Talent management Business Challenge qualification initiative for Given the aging society in Germany, it is immanagers. Its objective is to promote a culture portant for MTU to prepare to fill a large number of communication and encourage a holistic and of skilled and managerial positions over the sustainable change in corporate thinking across coming decade. To this end, we have developed all levels of management and all locations. Busia talent management process for identifying ness Challenge II places the emphasis on leaderpeople with the potential to assume key roles ship, with the aim of promoting consistent leaderand supporting them through personalized develship practices and a culture of feedback and opment programs. Our primary focus is on sucdialog, as well as making leadership more efficient. cession planning for those positions that are In the 2017 reporting year, we gave an additional critical to our company’s success. There is a series of presentations in Munich under the special trainee program for particularly promising heading “Business Challenge to go”. The talks, graduates in areas for which too few potential which covered current topics such as the design managers have been identified. At MTU Aero thinking method, were attended by managers Engines North America, our U.S. engineering from all levels. At the Hannover location, for facility, we have a program for entry-level engiexample, leadership skills are strengthened in neering graduates that rotates them through a the context of the leadership initiative. Events variety of departments focusing on different were held for all levels (including foremen) in areas of aerospace engineering. We also face 2017 covering topics such as “Top performance and motivation” or “Management and leadership”. In 2018 Business Challenge III will be launched with new emphases. The main aim is to make management even more effective through clearly formulated expectations, open feedback and responsible decisions, contributing to an innovative corporate culture. The International Leadership Program (ILP) has been established group-wide and is intended to promote networking between managers across all sites as the basis for a common understanding of leadership in a global business environment. Program participants are drawn from members of the extended management with potential for the next management level. With events held at the sites in Vancouver, Canada, Rzeszów, Poland and Munich, Germany in 2017, the ILP program helped to promote an exchange across multiple countries and locations. Managers from seven locations took part. In addition, individual MTU locations have launched leadership initiatives tailored to their speciManagers play a key role in the company, and we support them in that fic on-site requirements. with various programs and initiatives. 67 Employees and society • 4.3 Employee development the challenge here of determining how to retain talented employees and help them grow. The following initiatives are aimed at helping the company preserve valuable expertise and experience (examples): • A know-how buddy system • Exchange of expertise with the aid of knowledge maps • Wikis Training and apprenticeships We offer young people in Germany a solid grounding in various trades, pursuing a holistic approach that also covers social and ecological topics, for instance through health and environment days or through corporate social responsibility in local communities. Apprentices have made up a constant proportion of MTU’s workforce for many years; in the reporting period they accounted for 4.1 percent of the total workforce (4.8 percent in the previous year). MTU employed 287 apprentices on average in 2017. In addition, we offer practical courses of study in collaboration with selected vocational academies. We take part in selected local educational projects and initiatives in an effort to attract potential recruits early on: • Training Night • IdeenExpo science exhibition in Hannover • Nature and Technology Days • Teachers in Industry • Girls’ Day • Research Camp for Girls • EUROTEC The next generation is particularly important to us: besides apprenticeships, we also offer trainee programs and development programs for high-potential employees. 68 Employees and society • 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities Successful collaboration among employees of different cultures, generations and genders makes us more innovative and competitive. This is why we promote diversity and equal opportunities within MTU. Management approach to play in recognizing the value of diversity and MTU is actively committed to equal opportunities incorporating it into everyday working life at MTU. and equal treatment of all employees and takes We help them strengthen diversity in their own a clear stand against discrimination in the worksphere of responsibility and exploit its benefits place. These are the principles that underpin to the full. For us, promoting equal opportunities MTU’s corporate behavior and are set out in its is less a question of introducing new initiatives code of conduct. We assign employees to posiand more a question of promoting the acceptance tions in accordance with their skills, abilities and of existing ones and offering new ways of working performance. Everyone has the same opportunisuch as mobile working. This is why over the next ties regardless of their gender, ethnic origin, few years, MTU wants to do even more to heighage, religion, disability or sexual orientation. ten managers’ awareness of their responsibility Promoting diversity is a key component of the to promote equal opportunities, particularly workcorporate culture and business success that is life balance. enshrined in the MTU Principles. We firmly believe that a diverse workforce bolsters a company’s We also want to ensure diversity and equal opinnovative capabilities and competitiveness. For portunities by putting in place clear grievance us, diversity means having an intercultural and mechanisms. Processes have been set up to mixed-age workforce with equal opportunities allow reporting of breaches of the code of confor different genders. An important prerequisite duct or of internal guidelines. Employees across for this is for all employees to enjoy fair opporthe Group who suspect breaches of the code tunities and full integration into working life and of conduct can contact an ombudsman conficompany life. Promoting a diverse and interdentially. Managers, the works council and national workforce has been one of our annual members of the human resources department corporate objectives since 2016, with the aim of are also designated as persons of trust in this helping to create an innovative corporate culture. context. MTU views fostering female talent and equal participation of women in management as its greatest innovation potential. We see broad scope for action here, especially in Germany. The Executive Board is kept regularly informed about the diversity concept with respect to the promotion of women and related measures. Furthermore, the Executive Board presents a report on equality at the works meeting once a year. In Germany, the works council is involved in decisions subject to co-determination, such as flexible working time rules. MTU commits to diversity and equality of opportunity in the following external initiatives: • Charter of Diversity • UN Global Compact • Munich Memorandum for Women in Management To ensure diversity and equal opportunity within the company as well as to prevent discrimination, MTU embraces a corporate culture based on The company fosters talented women with the goal of placing more women in management respect and appreciation that promotes fair and positions. cooperative conduct. Managers have a key role 69 Employees and society • 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities Women in management information on quotas for women and target We attach particular importance in this context agreements for the Executive Board and Superto gender diversity in order to make better use visory Board can also be found in our 2017 of talent potential in the face of demographic annual report, p. 34f. change and better position the company for the future. One important goal is to increase the In 2017, MTU was recognized by the Women’s proportion of women in management positions Career Index, taking third place in the “Newat the German sites—we aim to achieve 13 percent comer of the Year” category. The Women’s by 2022 for all management levels except the Career Index is an external tool for evaluating Executive Board level. At the end of 2017, this career opportunities for women in business proportion was 9.7 percent. The principal focus enterprises. of the initiatives worldwide and especially in Germany is to secure more female talent for the Programs and initiatives company and offer female employees greater • Munich Memorandum for Women in support throughout their careers. We elaborate Management these initiatives at the individual locations and • Cross-Mentoring Munich implement them locally. Our Development Centers (a program organized by the City of Munich) in Germany and Poland help female talent draw • Talent management up a personal development plan to assume a • Development center management function in the short term. Since • Part-time management 2003, we have participated in the Cross-Mentoring • The MTU “Studienstiftung” foundation for feprogram organized by the City of Munich, in which male students in scientific and technical fields high-potential female employees are supported • Girls’ Day for a year by a mentor from another company, • Research Camp for Girls and MTU managers also become involved as • The Lower Saxony Technical Internship mentors. (“Niedersachsen Technikum”) The proportion of women in management posiWe also support gender equality by promoting tions was 10.3 percent group-wide, compared to initiatives to improve employees’ work-life 10.7 percent in the previous year; at the German balance, including flexible working hours, serlocations it was 9.7 percent (2016: 10.1 percent). vices to assist families and mobile working. Despite this slight drop, we are well on the way to achieving our goal of 13 percent. An analysis More information of this can be found in the non-financial stateWork-life balance: Chapter 4.2 Responsible and ment in the 2017 Annual Report, page 106. More attractive employer Proportion of women (in %) >GRI G4-10, LA12 Workforce Managers 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 13.9% 14.2% 14.4% 14.0% 14.1% 8.1% 9.2% 9.1% 10.7% 10.3% Figures recorded at the end of each year. No figures are available on the number of women in specific employee groups. 2013-2015: Germany and Poland / as of 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group and changed reference values (active workforce) mean figures are not comparable with previous years. Active workforce: employees with permanent or fixed-term contracts, excluding students, interns, trainees/apprentices, short-term holiday workers, temporary agency workers and employees from external companies. 70 Employees and society • 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities Generational diversity Cultural diversity We believe in good relations between young and As a globally active company, we consider interold, and we take age diversity into consideration nationalization to be a key indicator of diversity. in our company. An aging workforce in Germany Our engine business has a global outlook, and also presents us with new health challenges. In having an intercultural workforce helps us to be addition, the length of time people spend working successful in different markets. As a long-estabfrom career entry to retirement is growing. This lished player in the industry, we have strong roots is why we are expanding our company health in Germany, but our character draws on a variety promotion campaign into a sustainable and effecof cultural backgrounds. We bring together emtive workplace health management system. Our ployees from 50 countries. In line with our corpoaim is to keep our employees healthy and prorate objective, we are taking various steps to ductive over the long term. Employees in every enhance the international nature of our business age group have equal access to training and (International Leadership Program, International development. We offer a range of measures for Building on Talent). younger generations: apprenticeships, trainee programs, development programs for highWe encourage new recruits to spend time working potential employees (for example, Building on abroad even before they finish their apprenticeTalent), etc. ship, traineeship or dual vocational training program. They are given the opportunity to take part For us, it is each individual’s employability that in international exchange programs with our counts, and this extends to the integration of partners or work on international project assignemployees with disabilities. In 2017, disabled ments within the MTU Group. As part of the employees represented an average of 5.7 percent management transition coaching program, we (2016: 5.6 percent) of the workforce at MTU’s provide support to managers moving to a new German locations, which are subject to statutory position whether in country or abroad. requirements. Age groups (in %) >GRI G4-LA12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 31.5% 12.7 % 31.5% 12.7 % 34.2% 12.7% 33.8% 13,7% 33.0% 14.9% 55.7% 55.7% 52.5% 52.5% 52.1% Age < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years 2013-2015: Germany and Poland / as of 2016: fully consolidated MTU Group and changed reference values (active workforce) mean figures are not comparable with previous years. Active workforce: employees with permanent or fixed-term contracts, excluding students, interns, trainees/apprentices, short-term holiday workers, temporary agency workers and employees from external companies. 71 Employees and society • 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility In all that we do to contribute to social development, our focus is on research and education. As we drive aviation technology forward, we ourselves rely on a new generation of well-trained employees and an innovation-friendly business environment. In addition, we support social projects that have a local impact close to our business locations. Management approach Corporate citizenship Corporate social responsibility is an integral part As a research-focused company, our concept of of the MTU Principles, which state: “MTU takes corporate citizenship revolves around science and a proactive approach to its responsibility toward engineering initiatives. We seek out interaction society.” Particularly in the case of its sites in and collaboration with the world of science and Germany and Poland, the company is a major research and foster dialog with young people and regional employer offering a wide variety of jobs new talent. in an attractive, high-tech environment. This has a positive effect on the region in which the sites We offer young people a solid grounding in various are located, including in less economically suctrades, and employed and trained 287 apprencessful regions such as Brandenburg, Germany. tices on average in 2017. In addition, MTU collaWe also offer apprenticeships in various trades borates with German vocational academies in in Germany. We offer all employees long-term Stuttgart, Ravensburg and Berlin as well as with perspectives for their employment at MTU. In Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University addition to training and developing our employees, to offer practical courses of study in business we invest in the ongoing development of our administration, information technology, mechaplants, as we are currently doing in Munich, nical engineering and business engineering. We Germany and Rzeszów, Poland. In this way we provide training where it is needed most, pursuing contribute to social development at our locations. a holistic approach comprising the acquisition We also strive to strengthen MTU’s image as a of professional qualifications as well as methoresponsible corporate citizen. dological competence and social skills. We involve our apprentices in all aspects of company life, We are well aware of our corporate social resincluding health, environmental protection, social ponsibility to the communities around our busivalues and our no-blame culture as well as organess locations; our focus is on education, science nizing special open-door and awareness events. and research and we support local and regional In addition, MTU participates in numerous eduprojects near our sites as a promoter, sponsor cational projects and initiatives for children and and network participant. young people as it strives to enhance people’s understanding of technology and sustainability in society as a whole. We are committed to nurturing young talent, and every year we train young people for a range of careers. 72 Employees and society • 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility Research alliances Collaborating with universities and research institutes is a mainstay of our research and development work and a key part of fulfilling our responsibility to society. We have built strategic alliances with research partners to foster links between universities and industry and safeguard Uni & LZ Hannover Turbine & Maintenance MTU’s capacity for innovation. MTU runs six Repair and Overhaul centers of competence in collaboration with uniDLR Cologne Propulsion Systems versities across Germany, each with its own research focus. In 2005, MTU and its partners RWTH Aachen Compressor & Manufacturing founded Bauhaus Luftfahrt e.V., an interdisciplinary aerospace research institute. We run a series of sponsorship schemes at the University of Stuttgart and the German Aerospace Center that support young researchers for a number of years after they finish their degrees, and we provide financial backing for a DeutschlandUniBW Munich Military Propulsion stipendium, or “Germany Scholarship”, at the University of Stuttgart System Leibniz University of Hannover and the Technische Turbine Testing & Thermodynamics TU Munich Universität Braunschweig. We have expanded our Structural Design cooperation with the Fraunhofer Institute for Production Technology: Technikum Blisk comCenters of competence Corporation with universities menced operations there in 2017, and from now on, it will produce prototype blisks for MTU. At MTU Maintenance Brandenburg in Berlin, we MTU promotes technology development and supports the next generation of have launched a 4.0 project to apply new virtual scientists—one way is through its six centers of excellence. technologies in the field of maintenance. This project is supported by Brandenburg University graduate program, on work experience or as of Technology Cottbus-Senftenberg. Our interholiday staff. national locations also work together with selected universities and colleges in their communities. Each year, the company confers the Wolfgang For instance, MTU Aero Engines Polska has Heilmann Science Award for outstanding achieveestablished an alliance with the Lezajsk Technical ments by talented young students performing School. MTU Aero Engines North America has research in the field of aircraft engines at the entered into a partnership with the CREC AeroKarlsruhe Institute of Technology. We are also space Academy. an industry sponsor of a prestigious German award for aerospace journalism that is awarded We run a company-affiliated foundation to support annually to non-specialist journalists for outhighly talented young women studying scientific standing articles on aerospace trends and issues. and technical disciplines. As well as providing financial grants, the MTU “Studien-Stiftung” offers personal advice and mentoring to help students get started on their careers. MTU Studien-Stiftungstage für MINT-Studentinnen 10. – 12. Oktober 2018 MTU research experts give regular presentations and guest lectures at universities, and we provide a significant proportion of the lectures for the engine technology course at Cottbus. MTU has endowed a chair for aircraft engine structural mechanics at the University of Stuttgart. We also give national and international university groups Andere träumen davon. Du kannst es haben: Eine Förderung durch die MTU Studien-Stiftung! an insight into how an industrial company works. Bereits seit vielen Jahren fördert die MTU Studien-Stiftung talentierte Studentinnen aus den Bereichen Luftund Raumfahrttechnik, Maschinenbau, WirtschaftsingenieurNach den Stiftungstagen kann sich bei beiderseitigem Interesse eine weitere Förderung durch die MTU StudienStiftung anschließen. Das Spektrum der Förderung reicht Students can write dissertations at MTU as well wesen, Elektrotechnik, Informatik und Mathematik. Die Studentinnen verbindet dabei einiges: Alle bringen herausragende fachliche Leistungen mit, sind aufgeschlossen für Neues und haben den Anspruch, Dinge zu bewegen. dabei von persönlicher Beratung bis zur Unterstützung bei Praktika. Wenn Sie sich bereits mitten im Studium befinden, beas bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral theses. They Die MTU Studien-Stiftung lädt wieder zu ihren Stiftungstagen ein – diesmal zu einem aktiven Outdoortraining werben Sie sich online bis zum 27. Juli 2018 mit Ihrem Lebenslauf, Zeugnissen und einem Motivationsschreiben, in dem Sie uns überzeugen, warum wir Sie zu den MTU can also work at the company in a parttime or „Zeit – und Projektmanagement in der Natur“. Studien-Stiftungstagen einladen sollten! Die Planung von Projekten, die Zusammenarbeit in Teams Wir freuen uns auf erlebnisreiche Tage mit Ihnen! und der Umgang mit Konflikten sind Kernelemente, die intern role during their studies. At the end of Sie mit professionellen Trainern bearbeiten. Neben den theoretischen Inhalten wird durch interaktive Übungen MTU Studien-Stiftung fernab von Vortragssälen das Gelernte in die Praxis umgesetzt. Dachauer Str. 665 2017, there were 435 students working at the 80995 München Dazu gibt es Spaß, Bewegung, viel frische Luft und nette weitere Infos und Bewerbung: Leute zum Austausch und Networken. www.mtu-studien-stiftung.org company as part of their undergraduate or post73 Employees and society • 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility Charitable commitment Examples of our social projects in 2017 MTU supports various social institutions. These • Funding of the parent-run daycare initiative are generally charitable organizations, preferably TurBienchen e.V., Munich with a social focus, to which we provide assis• Sponsorship of childcare during school tance in the form of financial or in-kind donations. vacations A key factor in selecting recipients is a local/ • Off-site deployment of MTU’s company fire regional connection or a thematic link to our busidepartment and doctor, Munich ness. We prioritize support specific projects over • Children’s Table Dachau general institutional funding, which are selected • Wings of Help charity and implemented independently by the MTU • Montessori School in Dachau near Munich subsidiaries concerned on the basis of careful • “Die Arche” (The Ark) – a project devoted to research. The granting of donations and sponsorimproving the lives of children in Potsdam, ship is governed by internal guidelines. A centnear Berlin rally managed clearance and approval process • Cystic fibrosis charity run, Berlin ensures that the rules are adhered to. • “Healthy children” networking run, Berlin • Irene children’s home, Hannover In 2017 we dedicated resources to almost 50 • Hospital No. 2 Christmas Charity Action, projects and institutions in communities close Rzeszów to our locations. For instance, managers from • “MTUlandia” children’s playground, Rzeszów Operations spent a day at the Montessori School • Hands on Hartford in Dachau near Munich, where they built a wooden outdoor seating area. They also answered quesWe welcome efforts on the part of our employees tions about MTU, jobs and apprenticeships in to take part in voluntary social events such as discussions with teachers and students. We regucharity runs and to support the preservation or larly support various projects run by the Wings improvement of social institutions. This is covered of Help charity, such as financing an electricity by an internal company agreement. In addition, generator in Puerto Rico in 2017. MTU allows staff to undertake projects with the German Federal Agency for Technical Relief during their paid working day, and offers the services of lay justices for labor tribunals and social justice courts and of examiners for the Chambers of Industry and Commerce. Employees at MTU Aero Engines Polska worked together to set up a public children’s playground (MTUlandia) in the city. Donations and Sponsoring in 2017 >GRI G4-EC1 Community 69.5% Research/Training 22.0% Technology/Environment 6.8% Arts and Culture 1.7% 74 Employees and society • 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees have set up a public playground in downtown Rzeszów, with plans to expand it in the future. Each month, employees at MTU Aero Engines North America cook a community meal for people in need in and around East Hartford in support of the Hands on Hartford agency. Change of workplace: Lars Wagner, MTU’s COO since January 2018 (right), and managers from his Operations division spent a day building an outdoor seating area for a local school. 75 Goals set and achieved in 2017 (relating to the reporting period) Sustainable Governance Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Compliance ➔ Carry out review of compliance system Achieved Recommended measures are currently being implemented. ➔ Conduct regular compliance audits to ensure Ongoing business processes comply with statutory requirements and guidelines ➔ Carry out employee training Ongoing In 2017, we conducted training courses on compliance issues, including on antitrust law. Dialog with Stakeholders ➔ Boost dialog with employees about Achieved Sustainability action day at the sustainability Munich site in 2017, articles in employee media ➔ Prepare non-financial reporting in accor Annual MTU published its first non-finandance with the German CSR Directive cial statement in the 2017 Annual Implementation Act Report. The sustainability report has been adjusted to reflect the materiality concept from the CSR directive (see Materiality analysis and -matrix in this report, Chapter 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization). ➔ Direct contact by email for questions on Ongoing sustainability ➔ Conduct stakeholder survey on relevant Ongoing Rework the ongoing online survey; topics and on MTU’s achievements and interviews with selected represencommunication strategies in regard to tatives of important stakeholder sustainability groups are being prepared. ➔ Reinforce sustainability aspects of stake Ongoing holder dialogs on established platforms ➔ Exchange more information with partners Ongoing on sustainability issues Sustainability ➔ Launch CR training for employees Achieved Training is to be continued as part management of the Campus training program. ➔ Consolidate sustainability topics in the risk Achieved A quarterly survey on the key susmanagement process tainability topics was launched in 2018. ➔ Conduct materiality analysis to determine Annual the most important sustainability topics ➔ Participate in sustainability ratings Ongoing MTU’s participation in ratings is currently being reviewed. ➔ Expand regional knowledge sharing Ongoing UN Global Compact conferences, round table discussions, Munich Business Climate Pact ➔ Review CR management processes 2018 An improvement project is currently optimizing all standard CR processes (e.g. database, documentation). ➔ Expand CR Steering Committee 2018 The CR Steering Committee will be expanded to integrate important departments more closely. ➔ Change GRI standard Summer 2018 Introduce new GRI standard. ➔ Expand CR team Summer 2018 Establish CR reporting function. 76 Product Responsibility function. Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Product quality and ➔ Lower or at least keep the number of Goal partly Achieved in 2017 at the majority flight safety customer complaints stable at all locations achieved of locations ➔ Implement the EU REACh regulation Achieved The European Chemicals Agency ECHA has authorized continued use of the relevant substances until 2029. ➔ Conduct monitoring and recertification Ongoing audits for quality management systems ➔ Launch improvement project for analyzing 2018 errors in handling customer complaints Climate strategy ➔ Achieve a 15%* reduction in CO2 emis2020 Stage 1 of our climate strategy sions with the first-generation Geared concluded with the entry into serTurbofan™ vice of the first generation of the Geared Turbofan™ engine family (Claire 1). All models in the family will be rolled out into large-scale production by 2020. Necessary certifications for PW1900G models (Embraer E190-E2 and E195-E2) and PW1227G for the Mitsubishi MRJ regional jet were obtained in financial year 2017. ➔ Achieve a 25%* reduction in CO2 emis2030 Implementation of the second sions with the second-generation Geared stage (Claire 2) Key milestones Turbofan™ reached in 2017: initial test of a demo engine for high-temperature materials; foundation laid for a new MTU test center for critical components featuring a high-performance spin test bench. ➔ Achieve a 40%* reduction in CO2 emis2050 Implementation of the third stage sions with an integrated ultra-efficient (Claire 3) engine concept ➔ Support the rollout of sustainable fuels Ongoing e.g. by participating in research with MTU engine expertise projects, studies and practical tests Aircraft noise ➔ Achieve a 20-decibel** reduction (cumula2020 All models in the PW1000G GTF tive) in noise emissions relative to ICAO engine family will be rolled out Stage 4 with the first-generation Geared into large-scale production by Turbofan™ 2020. Necessary certifications for PW1900G models (Embraer E190-E2 and E195-E2) and PW1227G for the Mitsubishi MRJ regional jet were obtained in financial year 2017. ➔ Achieve an 11-decibel** reduction in noise 2030 As per requirements stipulated in emissions (per aircraft movement, corresthe European Strategic Research ponds to -55%) with the second-generation and Innovation Agenda (SRIA). Geared Turbofan™ Key milestones were reached in financial year 2017, such as the incorporation of a new turbine exhaust case with integrated acoustic linings into the low-pressure turbine and testing in TU Stuttgart’s altitude wind tunnel. ➔ Achieve a 15-decibel** reduction in noise 2050 As per requirements stipulated in emissions (per aircraft movement, corresthe European Strategic Research ponds to -65%) with the third-generation and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) Geared Turbofan™ * compared to an engine from the year 2000, per passenger kilometer ** compared to an engine from the year 2000 77 Supply Chain Ziel Status/ Comments Deadline Supplier management ➔ Place greater emphasis on environmental Achieved aspects in supplier approval process ➔ Conduct annual survey of all relevant Ongoing For 75% of the consolidated group suppliers on compliance with the DoddFrank Act concerning conflict minerals ➔ Require new suppliers to commit to the Ongoing For 75% of the consolidated group code of conduct ➔ Conduct standardized assessment of risks Ongoing Risk analysis by country and in the supply chain product group launched ➔ Revise the supplier evaluation process to 2018 For MRO business include sustainability aspects Environmental Protection in Production Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Reduced consumption of ➔ Participate in the Munich Business Climate Achieved MTU took various measures to energy and resources Pact for reduction of CO2 emissions reduce CO2 emissions together with other large companies in Munich and beat its own target by achieving a total reduction in CO2 of 7,000 metric tons. ➔ Participate in the Munich Business Climate Achieved An employee initiative was prePact for reduction of energy consumption pared with the aim of raising awareness of personal energy and resource consumption. ➔ Launch zero campaign (zero emissions, Achieved zero consumption) in Munich ➔ Reduce CO2 emissions by 25 % at the 2020 Reduction by the end of 2017: Munich site as part of Clean Air-Industrial 21,2% Site (benchmark year: 1990) ➔ Promote sustainable mobility Ongoing ➔ Carry out employee training courses on Ongoing sustainable resource consumption and the company’s environmental activities ➔ Reduce the environmental footprint and Ongoing CO2 emissions of business travel by making increased use of modern communication technologies such as phone and video conferencing Measures to save energy ➔ Launch campaign for Munich employees 2018 to save energy as part of Zero ➔ Reduce the amount of energy required to Ongoing power buildings ➔ Upgrade to LED lighting Ongoing ➔ Switch off machines and systems during Ongoing extended interruptions to operations ➔ Improve the efficiency of compressing air Ongoing ➔ Use groundwater for cooling Ongoing New machinery connected to well-water cooling Material efficiency ➔ Sustainable manufacturing concepts: Apply Ongoing The range of parts is continuously new laser-based additive manufacturing being expanded. Production parts techniques to build production parts are already being manufactured, straight from the powder bed based on with complex components in preCAD data paration. ➔ Material development: Improve materials Ongoing Laying of the foundation stone for by making them lighter and more resistant a new test center for critical comto extreme temperatures, resulting in lower ponents with high-performance fuel consumption and pollutant emissions spin test stand in Munich in 2017 78 Environmental Protection in Production Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Environmental ➔ Get certified to ISO 14001 and validated Ongoing Hannover and Berlin sites are certification under the Eco-Management and Audit certified to ISO 14001; Munich, Scheme (EMAS) Hannover and Berlin sites are validated under EMAS. ➔ Issue annual environmental statements for Ongoing the German sites to document compliance with EMAS requirements in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 of the European Parliament. Employees Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Occupational safety ➔ Limit reportable workplace accidents to a Not Achieved Annual tolerance threshold for maximum of 22 within the MTU Group 2017 exceeded, but actual (production sites) number of accidents lower than previous year ➔ Run surveillance and recertification audits in Annual the MTU Group in accordance with OHSAS 18001 for sites that are already certified ➔ Run a safety at work campaign with key Ongoing Local measures were implementopics ted at production sites in 2017 (see page 58 of this report). Health protection ➔ Continue developing workplace reinteAchieved gration management (BEM) at German sites ➔ Replace health days with the new active Achieved days concept as a health management training initiative ➔ Renovate and reopen the company health Achieved studio in Munich ➔ Promote a healthy diet Ongoing ➔ Introduce systemic ergonomics Ongoing management Attractiveness as an ➔ Strengthen international focus of employer Ongoing Prepare an employer value propoemployer branding sition (EVP) concept with the aim of group-wide applicability. EVP contains measures and offerings that make an employer attractive. ➔ Continue developing offers to improve Ongoing e.g. mobile working possible in people’s work-life balance Munich since 2017 ➔ Achieve “top employer” status in Germany, Annual Poland and British Columbia, Canada ➔ Support initiatives for company-sponsored Ongoing Munich, Hannover childcare during summer vacation ➔ Provide independent advice and faciliOngoing The services offered are reviewed tation services for family-related matters and enhanced on a regular basis, e.g. childcare network. ➔ Develop new offers to promote employee Ongoing Consider a car sharing provider mobility 79 Employees Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Diversity & Equality of ➔ Increase percentage of women in manageBy 2022 Target agreement on women in opportunity ment positions to 13 percent; achieve 25 management for Germany percent share of women on Executive Board ➔ Heighten managers’ awareness of their Ongoing Employee-focused issues such as responsibility to promote equal opportunihealth or work-life balance are ties, particularly work-life balance fundamentally issues for management and enshrined in various measures (e.g. health coaching). ➔ Participate in initiatives designed to Ongoing promote young female talent, such as Girls’ Day and the Research Camp for Girls Training and development ➔ Introduce a new online learning portal for Achieved Expansion in e-learning opportuniemployees to make it easier for staff to ties planned for German locations update their knowledge in line with their individual learning requirements ➔ Offer new training opportunities to Achieved The International Leadership Propromote greater internationalization gram (ILP) has been established group-wide, with events held in Vancouver, Rzeszów and Munich in 2017. ➔ Continue with Business Challenge training 2018 Launch of MTU Business and qualification program Challenge III ➔ Provide management transition coaching Ongoing The program was implemented in 2017 to provide managers with guidance and support on management topics when transitioning to a more senior position. Employer/employee ➔ Implement measures based on feedback from Achieved Implementation concluded in dialog the employee survey at the end of 2015 2017 ➔ Conduct employee survey on a regular basis 2018 For locations in Germany and Poland ➔ Continue company suggestion scheme for Ongoing putting employees’ ideas for improvement into practice ➔ Confer MTU Award to honor outstanding Every two years Awarded to 22 employees in performance 2017 Society Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Corporate Volunteering ➔ Support employee volunteer work Ongoing Support for building a children’s playground in Rzeszów, Social Day for managers in Munich, corporate volunteering in schools and the community in Rocky Hill Investing in young talent ➔ Set up sponsorship schemes for the further By 2018 MTU has signed three sponsortraining of young scientists after they ship agreements with the finish university University of Stuttgart and the German Aerospace Center. ➔ Support the Endowed Chair in Structural Ongoing Mechanics of Aircraft Engines at the University of Stuttgart’s Institute of Aircraft Propulsion Systems ➔ Provide financial backing for “Germany Annual Leibniz University of Hannover, Scholarships” Technische Universität Braunschweig ➔ Run MTU foundation with the goal of Ongoing actively supporting development of female students in STEM disciplines ➔ Award Wolfgang Heilmann Prize for young Annual scientists Promote science ➔ Sponsor the German award for aerospace Annual journalism journalism 80 GRI-Index – General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-1 Statement from the Board of Management Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer P. 5 Organizational Profile GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-3 Name of the organization MTU Aero Engines P. 8-9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services MTU Aero Engines P. 8-9 G4-5 Organization’s headquarters MTU Aero Engines P. 9 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Annual Report 2017 P. 61 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form MTU Aero Engines P. Annual Report 2017 P. 14 G4-8 Markets served Annual Report 2017 P. 164 G4-9 Scale of organization MTU Aero Engines P. 8-9 G4-10 6 Total workforce 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 60, 61, 64 G4-11 3 Percentage of total employees covered by 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 61 collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of supply chain 2.3 Responsibility for supply chains 36-37 G4-13 7 Significant changes regarding size, structure, none ownership G4-14 Precautionary approach 3.1. Operational environmental protection P. 20 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 29, 2.2 Eco-efficient engines 33, 35 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 43 4.3 Employee development P. 68 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities P. 70 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility P. 73-74 G4-16 Memberships Selection • Association of German Engineers (VDI) • Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany e.V(aireg) • Bauhaus Luftfahrt e.V. • bavAIRia e.V. • Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Munich and Upper Bavaria (IHK) • Deutsches Verkehrsforum e.V. (industry association for all modes of transport) • Employers’ Associations for the Bavarian Metalworking and Electrical Industries (bayme and vbm) • Enterprise for Health • European Aerospace Quality Group • Federation of German Security & Defence Industries (BDSV) • Forum Luftand Raumfahrt e.V. (forum for the aerospace industry) • Friends and Sponsors of the Deutsches Museum • German Aerospace Center (DLR) • German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) • German Association of Environmental Management e.V. • German Society for Aeronautics and Astronautics (DGLR) • IATA Strategic Partnerships • Münchener Bildungsforum gem. n.e.V. (Munich-based network for employee training and HR development) • Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft (sponsors’ association for German science) • Trace International, Inc. • UN Global Compact • Vereinigung der Bayerischen Wirtschaft e.V. (Bavarian business association) 81 Material Aspects and Boundaries GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-17 Basis of consolidation About this report P. 6 G4-18 Process for defining report content 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization P. 12-13 G4-19 Material aspects identified 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization P. 12-13 G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Materiality principle P. 88 MTU determines the relevance of the major topics along the entire value chain as follows: the relevance of upstream and downstream activities is based on information supplied to MTU by business contacts. We deem any topic to be relevant that plays a significant role in the industry and that has a bearing on MTU’s business activities. G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Materiality principle P. 88 G4-22 Re-statements of information About this report P. 6-7 G4-23 Changes from previous reports About this report P. 6-7 Stakeholder Engagement GRI UNGCReference/Comment Prinzip G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 14-16 Stakeholder dialog G4-25 Basis for selection of stakeholders 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 14-16 Stakeholder dialog G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 14-16 Stakeholder dialog G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 14-16 stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialog Reporting Profile GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-28 Reporting period About this report P. 6-7 G4-29 Date of previous report About this report P. 6-7 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report P. 6-7 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the About this report P. 6-7 report G4-32 GRI Content Index and chosen option About this report P. 6-7 G4-33 External assurance About this report P. 6-7 Governance GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-34 Governance structure Annual Report 2017 P. 6, 52-53 Ethics und Integrity GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle G4-56 Values, principles, codes of conduct 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 20 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 60-61 82 GRI-Index Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Performance GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Economic Performance Management approach 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization P. 16-17 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility P. 72 G4-EC1 Economic value generated 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization P. 18 4.5 Corporate Social Responsibility P. 74 Indicator is not reported by market or region. G4-EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change 2.2 Eco-efficient engines, Challenges & trends P. 34-35 Procurement Practices Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 36-39 G4-EC9 Proportion on spending on local suppliers 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 37 Environment GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Materials Management approach 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 52 G4-EN1 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 53 Energy Management approach 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 44 G4-EN3 7, 8 Energy consumption within the organization 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 45-46 G4-EN6 8, 9 Reduction of energy consumption 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 44, 46 G4-EN7 8, 9 Reductions in energy requirements of 2.2 Eco-efficient engines P. 32-35 products and services Water Management approach 3.3 Water P. 50 G4-EN8 7, 8 Total water withdrawl by source 3.3 Water P. 51 G4-EN9 Water sources affected 3.3 Water P. 50 G4-EN10 7, 8 Water recycled and reused 3.3 Water P. 50 Emissions Management approach 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 44-46 G4-EN15 7, 8 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 47 G4-EN16 7, 8 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 47, 48 G4-EN19 8, 9 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 49 G4-EN21 7, 8 Significant air emissions 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 49 Effluents and waste Management approach 3.3 Water P. 50 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 52, 54 G4-EN22 8 Total water discharge 3.3. Water P. 51 G4-EN23 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 55 method G4-EN24 8 Significant spills 3.3 Water P. 50 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 54 Products and services Management approach 2.2 Eco-efficient engines P. 29-30 G4-EN27 7-9 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 2.2 Eco-efficient engines P. 32-34 impact of product and services GE-EN28 8 Reclaimed products sold and their packaging 3.4. Material efficiency and waste P. 53 material Compliance Management approach 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 41-43 G4-EN29 8 Monetary value or non-monetary sanctions 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 43 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport Management approach 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 48 G4-EN30 8 Environmental impacts of transporting 3.2 Energy and emissions P. 48 products and other goods and materials 83 Environment GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Overall Management approach 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 41-43 G4-EN31 7-9 Total environmental protection expenditures and 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 42 investments Supplier environmental assessment Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 36, 38 G4-EN33 8 Negative environmental impact in the supply chain 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 36, 38 Environmental grievance mechanism Management approach 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 42 G4-EN34 8 Number of grievances about environmental 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 43 impacts Labor practices and decent work GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Employments Management approach 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 60-64 G4-LA1 6 Staff turnover 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 63 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 64 G4-LA3 6 Return to work after parental leave 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 64 Labor/Management relations Management approach 4.2. Responsible and attractive employer P. 60-64 G4-LA4 4 Minimum notice periods Agreements made between the employer and the works council that are governed by collective agreements can be terminated with three months’notice under Section 77 of the German Works Council Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz). This is generally also the case for the collective agreements. In cases in which the arbitration body’s decision overrules an agreement between the works council and employer, the regulations regarding notice remain valid until replaced with others. Notice periods for the assertion of claims by employers or the employer are also firmly laid down in collective agreements. In accordance with Polish law, in Poland this period is two weeks for temporary contracts and one to three months for permanent contracts, dependent on the length of the term of employment.Canada: 60 days; U.S. according to WARN Act. Occupational health and safety Management approach 4.1 Occupational health and safety P. 57, 59 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in 4.1 Occupational health and safety P. 57 formal joint management-worker health and The entire workforce of all our production sites is fully safety committees represented at the locally organized occupational safety committees, the composition of which reflects the legal requirements in the respective countries. G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and 4.1 Occupational health and safety P.58 work-related fatalities Training and education Management approach 4.3 Employee development P. 65-68 G4-LA9 6 Average hours of training per employee 4.3 Employee development P. 66 G4-LA10 Programs for lifelong learning 4.3 Employee development P. 66 G4-LA11 6 Percentage of employees receiving regular 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer, P. 64 performance and career development reviews Remuneration and additional benefits 84 Labor practices and decent work GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Diversity and equal opportunity Management approach 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities P. 69-71 G4-LA12 6 Composition of governance bodies and 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities P. 70-71 employees Equal remuneration for women and men Management approach 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer, P. 64 Remuneration and additional benefits G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 4.2 Responsible and attractive employer, P. 64 women to men Remuneration and additional benefits Supplier assement for labor practices Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-LA15 Negative impacts for labor practices in the 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 supply chain Labor practices grievance mechanism Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 23 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 23 Human Rights GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Investment Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 36-39 G4-HR1 2 Significant investment agreements and con2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 tracts including human right clauses Non-discrimination Management approach 4.5 Compliance and human rights P. 20, 22 G4-HR3 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination 4.4 Diversity and equal opportunities P. 69 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 23 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Management approach 1.1 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 36, 38 G4-HR4 3 Operations and suppliers identified 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 Child labor Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-HR5 5 Operations and suppliers with significant risk 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 for incidents of child labor 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 Forced and compulsory labor Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 G4-HR6 4 Operations and suppliers with significant risk 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 for incidents of forced and compulsory labor 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 Assessment Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-HR9 1 Operations that have been subject to human 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 rights reviews 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 Supplier human rights assessment Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-HR10 2 Percentage of new suppliers that were scree2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 ned using human rights criteria All new suppliers are contractually obligated to uphold MTU’s Code of Conduct, which makes protection of human rights compulsory. Human rights grievance mechanisms Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-HR12 1 Number of grievance about human rights 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22-23 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 85 Society GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Anti-corruption Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 20-21 G4-SO3 10 Operations assessed for risks related to 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22 corruption G4-SO4 10 Information and training on anti-corruption 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 22 G4-SO5 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 21 corrective actions taken Public policy Management approach 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 14-16 Political dialog G4-SO6 10 Total value of political contribution 1.1 Sustainability strategy and organization, P. 16 Political dialog Anti-competitive behaviour Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 20-22 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 21 and anti-trust and monopoly practices Compliance Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 20-22 G4-SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 21 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws Supplier assessment for impacts on society Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 using criteria for impacts on society All new suppliers are contractually bound to comply with MTU’s Code of Conduct, which is informed by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 chain Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Management approach 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts 2.3 Responsibility for the supply chain P. 38-39 on society 3.1 Operational environmental protection P. 43 86 Product Responsibility GRI UNGCReference/Comment Principle Customer health and safety Management approach 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 25-27 G4-PR1 Products and services for which health and 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 25-27 safety impacts are assessed G4-PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 27 regulations concerning health and safety impacts Products and service labeling Management approach 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 25-27 G4-PR3 Product and service information required by 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 25-27 procedures G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satis2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 27 faction There are no violations of rules and regulations. in the reporting period under review. Customer Privacy Management approach 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 21 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated Complaint 1.2 Compliance and human rights P. 21 regarding customer privacy and customer data Compliance Management approach 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 25-27 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 2.1 Product quality and flight safety P. 27 non-compliance with laws concerning the use of products and services 87 Materiality principle GRI G4-20-21 Material Topics Relevance for MTU along the value chain Upstream Activities within Downstream activ-ities activities the MTU Group (e.g. flights operated by air-lines) (e.g. supply chain) Long-term value creation significant significant significant Anti corruption significant significant significant Stakeholder dialog significant significant Product quality and flight safety significant significant significant Trade Compliance significant significant significant IT security and data protection significant significant significant Fuel efficiency and CO2-emission of products significant significant Environmental and occupational safety compliance significant significant significant Exhaust emission of products significant significant Noise emission of products significant significant Innovation significant significant significant Responsible Sourcing OEM significant significant significant Responsible Sourcing MRO significant significant significant Environmental management: Energy significant Environmental management: Waste significant CO2 emissions at production sites significant Environmental management: Water significant Noise abatement at production sites significant Human rights significant significant significant Occupational safety significant significant significant Employee development significant significant Health management significant Diversity & equality of opportunity significant Work-life balance significant Demographic change significant Corporate Citizenship significant *material topic for commercial aircraft engines due to inclusion in certification specifications 88 89
