proDERM Institute for Applied Dermatological Research GmbH Progress Report 2017/2018 Reporting period 01 JUL 2017 30 JUN 2018 Statement by the managing director (CEO): The proDERM Institute for Applied Dermatological Research GmbH remains committed to its continued support and implementation of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In the past business year we were to further expand the area of sustainability and in this way make the employees of proDERM more familiar with the principles of Global Compact and also the importance of social, ecological, and economical sustainability. Several projects were continued and further were initiated. We like to introduce some of them in this progress report. Our fourth progress report documents our activities during 2017/2018 in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and corruption, but also those relating to topics such as social sustainability inand outside of proDERM. Prof. Dr. Klaus-Peter Wilhelm CEO and Medical Director 2 Human rights Principle 1: Companies should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence and Principle 2: ensure that they are not guilty of contributing to human right violations. proDERM continues ensuring the fundamental labor rights and fair employment conditions, as already reported in all previous progress reports. The international code of human rights, including the Declaration of Helsinki, is observed in the interaction with employees and when working with its subjects. The main points, which were already communicated in previous progress reports, continue to be the main points that proDERM follows to develop and pursue its employment conditions. Implemented measures proDERM fosters open interactions with its employees. All employees are treated the same regardless of their gender, age, nationality, religion, or sexual orientation, and they receive fair wages according to their performance. The wages are regularly reviewed and accordingly adjusted, if appropriate. The proportion of women in the entire workforce (98 employees) was 82% in the reporting period 2017/2018. Currently, 11 of the total of 16 leadership positions are held by a woman. The proportion of employees 50 years of age and older was 27% during the reporting year 2017/2018, and the proportion of employees with a migrant background was 12% during the same period. To ensure the correct behavior according to the new General Data Protection Regulation , especially concerning all data of our subjects and customers, all employees had to participate in trainings with a comprehension check at the end. Once again, no legal cases, judgements, fines or other significant events associated with violating human rights occurred in the reporting period. 3 Labor standards Principle 3: Companies should observe freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective negotiations and further support Principle 4: abolishing all forms of forced labor, Principle 5: abolishing child labor and Principle 6: abolishing discrimination during hiring and employment. The large number of measures that were implemented and reported on in the last progress reports had a very positive effect on the staff, and we were able to further expand the measures during the last year. In April 2018 all employees were invited to fill in an anonym survey and assess satisfaction in their jobs. This so-called Happiness Spotlight shall be used as indicator and regularly checked. Implemented measures As a responsible employer, one of our declared goals is to continue promoting and maintaining the health and well-being of our employees, and to actively apply ourselves to creating a healthy working environment. Employee's needs are addressed through new adapted working hour models, which are offered since April 2018. In order to further promote the area of employee health, we offer a moving lunch break , progressive muscle relaxation and breathing exercises once a week. It involves a 20-30 minute-long health training. A lot of employees also benefited from the proDERM Health Day in April 2018. Different investigations and health tests (cardial stress test and spinal screening) were offered. Additionally, an eyesight test is offered by our internal ophthalmologist, hepatitis B vaccination is payed for all technicians, and a company physician can be inquired at any time. Every 2 weeks, at our Fruit Day , seasonal and regional fruits are offered for free to all employees. The working group Sustainability, Safety, and Health Processes collects proposals, evaluates and initiates joint activities. Also to improve the work-life-balance, shared social 4 events like visiting the Hamburger Dom , the Christmas market, and the singing event Hamburg singt , were organized. The participation fee of several sport events was also monetary sponsored by the company. Internal training groups were formed and a training lesson for the improvement of the running technique had been offered in April 2018. Since June 2018 the famPLUS platform can be used for free by each employee, if they have any question regarding the family e.g. child care places and nursing homes and other psychosocial problems. In case of special request, famPLUS consultants can be contacted via e-mail or phone. In one case a case management is sponsored by proDERM to coach an employee for half a year. The health rate indicates the percentage of planned working hours for which our employees were actually present during the 2017/2018 reporting period; it is an indicator of the health policy of our company, of employee satisfaction, and of the working environment. The proDERM health rate was 95 %, and the sickness rate accordingly 5 %. There was one reportable accident during the reporting period which happened at the institute. July 11, 2018 a lamp in the multiport irradiation device broke and glas as well as hot metal pieces of the device were spread in the room. One technician and a volunteer have been injured slightly by it. Such an incident has never happened before and it is unlikely, that it will happen again. Nevertheless, after week-point analysis, casings of all multiport devices had been fortified in a way, that such an event can never happen again. Furthermore, three car accidents happened on the journey to or from work, with only car body damages. proDERM further promotes continuing education for its employees. English and French courses are offered weekly as well as external trainings. Monetary support has been provided for the following organizations: Habitat for Humanity Förderbeitrag für die Gesellschaft für Dermopharmazie Wikimedia Deutschland e.V. Plan International 5 Paten für StrassenKids in HH Mitternachtsbus Hamburg (Diakonie) Geschenke der Hoffnung (Weihnachten im Schuhkarton) Kinder helfen Kindern Kinderbauernhof Krichdorf e.V, proDERM assesses and monitors its suppliers based on the EcoVadis solution and already reached the Gold standard . Planned measures As investigations have shown, that employees wearing a pedometer, are moving 26 % more, the working group is still evaluating, if it makes sense to provide free pedometers. Furthermore, it is planned to offer job bikes to all employees, who prefer cycling over public transport or driving by car. proDERM is still actively emphasizing sustainability aspects that are of particular importance, which include our local anchoring with companies and local people, and of course our employees. The working group is planning corporate volunteering projects and assesses different proposals and ideas. 6 Environmental protection Principle 7: Companies should support a precautionary approach in dealing with environmental problems, Principle 8: take initiatives to create a higher sense of responsibility for the environment, and Principle 9: promote the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. proDERM has actively examined the effects the company’s business activities have on the environment and always strives to improve the environmental balance. Implemented measures With the goal of energy saving, we replaced further ceiling lights with energy-efficient LEDs and installed presence detectors. Furthermore, all radiators in the management area had been equipped with programmable thermostats. With this additional equipment radiators do not run when it is not needed e.g. during the night or at the weekend. All energy saving measures, including automated hand dryers in the rest rooms, are also considered in proDERM's new rentals. Additionally, in the new rentals, rooms with high thermal output are located at the north side, selected sustainable floorings e.g. linoleum instead of vinyl flooring are used and chosen ventilation and air conditioning appliances are much more energy efficient than in the old rentals. As far as possible, all building measures are carried out by regional craftsmen. The Urban Gardening Project on the terrace is entering its third year and still growing. A lot of employees actively support this project and during the weekend of hot summer weeks, some employees even took some plants at home, to care of it. 7 Some results of the Urban Gardening Project Furthermore, employees are motivated to equip their offices with plants, which are useful for a good room climate. A list of best suitable plants has been provided by the sustainability working group. 8 End of this business year we switched to organic milk. Although organic milk is more expensive, we started this first test phase, as the main part of the employees are willing to pay for this change to organic milk and to compensate this cost difference. It is declared to be of cows living in freestalls and in summer on the meadow. Cows obtain a high amount of roughage, farmers receive a fair price and only with a certificate of exemption it is allowed to dehorn a cow under numbness. If the collected money is sufficient to compensate the price difference, only organic milk will be bought in the future. proDERM consumes more than 140 liters milk a month and now all employees who use milk, are invited to spend a little amount for happy cows. Useful tips for an ecological and sustainable life style are collected by the sustainability working group and sent out to all stuff members via e-mail or as a part of the sustainability newsletter. Planned measures To further decrease the energy consumption, a completely new sauna will be built in the new rentals. Further up for discussion is still whether we want to introduce a voluntary vegetarian meal at proDERM. There are already a number of employees who exclusively or in part maintain a vegetarian or vegan diet. This measure could also convince other employees. 9 Prevention of corruption Principle 10: Companies should take action against any kind of corruption, including blackmail and bribery. In the area of corruption prevention, we are adhering to the main points defined in the progress report 2014/2015. We will refrain from listing them again. Implemented measures As in the past, the supervisor will provide new employees with detailed information on proDERM's guidelines e.g. Ethic Policy and Leitbild and they are obligated to inform themselves on the topics on corruption and undue advantage, and will support company management in recognizing attempts at corruption. Five working groups, with different topics, have been formed to work further on the development of the proDERM concept, which is also described in the Leitbild . The tasks, duties, and processes within proDERM are clearly and comprehensively defined in Working Orders and SOPs (standard operating procedures), which are updated on a regular basis. Reviews, improvements, and assessments are achieved by regular customer audits and internal audits. In this way, it can be ensured that regulations, guidelines, as well as laws are known and implemented within the company. proDERM is planning to implement a corporate sustainability reporting according to GRI G4. There were no cases of corruption in 2017/2018, as in the years before. 10 proDERM Institute for Applied Dermatological Research Kiebitzweg 2/city center 22869 Schenefeld/Hamburg Managing Director: Prof. Klaus-P. Wilhelm, MD Contact information: phone: +49 40 839 358 – 0 fax: +49 40 839 358 – 39 info@proDERM.de www.proDERM.de 11
