2018 Communication on Progress VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 1 Mr. António Guterres Secretary – General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA. Dear Mr. Secretary General, STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am pleased to reiterate our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nation Global compacts, on Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption, and our continua support in the achievement of the year 2030 sustainable Developments Goals. I am profoundly aware of the necessity to ensure whatever is required is put in place so as to ensure stakeholder compliance at all levels within the organization to the principle. More so, I express our intent to implement the 10 principle into our day to day operation for our internal and external customers’ awareness and adherence to such. We shall therefore report annually on progress made on the principles and ensure our culture, ethics and business strategy are always in line with identified principles. Yours sincerely, Stuffman Ayo Managing Director/CEO VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 2 UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right. Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS VAS2Nets is a leading Application and Infrastructure Service Provider for media consumers, telecoms services and bespoke enterprise solutions across other sectors of the economy. We are located in and outside Nigeria with extensive experience in the development and delivery of mobile financial services, value added services, voice services and broadcast services through Apps or other available channels. We are focused on providing total product and service solutions to our reputable client base of mobile operators, banks, consumer brands, content providers and consumers alike. As Value Added Service Company, we provide industry leading solution and premium services. We have become one of the fastest-growing VAS aggregator, content and solution provider in Africa. We have integrated more than 6 major mobile operators in Africa. Today VAS2Nets employs over 40 people working in its offices in Lagos (HQ), London, India, Ghana, Cameroon and Uganda. VAS2Nets is rapidly growing and expect to hire dozens of people in years to come. The growth is fueled by our strong customer base and our array of content portfolios. VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is a major player in the VAS industry in Nigeria, whose value proposition to the telecom and content provider cannot be undermine in Nigeria. The company has emerge winners of so many award in so many capacity of recent which has pride the goodwill of the company to other intending VAS firm to look forward to VAS2Nets as a role model to competing and leverage on what we have achieved to better their interest and come to the market so as to have some portion of the market share. VAS2Nets present achievement would not have been possible if the team member are not VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 3 committed to their task, undermine and/or status abuse, which could make them to limit their input to the organization objectives. The company focus on ensuring that in all its country of dominance, we showcase outstanding work ethics and corporate standard in line with United Nation guiding principle. All our employees across the group of company are well protected against any form of right infringement, and all forms of abuse among employees are not tolerated whenever ever they exist. All forms of barrier that could lead to right infringement have been identified and addressed with all staff to make the company a conducive environment to work ; promoting international unity among staff so as to uphold the core value of the company and the United Nation. As much as we protect internal human right, other external stakeholder right are also put into consideration towards ensuring that right to information and quality service are protected. The company has been able to balance employee right in the following forms with company interest so as to ensure enabling environment; right to liberty and freedom, to live life free of discrimination, right to freely exercise religion and practice ones religious beliefs without fear of being prosecuted for beliefs, right to be free from prejudice on the basis of race, gender, national origin, color, age or sex, right to freely associate with whomever you like and to join groups of which you'd like to be a part, right to freedom of thought and not to be prosecuted from thoughts. We know that human right abuse can affect the company growth and quality service, hence, the human right buy in is a corporate management culture and all employees also follow suit. Our aim is to build an institution for others to follow which is inline with UNGC guiding principle and standard practice for other organization to imbibe. IMPLEMANETATION All available policy in the company are made available, to new and old employees for awareness Organization risk assessment and hazard identified and safety measure put in place We operate on well ventilated and conducive environment for our business operation Adequate provision of facility and tools needed to carry out work effectively VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 4 MEASUREMENT No record of human right violation, litigation, and harassment of human right No slump or causality in the work environment Also, as a certified member of ISO 9001:2008, we have annual report that is always sent to ISO body annually before our certificate is renewed which centers on quality assurance in our processes and procedure which cut across Human resources operations, clients management and mode of operation among others. LABOUR PRINCIPLE Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our nature of business gives room for freedom of association, fair hearing and right to bargain with stakeholder to the business. Undermining stakeholder contribution to the business could jeopardize the overall aim of the organization. Therefore we have identified that in the course of doing business there should be adherence to corporate standard and mutual respect of stakeholder so as to ensure committed workforce to the company goals and objective. We uphold all regulatory law and principle at high esteem and ensure stakeholder abide with such as well as ensuring zero tolerance to forced and compulsory labour. The right of every child is noted and violation of child act has never exist in all our country of business by ensuring we only employed people within the working age limit and offered employment of and for service to the company on merit. Though we give room for internship to college student according to their school curriculum to equip them with required knowledge on work ethics, structure and real time practice of learned course and future career prospect. Inter alia we understand how important this is to the student we don’t deprive the students adequate knowledge acquisition, neither engage them in forced and/ or compulsory labor through observed skill and competency during or after their internship in the company. VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 5 Our recruitment process has been an open system for all qualified candidate as selection is based on merit. We recognize international and national labour principles in the area of employment discrimination and unfair labor practices and have integrate various international labor practices into our recruitment process to guide in our choice of employee selection and employment across our country of business. Overtime our employment has include both female and male and across religion. We have never discriminate against any employee in employment neither base on religion, ethnicity, sex etc. we have set employment standard such that employment is value based on what intending employee can offer to the company. IMPLEMENTATION Recruitment and selection is based on merit system Employees were given opportunity to grow through training and anyone with innovative ideas come to management are share their ideas for implementation. Set HR Policy in line with national and international standard All employees are eligible and fall under the job workforce The company encourages team work through our team bonding activity and retreat Fair and equitable reward system in compliance with statutory standard to all staff The company has also put in place insurance cover on staff against unforeseen incident We ensure employees participate in the social activities of the company to promote cordial relationship among the staff Our policy strongly supports freedom of association and joint consultation. Management team offer business opportunity for staff to create additional income stream to the employees VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 6 MEASUREMENT No employees have ever complain of denied benefit Every employee gets fair and equitable remuneration commensurate with their role, input and qualification. There is no case of work place injury and slump of employee on duty. No discrimination on employment on the bases of sex, religion, tribe, and gender Incessant sickness has reduced among employees as a result of welfare scheme put in place which has help to improve health status. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE Principle 7: Business should support precautionary approach to the environmental challenge Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS The company has been tremendous in ensuring mobile solutions that will enable our environment to be friendly and reduce daily challenge people encounter as posed by our immediate environment in doing business and proffering means in getting things done through mobile solutions and apps for immediate eradication of challenges in the area of health, agriculture, nutrition, financial services and data management. The company has over the time develop initiative in collaboration with some first tier Bank in Nigeria and state Governors on initiative for agricultural development, which centers around pooling a large number of farmers together helping them with cash crops to plant, and providing mobile service on how to grow their crops, how to apply fertilizer and any other help that might be required to ensure effective farm output. This initiative also made it possible for farmers to get immediate professional advice on how to mitigate against any intending challenge that can affect the output of the farm produce and also create avenue for buyers to sell their product with ease without going to the market. This solution has been implemented by some governors in the Northern part of Nigeria and is intended to expand to other states in few years. VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 7 The company has made progress on Nutrition subscription service through tips on what to eat and appropriate balance diet to service subscriber which also include nursing mother. The number of service user has increased overtime which is an indication that the service is meeting the needs of the people. However, means to put promotion is being sought so as to increase the knowledge and use of the service by the populace. More mobile solutions and Apps are being developed by the company for different use and industry to ease the means of doing business in Nigeria which include USSD service for mobile financial solutions, mobile solutions for e-bills payment and platform for live video streaming and full time entertainment videos also developed. IMPLEMENTATION Development of mobile solutions and apps to ease business purpose Innovative enhancement of mobile service which made it possible for people to subscribe to get Nutrition and Health tips (pregnancy, hepatitis, hypertension, eye health, first aid, cancer, cholesterol, pelvic inflammatory disease, typhoid, malaria, STD, first aid, diabetes, blood sugar control, diarrhea, fertility for her, fertility for him, infants nutrition, children nutrition, adults nutrition, lactation, local sources of nutrients, weight loss, fibroids, labor tips, amenorrhea, exercise and fitness, general health, HIV/AIDS, healthy living, special needs for children, pregnancy nutrition, eat right, tuberculosis) at affordable rate Seeking promotional service to increase awareness and use of the mobile health and nutrition service. CSR activity by the company medical team on awareness on several health issue to the populace; on world hepatitis day, CSR activity was organized for the Lagos state road cleaners within international airport and Isolo axis. They were sensitized, screened and given free hepatitis vaccine. MEASUREMENT There has been development on the aid and mobile support service provided for the farmers, which yield output but not as expected, hoping forthcoming farming will be more productive. Improving employee and community health through outreach program to patients at health center VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 8 Periodic investigation and report review by Business Development Director on the outreach program Increase In subscription rate to the health and nutrition tips following promotions. ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Business should work against corruption and bribery in all its form ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS. The fight against corruption is on the rise in Nigeria. VAS2Nets has also follow suit and is keen in integrating necessary measure to fight corruption to enhance our cooperate value and credibility to all stakeholders and sustain its goodwill. The management has maintained a tone at the top for others to follow suit which has made the implementation of the needful easier for the compliance officer to ensure other stakeholder buy-in as a result of management consent. The management has made tremendous move to ensure all staff across the group of company comply with the standards puts in place to ensure zero tolerance to bribery and unfair practices in the course of our operations. United Nation principle on anticorruption have been documented and set in place for vendors, staff awareness and compliance. The basis for this integrated principle has been made known to all stakeholder involved. However, continuous check on the affirmative action has shown that we are on the right track as we also want this to reflect in their individual life not only in the course of doing business, so that they can impact influence more people in their various environment. IMPLEMENTATION All cash transaction for operations have been faced out by 90%, it’s a great relief to the business as we also notice electronic transaction also aid cash control by seeking ways for best alternative in course of the company operational services. Strict enforcement and compliance for registration of the company vendors The company now enhance strict compliance to processes; financial and non-financial VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 9 Measures in place towards ensuring those that represent the company in all business meeting do not put in personal interest. Noticed self-interest dealings in the company were quickly addressed for such not to repeat itself. Expenses submitted by employees related to work are documented with attached evidence of payments There are checks and balances to ensure employees are anti-corruption committed MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME External auditor frequently checks on our book of account to ensure every transaction has been done properly. Staff has really comply with gift disclosure base on the number on the register. There has been no such incident of reported cases of bribery, corruption and extortion. We are leveraging on current practices to ensure there is continuous success in this aspect. All receipt on transaction done is submitted to Admin and Finance department for assessment VAS2Nets Technologies LTD. Seth House, 5 Stella Sholanke Street, Ajao Estate, Lagos, Nigeria. Phn: +2348039003030 10
