Sustainability REPORT 2017 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on APP GRI Renewable Industries Letter from the President 102-14 Jon Riberas President. GRI Renewable Industries Dear readers, In this area, we should note the commissioning of our It is a pleasure to present the GRI Renewable Indusfirst offshore factory in Sevilla and the closing of the tries Sustainability Report 2017, which summarises joint venture agreement in Argentina with our partner our economic, social and environmental performance. Metalurgias Calviño, which will operate under the trademark “GRI Calviño Towers Argentina”. The Report was made under the Global Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI) and the materiality study After the approval of the Sustainable Development results. For this study, we have improved the methoGoals (SDG), a path was shaped on which companies dology to understand the views of our stakeholders can focus their efforts to end poverty, reduce inequality through a technological data and information analysis and fight climate change. Because of these we consitool, counting on the direct participation of manageder it to be an obligation for GRI Renewable Industries ment, employees, customers and suppliers, assessing to contribute to their completion, focusing our attenmaterial aspects on importance and perception. tion on the following goals. At GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that our futuSDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure, re holds two big challenges: the evolution of the wind through goal 9.4: to build resilient infrastructure, foster component sector, in accordance with the global trend inclusive and sustainable industrialization and encoutowards an energy mix where renewable energies are berage innovation. coming increasingly prominent, and the fight against cliIn our commitment to Innovation we opt for maintaining mate change, where this energy plays a fundamental role. our top position. We are developing various projects Therefore, in our strategy it is key to improve our prosteering to improving processes, making these more ducts through the development of modern and innovaefficient, productive and reducing our environmental tive components (towers and flanges), adapted to our impact. We are improving our products, seeking the customers’ needs, and through diversification, increabest solutions to integrate the know-how and needs of sing our presence in different countries and covering the sector when manufacturing flanges and towers bathe global demand for our products. sed on new welding and manufacture strategies, with which we seek to revolutionize the market. In addition, A clear example are the important investments made we are participating in the Spanish Wind Industry´s Teover the year, focused on the improvement of our exischnological Platform (REOLTEC) where we coordinate ting facilities and on the development of new factories. R+D+I activities that meet the needs of the sector. 4 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 SDG 13: Climate action, through goal 13.2: to advance on the Code of Ethics and the accompanying guidelines. in the different initiatives fighting climate change. Furthermore, we continue to reinforce the General InterThe manufacturing of components for the wind industry nal Control Framework and to improve the Risk and Conis key in this objective. These initiatives help us to make trol Matrix for the key business processes. energy more accessible in remote areas, as well as to miThe Health and Safety of our professionals is a key nimize effects of climate change, by generating energy aspect. In 2016 we started the implementation of the which is renewable and free of CO2 emissions. internal health and safety standard ¨IPRL¨, which encomIn this area, GRI Renewable Industries constructed a topasses and goes beyond the legal provisions applicable tal of 987 wind towers, with which we contribute to the in each country. As a result of this we can see important generation of non-contaminating energy and indirectly improvements in working conditions, on reducing risk exprevent the emission of 348,254 tons of CO2. posure and evaluating our performance more accurately. In 2017, the improvements made in GRI Towers Turkey Additionally, for the third consecutive year we have stood out and were assessed as “excellent performance”. continued with our goal of planting at least one tree for each tower manufactured, through three reforestations In relation to Social Action, we are collaborating with in Spain carried out in the surroundings of the plants GRI various organizations: The “What Really Matters” FounTowers Galicia, GRI Flanges Iraeta and GRI Madrid offidation, the Foundation Juan XXIII Roncalli, World Central ces. These activities bring a double benefit. On one side, Kitchen and AESLEME (Association for Study of Spinal we have planted over 1,300 trees which will contribute Cord Injuries). Moreover, the factories develop local inito the absorption of 608 tons of CO2 over the next 40 tiatives, mainly focused on culture and education. years. On the other side, thanks to the cooperation of All these actions are done under a model of ethics, susour professionals and their families, we improve the work tainability and respect for human rights, as is reflected environment and the pride of belonging. in the renovation of our commitment to the United NaAfter the success obtained year after year, we wish to tions Global Compact. add two factories to this challenge in 2018: GRI Castings Therefore, I encourage you to read this report, your reZestoa and GRI Towers Sevilla. commendations and opinions will be most welcome, and Regarding our performance on Compliance, this year will serve us as a guide to continue our efforts in being we have put in an enormous amount of effort on both experts and offering the best of ourselves. training and awareness, raising both online and on-site 5 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Letter from the CEO 102-14 Javier Imaz CEO. GRI Renewable Industries Dear friends, the most dynamic markets in South America. This As like every year, since 2014, it is a pleasure to prewas made possible after the approval of a new sesent our new Sustainability Report 2017, in which ries of renewable energy generation projects by the we want to reflect and summarize the main figures Government. and events of this financial year. Furthermore, we have launched our first offshore 2017 has been a difficult year for the company in tower factory, GRI Towers Sevilla, which has already terms of economic performance, principally stembegun the production of its first offshore towers and ming from changes in energy policies in some counhas obtained, in record time, quality certification under tries and start-up difficulties in the new plants. the ISO 9001:2015 standard and Health and Safety certification under the OHSAS 18001 standard. Thus, our plant in Amarillo, USA has been affected by difficulties in starting its activity which has affecWe are currently carrying out the construction of the ted production levels. Other plants like India and new GRI Towers India II plant. Its development has South Africa have suffered the effects of changes been delayed due to the long duration of the Monin energy policies in their respective countries, which soon, which made completion on schedule imposhave caused the temporary suspension of many wind sible, and we hope that this factory is operational projects in these countries, together with the consemid 2018. This, in addition to the construction of the quent impact on the supply chain for said projects. fourth plant in China, GRI Flanges China IV, which is already in the testing phase, expecting its satisfacIn 2017, investment spending (CAPEX) reached 99 tory start-up in 2018. million euros, which implies a 36% increase in respect to last year, which focuses on the improvement GRI Renewable Industries has therefore continued and development of new facilities. its endeavor in investment and internationalization in 2018 to be able to go with its customers to new This year, we closed a joint venture agreement markets in which wind energy is being developed. with Metalurgias Calviño in Argentina. This new project will operate under the trade mark GRI CalSustainability continues to be a key aspect for us. viño Towers Argentina, and will allow us to supply For this reason, we have enforced our contribution around 300 towers per year, mainly designated to to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), the Argentinean market, which has become one of particularly to Goal 9: Innovation and infrastructure, and Goal 13: Climate action. 6 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 In this context, innovation plays a fundamental role In regard to Health & Safety, it should be noted that in our contribution to SDG 9, through our innovation after the start of the IPRL implementation (Occupaprojects, which allow us to be at the forefront of the tional Risk Prevention Index) in 2016, we have impromarket, offering certified high-quality solutions and ved global working conditions by 12%. In 2017, the products, consistent with our customers´ needs. GRI factories in Brazil and GRI Towers Turkey stood At GRI we firmly believe in the necessity of contribuout the most, boasting excellent performances, and ting, via the reduction of production costs of our proGRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa that have ducts, to LCOE reduction which allows wind energy to been integrated to the IPRL. become an economical and reliable alternative for The objective in 2018 is to continue our work so that energy supply in the future, and to achieve this, we the other factories of the group continue to improve believe that innovation in our manufacturing procestheir health and safety conditions, and reach the ses and in products we offer to our customers is a key excellence level in the index also, as well as the incluaspect. sion of the new plants: GRI Towers Sevilla, GRI Calviño Regarding environmental matters, we play an acTowers Argentina and GRI Towers India (under constive role in the fight against climate change. In line truction). with SDG 13, we have once again come through on This objective must focus our actions on the design our commitment to plant one tree for each produced of our plants, the definition of our processes and protower, in reforestation completed by the facilities GRI ducts, and ultimately on all our actions, so that acciTowers Galicia, GRI Flanges Iraeta and the offices of dent prevention will be a determining factor when GRI Madrid. making decision that might have an impact on it. In regard to our team, we have slightly increased our Before I finish, I would like to thank all the support and workforce this year, reaching a total of 3,418 profesconstant work of the GRI Renewable Industries team, sionals. The increase mainly took place in our facilities which helps us to be a leading company in the wind in the United States and Spain, due to the start-up of energy sector, but above all, an increasingly sustainew factories. Nevertheless, in the remaining counnable one. tries the workforce was affected by a reduction in production, and decreased as a result. 7 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 1 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 3 ANNEXES 8 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 1 Standard Disclosures OUR COMPANY 10 BRANDS AND products 14 RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES 15 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 STAKEHOLDERS: MATERIALITY 24 REPORT PROFILE 29 9 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Our Company 102-1, 102-2, 102-3 AND 102-5 GRI Renewable Industries S.L. (GRI Renewable Industries In 2015, the Japanese group Mitsui & CO Ltd was integraor the Company onwards) was founded in 2008 as the ted as a partner, with the acquisition of 25% of the Commain provider of towers, flanges and castings for the repany. newable energy sector. We use cutting-edge technology In 2017 GRI continues growing globally, operating in 8 to supply high quality products and services all around the countries with a total of 14 operating plants, one of which world. is dedicated to the offshore market, and 2 plants which are The headquarters are located in: under construction, one destined to towers and the other C/ Ombu 3, pl.12. 28045 – Madrid to the flange sector. Milestones Development of our factories since 2008 GRI Flanges GRI Calviño China IV Towers GRI Flanges Argentina GRI Towers Brazil GRI Towers South Africa GRI Flanges India GRI Flanges China II China I GRI Towers Brazil 2018* 2017 2015 2014 2012 2011 2009 2010 2017 2018* 2016 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 2008 GRI Towers GRI Towers India II GRI Towers GRI Castings Sevilla GRI Towers Brazil USA Zestoa GRI Flanges (Cutting and GRI Towers China III Beveling) GRI Flanges Turkey GRI Towers Iraeta Galicia *Factories under construction 10 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 GRI in figures 102-7 Turnover 383,916 Expenditure in 6 Ongoing local suppliers Thousand of € R&D 81% Projects Capex Net equity 4 Reforestation 99,019 projects 324,851 Thousand of € Thousand of € tons CO2 348,254 Tower avoided production Presence in 987 8 countries Under construction facilities Operational facilities 2 Employees 14 3,418 professionals 11 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Worldwide presence Presencia Global 102-4 and 102-6 SPAIN 4 731 GRI Towers Galicia GRI Towers Sevilla GRI Flanges Iraeta GRI Castings Zestoa USA 1 404 GRI Towers USA BraZil 2 512 GRI Towers Brazil GRI Flanges Brazil GRI Towers plants GRI Flanges plants ARGENTINA 1 100 GRI Castings plants GRI Calviño Towers Argentina* Plant under construction *Not included in the scope of the report. 12 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Operational Under construction Countries Professionals facilities facilities 8 14 2 3,418 turKEY 1 246 GRI Towers Turkey CHINA 4 895 GRI Flanges China I GRI Flanges China II GRI Flanges China III GRI Flanges China IV India 2 355 GRI Towers India I GRI Towers India II SOUTH AFRICA 1 275 GRI Towers South Africa 13 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 brands and products 102-2 The company operates under the brand of GRI Renewable Industries, keeping the same structure and specifying the product or service personalized to each country and region. GRI Towers GRI Flanges GRI Castings This division is responsible for the maIts activity is the manufacturing of Its activity is the casting of steel to pronufacturing of towers for the main wind flanges (structure designed to join duce components for the wind industry. energy OEMs in accordance with the segments of wind towers). It has five Currently it has one plant in Spain, specifications defined by these. operating plants distributed over Spain, ¨GRI Castings Zestoa¨, but expanding It has 8 operating facilities for ¨onshore¨ Brazil and 3 in China. production of pieces and tooling has not towers in Galicia, Brazil, Turkey, India, Moreover, it is building its fourth plant in been ruled out. South Africa, Argentina and the USA, China, consolidating its presence in the as well as a plant in Seville to manufacAsian market. ture ¨offshore¨ towers. Additionally, a beveled cutting line has been added to the plant in Galicia. The second plant in India is currently under construction. 14 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 risks and opportunities 102-29, 102-31, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 AND 205-2 Our risk management 102-30 AND 103-2 Currently we are in a prominent position in the wind sector, It should be noted that despite the detected deficiencies, no contributing to a new renewable and sustainable energy mofraudulent activity or corruption was found in the analyzed del. In this way, we contribute to the development of the comoperations (205-3). munities where we operate, through improvement and reducAll the analyzed risks, which may or may not have a relation to tion of the contamination and the accessibility of electricity. fraud/corruption, are linked to a control for its mitigation (205-1). GRI Renewable Industries has varying risks inherent to its actiAdditionally, the operations and providers that have risks revity and to the different countries in which it operates. garding child labor, forced labor and/or human rights have been For this reason, it counts with a General Internal Control Fraevaluated (408-1, 409-1 and 412-1). mework since 2015, based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring To enhance the implementation of these control mechanisOrganizations of the Treadway Commission), which includes: ms, training related to control deficiency detection and testing • Internal Control Committee and Policy were given on a corporate level as well as on a factory level. • Array of Entity Levels Controls As of the 31st of December 2017, no claims nor significant fi• Risk and Control Matrix for each key business process nes, that exceed €100,000 or that have a special impact on the Company by nature, related to social, environmental, ecoAfter in depth analysis, 8 societies and various processes were nomic aspects nor to labor practices and/or human rights were defined in which testing was conducted representing 44.4% of received. Neither were there any significant fines nor claims rethe company. lated to unfair competition practices, monopolistic practices or Through these, various control deficiencies were found, their customer data leakage (206-1, 307-1. 418-1 and 419-1), nor material impact assessed and action plans and measures were any non-compliance regarding products and services informadefined and implemented at the closing of the year, which contion and labelling (417-2) nor any non-compliance regarding tribute to assure correct financial reporting and compliance to marketing communications (417-3). the applicable laws and regulations. 15 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Main risks and opportunities 102-15, 102-29, 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 At GRI Renewable Industries we work to mitigate and reduce all possible risks through mechanisms integrated in the organization, as is outlined next: Risk management: new projects For the development and execution Phases: of our new projects, an exhaustive 1. Data collection (customers, potential business volume, investment costs, regulatory study is done in which all quantiaspects, capital repatriation, etc.). Once analyzed, and if viable, it is brought to the Board tative and qualitative aspects of of Directors for the next phase. the project, as well as the potential risks, are analyzed and assessed 2. The Board of Directors approves the new project as well as the necessary meaby the distinct departments prior to sures to mitigate potential risks. It is periodically informed about its degree of process by their presentation to the Board of the CEO and, where applicable, by the different departments. Directors. 3. Once approved, all procedures to obtain the necessary permits and licenses, the All proceedings and their derived startup and the outsourcing of the design, engineering and construction activities are risks are continuously analyzed by initiated, as well as the investment, financing, and purchasing of assets and machinery. the management and the teams of Similarly, the selection of the necessary personnel for the plant’s operations is started. the company, which allows for their detection and for the quick and 4. Once the plant is finalized and starts operating, it counts with ¨startup teams¨ from agile implementation of correcting other plants of the group to put the plant into operation together with the local teams. measures. In the developed and financed projects, no clause or commitment regarding human rights has been required (412-3). Operational risks We focus our efforts on keeping and improving the relationsFurthermore, as a result of controlled testing, a list of improvehips with our customers, adapting ourselves to their needs, ments in the different company processes has been defined, amplifying our product and service portfolio and increasing our which will be implemented over the year 2018. global presence. A clear example of our expansion and improvement is the To minimize this risk, various technological improvement, innojoint-venture with Metalurgica Calviño (An Argentinean comvation and production efficiency actions have been defined in pany founded in 1943 which specializes in the manufacturing the Strategic Plan aiming to avoid faults in the product, manaof metallurgical structures and equipment), with whom we are gement problems, competition problems, etc. and to adapt ourcurrently immersed in a modernization, amplification and imselves better to the customer´s requirements, without losing provement process, which will then allow us to operate under the high quality that characterizes us. the GRI Calviño Towers Argentina brand at the end of 2018. Reputational, ethical and human right risks These are caused by possible behaviors which are contrary to In addition, a compliance committe and the chanels belong the guidelines indicated in the policies and codes of GRI Rehave been defined to respond to complaints and conflicts that newable Industries regarding ethics, human rights and antimay arise. corruption. Through these mechanisms, we have mitigated the risks and Through the new Management of Corporate Compliance and improved communication and management regarding the ecothe managers of the different plants, an ambitious training plan nomic impact of our factories (business opportunities to local covering the compliance codes and policies for all personnel providers, employment, improving the local economy, tax payhas been executed. ments, etc.). 16 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Financial Risks The activity of GRI Renewable Industries is subject to financial and covering these risks in accordance with the policies approrisks. These are managed through the risk management proved by the Board of Directors. gram, which focuses on the uncertainty in the financial markets For GRI Renewable Industries, having a presence in different and minimizes the potential adverse effects on the financial countries and to be close to the customer is a competitive profitability. Additionally, we use derivatives to reduce the imopportunity. Risks and possible incidences are reduced and pact of the currency exchange rates. mitigated with more robust, profitable and sustainable growth. The financial department is in charge of identifying, evaluating The three most relevant financial risks are outlined next: Market Risks Credit risks Liquidity risks The risks that may arise due to losses caused by variations in The credit risk stems from This management imthe fair value or in cash flows of the financial instruments are the cash and cash equivaplies the maintenance of following: lents, derivative financial cash and sufficient ne• Exchange rate risks: the company operates in the international instruments and deposits gotiable securities, the sphere, and, for this reason, is exposed to exchange rate risks in in banks and financial insavailability of financing operations with foreign currency. titutions, and, fundamenand the capacity to setttally, from outstanding le market positions. Due • Price risk: This risk arises from our raw materials that are exposed payments of customers. to the dynamic character to the risk of price variations in the international markets. This risk is mitigated of underlying business, • The interest rate on cash flow and fair value: As the company the treasury department through various mechadoes not have large remunerated assets, incomes and cash flow of the company has as nisms such as the rating in its exploitation activities are greatly independent of variations its aim to keep flexibility and relation of the banks of the market´s interest rates. in financing through haand financial institutions, The company analyzes its exposure to these risks by defining the sales to the customer by ving short and long-term possible scenarios and variables (refinancing, renovation of current geographical location and/ credit lines available. positions, alternative financing and coverage), for the liabilities that or independent appraisals represent the most relevant positions supporting an interest. of customers, if available, As for the closing of the financial year, as this risk was considered and otherwise by evaluato be of small significance as well as the expectations regarding the ting their credit capacity. evolution of the interest rates, which are considered to be optimistic, the company has not deemed the formalization of interest rate coverage contracts necessary. Social and environmental risks Due to the continuous growth of the population in the coming Through innovation and new technologies, we are addressing decades, natural resources, products and services will be used the challenges as they arise in the wind energy sector. more intensively, thus creating a bigger environmental impact For its environmental management, the Integrated Manageand causing more emissions to be released into the atmosphement System is available which includes the precaution princire. In this area, renewable energies will play a more important ple (102-11) through the Code of Ethics and the Sustainability role in the world´s energy mix. Policy, aiming to protect the environment and continuous imFor this reason, GRI Renewable Industries offers more innoprovement. This will be further elaborated on in its corresponvative and efficient products, with the least possible impact. ding section. 17 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Risks related to health and safety GRI Renewable Industries has its Health and Safety policies insionals that are on the premises. Through the IPRL index, imtegrated and works under the OHSAS 18001 standard which portant improvement opportunities are detected. This will be is of unavoidable compliance and is applicable to all profesfurther elaborated on in its corresponding section. Risks: confidentiality and privacy Information security Business Process Support GRI Renewable Industries is convinced that information has The Information Systems are a fundamental element for the become a strategic asset for business and people. execution of the business processes. With this objective, the IT For this reason, the necessary mechanisms have been establidepartment keeps the ERP SAP, the PLM tool and the Group´s shed to safeguard information privacy and to protect the data infrastructure and communication services centralized. At the of customers and providers, as well as to manage and treat dosame time, the department carries out transformation projects cumentation adequately according to its level of relevance, and to align the systems with the growth of the company and to to enhance security. The information security procedures are the new processes, focusing on business support, efficiency periodically revised and the systems are continuously tested and profitable and sustainable growth. to ensure their tightness. In some cases, the collaboration of third parties may be necesIn the year 2017, the following actions, among others, have sary for which an impartial process is followed, consisting of been taken to improve security policies: the publication of the needs, reception and appraisal of offers and the final selection based on criteria related to business su• Periodical system scans to detect external and internal vulpport and IT systems efficiency. nerabilities and their correction in accordance with their level of criticality. To this effect, the Systems area has been present not only in the incorporation of new companies to the Group (GRI Towers • Diagnostic of information security and its risks based on the Sevilla, GRI Calviño Towers Argentina), but also in new challenISO 27000 norm. To reinforce awareness and training of the ges that the organization faces in its innovation strategy and group´s employees’ campaigns and training actions were the improvement of productivity and efficiency, such as tools done. The following should be noted to exchange documentation with providers, the digitalization · ¨Anti-Phishing¨, with the objective to detect the level of risk of invoices and the digital management of cost notes. During and to make employees aware of these attacks. the year, the rollout of the new Immediate Provision of Infor· Yearly Information Security Course, aiming to update emmation system (SII) which allows for the daily and automatic ployee´s knowledge of applicable policies. sending of information required by the Spanish tax authorities Improvement opportunities are detected in the information (national and provincial). security area through tracking, control and diagnostic mechanisms. Main risks 2017 In 2017 GRI Renewable Industries has faced various derived risks from the market situation in the countries it operates in. Due to the materialization of some of these, there was a significant reduction in turnover compared to the expected turnover. The most relevant identified risks in this period are: • Risk of a new global financial crisis. • The price hike of raw materials, espe• The change in the wind market´s • The downturn in the Chinese market cially steel. pricing model in countries where GRI • The threat of Chinese tower proRenewable Industries has a presence • The tendency to concentrate on big ducers and the high tariffs on steel (Turkey, South Africa, USA, India). customers, which reduces its number. originating from China. • Risks derived from the USA protectionist policy. 18 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 MISsION, VISION and values 102-16 AND 102-17 The Company has developed a global corporative culture that has kept the same values and principles since its origin, but which are adapted to the local necessities of each country, to the current market conditions and to the requests of stakeholders. MISSION VISION VALUES GRI Renewable Industries mission is to globally meet the needs of our Global and innovative leader • Honesty customers considering in the manufacturing of • Humility their activity, the safety wind turbine components, • Tenacity of our employees and creating a more sustainable the respect for the and emission-free future for • Work environment. everybody. Furthermore, policies and formally established common guidelines are available, as are outlined next: 1. Sustainability Policy 2. United Nations Global Compact Approved by the Board of Directors at the end of 2015, its aim We have renewed our commitment once again with the inteis to reinforce the main commitments on ethics, sustainability rest of promoting and implementing the 10 universally accepand human rights in all the countries we operate in. ted principles. The Sustainability Policy is available on our web. 3. Compliance Policy and Management 4. Ethics Committee 102-34 In 2017 the Compliance Department was created and approThis is the body responsible for the promotion of the values ved by the Board of Directors. This policy includes the following: and conduct of GRI Renewable Industries, and for the tracking, the communication and the dissemination of the Code of • Code of Ethics and Conduct Ethics, as well as to assist in the resolution of doubts regarding Approved by the Board of Directors in January 2014, as a repossible claims or incidents, all through the complaint channels: ference for all decisions taken by all employees and collaboraby email, by telephone or by post. tors of GRI Renewable Industries. During the year 2017, the Ethics Committee received one • Harassment prevention guidelines and action protocol report for illegitimate use of charge or inappropriate conduct, which was closed in 2017 (406-1). The company has not reThis incorporates the measure for prevention and reporting ceived any complaints from third parties, nor any related to laof possible situations of harassment, with the minimum asbor practices nor related to human right violations. pects of obligatory compliance in all the countries we operate in. With the objective to make the policies and guidelines known to all employees, a Company Training Plan has been develo• Behavioral guidelines to offers of incentives, ped. This training has been conducted by the Compliance area gifts or invitations through an on-line and on-site course, in which 2,290 people These regulate bribery and corruption in the countries we participated. Which is 67% of all employees, of which 75% operate in with the objective to comply with all the laws, refollowed the on-site course and 25% took the course on-line gulations and standards. through the Leading the Change platform (205-2 and 412-2). 19 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Governance 102-5 GRI Renewable Industries S.L. was founded on June 22 of forty-four euros (€10,021,344) represented by three hundred 2008 under the name ¨Gonvarri Infraestructuras Eólica¨, later thousand four hundred (300,400) accumulable and indivisible it was denominated ¨Gestamp Wind Steel¨ before taking on its company shares of one single class and series, of a par value of current name, GRI Renewable Industries, and absorbing Gonthirty-three euros and thirty-six cents (€33.36) each, numbevarri Eólica. red correlatively from 1 to 300,400, both inclusive and which The subscribed share capital as of December 31, 2017 are fully subscribed and disbursed. The company is not listed amounts to ten million twenty-one thousand three hundred on the Stock Market. Structure of Governance. Composition and its committees 102-18, 102-22 AND 102-23 The governing bodies of the company are the General ShareThe company ACEK Desarrollo y Gestión Industrial, S.L., repreholders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, the highest body sented by D. Juan Maria Riberas Mera held the position of Maof governance, supervision decision-making and control of the naging Director of the Company at 31 December 2017, being company. delegated each one of the powers vested to the Board, except The Articles of Association of the company set out the functhose that may not be delegated by Law or according to the tioning of the Board of Directors, as well as the requirements Articles of Association. and established deadlines to convene the General ShareholThe Board of Directors will represent the Company in all the ders´ Meeting. No provisions are made for other means to matters lying within the corporate purpose and those associamanage the company, and the modification of the executive ted with the trade or dealings thereof, subject to no form of body would, therefore, entail a modification to the Articles of limitation, placing obligations upon the Company with its acts Association. and contracts, with the entitlement to exercise all powers not As of December 31, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Comexpressly reserved by the Act or by these Bylaws for the Gepany comprises of six members, namely: neral Meeting. The company is not listed on the Stock Market and its members of the Board of Directors represent the total number of partners and therefore, there is no legal obligation to count with representatives from other stakeholders. President Acek Desarrollo y Gestión Industrial, S.L. Represented by Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera Secretary Member Gestamp Bizkaia S.A. Mr. Javier Imaz Represented by Rubalcaba Mr. Francisco José Riberas Mera Member Mr. Noboru Katsu* Member Mr. Mario Ruiz Escribano Member Mr. Hiroki Ishihara *Replaced by Mr.Hori Shinichi on May 7, 2018 20 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Delegation, economic, social and environmental responsibilities 102-19 AND 102-20 The members of the Board of Directors will perform their duties decisions. The Board of Directors may agree to vest special with the diligence of a responsible business owner and loyal powers of attorney in company employees to address specific representative, and they must maintain secrecy as to confidenaspects of operations previously approved by the Board. tial information, even after leaving office. The responsibilities Similarly, the Company integrates its social, environmental and of the Board include the approval and commitment to the Code economic responsibilities at the various Departments, whose of Ethics and Conduct and the Sustainability Policy. most senior management figures refer any decision to be taken The Board of Directors takes relevant decisions at its plenary to the CEO and, if applicable, to the Board of Directors. sessions and delegates, where relevant, the execution of said Appointment and Selection Processes. Conflicts of interest 102-24 AND 102-25 The President of GRI Renewable Industries does not hold an Shareholder status is not required to be appointed as a director, executive position. Power to appoint Board Members lies soand the position may be held by both natural and legal persons. lely with the General Shareholders´ Meeting, which represents Likewise, the Articles of Association establish the conditions the interests of all partners (see indicator 102-18). that prohibit the performance of said functions. The members of the Board of Directors are appointed by the Shareholders may not exercise their voting rights corresponshareholders themselves, and therefore other aspects regarding to their shares when they are subject to any case of ding diversity, minorities, etc. are not taken into consideration. conflict of interest as established in Article 190 of the Royal They will perform their duties indefinitely, without prejudice to Legislative Decree 1/2010, of 2 July 2010, which approves the the General Shareholders´ Meeting´ power to proceed at any Consolidated Text of the Capital Companies Act. time or moment with the severance or termination, in accordance with the Law and with these Articles of Association. 21 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Functions and Communication with knowledge regarding the senior body sustainability of governance 102-22, 102-26, 102-27 AND 102-32 102-33 AND 102-21 The functions of the Board of Directors include the approval and commitment to comply with the standards of the Code The General Meeting is called by the Board of Directors when of Ethics and Conduct. They are kept permanently informed it is deemed necessary or desirable in the corporate interests, regarding social, environmental and economic issues, through and, in all cases, on the dates or during the periods established the communication channels such as: periodic meetings with in the Law on Corporations. the management of the different areas, the Sustainability ReAdditionally, the meeting must be called in case one or several port and actions and initiatives of the company. shareholders representing at least five (5) percent of the share The Sustainability Report is coordinated through the sustaicapital request so, stating the matters to be discussed in their nability team, which is part of the Communication, Marketing request. In this case, the General Meeting must be invoked to and Sustainability Department. After its elaboration, a revision be held within two (2) months of the date when the notarial and supervision process is conducted by the different departdemand was served on the Board of Directors to call the meements, to finally be approved by the CEO. Similarly, to ensure ting. The order of business must necessarily include the matthe reliability of the information, the Report is externally veriters which formed the object of the request. fied by an independent body. Unless any other mandatory requirements are established, the General Meetings will be called by means of a written, individual announcement sent by registered mail with confirmation of receipt, by telegram, by registered fax services or any other written or remote electronic means that guarantee the receipt of said announcement by all the shareholders, at the address they have designated for this purpose or at the address recorded in the Company´s documentation. Those responsible for the various departments keep a fluid and permanent communication with the CEO and the Company. Any major concern is immediately conveyed, which, if necessary, is immediately referred to the Board of Directors. Meanwhile, periodic meetings are organized in which all the corporate experts participate. These are bidirectional meetings, with the CEO communicating all the relevant aspects regarding the management and situation of the company, and in turn, receiving feedback from the experts to these issues and to other aspects of interest. Finally, the consultation processes between stakeholders and the senior body of governance (102-21) are done through mechanisms for the exchange of information between the Board of Directors and the stakeholders. 22 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Nature, performance and number of issues raised at the Board of Directors 102-28 The performance of the Board of Directors is not evaluated, as bers to participate in an informed discussion of the matters set the members are, through their shares, the owners of the comout in the order of business. Where applicable, the announcepany and represent all shareholders. ment of the meeting must mention the fact that it may be atThe General Meeting will be held within the first six months tended in person or by proxy, physically in person or through of each financial year to scrutinize the corporate management teleconferencing, videoconferencing or any other equivalent and to approve, where applicable, the accounts for the previous system, with the requirement to indicating and providing the year, and to rule on any matter regarding the results. The Genecessary technical resources for this purpose, which must, in neral Meeting will be validly established to deal with any issue, all cases, allow for the direct and simultaneous communication without the need for prior notification, as long as all the shabetween all attendees. re capital is present or represented and those present unaniUnless all the Board Members should agree otherwise, the mously agree to hold the meeting and its Order of Business. announcement will be served thirty calendar days prior to the Unless any other majority is mandatorily established, and exdate when the meeting is to be held, except in cases of extrecept for the provisions of the adoption of the Key Decisions for me urgency, in the judgement of the President or at the request which the General Shareholders´ Meeting is responsible, corof any Board Member, when it may be served five (5) days in porate agreements will be passed by a majority of validly cast advance. An announcement will not be required provided that votes, provided that they represent at least a third (1/3) of the all Board Members are present and decide to hold a meeting. votes corresponding to the shares into which the share capital The Board of Directors will be validly convened whenever the is divided. Blank ballots will not be counted. meeting is attended by five (5) of the members, each Board Regarding the Board of Directors, it will convene whenever so Member entitled to be represented by another Board Member, decided by its President, either on his own initiative or when through a written authorization, signed by the represented so requested by two of its members, and it will meet at least party, on an individual basis for each meeting. Nevertheless, if once per quarter, and in all cases within ninety (90) days of a Board Meeting could not be held due to lack of the establithe end of the financial year. In 2017, the Board of Directors shed quorum, it may be convened again just 7 days in advance, met 9 times. with the same order of business, in which case it will be deemed validly convened if the meeting is attended, in person or The announcement will be sent by letter, telegram, fax or any represented, by the majority of its members. other written or electronic means. The announcement will be addressed personally to each of the members of the Board of Resolutions may be passed in writing, without a meeting beDirectors, listing the matters to be dealt with in the meeting, ing held (including through written electronic means), provided along with the required information to allow the Board Memthat no Board Member opposes this procedure. Remuneration of the Board of Directors 102-35, 102-36 AND 102-37 The position of director is unremunerated in said capacity, The contract will detail all the items for which a remuneration notwithstanding payment of any fees or salaries that might for the performance of executive functions may be received, be payable by the Company for the provision of professional including, where applicable, the possible compensation for preservice or an employment relationship, as applicable, resulting mature dismissal from said functions and the amounts payable from a contractual relationship other than those derived from by the Company for insurance payments or contributions to the directorial position. Said fees will be subject to the legal saving plans. regime that would be applicable. The contract must comply with the remunerations policies Additionally, and irrespective of the above, whenever the adapproved, where applicable, by the General Meeting. ministration and representation of the Company is entrusted This financial year the indicators 102-38 and 102-39 are not to a Board of Directors, and a member of the Board of Directors reported. We do not have a uniform method to obtain a result is appointed managing director or is attributed executive functhat would comply with the requirements of the indicators and tions by virtue of some other title, a contract must be made in some cases the information is considered to be confidential. between the Company and said individual in accordance with the Law. 23 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 stakeholders: materiality Communication with stakeholders 102-40, 102-42 AND 102-43 GRI Renewable Industries has constant dialogue with its stakeholders through the various communication channels, as are detailed below: SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS »» Audits »» Leading the Change »» Visit’s to installations »» Criteria for subcontractor’s selection »» Interdepartament Meetings with »» Audits conducted by customers »» Supplier Initial Assessment (SIA) management in each of our work sites »» Periodic meetings »» Quality Sistem, Monitoring and »» B2B platform available for some Measurament »» Business and Health & Safety customers Committees »» Social Networks and website »» Informative meetings with the CEO »» Sustainability report »» Email »» Social Networks and website LOCAL COMMUNITIES Media AND AUTHORITIES »» Social Networks »» Agreements with local authorities »» Website »» Licenses, permits and authorization »» Press Office »» Consultation time for Environmental »» Press Release Impact Assessment SHAREHOLDERS »» Social Action activities »» Meeting with the Board of Administration »» Ordinary and informative communications Competence »» Forums and associations »» Specific collaborations 24 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 In addition, the plants collaborate locally with the following organizations (102-13): AICA ASIME AIMEN BOSB GTO BSO IMMIB Carballiño Metal Industries Metallurgical Bandirma Organize Gönen Chamber Balikesir Chamber Istanbul Metal and Industrial Area Association Research Industrial Zone of Industry of Industry Mining Exporter Association Association of the Commerce Northeast We highlight the internal and external communication with the stakeholders through social networks, the website and the intranet. In 2017, the following results were obtained: Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Followers 105 10,101 TOTAL Total number of 639 10,845 contents posted in 2017 403 7 22 432 Visits to our profiles 4,093 15,439 19,532 25 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Relevant aspects: Materiality study 102-44 AND 103-1 For the ¨Identification of material topics¨, a benchmarking proFor this identification, we have amplified and improved our cess about the companies in the sector was undertaken, the methodology to gather information and representativeness of appearances in the media and in reports from analysts regarour stakeholders through technological data and information ding issues relevant to our sector were analyzed and assessed, analysis tools, having the direct cooperation of the manageas well as the implementation and development of the Comment, employees, customers and providers, through the aspany (policies, plans, etc.). This allows us to group the relevant sessment and the perception of the identified topics. information into 20 topics. This improvement allows us to have this information not only Below, we weigh these 20 topics to identify those most releat a corporate level, but also for each country in which GRI Revant to our stakeholders and to the company, from an internal newable Industries has a presence and, by doing so, to define and an external perspective. the local measure that improve our management and response. External and internal coverage 102-46 External Sectorial Press Analysts´ Employees’ Providers´ Benchmark analysis reports opinion opinion Management Press Contractual Key aspects Internal opinion analysis obligations The average participation of the surveyed stakeholders is around 60%. For the stakeholders: management and employees. We have the following results: Surveys sended: 687 Participation Managers Employees 72% 45% 100 Percentage of response by country 80 60 40 67% 41% 20 40% 26% 30% 19% 0 Brazil Spain India Turkey USA SouthAfrica 26 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 After this analysis, its weighing and revision, a global total of 6 material issues were defined. In the table the material topics and the chapter in which they are elaborated on are outlined: Global materiality aspects Information Coverage in GRI Renewable Industries (102-47) of reference (102-46) Presence in new countries and the development of 1 Economic dimension Both new products. The commitment of senior management regarding General Standar 2 Both sustainability and good governance. disclousures Formal ethics and anti-corruption framework. General Standar 3 Both Communication, rollout and complaint channels. disclousures The formal framework for risk control and compliance. General Standar 4 Both Communication, rollout and complaint channels. disclousures Talent attraction and retention. Training programs, Social Dimension: 5 Both professional development and performance reviews. People Health and Safety management Social Dimension: 6 Both for employees and subcontractors. Heath and safety The answers have been analyzed on a global scale and for programs¨ (promotion of sports, healthy eating habits, etc.) are each country, to determine the material topics which were not considered to be a material topic. covered globally, but which are important locally. Regarding this topic, additional information will be given in the The result has been homogeneous in all countries, and only corresponding chapter. in Brazil ¨Employee health, habits and lifestyle improvement 27 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Incredibles GRI presentation Incredible 360!! In January, the presentation of the Incredible 360 campaign took place for the employees of GRI corporate in Madrid. Javier Imaz, CEO of GRI Renewable Industries (GRI), explained what the campaign entailed, highlighting its importance as a tool to inform the organization of the different initiatives and activities. Juan Llovet, corporate director of communication and sustainability, explained the name and showed how to access the campaign through the new Leading the Change application. Additionally, he spoke about the 360-degree video technology used for its recording. At the end of the presentation of the Incredibles, attendees were able to enjoy a 360-degree experience of the GRI plants GRI Castings Zestoa, GRI Flanges Iraeta and GRI Towers Galicia, thanks to the Google Cardboard glasses that were handed out to the attendees to display the videos through their own mobile phones. 28 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Report profile 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 AND 102-53 The report was drawn up in accordance with the guidelines In the event that any reference to information outside this peestablished by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-standards), riod is made, it will be clearly indicated in the corresponding and shows the information regarding the year 2017, from section. Similarly, indicators which have no available informaJanuary 1 to December 31. tion will be indicated as ¨not available¨. Regarding the previous financial year, the scope has been exThere has not been any restatement of information regarding tended with the quantitative information of already operating the previous financial year (102-48). “GRI Towers Sevilla” and with the qualitative information regarding our new plant “GRI Calviño Towers Argentina”. Presentation cycle Significant Changes GRI conformity and external The report, which is made annually, 102-10 AND 102-49 verification 102-54 AND 102-56 encompasses the period between January 1 of 2017 and December 31 In 2017 there have been two significant of 2017, the 2016 report being the changes in comparison with the last The Report was drawn up in conlast produced. Report: formity with the GRI standards, on a · The GRI Towers Sevilla plant has comprehensive basis, whose table of Contact of the report content can be found in the Annex of been integrated with quantitative and For general issues regarding this report, qualitative information. this report, together with the indepeninformation is available at: dent external verification report done · Qualitative information on the new GRI with the company PwC. Calviño Towers Argentina plant has rsc@gri.com.es been included. +34 91 379 19 00 There have not been any changes made to the supply chain, except those deriving from the new facilities. C/ Ombú 3, floor 12. 28045 Madrid. Spain 29 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 1 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 3 ANNEXES 2 Specific Standard Economic DIMENSION 32 SOCIAL DIMENSION 43 Environmental DIMENSION 60 € € € Economic DIMENSION 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 Economic performance Momentum of the wind industry At GRI Renewable Industries, we seek to consolidate our leaSince 2016, Spain has been pushing the wind industry via ding position in the wind sector through quality service and REOLTEC (Spanish Wind Industry´s Technological Platform) innovation in response to the customer´s requirements. of which GRI Renewable Industries forms part, being its R&D The year 2017 stood out because of the good results obtaicoordinator. ned in the wind energy sector. Global wind capacity has increased to 52,573 MW, so covering 5% of the global electricity Marine wind energy demand. The leading countries in installed capacity are China, the USA, Germany and India. In 2017, more than 3,000 MW of offshore wind energy was installed. Marine wind energy has also reached major milesThe Asian giant has added 19 GW to its portfolio, the USA tones such as the first floating marine wind park, located in 7.1 GW and Europe reached 16.8 GW installed capacity, with Scotland, which also helps to drive new wind technology. Franleading countries as Germany, the United Kingdom, Finland ce, Finland and Belgium have added installed 227 MW to this and Belgium, among others, according to data by WindEurope. technology. Spain continues to be the second European country with 23 GW installed power. Jon Riberas, president of Gonvarri Steel Industries, visited the facilities of GRI Flanges China Jon Riberas visited the facilities of GRI Flanges China to see their progress and the state of affairs ¨in situ¨. Among others, the new heavy forge plant with the capacity for 16-meter flanges spiked his interest, and so did the machines and installations such as the new rolling mill and press which is expected to be put into operation in 2018. Similarly, he visited the innovative raw material plant, developed under a patented project, which implies a qualitative leap in the heavy forge. And, finally, he was able to visit the tooling plant, which, after the acquisition of the latest technology, will produce prototypes of complex pieces for high requirement markets (Nuclear, Civil, Aeronautic, ...). 32 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Growth and global presence In GRI Renewable Industries we work to be a reference in the sector, and for this reason we have a global presence in countries such as Argentina, Brazil, USA, South Africa, Spain, Turkey, India and China. This 2017 GRI Towers Sevilla and GRI Calviño Towers Argentina have started operating and the construction of two new plants continues: GRI Flanges China IV and GRI Towers India II. Their state of affairs is summarized below: New plants in operation GRI TOWERS SEVILLA This is the first plant dedicated to the manufacturing of marine wind towers. It is located in Sevilla, in the shipbuilder´s zone. The plant occupies an area of 159,700 m2 and has an average staff of over 175 professionals. Production will start in April in accordance with the customer´ requirements that include metal sheet cutting and manufacturing flanges and ferrules. In September the first tower pieces were built designated for Germany. Additionally, UN 1090:2015 and ISO 9001:2015 certification was obtained in record time, GRI Towers Sevilla being the first plant to obtain this certification under this new version of the standard. GRI CALVIÑO TOWERS ARGENTINA GRI Renewable Industries set up a Joint Venture agreement with Metalurgia Calviño to start manufacturing wind towers in Argentina in the second semester of 2017. This new plant will be located in the already existent industrial facilities of the Industrial Center which CALVIÑO possesses in Florencio Varela, in the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Initially, it will allow for the provision of 300 wind towers per year to the Argentinean market, and it will create 350 highly-skilled jobs. The partnership between GRI Renewable Industries and Calviño guarantees the provision of wind towers made in Argentina, under the highest international quality and delivery standards, offering an immediate and internationally proven solution. 33 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 New plants under construction GRI FLANGES CHINA IV Located in the Shandong province, this plant will manufacture 16-metre diameter flanges (tower junctions) from various materials such as stainless steel, copper alloys and aluminium, etc. Testing for its startup in 2018 began at the end of 2017 in accordance with requirements established by customers. Production will mainly be designated to the nuclear energy market, and to renewable energy: offshore towers and to the aerospace market, among others. GRI TOWERS INDIA II Located in Anthavaram, in the Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, this new facility will provide support to the current GRI Towers India I plant. Estimated annual production is 300 towers, creating 300 direct jobs. It is currently in its testing phase, aiming to start production in 2018. 34 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Balance Sheet 201-1 and 201-4 Over the past four years, GRI Renewable Industries Group has The locations where GRI Renewable Industries is present made an extraordinary financial endeavor with the commisreceived a total of 21,628 thousand euros through business sioning of 11 new plants, along with the modernization of the rates, taxes and levies, which contribute to improving the existing plants by incorporating state-of-the-art machinery. All quality of life and the services available to the local poputhis has involved an investment of 250 million euros. Additiolation. nally, there is the planned startup of two new plants in China and India. The company’s Net Worth is 324,851 thousand euros. This has resulted in the doubling of the volume of its fixed assets which have gone from over 200 million euros to 400 miNet Worth llion euros, doubling the company´s dimension. Thousand euros 2016 2017 The company´s key economic figures are outlined below: Total 330,989 324,851 Economic Value Generated (EVG) with a total of 393,497 The company received 5,477 thousand euros (201-4) in the thousand euros, distributed as follows: form of tax incentives by public administrations as shown Economic Value Generated below: Thousand euros 2016 2017 Tax Benefits Turnover 401,319 383,916 Thousand euros 2016 2017 Financial revenue 4,207 3,463 Tax reliefs and tax credits 1,914 1,029 Other revenue 3,702 6,118 Subvention 111 243 Total EVG 409,228 393,497 R&D 320 558 Financial Benefits 5,157 3,617 Total 7,502 5,447 Economic Value Distributed (EVD) amounting to a total of 475,544 thousand euros, distributed as follows: As for the other accounting obligations, the companies that Economic Value Distributed form part of the GRI Renewable Industries Group are, in the Thousand euros 2016 2017 main, obliged to draw up annual audit reports on their indiviOperational costs 269,480 282,700 dual annual accounts given the total volume of their assets, CAPEX 72,634 99,019 turnover and average workforce. There are no exceptions in Payment to capital providers 7,069 6,522 these reports. Taxes 28,236 21,628 Following approval by the corresponding body, these reports are presented, in due time and form, at the Mercantile RegisPersonnel 57,300 65,468 ter for each financial accounting year, with the legalization Investments in the community 200 207 of the Official Records and the filing of the Annual Accounts. Total EVD 434,919 475,544 Furthermore, the companies of the group have no outstanding Social Security, General Treasury or tax payments. The Economic Value Retained (EVR) with a total of -82,047 thousand euros Economic Value Retained Thousand euros 2016 2017 Total EVR -25,691 -82,047 35 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Supply Chain 102-9 GRI Renewable Industries´ suppliers are an indispensable asset within the value chain, for their importance in project planning and in the project’s cost competitiveness. The following areas are integrated in the ¨Supply Chain¨ corporate division: Procurement, Warehouses, Purchases (direct and indirect), Supplier Quality and Logistics. Their respective functions are specified next: Procurement Warehouses This is the first link in the supplier area. For it to function coThose in charge of warehouse management are responsible rrectly, the team must assure that providers comply (in good for receiving goods and stock management in all plants under time and manner) with deadlines, monitor costs according to the group´s standard. the planning done beforehand and that the latest technologies They continuously look to optimize processes in order to reduare used to generate new synergies which optimize supply ce costs, stock levels, and to improve service without comprochain management. mising on quality nor delivery terms. Another of the functions of Procurement is to maintain fluid and continuous communication with each project´s stakeholders, and to manage risks that might arise before the material´s correct delivery to the plant. To comply with these requirements, meetings are held to establish mechanisms for identification and minimization of risks. Purchases There are two types of purchases: Direct purchases, production and investment aspects; and Indirect purchases, supplies and services. Direct Purchases Indirect Purchases For all our business lines, the operating purchase entails a For purchases related to investments, supplies and services wide range of product families. Steel, by volume and cost, is a selection process is completed for suppliers and subconour main product. A raw material which has certain limitatractors, based on service quality criteria, market positioning, tions, depending on the country, due to legal aspects as well competitive advantage and risk prevention. as customer requirements. Given the drive for growth of the group, all our supplier relaFor this reason, suppliers calibrated in the market are selections within the area are long-term, as well as strategic for ted. As steel processors, we are very proud of our strategic operational purchases. relations that tie us to other steel providers and, conseIn this context, we seek to develop relations with providers quently, we dedicate many resources to having long-term and to assure that GRI Renewable Industries has a cost and relationships and that allow for a competitive advantage for service advantage over its competitors, and at the same time both parties. build a creditworthy and fruitful business for the supplier. Apart from steel, other products are fundamental for our Real and potential impacts regarding environment, labor competitiveness such as: internal tower parts, doorframes, practices, social impacts and human rights in the supply flanges, etc. for which we seek global and strategic partnerchain are not considered in GRI Renewable Industries. ships. The 2017 financial year required an in-depth revision of the area, with the purchase of a new mill in GRI Flanges Iraeta, our new Slitting & Beveling center in GRI Galicia, the launch of the first Off-shore project (GRI Sevilla) or the new GRI Towers plant in India, to adapt to the new requirements and market. 36 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Supplier Quality tracts, where contractors express their agreement and commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics and Conduct of GRI The supplier quality area, at a corporate level as well as in each Renewable Industries, which is included in the annex as a part plant, is in charge of the certification/auditing of suppliers, comof the contract. plaint management and remedial action development, which Finally, in the purchases of materials to which this applies, a allow us to ensure that products and their providers live up to requirement to inform on the provenance of the material is inthe Group´s standards. cluded. They may not originate from foundries that use so-ca2017 has been a year where various projects have been delled “conflict” minerals (coltan, cassiterite, gold, wolframite, tin, veloped, and in which the supplier quality area has defined tantalum, or any other mineral or its derivatives) that may conobjectives to reduce claims and their associated costs. To this tribute to funding conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the effect, new specific procedures and new tracking indicators Congo and/or neighboring countries. have been set. In addition, the obligation to inform on sustainability, ethics and human rights in process and/or product audits have formally Logistics been included as part of the ¨General Process Check List¨. The logistics area focusses on transportation cost reduction Regarding the supplier evaluation and homologation process, (for acquired goods, thus reducing costs, as well as for the fi100% of the suppliers have been evaluated in the ¨Supplier nished product, extending business scope); hereby improving Initial Assessment¨(SIA) on aspects related to environment, service and creating competitive advantage over competitors health and safety, human rights and work and social aspects in the sector. (414-2 and 308-1). We also incorporated new requirements to This area also centralizes all information related to tariffs and the survey regarding human rights and compliance. taxes associated with the movement of goods, which is of inThis is reinforced through a clause incorporated in supplier concreasing relevance in the sector. 37 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Supplier Relations GRI Renewable Industries prefers to work with efficient suThis evaluation is done through a supplier homologation quesppliers, which allow for global coverage with a standardized tionnaire called ¨Supplier Initial Assessment¨ (SIA), which incluservice. des various aspects related to quality, environment and safety, The evaluation and homologation of suppliers of raw materials ethics, compliance, human rights and restrictions of foundries and materials (steel, paint, etc.) are coordinated and managed that use ¨conflict minerals¨. from the head offices in Madrid through the Supplier Quality In 2017 a total of 49 suppliers were evaluated and re-evaluadepartment, complying with the procedure that requires the ted. In addition to the evaluation, ¨in-situ¨ product and process evaluation of all new suppliers and the biannual re-evaluation audits were done by the purchase team. of existing suppliers. We contribute to the development and wealth generation in the communities of the countries we are present through expenditure in local suppliers. The total expenditure in suppliers in 2017 reached 514,347.41 euros, of which 81% corresponds to local suppliers. Its distribution per country is given below: Expenditure on local suppliers (204-1) Country (thousand €) Total supplier’s expenses Local supplier’s expenses Local supplier´s % Brazil 125,926.24 113,411.48 90 Spain 136,434.59 94,573.59 69 India 9,799.46 7,531.58 77 South Africa 19,647.76 14,994.13 76 Turkey 17,120.93 5,712.33 33 USA 24,914.34 18,620.53 75 China 180,504.08 162,671.51 90 TOTAL 514,347.41 417,515.15 81 Annual quality training: the APQP4Wind concept A global meeting, in which the main issues related to quality control are put together, is held annually and there is a training day on the subject of ¨APQP4Wind Concept¨ (Advanced Product Quality Planning). This concept focuses on guaranteeing customer satisfaction in five phases that include planning, design and development of products and processes, their validation, evaluation and continuous improvement. Its implementation generates various benefits such as process standardization, a preventive and cost reductive approach, risk design error minimization and energy reduction, among others. This concept is gradually being implemented in all plants of GRI Renewable Industries. 38 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Innovation: products and processes 102-2 GRI Renewable Industries relies on an expert team dedicated Regarding product labelling (towers and flanges), our obligato designing the manufacturing of towers and flanges, fulfilling tions focus on being able to provide necessary information for the objectives set by each customer. their adequate traceability and their correct definition. In any Offering a quality product and service is an essential aspect to event, our products do not feature any chemical or environus, which is why all operating plants are certified under internamental risk (417-1). tional quality standards. It should be noted that the GRI Towers Due to the classification of our products and services, their Sevilla and GRI Towers Turkey plants have updated to the new evaluation on health and safety matters is deemed non-appli2015 version of the standard and that the remaining plants are cable (416-1). Similarly, no incidents have occurred related to in the adaptation process. non-compliance concerning impacts of products and service on Similarly, all plants, aside from GRI Towers Brazil, are also cerhealth and safety during their life-cycle (416-2). tified under the EN1090 standard, and, consequently, our products have the CE conformity declaration. INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE GOAL 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities. 39 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Investment in innovation and infrastructure are fundamental as/as well as for the generation of new employment opportudrivers for growth and economic development as much in the nities and the promotion of energy efficiency. company as in the country. For this reason, we choose in our commitment to innovation to Technological advances are essential in order to find permakeep a leading position and to develop initiatives that allow for nent solutions to economic and environmental challenges, just improvements in processes as well as in products. Development of new processes At GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that the investment in technologies and the continuous processes improvement report relevant benefits, amongst the ones it could be highlighted: the investigation of new production processes, quality excellence, occupational safety and the improvement in the data obtaining, analysis and management. Down below we summarize the main on-going initiatives: Industry 4.0 implementation Improvement of equipment We are working on the digitalization of the manufacturing proFocused on the improvement of the standard equipment and cesses in all its phases, which will enhance: machinery to adapt it to the needs of our manufacturing de1. Flexibles processes adapted to the demand. partment. 2. Totally individualized dealing with customers. For such purpose, we have multidisciplinary equipment enhancing us to have better practices and the knowledge for an 3. Shorter cycles of designing, manufacturing and sales. internal specific development. Upon completion of its develop4. Short, fast and efficient production series. ment, it is implemented in the plants. 5. Information collection and integration from different channels. 6. Big Data development and analysis for the processes Lean manufacturing optimization in real time. We are always seeking the excellence in our manufacturing processes. To this effect, culture is focused on a more efficient organization, with a greater response speed through the miniNew methods of manufacturing mization of waste and the cost and time reduction. Thus, we Focused on the technological improvement and automation, carry out: we are working on the assembling automation processes, the • Analysis of the Processes Value. application of new welding technologies, the time saving on • Measurement indicators (lead tiem, WIP, Takt Time…). the paint processes, and so on. • Search of the continuous flow. This initiative greatly benefits the ergonomic conditions of • KANBAN development… the employees and reduces the energetic consumption as it is more efficient. GRI Renewable Industries, as a leading company in the sector, works daily with a continuous improvement system, achieving an efficient and technological manufacturing process and providing a product with high quality standards. 40 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Lean Manufacturing At GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that continuous We have internal training teams available, that, with the improvement allows us to be more efficient and compehelp of external collaborators, are in charge of training titive. Therefore, we focus our efforts on initiatives that and raising awareness for factory employees. generate value via the ¨Lean Manufacturing¨ philosophy, and through investment and the development of new proII. To create a standard for communication and analycesses. sis of operational indicators The search for improvement opportunities and the impleAs the Lean project is being implemented, measurement mentation of the right measures allow us to adjust our indicators specific to each factory and process are defiproduction to the demand of the market, reduce our costs, ned, that give us objective information on the degree of keep our high-quality standards and, be more competitive progress and the end result. throughout. Since 2014, we have gradually implemented this philosophy in our factories, focusing on three points: III. To improve productivity in all areas These indicators give us objective information on the result of the project and allow us to extrapolate to other I. To provide a culture of continuous improvement at similar projects in other factories of the group, and so faall levels of the company cilitate the continuous improvement. Lean Manufacturing is a commitment for ¨all¨. We have developed a training course and instructional plan for all This philosophy is currently being implemented at an “adlevels of the organization, from its leaders to the worvanced” level in the GRI Towers Galicia and GRI Flanges kers, which allows us to raise awareness and to impleIraeta factories, and is being developed in GRI Towers Seviment this new improvement culture. lla and GRI Towers Turkey. In all factories, the results have exceeded expectations 41 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Product innovation Since its beginning in 2015, GRI Renewable Industries has The R+D+I team coordinates inputs from all business units intaken a step forward, setting a new line of action in the wind volved in the ¨product life-cycle¨, to transform them in novel sosector from its position as a reference manufacturer in the inlutions with competitive costs. In addition, we rely on the expedustry, creating the R+D+I department. rience of the group in the manufacturing of metal components. Design Manufacture Tower Design Adaptation Maintenance Logistics The developed projects are focused on providing our custocally, which allows us to streamline and accelerate the design mers´ products with added value, bringing our own product and development of new projects. The main pillar for all this, is development and meeting, among others, the high-quality generating added value while exploring the limits of state-ofstandards and the cost adjustment requirements that the secthe-art technology. tor has been subject to for years. On this road, we rely on the support of the Centre for the DeWe are at the right time in the industry, leading, developing and velopment of Industrial Technology (CDTI), and on the strong applying different projects from R+D+I which were agreed with belief of the Group in the solvency of investing in the developmain customers, suppliers and certifying organisms, marking a ment of products linked to research. turning point in understanding the development of the present Currently, after years of developments, the R+D+I department and future wind turbines. These designs are embodied in diholds a strategic position in the market. Our final objective is to fferent proposals for tubular metal towers, hybrid towers and answer to the current and future needs of the market, which solutions for higher metal towers. increasingly requires more powerful turbines, accompanied by Furthermore, various tools/software have been developed that higher towers, to improve the competitiveness of wind proallow to automatize, design and certify wind towers automatiducts. GRI Renewable Industries continues to offer added value to the wind market Erection Transport Manufacture Customer Release Supply Chain Certification Tower Design 42 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 € € € SOCIAL DIMENSION PEOPLE Health and Local Safety Community 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 Management focus GRI Renewable Industries has an international, competent Headcount and highly qualified staff, who are committed to the mission 102-8 and values of the company, which helps promote sustainable growth. In 2017, the workforce of GRI Renewable Industries compriFrom the Human Resources department, we take care to sed of 3,418 (direct) professionals and 129 external (indirect) guarantee stable and quality employment, with growth and collaborators. promotion opportunities for its employees. Compared with 2016, the global workforce saw a slight increase of 1.8%, although this growth varies within the different countries, as is shown in the turnover section. As for the distribution by age, the segment of workers between 30 and 50 should be noted, which makes up 64% of the total workforce. PERSONNEL MEN WOMEN Country 30 years 30-50 years +50 years 30 years 30-50 years +50 years TOTAL Brazil 117 297 26 18 52 2 512 Spain 106 456 74 17 70 8 731 India 27 307 20 1 0 0 355 South Africa 71 172 14 6 12 0 275 Turkey 102 136 2 2 4 0 246 USA 160 183 33 10 10 8 404 China 236 390 84 67 110 8 895 819 1,941 253 121 258 26 3,418 Personnel by country Personnel by age Brazil 64% 70 China 15% 60 26% 50 40 Spain 30 28% USA 21% 20 12% 8% 10 India 0 7% 10% < 30 years > 30 years Turkey 8% < 50 years > 50 years South Africa 43 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 The evaluation of both direct and indirect employees in regards to last year is GRI Renewable shown below. Industries benefits Direct employment 2016 2017 club: New employee Country M W M W portal Brazil 559 86 440 72 GRI Renewable Industries presented Spain 525 82 636 86 its Benefits Club, a tool through India 289 10 354 1 which its employees can enjoy South Africa 381 1 257 18 many offers and discounts at online and street stores. Turkey 322 29 240 6 USA 164 14 376 28 It can be accessed through the intranet and the ¨Leading the Change¨ China 712 183 710 185 Mobile App, available on Android and iOS. The site is available 24 Indirect hours a day, 365 days a year. employment 2016 2017 Its use is easy and intuitive. It only Country M W M W requires setting the preferences Brazil 10 2 1 0 and the location, and the system will provide offers and discount that Spain 1 0 17 4 might interest the user. India 18 6 74 0 South Africa 146 0 2 1 Turkey 0 0 12 4 USA 78 0 12 2 China 0 0 0 0 As for executive staff, 66% are aged over 50, and the remaining 33% are between 30 and 50 years old. 67% have the local nationality and all are men. Collective agreements 102-41 54% of the employees at GRI Renewable Industries are covered by sectoral collective agreements or similar agreements, and 20% are protected by a ¨Handbook¨, stipulating employment conditions, rules of conduct, salaries, social benefits, etc. The remaining 26% corresponds to the employees located in China, which have agreements or similar structures in compliance with provisions defined and regulated by the Ministry of Work and its applicable legislation. Others 26% Handbook Collective agreements 20% 54% 44 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Turnover 401-1 Taking into account the total headcount, this financial year a increase of personnel in those countries. In China, on the other slight difference can be seen in comparison with last year, of hand, the number of employees has remained stable and in around 1.8%. Nevertheless, if we analyze the workforce data Brazil and South Africa the workforce has been reduced. by country, more significant differences can be found. A total of 625 new hirings were made, mostly in Spain and in On one hand, the workforce at GRI Towers India has increased, the USA, and 761 discharges. The average turnover rate was and with the start of operations of GRI Towers Sevilla, GRI Cas22.2%. tings Zestoa and GRI Towers USA, there is also a significant Hires MEN WOMEN Country 30 years 30-50 years +50 years 30 years 30-50 years +50 years TOTAL Brazil 14 15 1 3 4 0 37 Spain 79 168 16 9 16 0 288 India 3 0 0 0 1 0 4 South Africa 1 7 1 0 1 0 10 Turkey 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 USA 90 100 18 3 4 2 217 China 20 36 2 3 5 2 68 207 327 38 18 31 4 625 Leavings MEN WOMEN Country 30 years 30-50 years +50 years 30 years 30-50 years +50 years TOTAL Brazil 35 73 7 4 13 0 132 Spain 52 137 17 8 19 1 234 India 23 6 1 1 0 0 31 South Africa 30 35 2 10 4 2 83 Turkey 22 28 0 2 2 0 54 USA 76 70 15 1 5 2 169 China 16 29 5 0 8 0 58 254 378 47 26 51 5 761 45 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Job stability Job stability is a priority for GRI Renewable Industries. 99.8% The distribution by country, gender, type and contract duration of employees have a full-time contract (of which 11.84% are is as follows: women and 88.15% are men) and 93.8% are on a permanent contract. JOB STABILITY CONTRACT EMPLOYMENT PERMANENT TEMPORARY FULL TIME PART TIME Country M W M W M W M W Brazil 440 72 0 0 440 72 0 0 Spain 460 86 176 9 636 88 0 0 India 354 1 0 0 354 1 0 7 South Africa 257 18 0 0 257 18 0 0 Turkey 240 6 0 0 240 6 0 0 USA 326 25 0 0 326 25 0 0 China 690 181 20 4 710 185 0 0 2,767 389 196 13 2,963 395 0 0 Employment conditions and human rights GRI Renewable Industries strives to have a competitive and committed workforce, and it is therefore important to have an appropriate work environment where employees are motivated and can develop their career. Work-life balance. Maternity/Paternity 401-3 Resumption Rate At GRI Renewable Industries, the work-life balance is Retention Rate one of the most highly valued aspects. For this reason, we have flexible work entry and exit 95% times in our offices. This is more complex in the plants, however, as work is organized in shifts based on the customer requirements, so we strive to offer individual 76% flexibility to those workers whose circumstances re65% quire so. As for paternity and maternity leaves, 71 men took the paternity leave, of whom 65% resumed their job. As to women, of the 19 leaves, 95% have resumed their 44% jobs. Meanwhile 76% of men and 44% of women remain at the company after taking paternity/maternity leave in 2016. Men Women Men Women 46 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Equality and Diversity 405-1 In an international company such as GRI Renewable Industries, The distribution by gender and category is shown below, inthe diversity of people with different perspectives, from diffecreasing the recruitment of female technical plant personnel rent origins and different working models prevails, as they bring by 1 percent. a great competitive advantage to the company. 85% of the GRI Renewable Industries workforce holds the The diversity in the workforce is necessary in order to innovalocal nationality status, thus fostering social development in te, to make big changes and to continue offering new business the communities we have a presence in. Regarding employees opportunities. with disabilities, we have 17 employees, representing 1%, in As to the distribution by gender, we have kept the same ratios senior management and administrative positions located in as the year before: 88% are men and 12% are women. Brazil, Turkey and Spain. Personnel by professio nal category 78% 2% 0% 8% 10% 2% Men Women Men Women Men Women Managers Middle Managers and Plant&Office personnel supervisors GRI Renewable Industries Be Active participates in the Obstacle run This new program, created by GRI Renewable Industries, ¨Gladiator Race¨ wishes for its employees to adopt good and healthy habits through the promotion of sport activities. In October, as a part of the activities programmed in the #BE Sport activities within the group, such as paddle competiACTIVE campaign, our team participated in the GLADIATOR tions and participation in charity and popular races, have RACE obstacle course, which was held in the town of Alcobenbeen promoted by this initiative. das, Madrid. It was a day with a significant participation rate, filled with companionship and fun, and, of course, some competitiveness. To top such an amazing day, the company was a prizewinner in the team category. GRI Renewable Industries encourages its employees to stay active and to take part, and to make it, as well as any other, a recurring activity. 47 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Attraction, development and talent retention GRI Renewable Industries is aware that it needs stable, motivated and qualified staff, where a pleasant work atmosphere should be given priority. This is essential to continue in our sprawl as leaders in the production of wind components. Hiring and Internal training Performance assessment 404-3 Internal Promotion At GRI Renewable Industries, we believe that internal promoThe performance assessment is intended to periodically astion means talent recognition and commitment to the careers sess employees in qualitative and quantitative terms, on their of our professionals within the company. efficiency in their daily tasks as well as on the results achieved. Generally, when a vacancy is to be filled, the most closely aligThis financial year, the review was applied to 50 executive poned profiles are sought within the workforce. For this purpose, sitions and 1,463 employees of other categories like intermethe job offer is published on the portal, to which employees diate positions and plant technicians, in the following factories: have access, so that they are able to apply. GRI Towers Turkey, GRI Towers India, GRI Castings Zestoa, GRI Additionally, vacancies in other countries as expatriates are Towers Sevilla, GRI Flanges China and at the company headoffered. This allows our professionals to develop their profesquarters in Madrid. sional career in different locations, and to gain new experienOf the total workforce, 43% of men and 57% of women were ces, whilst covering these vacant positions. assessed. For the positions that are not internally covered, hiring is caIn the following graph their distribution by country is shown: rried out externally with the help of expert recruiters. Short-term deployments are also offered, for shorter periods 100 in so-called ¨start-up teams¨. These teams assist in the commissioning of new plants in order to pass on their know-how, 75 100% 100% 99% experience, corporate culture, methodology and working me50 thods to the new employees in each country. To improve internal promotion, the ¨Talent Map¨ project star25 43% ted in 2016, with the aim of detecting current and future 0 needs through the development of individual short and meSpain Turkey India China dium-term plans. In 2017, the critical positions were identified, as well as the abilities, skills and capacities at executive level, with the intention of extending this analysis to the rest of the company in 2018. Their distribution by category and gender is shown below: evaluation by category 2017 M W Managers 59% 43% Middle Managers and supervisors 54% 58% Plant&Office personnel 41% 57% For the remaining employees in the operational parts of the factories, a polyvalence analysis was carried out which assessed their skills and knowledge of performing different tasks. 48 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 42,212 training hours 12.35 hours per employee 15 Training and professional 12 development 9 12.3 12.5 hours hours 404-1 6 per per 3 employee employee At GRI Renewable Industries, we take the development of the 0 capacities and skills of our employees very seriously. MEN WOMEN Each year, each plant analyzes the training needs of its workers and a training plan is drawn up ¨ad hoc¨ to the requirements of each plant, which integrates new employees. 15 Since the year 2016, annual comparative English assessments 12 were done between the employees in the head offices in Madrid, and the requirements of their positions. 9 12.4 12.1 12.4 Thanks to this study, more personalized classes are being gihours hours 6 per hours ven for improvement, and then later for certification under inper per 3 employee employee ternational standards. employee 0 Intending to make training more flexible and to adjust it to buManagers Middle Plant&Office Managers siness needs, a blended platform embedded in LTC University personnel was launched in 2017, with the support of classes on-site and by telephone. This same platform has been used in Spain to give training to the different employees who were transferred to the compaimproves the employability of said workers (404-2), as is the nies of the Group. case in Turkey, where courses concerning improving welding In the USA and Argentina, on-site Spanish classes have starwork and work at heights were given, and in Brazil where courted, for the local and transferred staff (mainly from Brazil) in the ses in the assembling and disassembling of structures were executive and middle management categories. given.relacionados con la mejora de los trabajos de soldadura Training initiatives have started in various companies of the y de la realización de trabajos en altura, y Brazil, donde se han group, in pursuit of complementing a versatility matrix, which impartido cursos de montaje y desmontaje de escturcturas. Middle Managers Plant&Office Managers and supervisors personnel Country M W M W M W Brazil 9 0 664 76 5,205 532 Spain 224 119 1,390 410 6,091 640 India 22 0 407 0 2,169 0 South Africa 15 0 42 2 3,149 71 Turkey 8 0 185 49 7,078 127 USA 0 0 0 0 6,822 139 China 404 269 338 319 2,900 2,337 682 388 3,026 856 33,414 3,846 With regard to the distribution of training hours, around 52% of the manual for harassment prevention and the behavioral mathe hours were designated to Health and Safety. nual concerning incentives, gifts or bribes. All factories of the Additionally, 67% of the workforce has completed the Comgroup, as well as 20 security subcontractors, were trained in pliance course on the company policies, like the Code of Ethics, this field (412-2 and 205-2). 49 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Social Benefits 401-2 The social benefits that the company offers are very diverse as The distribution of the main benefits is outlined next: Life, methey are adjusted to the customs of each country. dical and disability insurance, canteen or cafeteria service and transport. Medical Life Disability CanteenTransportation COUNTRY insurance insurance insurance tickets contributions Brazil 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Spain 0% 100% 0% 0% 0% India 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% South Africa 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% Turkey 100% 0% 0% 100% 100% USA 100% 100% 100% 0% 100% In Spain, we have the ¨PRF¨ Flexible Payment Plan, which offers and therefore benefiting from tax breaks. In 2017, the PRF was employees various services within the remuneration package, solicited by employees with the following distribution: such as transportation tickets, daycare and food vouchers, etc., Medical Insurance 42% Childcare voucher 12% Transport Restaurant voucher 10% 36% Pension funds and/or retirement plans 205-3 Pension funds are part of the social benefits of the GRI Towers The plant in India has a retirement plan for employees who India and GRI Towers South-Africa plants. have been working there for more than 5 years. In the case of GRI Casting Zestoa and GRI Flanges Iraeta, these plans are a mandatory requirement of the Metal Sector Collective Agreement Guipúzcoa which regulates both plants. 50 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 € € € SOCIAL DIMENSION PEOPLE Health and Local Safety Community 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 Management focus To GRI Renewable Industries, the Health and Safety of our emtions, therefore complying with legal requirements as well as ployees is a key aspect, always present in the decision-making with the Group´s internal standards. process and in the development of work plans focused on the Our integrated management system (IMS) is based on the inconstant improvement of safety and working conditions in all ternational standard OHSAS 18001. Because of this, and as production centers. a global company, we accept the commitment to implement a Our aim is to integrate Health and Safety to all levels of the Health and Safety Management System at work as a fundaorganization, as well as to establish a true preventive corpomental part of our strategy, based on the constant evaluation rate culture based on collaboration, team work and the strong of risks associated with our activity. Through this, we make the commitment of all our employees. health and wellbeing of all workers a priority. The organization is based on the development and highest leGRI Renewable Industries actively manages each and every vel of implementation of our Health and Safety Policy. To this detected risk, by implementing preventive and remedial meaeffect, GRI Renewable Industries has a multidisciplinary team sures to reduce probability and severity of any unwanted ocof highly qualified experts, focused on excellence, who work on currences. a daily basis to guarantee maximum Health and Safety condi51 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 IPRL: EXCELLENCE SYSTEM FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT The IPRL represents the internal safety standard for health The satisfactory implementation of this internal referential and safety developed by GRI Renewable Industries itself, and leads to better employment conditions while reducing risk which has been applied since the beginning of 2016. This exposure for the company. At the same time, it allows the orindicator has defined the common Health and Safety criteria ganization to accurately evaluate performance on Health and that are applicable to all production centers of the group, gaSafety matters in all its facilities. Afterwards, all deviations are thering all features of the different technologies and producinternally managed to draw up action plans and to guarantee tion processes, and also including best practices in pursuit of that all established criteria are respected and met, to ensure continuous improvement of operational safety and efficiency. the highest level of safety and protection of the workers. The IPRL standard covers and goes beyond the applicable leIn IPRL, in its most aggregated level, shows performance with gal provisions in each country where GRI Renewable Industries a score of 0 to 100; 100 being the most unfavorable and 0 the operates, as well as the OHSAS 18001 requirements. perfect situation. This rating is calculated through the average weighing of three criteria that in turn build on 89 factors. IPRL Index Rates 30% Working conditions 35% H&S Management 35% 3 FACTORS 57 FACTORS 29 FACTORS Frequency Rate 27% Routes of traffic (3 factors) 9% Accidente investigations 5% Severity Rate 27% Stores (5 factors) 10% Training 4% Severe Accidents 45% Lifting tools (4 factors) 15% Special Works 5% Fire protection (3 factors) 7% Risk assessment 7% Productive machines (31 factors) 32% External companies 4% Auxiliary machinery (6 factors) 12% Health Surveillance 4% Environmental conditions (5 factors) 8% Safety Inspections 5% Ergonomic conditions (2 factors) 7% Audits 3% This year, two new plants have incorporated the IPRL index In 2018 the entry of three new plants is planned, which are (GRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa), the latter being a currently starting up or are under construction. Our plants in metal foundry for the wind industry and the metallic automotiChina are not included in this scope either. ve component industry. 52 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Employment conditions and prevention management At GRI Renewable Industries, IPRL results are continuously available to the entire organization through the internal commonitored and evaluated each trimester by the responsible munication channels and the corporate intranet. Health and Safety team. In 2017, all plants of the group were Below, percentual improvement concerning employment conaudited under the IPRL standard*. The results of the internal ditions and prevention management in each of the centers audits as well as of the continuous evolution of the plants is since 2016 is shown. WORKING CONDITIONS HEALTH & SAFETY MANAGEMENT 4QT 4QT % Improvement % Improvement 4QT 4QT % Improvement % Improvement 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 GRI Flanges Brazil 35 29 29% 16% 26 18 7% 31% GRI Towers Turkey 57 34 30% 41% 48 33 27% 32% GRI Towers Brazil 30 36 56% -19% 31 24 16% 22% GRI Towers India 86 74 10% 14% 68 57 14% 17% GRI Towers USA 73 21% 76 6% GRI Towers South Africa 86 78 4% 9% 85 75 -13% 12% GRI Castings Zestoa 75 7% 78 7% GRI Flanges Iraeta 86 76 0% 11% 80 78 19% 3% GRI Towers Galicia 66 60 7% 8% 60 59 0% 1% GRI Renewable Industries 17% 12% 10% 15% * Annual improvement percentages have been calculated with the results of 1QT of 2016 and 1QT of 2017. GRI Towers USA and GRI Castings Zestoa were incorporated to the IPRL indicator in the course of 2017. In 2017, we improved employment conditions by 12% and preand Safety increased by 17%. Training sessions were focused vention management by 15%. Consequently, we increased the on high-risk activities, the handling of machinery and specific number of centers with ¨excellent¨ performance by 4%, owing assessment of workstations. Concerning investment, the improto GRI Towers Turkey entering the green zone of the IPRL. vement actions, both specific and headed through IPRL, implied In addition, this financial year specific training given on Health a total investment in safety of over 1.2 million euros worldwide. GRI Towers Turkey reached the EXCELLENCE level in IPRL, GRI´s own health and safety standard GRI Towers Turkey has reached the person or department would be able Not only have the employment conlevel of excellence in the IPRL indito manage this correctly. Everybody, ditions and health and safety manacator after the internal audit from and especially the operators, must gement improved, but also accident 2017. The results show the team be involved. This success will help rates in the plant. work towards a common objective, both to raise awareness for others We are very proud of the performed focused on achieving the improveand to provide a safer and more posiwork, the shown commitment and ments of this standard. Their comtive workplace.” the absolute integration of safety mitment to Health and Safety make The work of GRI Towers Turkey on in the day-to-day functioning of the GRI Towers Turkey the third plant of the IPRL started in January 2016 plant. For all that, GRI Towers Turkey the group to reach this goal. and, since then, they have been has become a reference for contiNur Hanay and Aysegul Demirtas, able to reduce the indicator´s score nuous improvement, 5s and prevenmembers of the safety team, indicaby more than half, this being easily tive culture. ted that “this is a team effort, just one visible in the conditions of the plant. 53 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Tracking indicators GRI Renewable Industries performs continuous tracking of inRegarding occupational diseases in 2017, the situation is dicators related to accident rates, these being totally integrasummarized below ted within the IPRL structure. These indices relate to internal workers as well as to subcontractors or temporary staffing firRate of professional ms that perform tasks which are necessary and specific to our illnesses 2017 activity. Among the traditional indicators the following can be 403-3 Own Personnel found (403-2): Country MEN WOMEN Brazil 2.68 0 Accidents with Spain 3.51 0 leave 2017 Own Personnel TOTAL 1.55 0 Country MEN WOMEN Rate of the professional illness: nº of occupational diseases/nº of hours Brazil 0,9 0,0 worked *1,000,000 Spain 62.3 55.0 India 6.6 0.0 In the rest of countries, the rate have been 0,0 for both genders. South Africa 89.7 23.8 Turkey 2.7 0.0 Regarding days lost through accidents, there has been a deUSA 2.1 0.0 crease in comparison with the previous year. On the other TOTAL 26.0 19.4 hand, the rate of days lost through absence has slightly increased. The results corresponding to 2017 are shown below: Rate of accidents with leave: Nº accidents with medical leave 2017/ nº hours worked *1,000,000. Days lost per accident Own Personnel Accidents without Country MEN WOMEN leave 2017 Own Personnel Brazil 283 0 Country MEN WOMEN Spain 1,626 943 Brazil 0.9 0.0 India 127 0 Spain 104.4 78.6 South Africa 552 262 India 11.5 0.0 Turkey 11 0 South Africa 0.0 0.0 USA 47 0 Turkey 2.7 0.0 TOTAL 558 319 USA 57.7 73.1 Rate of days lost through accident: nº of days lost due to occupational accidents/nº of hours worked *1,000,000 TOTAL 34.8 31.6 Rate of accidents without leave: Nº accidents with medical leave 2017/ nº hours worked *1,000,000. DAYS LOST PER ACCIDENT + OTHER CAUSES Own Personnel It should be noted that, globally, in 2017 there was an increase Country MEN WOMEN in accident rates, mainly caused by poor performance in seveBrazil 1,528 1,969 ral of our production centers. Spain 4,536 10,146 Nevertheless, there is a group of plants (namely Brazil, USA, India 127 0 Turkey and India) where accident rates are at a historical low South Africa 2,973 2,759 due to the work on the integration of the IPRL, commitment of the management and the awareness of all workers. In 2017 no Turkey 1,219 0 fatal accidents have been registered by our group. USA 47 0 TOTAL 2,026 4,260 Rate of days lost through accident + other causes: nº of absence days/nº of hours worked *1,000,000 54 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Risk analysis 403-3 GRI Towers India holds its Work Safety Week Each factory conducts a comprehensive risk assessment that is periodically reviewed by both the plant and at a corGRI India staged the Work Safety Week porate level. from March 4 to 11. This initiative, which is done to commemorate the National The main detected risks are listed and addressed globally to Safety Day in India, has covered different guarantee complete control, while defining specific protocols activities with the objective of raising the of obligatory compliance, such as: adjustment of specific plant employees´ awareness on Health work equipment within the production process. and Safety matters. In 2017, specific hygienic and ergonomic assessments were For this event, there were meetings started. After the analysis of the results, specific action plans explaining commitment and safety regufor each of our centers were defined to adjust machines and lations at work, activities such as creating workstations, improving the wellbeing and conditions for all banners and posters, illustrating safety workers. situations and even drills to prepare worIn 2017, 7 cases of occupational disease were detected in kers for emergencies and chemical spills the plants: GRI Towers Galicia, GRI Towers Brazil and GRI at the plant. Flanges Brazil, which are being monitored by the Health and Safety departments in each plant. Additionally, 9 risk-exposed workstations were detected, affecting 27 workers, all of these in the plant GRI Castings Zestoa, for which preventive monitoring is being done. Training and awareness-raising GRI Renewable Industries provides specific and high-quality training to all its employees, which is necessary to excel in all tasks on the job. Safety plays an inclusive role in said training. All training is based on the results obtained from the risk assessments at the workplace, as well as on the procedures and work instructions. In addition, various competitions about This ensures that all our workers and external employees safety were organized to motivate have the information, instructions, sufficient training and employees: Safety poster and slogan, supervision to perform their daily activities both safely and safety poem, essays and studies on efficiently. different safety related cases at the plant, group theatre performances about an emergency situation in which feelings and Heath and Safety training dramatic components came into play, and a quiz with questions on safety, health Spain and other environmental topics. 5,014 22% Brazil 3,690 Turkey 16% India 6,316 601 28% 3% USA South 6,961 Africa 30% 162 1% 55 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Communication 403-1 IPRL Road to excellence GRI Renewable Industries has developed awareness campaigns (Be Safe!), teaches and organizes TOP 5 and Safety Dialogues (DDS) and releases communication on incidents and accidents to increase participation and inform all workers about specific Health and Safety questions. As a responsible company, we support a sound safety awareness culture based on the people´s behavior. We firmly believe that Health and Safety at work is the responsibility of all. As can be seen in the stakeholder participation section, there are different channels to build direct and two-way communication with different audiences. At the beginning of the year, a video of the IPRL stanAn important figure that helps the integration of Health and dard was recorded at the GRI Brazil facilities. Safety in the company is the Health and Safety Committee. The aim of this video is to present the improvements This internal body comes with representation of the workers, made in GRI Brazil by the implementation of the IPRL meets periodically and addresses relevant topics related to Saand having reached the Green color as a sign of EXCEfety and employment conditions at the factories (403-4). The LLENCE. This video also shows the importance and the representation of the employees in the health and safety compositive impact of the IPRL not only in safety but also mittees is detailed in the next table: in productivity and competitiveness. GRI Renewable Industries wants for this video to be Representation of employees in an example and model for the different plants in order Heath and Safety Committees to, progressively, all plants reach the excellence level in the IPRL. Country % representation Short videos will be released focused on different facBrazil 100% tors of the IPRL taking as a reference the plants that Spain 100% have the better score on those factors. These IPRL pills India 100% will serve not only to train the workers on the factors, South Africa 100% but to prove the improvements that are reached throuTurkey 100% gh the IPRL and to share internally all best practices USA 100% in Safety. * Information from China at the moment is not available. 56 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 € € € SOCIAL DIMENSION people health and Local safety Community 103-1, 103-2 AND 103-3 GRI Renewable Industries contributes to the local economic development in the countries where we are present, by creating value through our products and services. To this effect, we try to align our business strategy with the SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) through social action, by working with different associations and local authorities through constant and transparent dialogue. Contribution to local development. Social Action 102-12 aND 413-1 One of GRI Renewable Industries´ priorities is to support local development in the areas we have a presence. For this reason, collaboration agreements Since 2013, we have supported the have been defined with nonprofit organizations with whom we carried out Foundation Lo Que De Verdad Importa corporate and local activities. (What Really Matters) with disseminating Among others, at a corporate level, we support the following: universal, moral and ethical human values through the development of motivational conferences. This 2017, apart from the support for the conferences and spreading The Association for Spinal Cord them among our employees, the new Injury Studies (AESLEME) has as its volume of LQDVI, which is defined by its goal to prevent accidents through special attention to the environment, has training and social sensitization as also been acquired and distributed among well as to offer psychological and employees, customers and providers. juridical support to those affected by traffic accidents. In 2017, dissemination about road safety was specially promoted in schools in the Madrid Community. GRI Renewable Industries has supported the Foundation since 2007, apart from being its Trustee. Its mission is to improve the lives of people with intellectual disabilities and to foment their social integration. This year the company has supported the Foundation with the rent of its spaces and utilities. Non profit organization whose mission is to end food insecurity and malnutrition in areas of humanitarian catastrophes. In 2017, GRI Renewable Industries Entity supported by the group which aims to help made a special contribution to children and adolescents with cancer and their the people affected by the Hurrifamilies. We have been contributing to this Founcanes in Puerto Rico. dation since 2016. In 2017, we collaborated with the promotion, dissemination and purchasing of the movie Lo Que De Verdad Importa. 57 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 This year we have developed various activities related to It should be noted that no operations with significant (real and sports, culture and education, among others. potential) negative impacts on local communities have been Supporting cultural and educational topics fosters the growth detected (413-2). of people in the different communities; sport programs help to The development activities and programs with the local comdevelop healthy habits on top of being an important leverage munity took place in 6 countries (57.14%). The most relevant for fundraising and; programs and activities related to the enviare outlined below: ronment are becoming important support channels to preserve the planet and fight climate change. CULTURE The Foundation ¨Aladina¨ and ¨Lo DONATIONS Que De Verdad Importa¨ joined hands GRI Flanges China made a donation to this 2017 to release and promote the movie ¨Lo Que De Verdad Importa¨, SPORT the charity Zhangqiu, to help all groups at risk of social exclusion: elderly peothe profits of which are designated to GRI Towers Galicia promotes healthy ple, people at risk of poverty, disabled summer camps for children with cancer, living among its employees and people and addicts. following the ¨Serious Fun Children´ families. For this reason, it has renewed Network¨ created by Paul Newman. its sponsorship of the football team GRI Flanges Iraeta made a donation O´Carballiño, of indoor football and car to the town of Aizarnazabal for its GRI Renewable Industries supported races. GRI Flanges Iraeta sponsors the patronal feasts. this cause by inviting its employees to watch the movie with their families. In football team in the Zestoa region. the case of GRI Madrid, 80 people attended, while GRI Towers Galicia organized a special pass for 120 attendees. Local collaboration with public authorities GRI Renewable Industries establishes relations with local public authorities on an altruistic basis with complete transparency, in accordance with the guidelines set out by the Code of Ethics. Meanwhile, the company does not make any economic or in-kind contributions to political parties (415-1). 58 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT GRI Towers Turkey helped the local Sarıköy High School to At GRI Renewable Industries, we are commitclean up its common areas and renovate the exterior of the ted to the fight against climate change which is educational center. Thanks to the collaboration of 5 plant emwhy the challenge of planting one tree for each ployees for 10 workdays, they were able to paint the front, the produced tower was set in 2015. GRI Madrid, GRI fences around the school, plus the sport courts. Because of this, Towers Galicia and GRI Flanges Iraeta have 150 students could benefit from this refurbishment. organized a reforestation in the regions surrounGRI Towers India organized, together with the workers commiding the plants and offices, succeeding in planting ttee and its employees, a thorough training day where the main over 1,313 trees. All this is elaborated on in the topic was worker care. To mark the occasion, motivational speeenvironmental chapter. ches were given, as well as first aid and work safety courses On their part, GRI Towers India participated in and medical check-ups, among other things. the planting of 300 indigenous trees in the region GRI Towers Sevilla signed a framework agreement for three during the week of the Forest, in which 110 employears with the Seville Council through which it commits to hire yees took park, showing their commitment to the and train young Sevillians in the manufacturing of marine wind environment and the reduction of environmental towers. impacts and deforestation. Between 15 and 20 young people will be trained in its facilities over a period of two to three months. The Seville Council will take charge of 20% of the training, while GRI Renewable Industries will take charge of the remaining 80%. The Andalusian Councils GRI Flanges China participated visit to GRI Towers Sevilla in a workshop with other In 2017, our plant GRI Towers Sevilla was visited by the preBasque companies in Beijing sident of the Andalusian council, with the Delegate of the AndaThe Basque Government organized a workshop in lusian Government, the president of the Seville Port Authority Beijing in which GRI Flanges China shared the semiand the city mayor, among other figures. nar with other important companies. The CEO of GRI Renewable Industries, the plant manager and The seminar dealt with the market situation in China, the Corporate Director of Communication and Sustainability led the unfolding model change and its risks in terms of the visit and explained the processes that take place, such as application of new paradigms and uncertainties. the treatments to which the steel is submitted and the applications for the towers produced in the plant. 59 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 € € € ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION 103-1, 103-2 aND 103-3 Environmental performance At GRI Renewable Industries, we operate in an efficient and thout affecting the quality of the products and whilst working responsible way and we show our interest in the preservation on the continuous improvement. of the environment. Our work is done under the umbrella of an At present, the GRI Towers Galicia, GRI Towers Turkey, GRI Integrated System and a Quality, Environment and Health and Towers India, GRI Towers South Africa, GRI Towers Brazil, GRI Safety Policy. Flanges Brazil, GRI Towers China I, II and III are certified under Through these, consumption, emissions, waste and discharthe standard ISO 14001:2008. ges among other environmental parameters are monitored to The main monitoring KPI are outlined below: contribute to the minimization of its environmental impact wiKPI´s 2016 2017 Steel consumption (tons) 390,933 398,507 Energy consumption (GJ) 271,345 353,973 Other energy consumption (GJ) 133,355 405,329 Non-hazardous Waste: scrap (tons) 25,530 87,031* Non-hazardous Waste: Others (tons) 1,831 2,149 Hazardous waste (tons) 2,081 1,755 Environmental investment (€) 122,306 219,804 Environmental expenses (€) 184,000 455,019 * China Included. 60 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Circular Economy Life-Cycle Focus The European Parliament and the European Council support the strategy to generate growth and employment through the circular economy, an initiative which is part of the Europe 2020 strategy. The circular economy aims to reduce waste production and to use it as a resource. For this reason, the objective is to create a political framework which supports an efficient economy, where the use of consumption improves economic results, growth, innovation and where competitive opportunities are identified, and with the guaranteed supply of resources, while fighting climate change and environmental impacts. This initiative will boost global competitiveness whilst encouraging sustainable growth and the generation of new employment. The proposals to put the circular economy into practice relate to the complete product life-cycle, in a closed cycle, from its production and consumption to waste management (reutilization, recycling and recovery), the secondary raw material market included, rather than the old “produce, use and discard” model. To that end, one of the actions to be executed is the tracing of the whole residue process to guarantee adequate infrastructures for recovery, classification, etc. Based on this, and given its specific properties, steel, which is our main raw material in the company, plays a fundamental role. Steel Due to its original properties, steel is the most recycled material, as it does not lose quality after smelting. Its recycling allows for Steel 80% energy savings, 85% in water savings and 95% in carbon production savings, which avoids the emission of almost two tons of greenhouse gases according to UNESID. For this reason, practically 100% of the products manufactured Recycling in GRI Renewable Industries are totally recyclable, thus reducing their environmental impact at the end of their product life signifiManufacturing cantly and so helping to close the circle of the product life-cycle. Additionally, within our processes, heeding our quality and environmental systems and our quest for continuous improvement, we are looking to optimize resources and designs as much as Use possible without losing the quality that characterizes us. 61 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Raw materials and hazardous products Steel is the main raw material with which we work, followed place, complying with the applicable regulations and using the at a distance by paint. Using and handling hazardous mateappropriate EPIS. The main consumptions in this financial year rials is done in accordance with procedures and instructions in are outlined in the following table: Consumptions (tons) GRI GRI GRI GRI GRI South GRI GRI Spain Brazil Turkey India Africa USA China Steel 99,271 69,070 15,700 5,597 18,028 30,033 190,540 Flux 556 170 84 60 80 136 Painting 627 792 86 104 81 151 Grit 112 118 4 25 15 58 Welding Wire 526 241 69 60 50 119 The steel used in our processes partially composes of recycled PRODUCT TYPE steel, its composition depends on the product. The results are Tons shown next: % Steel recycled consumed recycled tons 301-1 Towers 128,052 18% 23,049 Flanges 225,301 18% 40,554 Castings 3,704 60% 2,223 Conflict Minerals Since the year 2010, following the approval of the Dodd-Frank Requirements which allow us to verify that, for the purchases Wall Street Reform, governments, companies and consumers to which these apply, the origin of the materials are accredited request to know the origin of conflict materials, which has, theand thus assuring that these do not originate from foundries refore, become significant within GRI Renewable Industries. that use conflict materials (coltan, casiterite, wolframite, gold, The corresponding homologation of providers, with those pretantalum, tin, or any other conflict mineral or its derivatives) viously calibrated in the market, is done within the purchasing which contribute to funding of conflicts in the Democratic Reprocess. In this homologation survey aspects regarding the public of the Congo or any neighboring country, are also incluenvironment, health and safety, human rights, ethics and labor ded. conditions are evaluated. 62 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Energy Energy consumption within the company is high due to the Internal energy consumption industrial processes, and for this reason measures to improve 302-1 energy efficiency are being incorporated, as well as measures to reduce the environmental impact and the carbon footprint. In 2017, GRI Renewable Industries consumed a total of With our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals 761,134 GJ, of which 53% came from electricity consumption (SDG), in particular to climate change, we are continuously trand the remaining 47% came from fuels such as LPG, natural ying to further reduce our environmental impact through diffegas, propane and diesel. rent actions such as reforestation, and by favoring renewable With regard to the electricity consumption, the majority is deenergy production. signated to production, as is detailed next: As for external energy consumption, no available data is available related to this indicator. Information is expected to be available by the year 2030 (302-2) . Internal Consumption (GJ) Electricity Glp Natural Gas Propane Diesel GRI Spain 59,389 0 70,458 1,716 13,289 GRI Brazil 32,781 81 9,931 0 1,124 GRI Turkey 9,524 0 2,306 942 0 GRI India 8,181 519 0 0 661 GRI South Africa 9,541 3,364 0 0 0 GRI USA 11,621 1 827 0 0 GRI China 222,936 0 301,942 0 0 TOTAL 353,973 3,965 385,464 2,658 15,074 Energy intensity Energy intensity “Towers” 302-3 GJ consumed/tons of sold product Measuring energy intensity is a good way to measure the Brazil (Towers) 0.67 efficiency and impact of our processes. The calculation takes Galicia (Spain) 0.80 electricity and fuel, corresponding to internal use, into consiIndia 0.64 deration. The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing South Africa 1.15 energy consumption by the total weight of products sold in Turkey 1.16 each country. The results obtained from the different tower USA 2.49 and flange manufacturing processes are detailed in the following charts. TOTAL 0.87 63 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Emissions and climate change 201-2 AND 302-4 At GRI Renewable Industries we are concerned about the fight against climate change. Therefore, we have joined the sustainable development goals this year, and in particular to goals 7 (affordable and clean energy) and 13 (climate action). AFFORDABLE Goal 7 CLIMATE Goal 13 AND CLEAN Ensure access to ACTION Take urgent action to comENERGY affordable, reliable, bat climate change and its sustainable and impacts modern energy for alL Energy is key to almost all big challenges and opporClimate change affects all countries on all continents. It has a tunities that the world is currently facing. Whether negative impact on the economy and on the lives of people, it is for employment, safety, climate change, food communities and countries. In the future its consequences will production or to increase incomes, universal access to be even worse. energy is essential. People are feeling the consequences of climate change firsthand, which include changes in weather patterns, increasing sea levels and more extreme weather events. Greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activity increase this threat. In fact, emissions never have been this high. Since the installation of the first turbines at the end of the 20th many with 40% and, to a lesser extent, by Belgium and Finland. century, wind energy´s contribution to the power mix has beThe future development perspectives of this offshore energy come increasingly higher. In 2017 this type of energy grew by are very favorable. According to the last IRENA report ¨Innova9%, reaching 539,291 MW of installed capacity. Thus covering tion Outlook: Offshore Wind¨, the marine wind capacity could 5% of the global electrical demand. (Source: World Wind Energrow from 13 GW in 2015 to 400 GW in 2045. gy Association). At GRI Renewable Industries, we contribute to the fight against China is the undisputed leader on the world stage, with an insclimate change through the use of efficient and cutting-edge talled capacity of over 168.7 GW, far ahead of the USA whose technology, as well as by the development and rollout of enerinstalled capacity amount to 82.1 GW and which is losing out gy efficiency measures (elaborated in the R&D chapter) in our due to the change in trend of the new government. processes and through the training and raising of awareness In Latin America, markets like Mexico, Brazil and Argentina are of our personnel. becoming increasingly more important. Mexico should be noAnother of the initiatives we carry out is the replanting of trees, ted, which reached 4 GW but will exceed 12 GW in 2020 due to which a new facility joins each year. In 2016, GRI Madrid and to its long-term auctions. GRI Towers Galicia planted trees, in 2017 GRI Flanges Iraeta Europe, led by Germany, is already the second electricity sourjoined and we hope that GRI Castings Zestoa and GRI Towers ce, with 18% of the total energy production capacity installed. Sevilla will join in 2018 (302-4). This is in line with the EU´s objective to obtain 50% of its enerAdditionally, in Spain, we perform energy audits in our plants gy consumption from renewable origins by 2030. In this area in accordance with the Royal Decree 56/2016. In 2017 the Denmark stands out, which set a world record by obtaining following plants were audited: GRI Casting Zestoa, GRI Towers 43% of its energy from wind energy. Galicia and GRI Flanges Iraeta. After the audits improvement Regarding marine wind energy (offshore), in 2017 a new histoplans were made, which already are being implemented in ric world record was set with 3,148 new megawatts installed, some cases to increase efficiency and to save electricity and double the amount of 2016. This ranking is led by the United natural gas. Kingdom with 53% of the installed power, followed by Ger64 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions At GRI Renewable Industries we measure and communicate our carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) to be able to establish improvement objectives. The following standards have been taken into account for the calculation of CO2 emissions: Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the Emissions Factors from Cross-Sectors Tools (GHG Protocol 2014) to calculate the fuel emission factors, the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 for electricity consumption, and the average emission factors of the national electricity mix of each country for the period 2009-2011 as reported by the IEA (International Energy Agency). Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions 305-1 305-2 Direct emissions are mainly from the production of the comIndirect emissions are those produced by third parties and are pany, in 2017 23,160 tons of CO2. The emissions by country consumed by our plants and offices, they amount to 59,853 are given next: tons of CO2. The emissions by country are given next: Country Emissions (tCO2) Country Emissions (tCO2) Brazil 646 Brazil 619 Spain 5,046 Spain 4,801 India 82 India 1,945 South Africa 212 South Africa 2,303 Turkey 189 Turkey 1,249 USA 46 USA 1,624 China 16,939 China 47,312 TOTAL 23,160 TOTAL 59,853 Other emissions Intensity of Emissions 305-3 305-4 These emissions correspond to corporate trips made by plane, The intensity of the emissions is taken into account to meatrain and rental cars. Additionally, the estimation of emissions desure efficiency and the impact of our processes. riving from employees´ commutes is also included. The yearly ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of all direct Scope 3 emissions are outlined next: and indirect emissions by the total weight of all products sold in each country. In the following table the obtained results are detailed for each production process: Type Emissions concept (tons CO2) Corporate Trips 2,276 Emissions intensity “Towers” Transportation employees 78 Corporate buses 27,030 Tons consumed/tons of sold product SCOPE 3 TOTAL 29,384 Brazil (Towers) 0.02 Galicia (Spain) 0.06 India 0.14 Corporate Trips South Africa 0.22 Turkey 0.13 USA 0.33 TOTAL 0.09 Rental car Travel by plane 137 2,129 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year Travel by 10.61 tons CO2/year 65 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Avoided emissions 305-5 The main activity of GRI Renewable Industries is manufactuTower Production ring the components for wind turbines (towers and flanges), In the financial year 2017, the company manufactured a total which are designated to the generation of wind energy. This of 987 wind towers, the final destination of which is shown renewable and sustainable energy does not emit greenhouse below: gasses and it so contributes to mitigate climate change. Moreover, we are committed to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), and, in particular, to those that contribute to the fight against climate change (SDG 7.3 Europe and SDG 13.2). 23% Next, we highlight our contribution in this context in 2017. Asia 17% America 49% Africa 11% The proportional weighing represented by the cost of the wind tower manufactured by GRI Renewable Industries out of the total cost of the tower is deemed to be 16.4%. If one estimates the annual net operational hours of the turbines in the countries where they are present, the installed power, the conversion rate applicable to each country and the percentage of the cost of the tower out of the total structure, we estimate that our contribution to combating climate change amounts to 348,239 tons of avoided CO2 emissions in 2017. CO 2 Produced CO2 Avoided 83,013 tons CO2/year 348,254 tons CO2/year SCOPE 1 23,160 tons CO2/year TOWERS PRODUCTION SCOPE 2 BALANCE 348,239 tons CO2/year 59,853 tons CO2/year +265,241 REFORESTATION 15 tons CO2/year tons CO2/year 66 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Reforestation Trees and woodlands have a direct relation to climate change In 2017, we have undertaken three reforestations, in which our and they contribute to curb its impact, functioning as a drain staff and their families participated. by trapping and storing CO2. As a result of these plantings and based on the species that Therefore, GRI Renewable Industries committed in 2015 to were planted, it is estimated that a total of 608 tons of CO2 will minimize its impacts through reforestation, with the objective be absorbed over the next 40 years, which is equal to 15 tons to match, as far as possible, the number of trees planted to the per year. Moreover, India undertook a reforestation in the sunumber of towers built. rroundings if its facilities. In 2018, new reforestations are planned by GRI Towers Sevilla and GRI Castings Zestoa. GRI Towers Galicia Madrid head office The team in Galicia and their families planted 500 trees in The team of Madrid and their families planted 700 trees of Leiro of four species typical of the region (Betula celtiberica, the species Pinus sylvestris in Avila. This planting is estimated Fraxinus excelsior, Alnus Glutinosa and Salix alba). to allow for the total absorption of 119 tons of CO2 over 40 The planting of these trees is estimated to allow for the total years. absorption of 267.50 tons of CO2 over the next 40 years. GRI Flanges Iraeta GRI Towers India I The team from the Basque Country and their families planAs occurs every year, GRI Towers India I held the plantation ted 500 trees in Zumaia, belonging to four species typical of of 250 karanj trees in the surroundings of the factory. 110 the region (Betula pubescens, Acer psuedoplatanus and Salix employees took part in it. atrocinerea) This planting is estimated to allow for the total absorption of 221 tons CO2 over the next 40 years. 67 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 1 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 3 ANNEXES 3 Independent Review Report 70 GRI Content Index 72 Global Compact Principles 78 Scope 78 Independent Review Report 70 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 71 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Content Index 102-55 External verification: The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity PwC. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 10 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 14, 39 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 √ 102-4 Location of operations 12 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10, 20 √ 102-6 Markets served 12 √ 102-7 Scale of the organization 11 √ Organizational profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 43 √ 102-9 Supply chain 36 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 29 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 17 √ 102-12 External initiatives 57 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 25 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 and 6 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 19 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 19 √ 72 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-18 Governance structure 20 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 21 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social 21 √ topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 22 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 20 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 20 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 21 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 21 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 22 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 22 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 23 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 16 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 15 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 22 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 19 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 23 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 23 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 23 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio ND √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio ND √ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 44 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 26 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 77 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26 √ 102-47 List of material topics 27 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 29 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 29 √ 102-50 Reporting period 29 √ Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 29 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 29 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 29 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 29 √ 102-55 GRI content index 70 √ 102-56 External assurance 29 √ 73 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Economic Performance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 √ indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 √ Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 35 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 64 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 50 √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 35 √ Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 38 √ Practices Anticorruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 15 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 15,19,49 √ procedures 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 15 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 15 √ Behavior monopoly practices 74 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Environmental performance Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 60 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 60 √ indicators reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60 √ Materials (not material) GRI 301: Materials 301-01: Materials used by weight or volume 62 √ Energy (not material) 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 63 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 63, Note A √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 63 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 64 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Note B √ Emissions (not material) 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 65 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 65 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 66 √ 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 66 √ Note A: There is no information on this indicator, which is expected to be in the year 2030. NOTE B: Does not apply. The products follow the customers’ specifications, so the company has little influence. 75 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 43, 51, 57 √ Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 43, 51, 57 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43, 51, 57 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 45 √ GRI 401: 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 50 √ Employment temporary or part-time employees 401-3: Parental leave 43 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health 55 √ and safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 54 √ GRI 403: Occupational and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 55 √ occupation 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 55 √ unions Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 49 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 49 √ Education programs 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 48 √ development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 47 √ Equal Opportunity Non-discrimination (not material) GRI 406: Non-discrimi406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 19 √ nation Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 15 √ 76 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics Social Perfomance Human rights assessment 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 15 √ GRI 412: Human rights 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 19, 49 √ assessment rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 412-3: Significant agreements and investment contracts with clauses on 16 √ human rights or submitted to evaluation of human rights. Local Communities (not material) GRI 413: Local 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 57 √ Communities and development programs Suppliers social assessment (not material) GRI 414: Suppliers 414-1: New suppliers that have passed selection filters according to social 36.37 √ social assessment criteria. Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 59 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 39 √ GRI 416:Customer categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 9 √ of products and services Customer Privacy (not material) GRI 418: Customer 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 15 √ Privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic Socioeconomic 15 √ area Compliance 77 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate GRI Renewable Industries’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Part I. General Standard protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Disclosures Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Part I. General Standard rights abuses. Disclosures Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Part I. Social Dimension collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Part I. General Standard Labor and compulsory labor. Disclosures Standards Part I. General Standard Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Disclosures Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect Part I. General Standard of employment and occupation. Disclosures Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Part II. Environmental Dimension approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment Part II. Environmental Dimension environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Part II. Environmental Dimension environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Part I. General Standard Anticorruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Disclosures Scope consolidation of GRI Renewable Industries S.L. and subsidiaries Scope consolidation. The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2017 (102-45). Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Gestamp Wind Steel Pernambuco S/A Brazil GRI Castings, S.L. Spain Iraeta Brazil S/A Brazil Gestamp Hybrid Towers S.L. Spain G&B Wind Services S/A Brazil Gestamp Powergear Wind Steel, Pvt. Ltd. India Gws Corte E Biselado S/A Brazil Shrenik Industries Private Limited India Shandong Iraeta Heavy Industry Stock Co, Ltd China Gesbey Enerji Turbini Kule Uretim Sanayi Ve Tikaret As Turkey Shandong Golden Luyang Heavy Industry Co Ltd China Gestamp Wind Steel Us,Inc USA GRI Renewable Industries, S.L. Spain GRI Wind Steel South Africa, Ltd. South Africa Gonvaeolic, S.L. Spain Hami Iraeta Heavy Industry Co, Ltd China Gestamp Wind Steel Galicia, S.L. Spain Jinan Siemat Cnc Machine Co, Ltd China Gesberg Investment Holding, S.L. Spain GRI Towers Sevilla, S.L. Spain Forjas Iraeta Heavy Industry, S.L. Spain 78 Gri Renewable Industries. Sustainability Report 2017 Download the online version of the Sustainability Report on APP GRI Renewable Industries www.leadingthechange.com www.gri.com.es
