CREATING A SU S TA I N A B L E F U T U R E 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T INDEX 04 53 Our Company Governance, Transparency and Message from the Executive Director Ethics in the Organization Our 2017 Greatest Accomplishments Genomma Lab International Governance, Ethic Management About Genomma Lab International Management Focus Our Business in Numbers Ethical Behavior Our Products and Operations Corporate Governance Board of Administration Committees 40 Board of Administration Report Conflict of Interest Management Renewal of our continuity as a Mexican Stock Focus on Sustainability Exchange (BMV) Sustainable Index Issuer Code of Conduct and Ethics Our Sustainability Model Ethics Committee Our Stakeholders “RESGUARDA” Reporting Channel Sustainable Development Goals Anticorruption Measures and Human Rights Participation in Initiatives, Associations, Protection Awards and Adhesions 2 77 Environmental Conservation and Climate Change Environmental Management Genomma Lab International Energy How do we address Climate Change? Our Carbon Footprint Fuel Consumption Use of Waste and Materials Waste Co-processing Use of Materials Water Consumption Commitment 146 Social Impact 100 Genomma Lab Foundation 2017 Donations: Cancerotón and Natural Disaster Relief Nuestra Cadena de Suministro “A favor de lo mejor” “Empresa Incluyente” and “Empresa Product Manufacturing Supervision and Audits Familiarmente Responsable” Supplier Efficiency Studies and Cosmetic “Alegrando un corazón” Volunteering Security Privacy Policy Pact against child malnutrition in Colombia Manufacturer Agreements Local Supply Guava Leaves 158 Other Success Cases Our Talent Workforce Integration 116 Diversity, Inclusion and Gender Equality Talent Management: Genomma Lab International Global Competence Responsible Consumption and Training and Development Production Regulations Employee Benefits Our Customer Service Philosophy Culture Pillar Responsible Production Occupational Safety and Health Responsibility with Our Customers: Product Human Rights Training Labeling and Publicity Regulatory Support for Innovation Processes Our Product Labels Digital Marketing Customer Service Our Customer Satisfaction Responsibility with Our Products 186 Incidents Complementary Information Product Quality Our Quality Team About this Report Clinical Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic GRI KPI table Research Contact 3 Obtained the “Distintivo de Empresa Socialmente OUR 2017 Responsable” by CEMEFI for the 11th consecutive year GREATEST We signed a pact in 2016 against child ACHIEVEMENTS malnutrition in Colombia “GEN CERO” in which we become committed to help eradicate malnutrition in Colombia for the year 2030 Genomma Lab Members of the Foundation donated Mexican Stock more than 88,704 pieces of Exchange Suerox and 33,844 pieces Sustainable Index of different products, for the 5th year in a row destined for the people affected by the 2017 September earthquakes A group of We have been part of 300 people from the Global Compact Genomma Lab Mexico were for 10 years and for the deployed throughout the main first time we present our collection centers in Mexico report aligned to City, Puebla and Morelos the Sustainable in September 2017 Development Goals The 2,000 million pesos Lab-13-2 stock-market certificate were payed, using 900 million pesos from our own account 4 Syphardrugs, S.A.P.I During 2017, we de C.V was acquired incorporated the Code and is now Genomma of Conduct and Ethics to Laboratories México our supplier website S.A. de C.V., a QG5 and X Ray production plant Renewal of the Fort the first time “Distintivo Empresa the company made a global effort to measure Familiarmente measure the environmental Responsable” and impacts of the regional offices in: “Distintivo de Empresa Peru, Costa Rica, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Chile and the United Incluyente Gilberto States (US), as well as a laboratory in Rincón Mexico, Genomma Laboratories México S.A. de C.V., corporate Gallardo” offices in Mexico City and the CEDIS in Toluca, We presented our state of Mexico Social Responsibility and Sustainability Model Our emissions in for the first time 2017 were 1,940.32 ton of CO2e We have been Development of our reporting our first industrial greenhouse gases project, located in Toluca, in the state of Mexico, through the for 6 consecutive years. investment of own resources and 2017 was the first year the support of multilateral we joined the GHG organisms that reinforce SEMARNAT program sustainable in Mexico The due diligence development process was started with the World Bank (IFC) and the Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) for the plant’s funding 5 MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR G4-1, G4-2 Welcome to our seventh Genomma Lab I nternational 2017 Sustainability Repor t! From the moment Genomma Lab International was founded, we have worked to be a transparent, ethic and committed company with the Mexican society as well as the other countries in Latin America where we have operations. This implies reinforcing our commitment to improve the health and quality of life of our employees daily, as well as to watch over the equilibrium and positive impact of our surroundings, through concrete actions based on the pillars that regulate our sustainability strategy. Under this vision we commit to maintain an open and permanent dialogue with our main stakeholders, such as: employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, manufacturers, community, our surroundings and 6 shareholders. On this occasion we present objectives are: improve the our seventh Sustainability report in which qualit y of our products, look we show how social responsibility and sustainability are present in each of our for a more reliable supply, in programs, actions and initiatives. addition to generate direct and indirect employment and During 2017, our results reflect the progress contribute to the complete and continuous improvement of the economic performance, demonstrating an development of the region. increase of 6.73% in global sales in relation to the year 2016, being Argentina and Central On that subject, during the first phases America our most important markets. of the industrial project development, a social and environmental impact study is being implemented, which will allow us to One of our major ach ievements create synergy with communities near our during 2017 was the beginning operation: this initiative is very important of the industrial project, wh ich to Genomma Lab because it implies damage prevention and the identification marks a new phase for the of risks to mitigate them and orient our Genomma Lab family. Th is sustainability model to incorporate social plan integrates different and environmental surroundings. manufacturing spaces for our As part of our new strategy, a manufacturing products, as well as having plant that was part of our supply chain the h ighest tech nology, it is was acquired; Syphardrugs, S.A.P.I de C.V. strategically located in Toluca During 2017, it was constituted under the Genomma Laboratories México S.A. de C.V. in the state of Mexico, to improve registered name, being integrated into the our logistics. Th is project ’s Genomma Lab International family. 7 The company joined the “Programa For the first year we present Voluntario de Contabilidad y Reporte de Gases de Efecto Invernadero en México”, the “Sustainabilit y Model”, coordinated by the Secretaría de Medio result of the identification of Ambiente y Recursos Naturales our material issues, that show (SEMARNAT). the way in which our company Regarding our performance with the products and commitment with our addresses Social Responsibility value chain, we continue with the firm and Sustainability management. responsibility of investing in innovation and It guarantees our commitment development, offering our customers and consumers the best products and improving to societ y, the environment their accessibility. We managed to integrate and the communities where the Code of Conduct and Ethics as well as we operate. During 2017, we the Anticorruption Policy to our supplier aligned our principal actions to website, with the objective of making our transactions transparent and that 100% the Sustainable Development of the suppliers know and accept them. Goals, initiative generated Additionally, we continue working with by the United Nations (U N). community producers, such as our guava leaves supplier, that serves as a supply to Genomma Lab has commit ted produce our QG5 product. to contribute to these international goals. In our social performance, we managed to respond to events that happened in September, the earthquakes in Mexico; we immediately mobilized to deliver approximately 88,704 pieces of Suerox 8 and 33,844 pieces of different Genomma Lastly, I want to thank our Lab family products to different affected employees, whose daily communities from Mexico City, Puebla, Oaxaca and the state of Mexico. Additionally passion and dedication make supporting with a volunteer group of th is company a leader in approximately 300 employees in the main the industr y and to all our collection centers in Mexico City. par tners, whose trust make Reaffirming our transparency and accountability, we renewed for the 11th the objective of th is company consecutive year the “Empresa Socialmente a realit y. I am sure that with Responsible” (ESR) emblem. We also th rough par ticipation and maintained the “Empresa Familiarmente Responsable” and the “Empresa Incluyente” teamwork in the following emblem awarded by the Secretaría del years, Genomma Lab Trabajo y Previsión Social. We reaffirmed International will continue our commitment to the Global Compact, an “Creating a sustainable future” initiative in which we belong to since 2007. for all . We are very proud to be part of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index for the 5th consecutive year, reflecting stability and transparency in our operations before an investment market. Máximo Juda Genomma Lab Internaiocnal , S. A . B. DE C.V E xecutive Director Mayo, 2018 9 GENOMMA LAB INTERNACIONAL Argentina: which also gives service to Paraguay and Uruguay Brazil Colombia Ecuador Ch ile In this section we want to present the data focused on the performance of the United States: which also provides countries where we currently operate; support to Puerto Rico The company currently has presence Mexico in 19 countries , located in the Corporate offices located in Mexico City following way: 1 CEDIS, located in Toluca, state of México 1 production factory: Genomma Laboratories México S.A. de C.V. located in Peru: which also gives service to Bolivia Mexico City. Costa Rica: where Central America Each country where the brand has presence and the Caribbean operations are is a challenge because each one represents supervised, made up by: Costa Rica, a different and unique context. However, we El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, wish to unify the ethical behavior, responsibility Nicaragua, Panama, the Dominican with society and environmental conservation Republic and Trinidad and Tobago criteria for our different Stakeholders. 10 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA MEXICO PUERTO RICO HONDURAS DOMINICAN REPUBLIC GUATEMALA NICARAGUA EL SALVADOR COSTA RICA TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO CENTRAL AMERICA PANAMA AND THE CARIBBEAN COLOMBIA ECUADOR Corporate offices located in Mexico City 1 CEDIS, located in Toluca, state PERU BRAZIL of México BOLIVIA 1 manufacturer: Genomma Laboratories México S.A. de C.V. located in Mexico City. PARAGUAY CHILE I n all the countries where URUGUAY we operate, 100% of ARGENTINA the staff is remunerated with a salary h igher than the established legal minimum wage. 11 PERU CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN Location: Location: Lima, Peru San Jose, Costa Rica Provides service to: Provides service to: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Bolivia Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Total number of employees: Panama, the Dominican Republic 20 and Trinidad and Tobago Quantity of products or services Total number of employees: offered: 22 40 Suppliers Number of suppliers In this region, that work for the an internal recycling organization in the country: 15 campaign is carried out with office materials such as paper, Approximate number of Supply Chain cardboard and other types of waste. suppliers in the country: 4 Approximate monetary value of payments Eth ical Behavior for suppliers in the country: 600 thousand per year Like all the countries where Genomma is present, the employees and suppliers RESGUARDA is the reporting channel for have access to RESGUARDA, a reporting all countries channel for anti-ethical behavior. Employees have been trained in policies All the members of the company have and procedures related to the Code of read and signed the Anticorruption Conduct and Ethics, Human Rights and Anticorruption Policy Policy that is shared at an international level. 100% of the employees have been Distribution centers and suppliers were trained on this topic. assessed in socioenvironmental matters 12 ARGENTINA Location: Buenos Aires, Argentina Eth ical Behavior Provides service to: Uruguay and Paraguay Like all the countries where Genomma Total number of employees: is present, the employees and suppliers have access to RESGUARDA, a reporting 96 (includes global payroll with channel for anti-ethical behavior. base in Argentina) Number of operations: All the members of the company have read 19,670 and signed the Anticorruption Policy that is shared at an international level. 100% of Quantity of products or the employees have been trained on this services offered: topic. 179 100% of the employees are from Argentina No hazardous waste is produced Suppliers The budget for acquisition of places with significant operations is destined for local suppliers considering productive purchasing; 81.42% is national and 18.58% is imported. 99.9% service acquisition is national. The number of suppliers that work for the country is 550 13 BRAZIL Location: São Paulo, Brazil Total number of employees: 59 Number of operations: 2 “ Being a sustainable Brazil currently company with has a logistics project responsible innovation in discarded primary packing is not only must for future return, this initiative helps reduce environmental impacts caused by the generations, it is also a dut y waste generation in this country with the Planet ” Suppliers Juan David Fajardo Mcleod, Country Manager 22% of the products are manufactured in Brazil, the rest are from Argentina and Mexico Employees 68.8% of the 2017 Genomma products are purchased to local suppliers and 100% of 50% of the directors are from the local the services are by local companies. community (2 persons), the other 50% are foreigners (2 persons) The company’s operations are in São Paulo and Santa Catarina. However, sales are 100% of the employees have received done throughout the whole country, which Code of Ethics and Anticorruption Policies is why we consider Brazil as a significant training operations place. Like all the countries where Genomma is present, the employees and suppliers have access to RESGUARDA, a reporting channel for anti-ethical behavior 14 COLOMBIA Location: Bogota, Colombia Total number of employees: 35 Number of operations: 2 Quantity of products or services offered: Eth ical Behavior 63 Like all the countries where Genomma is present, the employees and suppliers have access to RESGUARDA, a reporting In 2016 a channel for anti-ethical behavior. pact was signed All the members of the company have against ch ild read and signed the Anticorruption malnutrition, “GEN CERO” Policy that is shared at an international level. 100% of the employees have been trained on this topic. Suppliers 100% of the employees are from Colombia Distributors and wholesale are the most used distribution channels. 84.6% of the There is an Occupational Safety and Health directors are from the local community Parity Committee (COPASST), Coexistence (11 persons) and 15.4% are foreigners (2 Committee, Emergency Brigade and an persons) emerging Social Responsibility Committee 17.5% of the commercialized products 18% of the employees are represented are produced by local suppliers in a committee. 100% of new suppliers are contractually 46% of the employees are represented in forced to comply with Colombia’s labor a formal security and health committee. standards 15 ECUADOR Location: Eth ical Behavior Guayaquil, Ecuador Total number of employees: Like all the countries where Genomma is present, the employees and suppliers have 20 access to RESGUARDA, a reporting channel Number of operations: for anti-ethical behavior. 1 All the members of the company have read Quantity of products or services and signed the Anticorruption Policy that is offered: shared at an international level. 100% of the 64 employees have been trained on this topic. Employee internal rules and regulations have been established. In it, certain norms of conduct are established to respect others and others’ property as well a person’s integrity. . Suppliers The supply chain in Ecuador towards our manufacturers is done by distributors that import almost 80% of the supplies for our national production. 100% of the cosmetic product category are made locally “La Fabril S.A” and “Envapress” are our most important manufacturers in Ecuador At the end of the year 2017, we worked with 31 suppliers in relation to the year 2016 where we worked with 33 service suppliers. Those that qualified in operational capacity, service management, social responsibility safety, health, environment and document management aspects, were chosen. 16 CHILE Location: Santiago, Chile Total number of employees: 19 Quantity of products or services offered: 74 “A company that sells health The offices and beaut y should have reusing and return health and beaut y recycling practices to the planet ” Suppliers Alberto Herane Herane Country Manager Chile Number of suppliers that work for the organization in Chile: 12 70% of the staff has received formal Approximate number of Supply Chain training regarding the organization’s suppliers in Chile: 4 policies or procedures in matters of Human Rights and its application to security. Eth ical Behavior In Chile, 40% of the total portfolio has The Code of Conduct and Ethics is been assessed to promote continuous disseminated to its employees. Two improvement. annual training sessions are done to reinforce codes and policies and sign All the members of the company have read joining letters, corporate websites or and signed the Anticorruption Policy that office material. is shared at an international level. 100% of the employees have been trained on this 25% of the directors are from Chile (1 of topic. 4 in management positions) 17 NORTH AMERICA MEXICO UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Location: (USA) Location: Mexico City, Mexico Total number of employees: Houston, Texas Provides support to: 40 Puerto Rico Number of operations: Total number of employees: 25 lotes de producto 19 Quantity of products Number of operations: QG5 y X-RAY 1 Quantity of products or services offered: 86 Acquisition by Genomma Laboratories México S. A . de Suppliers C.V. (GLM Number of suppliers: 45 During May 2017 Syphardrugs, S.A.P.I. de C.V, now Genomma Laboratories Number of Supply Chain suppliers: 21 Mexico S.A. De C.V. (GLM), was acquired. During this period the remodeling of Monetary value of payments for the production and physicochemical suppliers: 22 Million control laboratory areas took place, the manufacturing equipment was 15 finished product suppliers and 6 modernized to assure a greater goods suppliers productivity and new internal procedures were created. 1 distribution center 18 In the facilities, a cardboard recycling campaign and a solid waste disposition campaign are being implemented The administration offices have solar panels Suppliers Number of suppliers that work for the organization:75 Employees 100% of the directors are considered as locals Remodeling of production, equipment and machinery purchase areas Turnover Rate: 58% Employee Breakdown Return to work rates by employees with Younger than 30 years: 40% maternity or paternity leave by gender: 100 Between 30 and 50 years: 38% Number of training hours:5 Older than 50 years: 23% Male: 53% 100% of the persons were trained in security and health matters Female: 48% 100% of raw materials are quality tested 100% are full-time 19 781 employees ABOUT GENOMMA LAB Presence in 19 countries INTERNATIONAL Argentina1 , Brazil, Central America and the Caribbean2, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, United States y Puerto Rico, Peru and Bolivia, Mexico Sales growth of 18.5% and $2,601.2 million Income of pesos in EBITDA $12,078,443 million pesos According to the IMS Health, Genomma Lab is the third 56% of the sales company with the most belong to the Personal Care sales in the OTC pharmaceutical products category, while 44% belong to the Over the industry in Mexico and Counter category” Argentina Approximately 1,937 suppliers 1 Argentina provides service for Paraguay and Uruguay 20 2 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, the Dominican Republic and Trinidad and Tobago Around 130,000 1 CEDIS points of sales in Mexico with approximately distribution 160,000 in center, international operations located in Toluca, state de México 30 new 470 products, 29 of them were products 55 in different own brands brand extensions categories The 2020 Start of a Objective is a manufacturing project market in Toluca, state of diversification Mexico Genomma Lab 161,997,100 is committed to million pieces sold during 2017, improve health, representing 18,000 well-being and More pieces were sold accessibility every hour than 1.5 million persons are impacted through our Facebook communication strategy (G4-DMA, G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-13) 21 “At Genomma Lab, we strive to provide the best solutions in the Over the Counter (OTC) and Personal Care product industr y and be available where our consumers need us, at the moment they need us.” ( Webpage Investor Relations) Genomma Lab Internacional, S.A.B. de Genomma Lab International has a C.V. is one of the leading companies in combination of innovation of new and the pharmaceutical product and self successful products, a consumer-directed care industry in Mexico, with a growing marketing with a broad product distribution international presence in 19 countries chain and a flexible and low-cost operating of the American continent. Genomma model. Genomma Lab International Lab International is dedicated to the stocks contribute to the Mexican Stock development, sale and promotion of a great Exchange under the “LAB.B” stock symbol variety of products of the premium brand, (Bloomberg: labb.mx). many of which are leaders in the category in which they compete in sale and market participation. The company has a 2017 Annual Report where our company’s results may be consulted, in addition to the Sustainability Report’s complementary information. The repor t is available at: ht tp: //genommalab.com/I nversionistas/Upload/ Documents/8/Repor te%20Anual%202017%20 Genomma%20Lab.pdf 22 MISSION Improve and preserve the health and wellbeing of people through products that are innovative, secure and efficient, providing development opportunities for our employees and profitability for our shareholders and positively impacting the community and the environment. VISION To be the leading company in our medication and personal care product categories and be recognized for positively impacting the health and well-being of people, communities and the environment. 23 KEY ALLIES KEY ACTIVITIES VALUE RELATIONS WITH CUSTOMER PROPOSITION CUSTOMERS SEGMENTS Suppliers Research and Points of sale Consumer development of products Research new products Institutions Marketing Provide the Children best solutions Adolescents KEY in the DISTRIBUTION Young Adults RESOURCES pharmaceutical CHANNELS product Pharma/Cosmetics Adults industry Over Pharmacy chains the Counter Brands (OTC) and Pharma/Cosmetics Supermarkets Personal care Distribution (PC) Traditional cosmetics channels Self-service Employees Convenience stores Independent pharmacies COST STRUCTURE FLOW OF INCOME Marketing Retail sale flow of income Research and development OUR VALUES INNOVATION TEAMWORK EFFICIENCY INTEGRITY CREATIVITY SUSTAINABILITY EFFECTIVENESS If you wish to know more about this topic, visit: www.genommalab.com 24 Th rough the different digital points of contact with our users and consumers, such as websites and social networks like Facebook and Twit ter, more than 10,000 comments and doubts regarding our products, points of sale, prices and recommendations were answered during 2017. Thanks to social media as a digital strategy, an average of 1.5 million users were impacted th rough our Facebook communication ever y month . Additionally, in 2017 the digital strategy was consolidated as an effective research tool for our markets in Mexico, United States and Latin America, th is has enabled us to measure the efficiency of YouTube publicit y spots and obtain quantitative and qualitative information regarding our products, th rough the analysis of applied sur veys to samples of strategically segmented users. 25 “TURN AROUND” & “GO-TO-MARKET” STRATEGY The objective of this strategy is to The results have been approximately more geographically diversify our presence, than 40,000 proved weekly consumers and reinforce our portfolio’s most important an estimate increase of 78% in purchase brands, restructure the operations, attempt. The “Power Claims” strategy strengthen financial policies, implement provides security for our customers additional controls and procedures and regarding the effects of the Genomma Lab establish mechanisms that increase products. profitability in the long term. Our most important strategy, the It has the following main objectives: “Excellence in execution” at the a) creation of value for shareholders, b) point of sale, consists in innovating our sustainable business and recognized product’s presentation and improving its brands model and lastly c) an international distribution, so our customers always find expansion (balanced geographical scope). what they want, at the exact moment they need it. This strategy is complemented with a communication improvement called “Best-In-Class”, that help us make a sale. The perfect store concept has been implemented in all markets 26 Go-To-Market Sales and Marketing Strategy BEST-IN-CLASS COMMUNICATION 6 1 2 VISIBILITY IN POWER CLAIMS EXCEPTIONAL STORES WIN THROUGH EXCELLENCE IN ALL CHANNELS EXECUTION 5 4 3 PERFECT STORE CULTURE (ALL LEVELS) Sales + Mkt GTM Go to Market 27 Always an “ Excellence in execution” 2017 WINTER PLAN + 17 % 43% SELL-OUT SHARE OF + 3.9 PTS 51% VOICE SOM SHARE OF VISIBILITY IN-DEPTH KPI’s GRANULARITY Sell in/ Sell out (by customer/sku) Share of voice (by brand) Share of Visibility (by channel) Prices (LAB & competitors) Service Level Numeric Distribution Market Positioning 28 “ Excellence in Execution” AT THE POINT OF SALE 29 OUR BUSINESS IN NUMBERS G4-EC1 “We borrow the planet from future generations. At Genomma Lab we have to create a sustainable business for the present and future” Antonio Zamora Galland, Administration and Finance VP 30 Genomma Lab registered Net Sales of In 2017, sales in Mexico made up 39% of $12,078.4 million pesos ,an EBITDA the total sales , while Latin America of $2,601.2 million pesos. From 2008 to and the United States made up 61% of the 2017, Genomma Lab’s net sales increased total sales, according to the objective of at a compound compound annual diversifying our operations to decrease the dependency on Mexico. growth rate of 18.5% Increase in sales by 18.5% and an EBITDA of 68% $2,601.2 are organic million pesos brands and 32 % are acquired brands The two countries with Total the most sales are sales Mexico and in Mexico Argentina occupy a participation rate of 39% while international sales ascend to 61% 31 The Genomma Lab S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries statement (P&L) of income is shown below: CONSOLI DATED STATEMENTS OF RESU LTS AND OTH ER COMPREH ENSIVE RESU LTS For the years that ended on December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (In thousands of pesos, except the return on asset expressed in pesos) 2015 2016 2017 Net sales, net Revenue $11,042,452 $11,316,310 $12,078,443 Cost of Goods Sold 3,777,058 3,635,327 3,957,128 Gross Profit 7,265,394 7,680,983 8,121,315 Operating and Administrative Expenses 7,334,154 7,491,077 5,622,474 Other Expenses (Income), Net 6,850 86,676 (39,854) Depreciation 899,612 1,770,194 7,322 8,240,616 9,347,947 5,589,942 Operating income (loss) (975,222) (1,666,964) 2,531,373 Interest Expense (392,562) (329,941) (483,520) Interest Income 20,586 33,241 40,085 Foreign exchange gain (loss), net (119,512) 379,349 24,921 Share of profit (or loss) from associates 12,024 68,002 52,325 Income before taxes and discontinued operations (1,454,686) (1,516,313) 2,165,184 Income Taxes (373,895) 126,478 758,696 Income from Continuing Operations (1,080,791) (1,642,791) 1,406,488 Discontinued Operations Net income from discontinued operations 68,154 Net consolidated profit (loss) (1,012,637) (1,642,791) 1,406,488 32 2015 2016 2017 Other comprehensive income, Net from Income taxes Items that will be reclassified into profit or loss Exchange Rate Fluctuation 262,741 182,637 -272,785 Consolidated statement of comprehensive ($749,896) ($1,460,154) $1,133,703 income Consolidated Net Income (Expense) for: Controlling interest ($1,068,519) ($1,680,925) $1,279,208 Non-controlling interest 55,882 38,134 127,280 ($1,012,637) ($1,642,791) $1,406,488 Consolidated Net Income (Expense) for: Controlling interest ($800,330) ($1,509,566) $1,022,708 Non-controlling interest 50,434 49,412 110,995 ($749,896) ($1,460,154) $1,133,703 Diluted net earnings per common share Continued Operations ($1.11) ($1.71) $1.34 Discontinued Operations $0.07 $0.00 $0.00 Diluted net earnings per share ($1.04) ($1.71) $1.34 Weighted average shares outstanding 1,031,553 980,808 $952,491 (thousands) **Amount in thousands of pesos, except the return on asset that is expressed in pesos, according to the independent audit reports and the 2017, 2016 and 2015 consolidated financial statements. 33 2015-2017 CONSOLIDATED NET SALES (IN THOUSANDS OF PESOS) $12,078,443 $11,042,452 $11,316,310 $3,918,234 $4,770,395 $4,688,925 39% 35% 41% $7,124,218 $6,627,385 $7,308,048 65% 59% 61% 2015 2016 2017 Mexico International 34 OUR PRODUCTS AND OPERATIONS (G4-9) Our por t folio is made up by Categories 55 own brands Anti-acne products, lotions to improve the texture of scarred skin, shampoos, dandruff In 2017 we launched 30 shampoos, soaps, products to prevent hair products in the market, where loss, muscular pain ointments, antifungal treatments, for colitis relief, to counteract 29 were extensions of existing stress levels, anti-wrinkles, antacids, brands and/or por t folio anti-ulcers, flu treatments, for sexual renewals and one was under improvement and protection, hemorrhoid treatment, against varicose veins, a new brand. osteoarthritis, ophthalmology medications, among others. 35 The sales of products done by foreign subsidizers represent approximately 61%, 56% and 65% of net sales consolidated by December 31st 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Some of Genomma Lab’s most sold brands are positioned in the first places, in terms of market participation, in the product or industry segment category in which the brands with the most sales compete, including Cicatricure, Asepxia, Tío Nacho, Goicochea and Tafirol, that represent approximately 53.8% of the company’s total sales. Genomma Lab has the necessary internal resources to develop its products and brands, which provide growth perspectives, without necessarily requiring acquisitions to reach this growth. Up to December 2017, three of the five main products of the company were developed internally 36 All of our products are made with national and international quality standards and are supported by scientific research. This is a result of our commitment with the health and wellbeing of our consumers, the development and innovation of responsible products and high quality. 37 IMPORTANT EVENTS The industrial plant project the construction of the industrial complex, represents a milestone for we will have a direct control over the sale cost components, totally automatized Genomma Lab by being the production lines and a last generation first manufacturing plant in vertically integrated supply chain, as well as Mexico, with an investment highly effective and flexible processes. value equivalent to 398 million pesos. The investment of resources for the construction of a new manufacturing plant was authorized during 2017. Located in San Cayetano Morelos, at the north of Toluca, state of Mexico, the first Genomma Lab manufacturing plant in Mexico will represent an investment of 398 million pesos. The plant is adjacent to an industrial park, where 8 multinational companies currently operate. With the construction of the plant, Genomma wants to develop a new industrial park with 15 individual lots, some of which may be available for rent or sold to key suppliers. The over the counter medication (OTC) and the personal care (PC) production will be at the new Genomma plant that will use from 16 to 32 hectares. The plant’s modular concept will allow flexibility for future growth. With this acquisition, the company wants to improve the quality of its products, as well as an offer increase, have a reliable supply chain and increase production margins. With 38 Value Improvement Equation Reliable Product Supply Higher Superior Gross Product Margin Quality The development of the industrial project under the Genomma Laboratories México will have a social and environmental S.A. de C.V registered name. diagnosis, which purpose is to prevent damages, identify risks to mitigate them During this period the production and and orient a sustainability model that physicochemical control laboratory were incorporates the social and environmental remodeled, the manufacturing equipment surroundings. was substituted for new equipment with a greater productivity, some of the Moreover, Syphardrugs S.A.P.I. de C.V a installation plans and internal operation QG5 and X-RAY manufacture producer, procedures were modified to adjust to the is now part of the Genomma Lab family, new equipment and facilities. 39 How do we generate sustainable value? FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY “At Genomma Lab we look forward to strengthening our sustainability strategy because we consider it is fundamental for our future to create and share value in our society and environment ” Alejandro Bastón Patiño, Commercial Expansion and Sustainability VP 40 OUR SUSTAINABILITY MODEL Throughout our history, the company has Our 14 main aspects are shown in the radically transformed, adapting to local and sustainability framework, these priorities global changes. A current important concern are aligned to the United Nations Sustainable for companies and for society is the way in Development Goals. which sustainability is approached and how it is incorporated to its business model. With this practice we will improve our Stakeholder relationships. This is the reason we have made a Genomma Lab International Sustainability Model, that will allow us to improve our social, environmental and economic performance. It is being designed in such a way that it prioritizes the most relevant issues for our SUSTAINABILITY FOR business and our Stakeholders. GENOMMA LAB The 4 main objectives are: “Create shared value in the economic, environmental 1. Live the organization’s values and social spheres in the 2. Efficient use of resources long term, promoting access to health and contributing to 3. Promote affordable health and wellthe society’s well-being with being and the objective of reinforcing the 4. Innovation and development of integral development of our sustainable products. surroundings.” 41 GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Transparency and Ethics Management and Access Responsible in the Organization Climate Change to Health Products OBJECTIVES 1. Promote 1. Identify and mitigate 1. Participate in the 1. Have high quality transparency in all environmental risks development of standards the company’s through an communities close to activities environmental the operation 2. Ethical and management system responsible 2. Internal ethical 2. Build intersectoral communication management 2. Develop products and partnerships to services with a lower create fair access to 3. Improve and maintain 3. Strengthen supply environmental health and a constant dialogue chain ethical impact well-being initiatives with clients and behavior consumers 3. Create shared value SUSTAINABILITY 4. Promote and retain for the Genomma talent through a Lab family common PRIORITIES organizational culture 1. Increase shareholder 1. Decrease 1. Obtain and maintain 1. Customer satisfaction and customer environmental risks the social license to credibility and impacts in our operate (SLO) “Good 2. Improve reputation operations Neighbor” 2). Improve the company’s reputation 2. Contribute to climate 2. Strengthen the bond change mitigation with communities 3. Improve relationship close to operation with the supply chain centers 4. Committed talent 3. Be positioned as a health access model company SHARED VALUE 4. Promote health and well-being access in society FOR STAKEHOLDERS 5. Reinforce trust and commitment with all employees Living sustainability SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y 42 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Genomma Lab International Genomma Lab International has contributes to reach the participated in the Global Compact Mexico for 12 years and has committed to Sustainable Development support the United Nations Sustainable Goals. Development goals, identifying as priority: Decent work and economic growth, good On September 2015, 193 countries health and well-being, gender equality, member of the United Nations signed the quality education, climate action and 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), responsible consumption and production, that allow us to end issues such as extreme which are aligned to our operation and the poverty, promoting justice, encouraging impacts we generate. peace, environmental protection among others, these goals are expected to be met by 2030. FULL AND PRODUCTIVE HEALTHY LIVES ACHIEVE GENDER QUALITY EDUCATION CLIMATE CHANGE SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYMENT AND AND WELL-BEING EQUALITY CONSUMPTION DECENT WORK GOVERNANCE 1 SOCIAL 2 SOCIAL 3 SOCIAL 4 ENVIRONMENTAL 5 ECONOMIC 6 Promote sustained, Ensure healthy Achieve gender Ensure inclusive Take urgent action Ensure inclusive and lives and equality and and equitable to combat climate sustainable sustainable promote empower all quality education change and its consumption economic growth, well-being for women and girls. and promote impacts. and production full and productive all at all ages. lifelong learning patterns. employment and opportunities decent work for all. for all. 43 OUR STAKEHOLDERS G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 During 2017, the company worked on the monitoring and prioritization of our main Stakeholders. With th is practice, the communication channels and the knowledge of their expectations will be strengthened. Our main Stakeholders are: employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, manufacturers, communit y and shareholders. 44 Suppliers and HIGH Manufacturers Customers and Shareholders Consumers Government Entities Authorities and Regulatory Entities Employees INFLUENCE LEVEL Community Civil Society Opinion Leaders MID Organizations Chambers LOW LOW MID HIGH INTERACTION LEVEL 45 STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION KEY POINTS CHANNELS Training sessions Life Career Internal emails Programs and benefits for Employees Work environment studies employees and their families Compensation studies Award system Environmental Conservation Webpage Variety Social media Prices Market studies Product Quality Customers and Consumers Satisfaction surveys Service Quality Customer and consumer service Environmental Conservation lines Meetings, Phone calls, Institutional emails with relevant information, Quality audits and Supplier Contracts assessments for suppliers Supplier Training Sessions ending in a formal and qualified Suppliers and Manufacturers feedback Fairtrade New digital tools: Supplier Long term relations Website Volunteering Support Foundations Community Genomma Lab Foundation Access to medications Donations Generation of economic and Assemblies social value Financial Statements Environmental Conservation Shareholders Shareholder relations page Transparency Telephone Conferences Fairtrade Verified and convenient constant information 46 PARTICIPATION IN INITIATIVES, ASSOCIATIONS, AWARDS AND ADHESIONS (G4-16) Our continuous commitment is recognized, and we are currently par t of 5 directive commit tees We participate in an active way in different as well as different regulator y or chambers, associations and other sectorial tech nical commit tees, where we entities. We are member of 12 cosmetic entities all over the American continent, have the honor of coordinating among which we emphasize our presence different work groups. in The Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) in the United States and in the We additionally work with 8 national and Consejo de la Industria de Cosméticos, private universities in some countries in Latin Aseo Personal y Cuidado del Hogar de America, some in which we have collaborated Latinoamérica (CASIC), where we are viceas experts on a topic and/or organizing national presidents. and international events: 47 Instituto Tecnológico de para el sector Químico Farmacéutico” Buenos Aires (ITBA). directed to Chemical pharmaceutic Cosmetics Seminar in August 2017. students. Speakers: Carlos Caro, Personal Speakers and organizers: Global PC Care Regulatory Matters Global Manager; Genomma regulatory team with special Oscar Rodríguez, Personal Care Regulatory guests. Matters Global Coordinator. Universidad de Buenos Aires, Universidad Nacional de Argentina. Pharmacy and Colombia, Bogotá-Colombia, Speaker invited to the Cosmetic Science Biochemistr y Facult y. and Technology Specialization, April 2017 Pharmacy and Biochemistry Faculty. I sanitary legislation conference cycle: Sustainable Fito Cosmetic International “Gestión Regulatoria en cosméticos, énfasis Symposium. September 2017. Conference: México y Centroamérica”. Speaker: Carlos “La actualidad y el potencial de la región Caro, Personal Care Regulatory Matters Latinoamericana en la industria cosmética. Global Manager. Perspectiva regulatoria”. Speaker: Luciana Santi, Personal Care Regulatory Matters Global Director. Universidad del Atlántico, Barranquilla-Colombia, Ministerio de Ambiente y Speaker invited to the Scientific framework week, September 2017 in the Pharmacy Desarrollo Sustentable. and Chemistry Faculty. Conference: National Presidency. Argentine Republic. “Principios Generales Sobre Buenas PNUD ARG 16 /G54 Project. “Jornada de Prácticas de Manufactura Cosmética”. Capacitación para la Implementación del Speaker: Carlos Caro, Personal Care Protocolo de Nagoya en Argentina”. Regulatory Matters Global Manager. December 2017. Conference: “Industria Cosmética: Actualidad y Potencial de la Región Latinoamericana. Perspectiva Asociación Colombiana de Regulatoria”. Speaker: Luciana Santi, Personal Ingeniería, Chemistr y and Care Regulatory Matters Global Director. related professions, Bogota Chapter. First National Natural Universidad de Ciencias Cosmetic Competition, October 2017. Aplicadas y Ambientales Contest Jury: Carlos Caro, Personal Care Regulatory Matters Global Manager. (U DCA) , Bogota-Colombia, Science and Tech nology A list of the cosmetic entities in which we Facult y participate is shown below: Conference in February 2017 “Panorama del sector Cosmético en Colombia y desafíos 48 COUNTRY ASSOCIATION Consejo de la industria de cosméticos, aseo personal Latin America y cuidado del hogar de Latinoamérica (CASIC) United States Personal Care Product Council (PCPC) Cámara Nacional de la Industria Farmacéutica (CANIFARMA) Mexico Sociedad de Químicos Cosmetólogos de México (SQCM) Costa Rica Cámara de Comercio Costa Rica – Comité de Cosméticos y Aseo del Hogar Dominican Republic Asociación de fabricantes de productos para el cuidado personal e higiene personal y del hogar, INC (AFAPER) Central America Cámara Centroamericana y del Caribe de Cosméticos y Aseo (CACECOS) Cámara de la Industria Cosmética y de Aseo de la ANDI (Asociación Colombia Nacional de Empresarios de Colombia) Resolución 1482 julio 2012 Límites Microbiológicos en cosméticos. Instituto Colombiano de normas técnicas y certificación (ICONTEC) Ecuador Asociación Ecuatoriana de productos cosméticos, de higiene doméstica y absorbentes (Procosméticos) Peru Comité Peruano de cosmética e higiene de la Cámara de Comercio de Lima (COPECOH) Brazil Asociación Brasilera de la industria de higiene personal, perfumería y Cosmética. (ABIHPEC) Uruguay Cámara Uruguaya de perfumería, cosmética y artículos de tocador (CUPCAT) Paraguay Cámara Paraguaya de empresas de productos domisanitarios, higiene personal y afines. (CAEDHPA ) Argentina Cámara Argentina de la industria de cosmética y perfumería (CAPA) Instituto Argentino de normalización y certificación (IRAM) Chile Cámara de la industria cosmética de Chile Resolución 6444 de 2005 Especificaciones de calidad de productos cosméticos 49 OUR MATERIALITY (GRI G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) The materiality analysis we conducted is focused on the entities that make up Genomma Lab I nternational and appear in our financial statements. 50 GENOMMA LAB INTERNACIONAL, S.A.B. DE C.V CONTINUOUS GROWTH LIMITED GENOMMA LABORATORIES MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. GENOMMA LABORATORIES ARGENTINA, S.A. GENOMMA LABORATORIES DO BRASIL LTDA GENOMMA LABORATORIES PARAGUAY, S.R.L. GENOMMA LABORATORIES URUGUAY, S.R.L THE DUTCH LATEM ROYALTY COMPANY B.V GENOMMA LAB USA, INC. GENOMMA LAB URUGUAY, S.A TELEVISION PRODUCTS RETAIL, S.A. DE C.V. MEDICINAS Y MEDICAMENTOS NACIONALES, S.A. DE C.V INICIATIVAS DE EXITO, S.A. DE C.V. AERO LAB, S.A. DE C.V FUNDACIÓN GENOMMA LAB, A.C SERVICIOS LOGÍSTICOS GENOMMA, S.A. DE C.V GIIBART, S.A. DE C.V. GRUPO COMERCIAL E INDUSTRIAL MARZAM, S.A.P.I. DE C.V. GENOMMA LAB PERÚ, S.A. GENOMMA LAB CENTROAMERICA, S.A. GENOMMA LAB CHILE, S.A. GENOMMA LAB COLOMBIA LTDA. GENOMMALAB ECUADOR, S.A. GENOMMA LABORATORIOS MEDICOS, S.L GENOMMA LAB DOMINICANA, S.R.L. GENOMMA LAB PANAMÁ, S.A. GENOMMA LAB HONDURAS, S.A.DE C.V. GENOMMA LAB EL SALVADOR, S.A.DE C.V. GENOMMA LAB GUATEMALA, S.A. GL NICARAGUA, S.A. GLB LABORATORIOS BOLIVIA, S.A 51 The materiality analysis helps us identify 1. Qualify internal and external factors opportunities, mitigate risks and have that are important to Genomma Lab influence in areas that have a greater impact International for the company and for third parties. 2. Identify the importance they have for our To assess the material aspects of the Stakeholders company, we identified the most relevant social, economic and environmental 3. Identify how we manage them aspects in our supply chain. Our identification process is made up of the The following material issues were obtained following phases for the organization: Sustainability Model of Genomma Lab “Genomma Access” Living sustainability Social SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y AND SUSTAINABILIT Y Health Access (Investment in community) Environmental Talent Attraction Environmental and Retention Management Waste Management Create Shared Value for the Genomma Climate Change Lab Family Economic Corruption / Bribery / Transparency Ethics and Integrity Product Quality Product Responsibility Supply Chain Development This report is designed in such a way to relevant aspects, based on the Materiality report the Genomma Lab International most Analysis and the Sustainability Model. 52 GOVERNANCE, TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS IN THE ORGANIZATION (GRI G4-DMA, G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, G4-49, G4-50, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) 53 GOVERNANCE, ETHIC MANAGEMENT, MANAGEMENT FOCUS Eth ic management is the most relevant topic in our materialit y. The company ’s actions associated to the eth ical values are of vital impor tance to assure well-functioning and sustainabilit y. The company has its own policies, codes and mechanisms to internally manage eth ical behavior and regulate Stakeholder relationsh ips. The company ’s eth ical posture is constantly communicated, as well as the legal compliance and the possible repor ts monitoring. . 54 ETHICAL BEHAVIOR (GRI G4-DMA, G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, G4-49, G4-50, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) “The factors that encourage a sustainable growth culture at Genomma Lab are suppor ted by the eth ical commitment of each of the members of th is team.” Efraín Tapia Córdova Legal Director 55 The ethical behavior of the company is firstly demonstrated through its corporate Since 2016, the company governance. Genomma Lab International has a diversified business with presence star ted working on the in 19 countries. It seeks to improve the “mega brands” strategy company’s performance daily, as well to have successful global as participate in attractive and growing businesses, in addition to betting for the markets, the company has creation of leading and recognized brands worked on the development according to each segment. As part of this global strengthening strategy the company of “umbrella” brands, wh ich does a marketing penetration analysis to objective is the successful consolidate the markets in places where the diversification of products that brand may be worth more. at tend market requirements The creation of value for shareholders is and necessities. The based on a sustainable and diversified model. company star ted the “ turnDuring 2017, the company started working to increase the sales volumes of its current around” strategy in 2016, products in the markets in which Genomma wh ich included an operational Lab is present, as well as increasing the restructure th roughout the strength and sustainability of its brands to improve or redesign third party acquired company, the implementation products for its relaunching in markets of control systems, in where Genomma Lab International is repor ting and a strong team already established. commitment. 56 The 2017 to 2020 strategy will be totally focused on the point of sale strengthening th rough 4 main objectives: Portfolio Compliance Promote Visibility Strengthen the distribution Place products capacity, improving 2 adequately 4 customer service and to be at a having the appropriate customer reach. product at the Perfect Store Development of appropriate Promotes an New Channels place. extraordinary point Innovate in a way of sale. to bring the product 1 3 closer to the customers. Our objective is to become Watching over the ethical behavior of the the leading company in over company as well as the accountability, legal and internal norm compliance, allow us the counter products and to build a trust culture that commits us to personal care products, protect the company’s continuity. protecting the company ’s reputation and the eth ic Good corporate management has been fundamental to assume new risks from the relationsh ip with all its emerging global surroundings and watch Stakeholders. Th is is a priorit y over the company’s performance. considered by the governance and management bodies. 57 The company meets the “Ley del Mercado de Valores en México” requirements to conform a corporate government. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company has 2 committees: The Audit and Corporate Practices Committee and the Operations Committee. The executive The company’s director presents sustainability model trimestral results to shows the commitment the board and they the company has evaluate the social, with the future of its environmental operations. and economic strategies. The board The president The committee of administration, of the board is made up by 9 committees of administration owner members, of and company does not hold an which seven are director’s executive position independent. performance in the company. is evaluated annually. In 2017 there were no relevant worries to report. 58 Our Corporate Governance is regulated under the best international practices as well as those suggested by institutions such as the Mexican Stock E xchange. The board of administration is chosen by the Ordinar y Annual General Meeting; the rules indicate that it may have a maximum of 21 members, where at least 25% must be independent, according to the “ Ley del Mercado de Valores en México”. In 2017, the board was formed by 9 members, of wh ich seven are independent and two are related equit y advisors. Each of them has had training and experience in sectors related to the market: personal care, health , commercialization, marketing and the pharmaceutical industr y. 59 BOARD OF ADMINISTRATION President Of The Board And An Independent Member Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra The legal representation and Related Equit y Advisors strategy management relies on the board of administration, Sabrina Lucila Herrera Aspra directed by Alonso Herrera Aspra founder of the company Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra Aspra is the Substitute Advisor of Rodrigo with more than 20 years of Alonso Herrera Aspra and Sabrina Lucila experience in marketing and Herrera Aspra. brand positioning strategies. *Mr. Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra, Mrs. Sabrina Lucila Herrera Aspra and Mrs. Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra are siblings. 60 Independent Advisors: Out of 100% of the board of administration of the company, 20% are female and 80% Scott R. Emerson are male. Out of the total of equity advisors, 11.1% are female and 88.89% are male. Out Héctor Carrillo González of the total of substitute advisors, 100% are Javier Vale Castilla female Ignacio González Rodríguez Juan Carlos Gavito Aspe Jorge Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz Genomma Lab International Director Group Juan Alonso Máximo Juda Advisor Designation* Executive Director In the Ordinary Annual General Meeting Antonio Zamora Galland that took place on the 18th of April 2018, Administration and Finance Executive Vice the Board of Administration members of President the company were assigned and approved. Since this day, the following members joined the Board of Administration in the company: Marco Sparvieri Commercial Operations Executive Vice President Carlos Javier Vara Alonso Burkhard Wittek Santiago Vélez Peláez Mexico Director and Manufacturing Vice Secretar y* President As a result of the Ordinary Annual General Alejandro Bastón Patiño Meeting that took place on the 18th of April Commercial and International Development 2018, Mr. Marco Francisco Forastieri Vice President Muñoz was assigned as the Ordinary César Jaramillo Annual General Meeting Non-member Marketing Executive Vice President Ordinary Secretary of the company and Mr. Efraín Tapia Córdova as the Ordinary Annual General Meeting Non-member Honorary Secretary of the company. *Information up to May 2018 61 Juan Carlos Gavito COMMITTEES Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee* Héctor Carrillo González Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee Juan Alonso Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committees Operations Commit tee Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra Audit and Corporate Practices Commit tee Máximo Juda This committee is in charge of reviewing Marco Sparvieri the program results to prevent corruption according to the Mexican laws. This Antonio Zamora Galland committee is responsible for the audit and corporate practices process assigned to *In the Ordinary Annual General Meeting that took the board of administration by the “Ley del place on the 18th of April 2018, (i) Mr. Jorge Ricardo Mercado de Valores”. Gutiérrez Muñoz was assigned as President of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, (ii) Mr. Juan Carlos Gavito was assigned as a new Member Jorge Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, (iii) President of the Audit and Corporate the rest of the members of the committee and the Practices Committee Operations Committee were ratified 62 BOARD OF ADMINISTRATION REPORT The board is informed about the management and per formance of all the company ’s directors, executive positions or those who have any economic, environmental or social responsibilities and who are The executive director presents the trimestral results (or annual, given the case) accountable to the President related to the operations, strategies and of the Board. future plans of the economic, environmental and social aspects; considering each Through the reports developed for these committee president’s recommendations effects by the business management, the and suggestions. The committees receive board of administration is informed about feedback from the Management team to the management and performance of inform the Board of Administration about the organization. The report emphasizes issues that must be addressed. The Board critical aspects, achievements and of Administration analyzes, evaluates and potential challenges in the economic, makes decisions regarding the actions environmental and social areas facing their and results of the company, approving or strategic objectives, as well as possible rejecting projects and business strategies. risks and obstacles to attain them. 63 NOMINATION FUNCTION PROCESSES FOR GOVERNING BODIES AND TOP MANAGEMENT The Shareholder’s Assembly For the election of the members of the board, evaluates the integration diversity and experience are considered of new members to the so that all the areas of the company are Board of Administration. represented, the independency of the “Ley del Mercado de Valores” compliance is also considered. Each member of the Board and the Audit and Corporate The management of Practices Committee the impacts, risks and receives a remuneration of $127,500 pesos per session, oppor tunities of the and the president of the committee receives economic, environmental When a conflict $170,000 pesos and social aspects consider of interest exists, possible business risks prevention mechanisms are for the organization and applied and the board members that are involved are shared with our board must abstain from voting of administration, for their knowledge and decision The Board of making. Administration is assessed by the company’s At The organization’s most relevant issues in shareholders Genomma economic, environmental and social aspects Lab International we have been identified since 2013. These comply with all the have been analyzed from the reputational, obligations established by the “Ley del Mercado compliance, regulatory and operative de Valores” perspectives; enabling the redefinition of our sustainability strategy and the strengthening All the information that is of Genomma Lab International actions in all To provided for the CNBV its operations throughout its value chain. obtain and BMV is published more in the Shareholder In 2017 the rise of the Sustainability Model technical relations will allow us to have a greater commitment and detailed webpage: information about vision with the sustainability of the company. this chapter, you may find the Mexican Stock Exchange public information at: http://www.bmv.com www.genommalab.com/Inversionistas (GRI G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53) 64 DIRECTOR NOMINATION AND SELECTION The Shareholders’ Assembly accepts or rejects the integration of new members to the Board of Administration and the corresponding commit tees, the experience and the diversit y of the profiles are evaluated. DIRECTOR AND MANAGEMENT TEAM REMUNERATION Remuneration is approved by the Shareholders’ Assembly. Each member of the Board and the Audit and Corporate Practices receives a remuneration of $127, 500 pesos per session, the Commit tee President receives $170,000 pesos. The ordinar y members of the Board do not receive any remuneration. 65 CONFLICT OF INTEREST MANAGEMENT Moreover, we follow the “Ley del Mercado de Valores” and the conflict of interest prevention mechanisms are established by the Internal audit and Ethics Committee, in case an analysis and corresponding actions The shareholders, directors and members are necessary. of any of the company’s Board of Administration committees must abstain from participating in the discussions and Board Assessment and voting in the shareholders Assembly and Efficiency Board of Administration sessions or the corresponding committee, regarding The Board of Administration is assessed matters in which they have a conflict of by the company’s shareholders, given that interest. Any director that votes on matters the Shareholders’ confirms or approve the in which they have a conflict of interest, will Board’s members. be responsible for the damages caused, in case the matter had not been approved To obtain more technical and detailed without the vote of the director. Additionally, information about this chapter, you may the members of the Board of Administration find the Mexican Stock Exchange public of the company are subject to a loyalty and information at: due diligence. http://www.bmv.com.mx 66 All the information that is provided for the CNBV and BMV is published in the Shareholder relations webpage: http://www.genommalab.com/ Inversionistas/ Where the financial results of the company, the company analysis, sustainability performance, changes in the Administration committee and management team and other relevant information is published periodically. RENEWAL OF OUR CONTINUITY AS A MEXICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (BMV) SUSTAINABLE INDEX ISSUER . In the year 2017, Genomma Lab International renewed for fif th year in a row its continuit y in the Mexican Stock E xchange Sustainabilit y Index. Th is Index has been driven by international markets, conscious of the growing impor tance and tendency of environmental , social and corporate governance topics. 67 The Code of Ethics is disseminated and 100% of the employees receive training CODE OF The Code of Ethics CONDUCT is disseminated to 100% of the suppliers AND ETHICS The Ethics Committee is in charge of coordinating and assuring the Code G4-DMA GRI G4-41, G4-42, G4-56 of Conduct and Ethics guideline compliance The Ethics Committee is made up by 5 partners and 1 secretary The company During the year 2017, has an external eight reports company specialized The topics were made, all were in reporting channel addressed in the received online management Code of Conduct and since 2016 Ethics are: Commercial Practices, Anticorruption, Conflict of Interests, Extraordinary 100% of the Payments, Gifts and Entertainment For the 12th reports received by Activities, Intellectual Property consecutive year, the Genomma and Privileged Information Genomma Lab Lab International Ethics Management International has Committee were been part of the tracked and solved Global Compact 68 Through the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Guard the company’s confidential we establish a behavior framework that information and documentation delimits the principles that conduct the integrity and good judgement of those that We have a series of policies that contribute maintain a work or commercial relation with to manage the company such as: An Genomma Lab International. Anticorruption Policy, a Diversity Policy and an Environmental Policy. The Genomma Lab International values are part of our Code of Ethics and serve as How do we communicate the a guide for daily behavior of the staff and is applicable to all levels of the company. Code of Conduct and Eth ics to our Stakeholders? The main topics that are addressed in it are Commercial Practices, Anticorruption, 100% of our human capital has voluntarily Conflict of Interest, Extraordinary Payments, signed the Code of Conduct and Ethics and Gifts and Entertainment Activities, the Anticorruption Policy. Intellectual Property and Privileged Information Management. With the purpose of continuing the dissemination of the Code of Conduct and The general ethical norms that regulate Ethics, an introduction workshop is given to our Code of Conduct and Ethics are: new employees. Show a loyal, diligent and respectful We update the Code of Conduct and Ethics conduct. and the Anticorruption Policy in the supplier website, intranet and the CEDIS stands and Recognize people’s liberty, privacy and information boards dignity. To correctly watch over the Operate a business that follows equality application of the Code of and non-discrimination principles Eth ics, the company offers Promote human rights, prohibit and report employees, suppliers and harassment. shareholders a repor ting channel and constant training Comply with law, regulations and codes of sessions. the countries where we operate. Comply with money laundering regulations. Protect and preserve the company’s tangible assets. 69 ETHICS COMMITTEE Its mission is to promote, regulate and look after the correct compliance of the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the internal policies by the Stakeholders, that is: employees, suppliers, customers and shareholders; that are related to the company, to promote the development of people in compliance with Genomma’s vision. The vision of the committee is to be the body that regulates and promotes a healthy work The Eth ics Commit tee environment, respecting the fundamental is the body in charge of working rights of people related to the coordinating and assuring the company, through the Code of Conduct Code of Conduct and Eth ics and Ethics compliance, which also serves to reinforce our commitment with the guideline compliance. protection of the Human Rights, the integrity of the employees and the co-responsibility we have with the different Stakeholders. 70 Our Eth ics Commit tee is made up by 5 par tners and 1 secretar y ETHICS COMMITTEE OBJECTIVES Attend and Code of Ethics receive any type of Application reports and situations Answer any doubts regarding its applicability The Ethics Committee meets periodically or when there is an urgent case 100% of the repor ts Inform Upper presented in 2017 Management have been at tended about committee and had a follow up. results 71 “RESGUARDA” REPORTING CHANNEL GRI G4-58 Since 2016, the company has had an external company specialized in repor ting channel management, where our stakeholders may consult it. Webpage www.resguarda.com E-mail reportes@resguarda.com 72 Via telephone United States of America 1-800-921-2240 Reports regarding abnormal situations in the work environment or that attempt against Argentina 0-800-99-4636 the company’s assets, are received through these channels from all the countries where Brazil 0-800-891-4636 we have operations. Mexico 01-800-1233312 The Ethics Committee is governed by the Nicaragua 001-800-2260469 Report Attention Procedure, which objective is to attend Genomma Lab International Panama 011-00800-052-1375 employees, through the: Bolivia 800100605 The establishment of channels and forms to Chile 800-835-133 report non-compliance. Colombia 01-800-752-2222 The research of events in relation to the Costa Rica 0-800-054-1046 possible non-compliance. Ecuador 1-800-000031 The establishment of responsibilities of the people involved. El Salvador 800-6988 Guatemala 1-800-835-0393 The report’s resolution and the determination of a corresponding punishment. Honduras 800-2791-9047 The determination of preventive and Paraguay 009-800-521-0056 corrective measures that prevent the Peru 0-800-00932 repetition of the events. Puerto Rico 1-855-7619289 The procedure is regulated by the Report Dominican Rep. 1-88-760-0133 Attention, protocol, which has the objective of attending the Code of Conduct Trinidad & Tobago 1-855-511-9561 and Ethics non-compliance actions, as well as the internal policies with the purpose of Uruguay 000-4052-10128 guaranteeing optimal work conditions. 73 Ethics Committee Reports Report External Entity Solutions Th is process is always done in a confidential manner and with punctual monitoring for each case, following corporate guidelines. During 2017, the reporting line RESGUARDA received eight reports. All reports were received online, five of them were resolved successfully and 3 of them are still being monitored. For the correct functioning of the 3.Control actions: establish control company’s reporting line, the company has mechanisms to detect possible Code of the following actions: Conduct non-compliances on time. 1. Preventive actions: constant training 4. Monitoring and resolution to 100% of the program for Mexican and international reports received by the Ethics Committee. employees 5. Continuous improvement of internal 2. Dissemination for Stakeholders through processes to improve Ethical performance. the webpage 74 ANTICORRUPTION MEASURES AND HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION (GRI G4-HR1, G4-HR3, G4-HR7, G4-SO6 y G4-SO11) Por doceavo año consecutivo, Genomma The company has an Lab Internacional refrenda su adhesión al Anticorruption Policy wh ich Pacto Mundial y con esto su compromiso con los Objetivos del Desarrollo Sostenible. objective is to prevent and/ Así también, con los 10 principios mundiales or avoid corruption or para las empresas, referentes a temas en influence peddling practices materia de Derechos Humanos, Normas by the employees and/or Laborales, Medio Ambiente y la Lucha Contra la Corrupción. th ird par ties related to the company and strengthen its Regarding Anticorruption, the company transparency. verifies its Anticorruption Policy every year and supports the Global Compact in the “Call to Action”, where companies are committed to establish actions to avoid any type of corruption acts. 75 The Code of Conduct and Eth ics stipulates the repudiation of any corruption practice inside and outside of the company During 2017, we did not have any corruption cases at Genomma Lab The company ’s Code of Conduct and Eth ics as well as the Anticorruption Policy is available at the Supplier website Avoiding corruption and influence peddling Any offering, corruption act or influence acts are part of our obligations, our peddling that may exist in relation to employees must commit to not request Genomma Lab International, must be nor accept any type of incentive from reported through the authorized channels a third party to avoid affecting their job in the external reporting channel. performance. Unapproved practices may constitute a crime and will be punished by the authorities, according to the case. IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR ETHICAL VALUES INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION ANTICORRUPTION STAKEHOLDERS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST MEASURES Employees Code of Conduct and Ethics Code of Conduct and Ethics Anticorruption Policy Reporting Channel Global Compact Suppliers and Manufacturers Code of Ethics for suppliers Code of Ethics for suppliers Anticorruption Policy Shareholders Code of Conduct and Ethics Ley Mexicana de Valores Anticorruption Policy 76 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND CLIMATE CHANGE (GRI G4-DMA, G4-14, EN11, G4-EN27, G4-EN29 y G4-EN34) 77 SUMMARY Identificamos y cuantificamos El consumo de electricidad es la nuestras emisiones de Gases de categoría más significativa Se Efecto Invernadero (GEI) con el para Genomma Lab, logró objetivo de difundir a En debido a su relación reducir nuestros Grupos de Genomma con el cambio el consumo Interés nuestro Lab contamos climático de electricidad compromiso con con una política en el Centro de la mitigación ambiental enfocada Distribución (CEDIS) del cambio en la eficiencia un 21% ya que en 2016 climático energética y la reducción tuvo un consumo de en el uso de materiales, 1,760,950 kWh y en 2017, emisiones y residuos 1,388,120 kWh T Por primer año la empresa logró RIN adherirse al “Programa Voluntario de Contabilidad y Reporte de NF Gases de Efecto Invernadero OO En 2017 en México”, coordinado por TP cumplimos la Secretaría de Medio BO 6 años Ambiente y Recursos consecutivos Naturales CA reportando la (SEMARNAT). R contabilidad de Gases de Efecto Invernadero (GEI) México. En México fue de 2,010.43 toneladas de CO2e, lo que representó un aumento En 2017, por primera ocasión se realizó del 21% con respecto al 2016. un esfuerzo global para medir los La Esto, debido principalmente al unidad impactos ambientales de las oficinas cambio de factor de de negocio emisión, que pasó de regionales: Perú, Centroamérica y el que más ser de 0.458kg Caribe, Argentina, así como de las contribuyó a las CO2e/kWh a oficinas locales ubicadas en: Brasil, emisiones totales fue 0.582 kg Colombia, Ecuador, Chile y Estados el Centro de Distribución CO2e/kWh. Unidos de América (EUA), y de la fábrica (CEDIS) con un 70%, el ubicada en Mexico, Genomma resto de las emisiones fueron Laboratories México S.A. de C.V., el emitidas por las oficinas CEDIS y las Oficinas Corporativas. corporativas. 78 FUEL For electric energy generation and staff transportation purposes, an equivalent of 140,906.71 liters of For staff diesel were used. For water transportation heating purposes, purposes, an an equivalent of equivalent of 66,903 liters 22,778.80 liters of LP gas of gasoline were used. were used. During the year 2017, 66.2 tons of E ST WA packaging material were recycled, according to the quality and We implemented awareness industrial security specifications campaigns in the corporate and 1,486.2 tons of waste were facilities based on the sent to a co-processing 3R’s (Reduce, destruction process with Recycle, Reuse). Blue electrical a company ally; tape, stretch film Comercializadora On the other hand, and cardboard edges de Residuos 1,248 m3 of waste were the materials that Industriales were sent to a final were mostly reduced. (CORSI). disposal During 2017 in Mexico, the CEDIS generated WA In 2017, Genomma Lab a wastewater total of 3,248 m3, 100% of TE R in Mexico had a total them were treated. Additionally, the water consumption of company works with Reciclagua 9,204.92 m3, considering Ambiental S.A de C.V, a the three facilities program used for capturing in Mexico. Our sewage is and treating the directed to a wastewater of more Water usage in our third-party waste than 300 facilities is primarily for water treatment plant. companies sanitary purposes. 79 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Environmental conser vation is one of the company ’s priorities, in 2017 different initiatives were done to improve our waste generation and treatment per formance, water management and carbon footprint measurement. All th is with the purpose of bet ter understanding how the company may improve decision making regarding climate change. 80 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY “Our commitment in the environmental Our objective is to reduce our carbon footprint, through area is focused on offering products process optimization, the that improve the qualit y of life of people, incorporation of new fostering favorable social benefit technologies that allow us conditions and environmental protection, to be more efficient and standardize the commitment promoting clear and measurable and performance in other programs.” countries where we are present. OU R ACTION AXES ARE DI RECTED TO: Reduce and make material use more efficient Increase energy efficiency CO2e Emission Sustainable Reduction Appropriate Suppliers management and waste reduction 81 GENOMMA LAB INTERNATIONAL ENERGY Electric consumption is the most Center’s (CEDIS) electric consumption significant category for Genomma Lab, was reduced by 21%, considering that because of its relation to climate change. the electric consumption for 2016 Our efforts in this area are focused on was 1,760,950 kWh and the electric the implementation of energy efficiency consumption in 2017was 1,388,120 kWh. projects such as lighting substitution and electronic device updates. The total facilities electric The operation with the most electric consumption was consumption in 2016 was the Distribution 2,619,278.34 kWh, equivalent Center (CEDIS) in Mexico. However, to 1,471.90 tCO 2e thanks to the reduction programs previously mentioned, the Distribution 82 HOW DO WE ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE? At Genomma Lab, we believe measuring is the first step to improve. Th is is the reason we have been measuring our corporate carbon footprint for 6 years, wh ich is fundamental for a complete understanding of our impacts, in addition to being an environmental protection and climate change mitigation measure. Th is measurement has become an intensit y indicator for the use of resources, for the financial efficiency of the organization and as par t of our risk analysis associated to global warming. 83 OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT (G4-EC2, G4-22, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17 G4-EN18, G4EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, EN30) We have been repor ting our Greenhouse Gases for 6 consecutive years in Mexico and for the first time we par ticipated in the Greenhouse gas inventory, for our operations in Mexico. 84 Methodology As a good practice, the manufacturers and the distribution centers located in Ecuador The measurement for the Greenhouse and Colombia, measure their water and gas inventory, for the 2017 activities in waste impacts, respectively. In the other Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C. regions paper and water consumptions was done using the “Corporate Accounting are also included. This accountability and Reporting Standad” by the Greenhouse does not make part of the Genomma Lab Gas Protocol (GHG) that meets the ISO International S.A.B. de C.V Carbon footprint, 14064-1:2006 requirements. but certain KPIs have been created to know the impact of the operations and the people involved. In 2017, for the first time, the company made an effor t to measure environmental impacts of regional offices in: Peru, Central America and the Caribbean, Argentina, local offices in: Brazil , Colombia, Ecuador, Ch ile and the United States (US) , as well as the laborator y located in Mexico, Genomma Laboratories Mexico S. A . de C.V. the CEDIS and corporate offices. GENOMMA LAB INTERNATIONAL S.A.B DE C.V. OFFICES DISTRIBUTION CENTERS MANUFACTURER Mexico U.S. Mexico Genomma Laboratories Doña Rosa Mexico S.A. de C.V. Peru Chile Costa Rica Colombia CEDIS (outsourcing) Brazil La Fabril (outsourced manufacturer) Argentina Ecuador Envapress (outsourced manufacturer) 85 CEDIS Construction surface: 36,000 m2 Materials: 8,000 Offices: 1,500 m2 Material handling equipment Total Surface with courtyards: 50,000 m2 23 lift trucks and 22 rented electric scooters Storage occupancy: 85% 50 own hydraulic scooters Total pallets: 49,000 Operation: 24 x 7 PT: 41,000 EM ISSION BRE AK DOWN BY SOU RCE TYPE OF TYPE OF EMISSIONS EMISSIONS SOURCE tCO2e Fixed Sources LP Gas 37.29 Scope 1: Direct Emissions Diesel 4.63 Mobile Sources Diesel 397.89 Gasoline 162.83 Scope 2: Electric Electric Supply Company 1,471.90 Indirect Emissions Consumption Business Trips 172.41 Scope 3: Indirect Emissions Value Chain Total emissions 2,246.94 86 By quantifying the total emissions, the To calculate the emissions, the electric consumption covers the most following classifications were emissions with 65%, followed by combustion, determined according to their scopes: which is produced by our freight vehicles and use of different gases. Lastly, only Scope 1: 7% are scope 3 emissions, this refers to The fixed and mobile sources found in the airplane flights. Air conditioner refrigerants organizational limits of Genomma Lab were not considered because there were no International, considering the following: equipment leaks during 2017. LP Gas/ Water heating, Diesel/ Energy generation and staff transportation, This year our Carbon Footprint was Gasoline/ Staff transportation. 2,246.94 ton of CO2e. The business unit that contributed the most to the total emissions Scope 2: was the Distribution Center (CEDIS) with The indirect emissions generated by a 60%. In 2017, there was an increase of third party outside the organization, as 23.32% due to emission factor modification, a consequence of energy consumption: changing from 0.458kgCO2e/kWh to electric energy and consumption in facilities. 0.582 kgCO2e/kWh, affecting the result by 27% more emissions as an effect of the Scope 3: calculation. Covers indirect emissions generated during the life-cycle of the products and services that were used in the organization’s activities, Our carbon footprint in 2017 this includes its productive chain, usage was 2, 246.94 ton of CO2e, and waste, which are: flight kilometers per the equivalent to 57,614 urban passenger. trees. 87 FACILITY COUNTRY-REGION tCO2e PERCENTAGE Argentina Argentina 9.5 0.4% Brazil Brazil 11.64 0.5% Costa Rica Central America / The Caribbean 0.66 0.0% Chile Chile 11.43 0.5% Colombia Colombia 0 0.0% Ecuador Ecuador-Administration Offices 22.14 1.0% U.S. U.S. 0 0.0% Mexico Corporate 595.16 26.5% Mexico Mexico CEDIS 1,344.60 59.8% Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A de C.V. 70.67 3.1% Peru Peru-Bolivia 1.95 0.1% TOTAL 2,246.94 TOTAL (tCO2e) by REGION Mexico CEDIS 53.84% Mexico Corporate 26.49% Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A de C.V. Ecuador-Administration Offices Brazil Chile Argentina Peru-Bolivia Central America / The Caribbean Colombia U.S. 88 CO2e EMISSIONS BY TYPE EMISSIONS tCO2e % Scope 1 602.63 26.82 Scope 2 1,471.90 65.51 Scope 3 172.41 7.67 Total 2,246.94 1,000.00 900.00 800.00 700.00 Fixed Source Fuel 600.00 500.00 Mobile Source Fuel 400.00 Electricity 300.00 Business Trips 200.00 100.00 0.00 Brazil Argentina Central America / The Caribbean Chile Colombia EcuadorAdministration Offices U.S. Mexico Corporate Mexico CEDIS Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A de C.V. Peru-Bolivia 89 “The health of h umanit y depends on the sustainabilit y of the planet, that is the impor tance of preser ving our planet.” Jesús Antonio Ramírez de Alba . Supply Chain Manager EMISSION MITIGATION CARBON FOOTPRINT 2,246.94 tCO e 2 Measurement Offset and reduction Air Water Waste Solar Electricity Fuel transport recycling recycling energy 65.51% 26.82% 7.67% 3,248 m 3 66 Tons 4 MWh generated Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A de reduce 4.29 tCO2e. This is equivalent to C.V. has a photovoltaic system in its offices the same amount of electric energy that 4 and the capacity to generate up to 20.24 households in Mexico require in a year. kWh per day, which will annually help 90 FUEL CONSUMPTION Information breakdown related to the consumption of fossil fuels and electricity in 2017: Gasoline (liters) used for staff Mobile source fuel transportation: 66,903 liters. consumption is associated Diesel (liters) used for energy generation mainly to the gasoline used to and staff transportation: 140,906.71 liters. transpor t our par tners to the work centers. LP Gas (liters) Electricity (kWh) used for water heating: 22,778.80 Liters. 91 USE OF WASTE AND MATERIALS (GRI G4-EN1 y G4-EN2, G4-EN23 al G4-EN26) WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste management, one of our the based on the 3R ’s (Reduce, company’s material issues, is also Recycle, Reuse) has been identified in our Environmental Policy. implemented as well as To manage waste specific measures to reduce generation in the corporate the use of paper. offices, a permanent One of Genomma Lab International main awareness campaign efforts to mitigate environmental impact is through a correct waste management. 92 Mexico In Mexico, at the end of 2016, most of the waste was generated by the CEDIS Mexico, which is why recycling, processing and disposition programs have been implemented for some years in partnership with companies in this area. This installation generated: 1248 m 3 of organic and inorganic waste 25 tons of plastic 74 tons of cardboard Most of the waste generated came from the CEDIS with finished products that did not meet the quality standards or were returned for expiration date issues. As part of our commitment, an integrated waste management establishes the correct use and separation guidelines. In 2017, 66.2 tons of packaging material were recycled according to quality and industrial security specifications. Additionally, 100% of the paper used in our offices was recycled. CEDIS is responsible for recycling 66.2 tons of packaging material , according to the qualit y and industrial securit y specifications. With th is action, we mitigated the emission of 1 ,902.29 tCO 2 e to the atmosphere. 93 WASTE CO-PROCESSING Th rough the “co-processing” addition, the ash generated in the process is that is done by one of our incorporated in the clinker (furnace product that is grinded to make Portland cement) to suppliers; Comercializadora have a more sustainable product. de Residuos Industriales (CORSI) , we have managed to Through this procedure, 1,432 tons of waste reduce our final disposition’s were treated in 2017. negative impact. The benefits of these actions are: Co-processing is a procedure by which 5,760 m3 of water savings waste is triturated and is canalized to the cement production process, with the Savings of nonrenewable mineral purpose of having a better use for waste, extraction: 5,096 such as the substitution of raw material for environmental conservation purposes. In Energy Recovery: 35% 94 Latin America and 18 tons of supplies, packaging material United States and promotional material In other countries where Genomma Lab is 399 kilograms of medical devices through present, there are distribution centers and incineration. industrial facilities, that do not correspond to the Genomma Lab International operative 8.7 tons of raw material. control, but according to policies established by the organization, they have started Thanks to these actions the measuring the environmental impact and emission of more than 250 are aligned to the sustainability model. ton of CO2e and possible Ecuador ecosystem affectations were prevented by decomposition. Ecuador has the good practice of monitoring two of the most important manufacturing companies: Envapress and La Fabril, which Other countries maintain a detailed information control Other countries only register material system. The last one generated 332,665 ton consumption, in this case, paper. of waste, of which 54.46 ton were recycled. The total paper consumption for the Colombia other countries was 4,679,533 sheets, the equivalent to the logging of 372 trees. The region of Colombia destroyed the following quantities through a third party: 62 ton of cosmetics, medications, dietary supplements through bioremediation. This is a natural process where microorganisms break down or modify organic molecules transforming then into small nontoxic molecules. 95 USE OF MATERIALS At Genomma Lab, we quantify the materials supplier, with new technology, a greater we use throughout our value chain. length of product minimizing the rolls, Some polymers like stretch film, tape boxes, spools, labels and transportation and polyolefins are used throughout the customer delivery process to protect the The energy saved from the products from possible damage. On the other hand, cardboard sheets and platforms polyolefin packs represents are used to separate and transport products the electric annual supply inside the CEDIS, as well as paper for needed for 13 social houses. different office tasks. Since 2016, we have started using recyclable polyolefins prom our Film Cryovac CT 96 ANNUAL ENERGY SAVINGS USING SUSTAINABLE POLYOLEFINS 90,000 80,000 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 Consumption KWHR Consumption KWHR Average annual savings Conventional polyolefin Sustainable polyolefin KWH CEDIS MATERIALS USED DURING 2017 TOTAL MATERIAL QUANTITY 2017 Stretch film 18-80-1300 (External supplier) 80000 kg Cardboard sheet separator (External supplier) 144000 pieces Transparent tape 48 mm X 150 (External supplier) 10000 pieces Kraft corners1.20 (External supplier) 150000 pieces Strand tape 18mmX50mts (External supplier) 10000 pieces Polyolefin (External supplier) 480 pieces Transfer label different sizes (External supplier) 5000 thousand White sheets (External supplier) 200 boxes White platform (External supplier) 75000 pieces Black wax ribbon (External supplier) 600 pieces Blue tape 48mmx150mts (External supplier) 4500 pieces As a result of a mayor material streamlining at the CEDIS, the blue electrical tape, stretch film and cardboard edges were the materials that were mostly reduced. 97 WATER CONSUMPTION COMMITMENT GRI G4-EN10, G4-EN22, G4-EN31 Water usage in our facilities is primarily for Through this measure we are looking to sanitary purposes. However, we are working further our distribution and manufacturing with our allies in order to reduce it in our processes, in order to integrate an active supply chain. Our approach is to reduce the supply chain in water usage saving programs quantity of packaging usage and introduce and encourage environmental awareness recycled materials, taking care of our talks to generate a change. product quality and fulfilling the applicable statutes. 98 Water resource is h igh ly Regarding the effluents issue, it is important scarce, for wh ich the to mention that part of our wastewater is directed to the Wastewater Treatment Organization is commit ted Plant (WWTP) of an authorized third party. to take advantage of it. The Only operations in Mexico were accounted consumption of th is resource, for this item at the Distribution Center and with respect to others, is not Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A. de C.V. facilities where a total of 9,204.92 m3 were so significant considering its consumed, and 3,248 m3 were recycled, this main usage is for sanitar y is equivalent to 35% of the total consumption purposes, therefore, it in Mexico. does not represent a direct The company has a partnership with negative impact to the Reciclagua Ambiental S.A de C.V, which environment. is a program to individually capture the wastewater of more than 300 companies Operations in Mexico were only accounted for and give them the required treatment to this item at the Distribution Center facilities allow its reuse and discharge them into and Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A the Lerma River. It is in that sense, a vital de C.V. where a total of 9,204.92 m3 were resource for the industrial corridor where consumed, and 3,248 m3 were recycled, this Genomma Lab is located. is equivalent to 35% of the total consumption in Mexico. As well as investing in the analysis of chemical composition of effluents 9204.92 m3 = Equivalent to filling up to 3.6 throughout our supply chain, we have highly Olympic pools. committed suppliers with environmental conservation. 9204.92 m3 = amount of water needed for 24,223.47 Mexicans, or 6,546 Mexican families in a year. 24,223.47 Mexicans = Intensive indicator (m3/ contributor) = 34,999.69 liters/ contributor. 99 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN “The greatness of a company not only lies in the growth it has in the market, but in having solid commitments to take care of the environment and strategies for a bet ter society” Rubén Mayoral Maintenance and Combos Manager 100 For Genomma Lab Specialists inspect International it is formulas for their fundamental for all continuous improvement. commercialized brands to fulfill the highest requirements on innovation and quality. Product manufacturing goes through outsourcing services. Legal requirements are Internally, we assure a continuously reviewed so highly specialized customer products comply 100% with all service before, during and after legal specifications the purchase of our products. We have strategic We have certified suppliers that assure the suppliers that assure us quality control of our products. control and regulation of purchase and billing processes. 101 Storage, listing, and inventory management The distribution of our suppliers carry out collection, products is efficiently management and control of the regulated and developed through product. the wholesalers and supermarkets channels. In 2017, we had around 1,937 suppliers who worked for the Organization, 14% more than in 2016. We developed a In 2017, we had website for our suppliers approximately 157 to consult our Code of suppliers who were part of Conduct and Ethics and our our supply chain. Antiorruption Policy, we make sure they are accepted to be part of our suppliers. In 2017, at least 60% of our new suppliers were assessed on human rights and social impact issues such as forced In 2017, we worked on labor, discrimination; freedom of improving quality association, collective bargaining; agreements with our rights of the indigenous manufacturers. population, and safety, of which 20 belong to Mexico. 102 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our value chain is a fundamental axis for Genomma Lab, considering that our suppliers make this business possible. Our value chain management is a material aspect of our company. Formula We seek to establish lasting 2 development ties based on transparency, respect and communication with our suppliers so that Third parties 1 at various stages, ranging manufacturing from product development to the provision of the final product, we are committed to achieve together the creation, distribution, and strategic positioning of 4 our brands. Quality, purchase and billing control Distribution practices of our products is efficiently Our cosmetics products regulated and line is subjected to various developed through 3 efficiency, effectiveness and self-service channels, safety, studies and analysis drugstores, wholesalers, through third parties druggists and groceries. authorized by the health authorities. International customs This analysis is conducted 6 service suppliers and Our through the guidelines suppliers specialists in tax of an independent and marketing services. Ethical Committee that specialists are responsible of issues suggestions and managing advertising recommendations on media and commercial Human Rights and Ethics coding to ensure production 5 principles. and communication of our products. GRI G4-12 103 PRODUCT MANUFACTURING SUPERVISION AND AUDITS (GRI G4-EC7, G4-EC8, EG-EC9, G4-LA12, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR9, G4-HR10, G4-HR11) As par t of our commitment to sustainable development and environmental protection, our suppliers receive quality, environmental, social and eth ical audits. 104 AUDIT NAME EVALUATED ASPECTS Regulatory framework, certificates and applicable authorizations Quality and Quality Management System responsibility of the Analytical and Test Protocols product Supplier management of input processes and subcontracted activities Risk Management Organizational structure Academic background and professional experience Health, safety and hygiene Labor considerations Health responsibility Training and professional development Training facilities, equipment and Staff maintenance areas Workplace violence prevention Training Pharmacovigilance y Suspicious reports Technovigilance Adverse reactions or adverse incidents Security reports Health and environmental legal dispositions Waste management, storage and disposal Environmental Product contamination prevention considerations Water system Health and safety regulations Greenhouse gases (GHG) Ethical and/or conduct code Working conditions (remuneration and working hours) Human rights protection (equality principles, non-discrimination, no forced labor, no child labor, freedom of association and collective negotiation, Social Responsibility indigenous population rights, among others) (SR) Equity and inclusion Community or potential impacts Corruption and unfair practices prevention Outsourcing recognitions on SR issues 105 SUPPLIER EFFICIENCY STUDIES AND COSMETIC SECURITY PRIVACY POLICY To view the complete regulation list the company complies with, you may consult The suppliers that carry out our efficiency the annual report at: and cosmetic safety studies, are world-class businesses located in different countries http://genommalab.com/Inversionistas such as: Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina. They are committed to providing Our suppliers hold with a highly specialized services for the cosmetic industry and commerce. Performing with qualit y system in compliance methodologies, procedures, equipment and with the regulation NMXhigh-level personnel subject to the quality EC-17025I MNC-2006 (ISO/ standards with adherence to the local and I EC 17025) that specifies the international regulatory entities, as they are: ANVISA (Brazil), INVIMA (Colombia), ANMAT general requirements for (Argentina), COLIPA (Cosmetics Europe), the testing and calibration in FDA (EU) y COFEPRIS (Mexico) among laborator y competition. others. 106 We developed a website for our suppliers Privacy Policy Objectives to consult our Code of Ethics and our Anticorruption policy, we make sure they Confidential information protection of our are accepted to be part of our suppliers. customers. In addition, an ethics clause is included in Special treatment of personal, commercial the business agreements. and fiscal data requested to any person. Our suppliers have an Code of Ethics Data accesses only to properly provide the that attempts to offer moral solvency, requested services. guarantees and establishes rules of action of the company. In addition, our suppliers Prevention of personal, commercial and have issued a “Technical Judgment fiscal data to outsourcings. Declaration of Independence” to offer judgment guarantees and establish the The quality studies performed by our professional performance norms of the suppliers are carried out in accordance company, respecting the information and to the good clinical practices (ICH), as decision making of its customers. well as an instrument called “informed consent” by the volunteering participants. Our suppliers carry out their operations Part of the requirement specified in the based on a Privacy Policy and a Quality Ethics Committee, ensures our suppliers Policy characterized by the following to address the volunteer’s participation commitments: object and what is expected from them. Our suppliers guarantee independence and technical judgment at all moment. 107 MANUFACTURER AGREEMENTS few such as: quality; homologation in our coding system for a better traceability of our products; improvements to the system and monitoring of consumer complaints. Through these agreements the criteria that must be fulfilled by suppliers to assure the best quality of our inputs. During 2017 we worked on quality agreements with our manufacturers Sustainability recognition for our through contracts establishing the required manufacturers and suppliers standards and alignments over the following issues: procedures and provisions for the has been a practice that we manufacturing and product handling; supply continue to encourage in and requirements of raw materials and order to motivate the creation active substances; provisions and approvals of primary, printed and packaging materials; of sustainable initiatives that product analysis and manufacturing; product include solutions and defined surveillance and regulatory aspects. strategies to obtain positive impacts in the economy, We have worked to create a stronger system with the manufacturers, which are environment and society committed to the regulatory compliance spheres. and internal requirements, to name a 108 LOCAL SUPPLY Since 2010, Genomma Lab International has included collective producers of the State of Veracruz, Mexico, as suppliers of the guava leaf, We emphasize on ensuring that The managing to diversify and our suppliers have quality, manufacturing increase the incomes and environment and social the life quality levels of 68% of the certifications. percentage in Genomma Lab Colombia is 47% the more than 200 producers. International 47% units, Ecuador packaging boxes 26% units, Brazil: 66% purchased from Grupo units, 74% values, Argentina Grafico San Juan S.A de C.V. 94% units, 97% values and USA have the FSC certification. 53% units, 59% values. Sustainability in our business model is The manufacturing also reflected in our commitment for the percentage in Colombia is economic development of the regions where we operate. In Genomma Lab International 47% units, Ecuador 26% units, when conditions allow so, we try that Brazil: 66% units, 74% values, internationally commercialize products are Argentina 94% units, 97% supplied locally to support communities values and USA 53% units, and reduce transportation costs. 59% values respectively. 109 GUAVA LEAVES (GRI G4-EC8, G4-EN11) The leaves that became medicine The success of the phenomenon lies in the fact that we turn these leaves into a commercial and modern medicine that creates resources and well-being for all , there are many leaves that heal , from our own medication, th is is the first. Xavier Lozoya Since 2007 the initiative “DYCTRO.S.A.” Diversificadora Agroindustrial y Comercializadora del Tropico S.A. de C.V., a community business model that consists in harvesting and marketing the guava leaf was created in the municipalities of the Totonacapan region and has been a supplier of Genomma Lab International since 2010. 110 The guava leaf is a raw material where Quercetin is obtained, the active ingredient for our medication QG5 used for the colitis treatment. The productive business model benefits collectors have sustainable practices farmers from the towns of Zozocolco that prevent the usage of chemicals and in Hidalgo,Veracruz, Mexico, by being promote the protection of biodiversity in exclusive suppliers of the guava leaf. The their surroundings, constantly improving guava plantations are based on the process our environmental protection. of agroecological production, given that DYCTRO S.A. Universidad Genomma Veracruzana Lab 111 The guava leaf commercialization is based on the fairtrade practices to benefit In 2017, we have benefited nearly a thousand the communities. Through commercial homes from the towns of Zozocolco in opportunities, the strengthening of selfHidalgo,Veracruz, Mexico, members of management and the development of the five communities: AnayalI, Anayal II productive capacities, we contribute to the Tecuantepec, El Colón, San Salvador. economic and life quality development of communities. For the producers the guava leaf, coffee production is an extra income, the producers During 2017 the marketing believe this product is of great interest and profits and wait for the annual leaf sale to company has sold to conserve them within their lands. Genomma Lab International 8 tons of guava leaf that benefits more than 200 families. 112 The main benefits for the five communities are: QUANTITY OF GUAVA LEAF BROUGHT BY GENOMMA LAB TO 200 producers have PRODUCERS diversified their source and average income. YEAR TONS Economic spill in the region of 840,000.00 pesos from the 2010 3 guava leaf sales 2011 7 Generation of four jobs in business centers. 2012 3 2013 18 Maintenance in the communit y business model (organization, 2014 9 communication, transparency, and promotion of fair 2016 13 commerce) 2017 8 Environmental protection awareness th rough good Through this important initiative, Genomma agricultural practices and Lab International shows the commitment on implementation of soil the community suppliers’ development and conser vation projects. the economic development for the country. It is expected for the next years to increase its intake on the guava leaf for the production of the medication GQ5 and benefit more families in the Veracruz Mexican region. 113 OTHER SUCCESS CASES Responsible Cer tification with the th rees Our supplier “Grupo Grafico San Juan S.A. de C.V.” has the FSC certification. This Forest certification keeps track of the “We are aware that it is our products from the beginning to the end of small actions, multiplying them the supply chain, checking that the FSC certified material should be identified or by h undreds of thousands of abstained from the materials not certified companies, what transforms through the full chain. This certification the world” grants: “Forest Stewardship Council” which is an international non-governmental organization, devoted to promoting the Grupo Grafico San Juan S. A . responsible management of the world’s de C.V. forests. 114 Some of the packages provided by Grupo Grafico San Juan belong to the following brands: Asepxia, Cicatricure, Condon M Texturizado, Dermoprada, Fermodyl, Genoprazol, Goicoechea, Next, Tio Nacho, among others. During 2017, 68% of the Foli de México S. A . de C.V. Genomma Lab International Foli de Mexico has been one of our strategic packaging boxes purchased printing partners from Grupo Grafico San Juan It is a company certified in quality S. A de C.V. was manufactured management, environmental protection, with cardboard originated from and alimentary harmlessness a cer tified source by Forest They hold the following certifications: Stewardsh ip Council (FSC). ISO 14001:2004 Certification In addition to this certification, this supplier ISO 12647-2 works on improvements for its printing area ISO: 9001-2008 filters, which has enabled to reduce 19% of the contaminated water that is generated Hazard analysis and critical throughout the process, the goal is to control points (HACCP) reduce it by 75%. During 2017, 762.52 tons Food safety systems certification of cardboard were sent for recycling, which is equivalent to a total of 205,880,400 liters FSC ® Certificate of water saved, in addition to preventing the PEFC ® Certificate logging of 12,954 trees. Among other initiatives such as: corporate volunteer, rainwater collection and a solid system on environmental management. For 10 years, Foli de Mexico has provided us with packaging for the following brands: Teatrical, Pomada de La Campana, Next, Asepxia, Suerox among others. 115 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION The commercial strategy for Genomma Lab I nternational is very impor tant to become a market leader company with a clear competitive advantage. 116 THE STRATEGY FROM 2017 TO 2020 IN PRODUCTS, BRANDS AND DEVELOPMENT IS TO REINFORCE: Improve the Excellence in the marketing company’s communications for objectives execution the products benefits. Power Claims. Highlight our product advantages. Genomma Lab International is focused on approaching the products to the customers and Ideal store, facilitating company’s their Visibility in store. philosophy where accessibility. It is continuously the customer can working to improve the acquire the products products retail visibility. wherever and whenever they are needed. 117 OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE PHILOSOPHY Innovation. Offering the best solutions Retail . Gradually increase the presence available on market. of our products at retail, by placing them in strategic and visible places for the Communication. Become visible and customers. available for our consumers in its frequent buying channels. All these elements are interrelated on the culture and talent of our community people; our objective is to merge every capacity, Project por t folio. Development and strategic vision and experience from each positioning of our core branding products of our team members in our workforce. and development of sub-products. This will allow us to stay and grow as our customers’ main preference and become a Insights & consumer leader in the OTC (over the counter) industry understanding. Get to know our and personal care. customer and their motivation to acquire our products. 118 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION During 2017 we continued with the standardization and globalization of our innovations and formulas. It started with the construction of the first manufacturing plant, managed and operated by Genomma Lab, located in San Cayetano Morelos, northern Toluca, State of Mexico and which represents an investment of 1,398 million of pesos. The manufacturing plant is close to an industrial park where eight different multinational companies operate. The construction of the Genomma plant seeks to develop a new industrial park with 15 individual lots available for the suppliers to lease or buy. The Genomma plant will occupy 16 of the 32 hectares, and there will be for the manufacturing of medicine free sale (OTC) and the personal care line (PC). The plant’s design will be a modular concept that will allow flexibility for a future growth. 119 THE PRODUCTION BENEFITS OF OUR FIRST MANUFACTURE PLANT INVESTMENT ARE EFFICIENCY OUTSOURCING PRODUCTION Higher selling cost due to the competitors' profit Profits margin reduction Suppliers margin. for the co-packers. Dispersed suppliers over Supplier’s integration the country. inside the industrial park. Logistics Inefficient truck entry and Freight consolidation of leverage and low cost of exit logistics. logistics in export train. Stock Less merchandise Bigger inventories because needed for primary materials and finished of the multiple warehouses. products. The main objective for 2018 is to change from an industrial operation full Buy + Middle Buy to an internal production + Full Buy + Middle Buy and having a per forming industrial plant with the h ighest Qualit y Guarantee Standards and Qualit y Controls requested by all the regulator y entities over the American Continent. 120 RESPONSIBILITY WITH OUR CUSTOMERS: MARKETING AND LABELING PUBLICITY (GRI G4-PR3) Genomma Lab International provides information to our customers and consumers th rough different media channels such as: websites, social networks, television, and publicit y spots, among others. We also provide complete and accurate information about the correct usage and benefits of our products in an integral and responsible way. We intend to have our consumers recognize the impor tance of personal and familiar care th rough our brand consumption. 121 Likewise, at Genomma Lab International Likewise, our internal control processes we are committed with the information for publicity and media, through which communication of our products throughout information is transmitted, fulfills the its labeling. Since 2016, we have implemented required and applicable legal alignments a global labeling system for our cosmetics and it is very easy to understand for our that informs all the consumers (anywhere product consumers. they are located) about some important aspects to keep in mind for the correct and The information supplied by Genomma Lab safe use and to obtain maximum revenues. through its media for the final consumer This has allowed us to optimize our operative is intended to give out usage advice and efficiency in an international level and benefits of every product in a responsible ensure currentnormative compliance in the manner to transmit to the target customer countries our products are commercialized. the importance of personal and familiar care through our product consumption. The During 2017 nearly 548 close follow up and update of our publicity allows us a better media control strategy. sanitar y registries were created for cosmetic The Internal Media Committee at Genomma products. Lab International must approve every publication, distribution and advertising Throughthisscheme,during2017,Genomma material, such committee is made up by the Lab and its affiliates created nearly 548 following areas: Legal, Marketing, Creative, sanitary registries for cosmetic products. Development, Cosmetic Efficiency and Every registry was coordinated through a Cosmetic Regulatory Matters. global online process, with documental tracing and performance indicators of global and local management, which has enabled an efficiency improvement in the processes by a 50%. Once authorized, the public version is created and before it is presented in the media channels, it is once again sent to review and The idea is approval with the sent to Committee Legal, Cosmetic Regulatory Matters for review or and Marketing. The creative approval. The committee team generates members based on the an idea studies and other supporting information, decide whether the creative idea is viable or not. 122 REGULATORY SUPPORT FOR INNOVATION PROCESSES At Genomma Lab we are commit ted to health and safet y of our consumers. Th is is why in 2016 we implemented a regulator y process to suppor t the innovation team. Th is allows the involvement of the regulator y area from the creation of ever y innovation project and guarantees the fulfillment of ever y commercialized product by the company. 123 THE FOUR PRINCIPAL ASPECTS IN THE PROCESS ARE: Responsible Design: primary Safety Verification: when material selection in regards of qualified by studies and the international ingredients Safety Assessments done listing, target customer, by certified Safety qualified suppliers, Assessors. among other Efficiency Testing: Risk analysis: aspects. based on the Safety Margins ingredients information, calculations for the recognized bibliography product ingredients with and when needed, evidentiary the purpose of guaranteeing studies done with internationally its safety from its design. recognized external agencies. In addition, and with the purpose of of regulatory mechanisms to fulfill its optimizing our processes and maximizizing innovation, emphasizing the following: our efficiency, we have developed a series “ Professional development allied with integrity, discipline and experience: the main fundamentals for a solid and sustainable development.” (Regulator y Global Personal Care Team.) 124 Online global regulatory mechanism for Online global regulatory mechanism for the cosmetic product labeling. product training manipulations. Online global regulatory mechanism for Online global regulatory mechanism for cosmetic products registry. the handling and regulation compliance for cosmetic products Online global regulatory mechanism for the cosmetic file assembling. Online global regulatory mechanism for the cosmetic auditory regulation processes. Online global regulatory mechanism for the cosmetic products regulatory information To conclude, Genomma Lab and ICONTEC management. signed an agreement in Colombia for the cosmetic efficiency testimony of the product Online global regulatory mechanism for the Cicatricure antiwrinkle face lotion. ICONTEC cosmetic product regulatory training. has verified in a satisfactory manner the results and methodologies of its efficiency Online global regulatory mechanism for the and analytical evaluation of the product. cosmetic product formula regulation. 125 OUR PRODUCT LABELS We have continually worked on improving Disposal manner. Keep the environment our products labeling to give the consumer clean logo. more relevant information, as well as complying with the legal requirements Mentioning about environmental or social in all of the countries our products are risk substances. commercialized, they include the following information: Compliance with the NOM 220 SSA1 2012**, and the current updates of the NOM 220 SSA1 Product origin. Every one of our registered 2016, including the precautionary safety medicines and devices as Genomma Lab, labels about the medicines. To Genomma are required to fulfill the Mexican Official Lab International or in a direct way to the Norm NOM-072-SSA1-2012, which refers Autoridad Regulatoria de Medicamentos to the medicament labeling and herbal (COFEPRIS). remedies. Contact information related to the product Ingredients list in the INCI format. and adverse reactions report. Safe form for the product utilization, *NOM-141-SSA1/SCFI-2012, related to the cosmetic prepackaged products, health and commercial labeling precautionary usages regarding the Mexican and to the additional applicable normativity, such as the Official Norm NOM 141*. country regulations for each different country where our products are available. **NOM 220 SSA1 2012, related to the Pharmacovigilance operation and installation, precaution related labeling. 126 DIGITAL MARKETING As part of the company’s responsibility with their consumers, the message delivery with the purpose of improving their quality of life, is one of the its main objectives of the campaign. In the Genomma Lab International official Our media responsibilit y is website, social networks and other digital channels we are looking for a positive an essential element for our positioning, as well as maintaining a dynamic company ’s success. communication to solve any questions or concerns in real time or canalizing them to the corresponding area. 127 CUSTOMER SERVICE Through our media platforms we attend any inquiries from our customers in a public form and give out the best pertinent answers about the product usage, retailers, Our customer ser vice special characteristics about a product, approach goes beyond suggested price, available presentations, answering calls, questions, and as well as the information defined and authorized by the developing and marketing dealing with complaints or areas of technical specifications with any monitoring reimbursement other required tags audited by the legal requests, changes or and regulatory areas. If there is any other required information, the contact is done replacement of products. with the corresponding area. 128 Every complaint is directed to the quality area, and it is monitored until our customer is completely satisfied. The suggestions, claims and complaints are For the direct or private messages received directed to a 01 -800 phone on social media, the customer service area is number and an email responsible for its management, because it is considered as the most efficient contact point atencion@genommalab.com. for our customer’s suggestions, claims and/ or complaints. CALL CENTER PROCESS The company has a call center system and an internal management system of “Genovigilance” that received, at tended, monitored and completed 13, 322 global calls during 2017. First attention is Contact is made with received, analyzed and categorized 2 the manufacturer 4 Contact is Retention of made with the the product 1 manufacturing 3 batch is analyzed supervisor An analysis report 5 about the product 7 Customer batch is done. The answer. Response is report is sent expected in a to the global maximum of 3 days 6 complaints 8 coordinator. 129 In 2017 were received 13, 322 repor ts in the different countries such as: Bolivia, Brazil , Ch ile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, United States, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Peru and Paraguay. From the 13,322 total reports (claims, complaints, suggestions and others) Mexico received the majority of them. 3.61% 9.80% 15.50% 30.07% 41.02% Others U.S.A Chile Colombia Mexico From the four different reports generated, could not listen, no information, an underthe highest percentage was the resolution of age calling, hanging up, among others; doubts with 58%, for the category of “others”, while the category of “claims” represented the report was represented with 37%, this only 4% and the category of “suggestions” category included a great number of phone was equivalent to only 1% of all the phone calls with different bugs such as: no reply, calls and mails received. 130 CUSTOMER SERVICE TOPICS Suggestions 1% Complaints 4% Others 37% Resolution of doubts 58% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% Th rough our process of “Genovigilance” we take care of all the concerns our customers might have via online to become more efficient and give an immediate response Since 2015, we have strengthened other specifications information and any other communication channels to get closer required tags audited by the legal and to our customers. We continue to grow regulatory areas. If there is any other on social networking such as: Facebook, required information, the contact is done Twitter, Snapchat and customer service with the corresponding area. emailing, to haveonline analysis that have become an information key about marketing The suggestions, claims and complaints are and consumers. directed to a 01-800 phone number and we request contact information for the quality Through our networking platforms we look area to follow up. after questions that our users make in public and we reply in the different references such For the direct or private messages received in as ways of use, retailing, characteristics of the social media, the customer service area the product, price suggestions, available is responsible for its management, because presentations and the information already it is considered as the most efficient contact defined and authorized by the marketing point for our customer’s suggestions, claims and development areas, with the technical and/or complaints. 131 OUR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION During 2017, as in previous years, we have We tr y to create and maintain worked on improving our satisfactory our h ighest satisfaction levels process with our customers, we are interested in knowing a better way to create among our consumers, to products focused 100% on their necessities. obtain a transformation in their desires, aspirations We have been looking to improve the and emotions related to their market research studies to create a better experience with our brands; this is why we loyalt y with our brands. have made our best efforts to create the perfect store for customers to find what they want, where they want it. 132 RESPONSIBILITY WITH OUR PRODUCTS At Genomma Lab we comply with the regulations requested in every country where we operate. Every employee at Genomma Lab must fulfill the legal and regulatory obligations applicable locally We complied with the 100% of in all our markets, and for this reason our employees are constantly trained for the National and International an appropriate knowledge of the current Regulator y Norms. regulations. 133 Moreover, to guarantee the safety and area for our cosmetics products, and it is efficiency of our products, Genomma in charge of the safety of all our cosmetic Lab follows international recommended products in the market. guidelines. We also have our own internal guides for a responsible development; In terms of efficiency and safety of our those are applicable to all of our personal cosmetic products, we quote the following care products and for their communication. references used on the efficiency testing: We have created the toxicology regulation PRINCIPAL REFERENCES FOR THE EFFICIENCY COSMETIC EVALUATION FRAMEWORK REGULATION / GUIDE COMMISSION REGULATIONS (UE) No 655/2013 from Europe July 10, 2013. Common criteria for the answers of cosmetic product claims. The Cosmetic, Toiletry and CTPA guidelines for public declarations. Perfumery Association (CTPA) – UK Cosmetic Europe: Colipa Guidelines: Cosmetic Efficiency evaluations The Personal Care Association mayo 2008 EEMCO Guidelines: Assessment of Cosmetic Efficacy Europe by Human Volunteer Testing. Recommendations document for the support of Colombia cosmetic claims. Colombian Technic Guide – Methodologies for the Colombia evaluation of Cosmetic Products efficiency. 134 PRINCIPAL REFERENCES FOR THE SAFETY COSMETIC EVALUATION FRAMEWORK REGULATION / GUIDE Scientific Committee on Consumer Products – Guide for the Cosmetic Ingredients Testing and Safety Europe Assessment. USA Personal Care Product Council (PCPC) Technical Guide Safety Assessment. Brazil ANVISA Guide for the Safety Assessment of Cosmetic Products. The Guidelines and Organizations in charge of our regulation might differ from countr y to countr y, however, we follow and fulfill ever y legal requirement for each countr y. For example: Some of our OTC products might be sold in cer tain countries only with a prescription, wh ile in others a prescription is not required. 135 INCIDENTS (GRI G4-HR12, G4-HR18, G4-SO2, G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-SO9, G4-SO11, G4PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR46, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9, G4-EN29) During 2017 no incidents were In 2017 we received two remarks made presented from any legal by PROFECO, originated from reserved information in a cosmetic product. It is breach applicable in any of important to mention that no consumer our activities. was involved. These remarks were reviewed immediately to improve the labeling of our In addition, there have not been any nonproducts. compliances in the ethical codes that we have voluntarily adopted, regarding It is important to emphasize that for four health, safety, environment, marketing and years , the company has implemented an products labeling. internal reviewing protocol for the public versions where different areas such as: 136 Development, Regulatory Subjects and The cosmetic products publicity is created the Legal department participate in order from the information obtained from to control and review the veracity of our efficiency cosmetic analysis that fulfills the advertising media. sanitary legislation. Development, Regulatory Subjects and In addition to the media communication, the Legal department participate in order we are constantly working to improve the to control and review the veracity of our labeling of products, the internal approval advertising media. verification, in addition to complying with the provisions of the Official Mexican Standards, The Sanitary Registry, a previous review, it is very important to fulfill the veracity of aligns the OTC advertisements with the benefits manifested in them. therapeutic authorized indications and authorization from COFEPRIS is required So far, no claim or sanction has been filed through publicity permits, which are granted for breach regulations that could result once the accreditation of the communication in the payment of a fine, in monopolistic is fulfilled. practices or acts that attempt against free competition. There have been no confirmed cases of corruption in our corporate structure. Genomma Lab International does not present. Additionally, in our supply chain, we commercialize prohibited products in other have not received nor identified any Human relevant markets. Likewise, there have been Rights violations or affected any local or no presented cases of privacy violations, or indigenous community. customer data leaks, nor any claims about Human Rights in any country where we are 137 PRODUCT QUALITY “Quality is created from every member and the sum of everyone’s work ensures the success of our organization “ . Ruper to Escamilla Díaz Gerente Quality Manager 138 At least 50% of our products categories and Total of audited manufacturers: 88 from services with significant impacts on health which 60 are follow-up audits and 28 are and safety have been assessed to promote new manufacturers. improvements. At least 40% of our products are subject to procedural evaluations such as: Product removal and social and Origin of the products and/or services environmental impacts components. Quality inspection. Content, specifically regarding the substances that could have some type of Quality product verification (verification of impact. the organoleptic properties of each one of our products.) Environmental Assessment. Technical documentation review that Safety instructions for the products or involves the manufacture of our products services. by the manufacturers. QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SGC) (G4-PR1, G4-PR2, G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-PR6, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) The continuous improvement of Genomma acquisitions, innovation, development, Lab International in our products and fabrication, storage, and distribution to the processes is reflected in all the stages shelves where our customers select our of our supply chain, from the materials products. 139 During the past years we have worked on the best quality and maintain the references improving our quality management system of our customers. For which the quality is (SGC) with the intention to give our products watched over in different stages: Manufacturing: focused on following the requirements Establish a documentary and good practices in control that would allow order to assure us to determine the regulation Guarantee activities that will compliance. safety and be carried out. quality of the product throughout the supply chain and eliminate the operational risks. Detect the possible and continuous areas for improvement. Conduct measurements and follow-ups Measure the that would allow effectiveness of us to achieve the our processes. needed actions to achieve the best-planned results and a continuous improvement of the system. At Genomma Lab International we have a Quualit y Policy that may be consulted on th is website: ht tp: //genommalab.com.mx 140 During 2017 we worked on the enlargement and improvement of our processes. Working on impor tant elements such as: Standardization of Technical Quality Agreements with Quality Audit Certification manufacturers. (Internal and External) Strict Internal Audit Programs monitoring our Customers, Manufacturers and Suppliers (Input Materials) Continuous improvement of the processes for a future ISO Certification. Implementation Reinforcement of quality of the Training management system for the system indicators Quality GLI Department. 141 Our goals for the following years YEAR OBJECTIVE IMPROVEMENT AREAS Customer satisfaction standardization. Producer goods and packaging specifications for the main products. Forehead quality: Producers’ certification. Year 2018 Producer goods and packaging improvement for the customer consideration main products. Improvement projects for producer’s goods. Quality from the Year 2019 beginning: Quality Certification for producer goods. improvement of Implants as main producers. producer goods Quality as the main factor for a solid product with the lowest manufacturing cost. Year 2020 Quality as strategy Obtaining the best product in the market with less manufacturing time and best processes. Quality is controlled from the supplier of the supplier to the client of the client. In 2017 we obtained the Indicators definition for the quality following results from the measures for Genomma Lab International and main manufacturers. strategy of the C cycle: Continuous improvement in the supply Defective quality reduced by more than chain process. 30% Decrease of consumers claims 142 OUR QUALITY TEAM The team members focused working on four important aspects: During 2017, 88 members, distributed as follows, made Quality control, framework fulfillment, up the qualit y team: quality assurance, and manufacturing supervision and consumer’s attention. Our future goals are based on guaranteeing Mexico: 42 Peru/Bolivia: 4 quality synergy for all our manufacturers through the standardization of processes, USA: 1 Argentina: 33 creating quality agreements and closing compromising agreements from both parts Central America: 1 Brazil: 7 of the process. Colombia: 2 143 CLINICAL PHARMACEUTICAL AND COSMETIC RESEARCH At vanguard, having clinic and cosmetic efficacy research studies, meeting the h ighest standards. “ Products that provide security and efficacy to the consumers, are a guaranteed success.” Clinical Cosmetic Efficacy and OTC Regulator y Mat ters Team 144 Every study is based on international The cosmetic efficacy studies that we methodologies such as The European apply to our products are processed by an Cosmetic and Perfumery Association outsourcing agency with the purpose of (COLIPA) and the Health Surveillance maintaining a neutral and objective outcome. National Agency (ANVISA) for Brazil. In addition, we do safety studies for the cosmetic products we produce, and our disposition in each case encourages More than 100 cosmetic the prohibition of animal testing in the implemented studies. efficacy studies have been applied following the COLI PA methodology and more than 40 securit y studies under the ANVISA methodology. PHARMACOVIGILANCE, TECHNOVIGILANCE AND COSMETOVIGILANCE At Genomma Lab International, we these programs is that our products meet monitor the efficacy and SECURITY of the the previously established efficacy and OTC products and cosmetics through the security standards (Benefit -Risk), before Pharmacovigilance, Technovigilance and and after its commercialization, which Cosmetovigilance Program implemented allows us to guarantee that our consumers at a company level as part of the receive an effective and secure product. assessment process for the registration The COSMETOVIGILANCE program is also and commercialization of our products. The launched to prevent the adverse reactions first one refers to the monitoring of adverse of the cosmetic products, an activity that few reactions of the medications and the second companies have nowadays. one refers to the monitoring of effects by the medical devices. The main function of 145 SOCIAL IMPACT (GRI G4-DMA, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-EC9, G4-SO1) “ I n the evolution of becoming a successful company, the desire of passing out the legacy of sustainability and Social Responsibility in our communities and our planet is strengthened. It is our responsibility to work on our commitment with integrity and professionalism that our company’s mission and vision require; wh ile we grow wor thy as a company and as excellent human beings” Sabrina Herrera Aspra CEO of the Genomma Lab Foundation 146 Through For the September 2017 earthquakes in the Mexico, in coordination with the National Genomma Lab Institute of Patronage and Foundation Perinatology and the DIF from various foundations Oaxaca State, were donated have been supported 88,704 pieces of Suerox and with in kind donations from 33,844 pieces of different the Vanart and Suerox brands products such as: Kaopetate, Alert, The donation agreement was Teatrical, renewed with the National among Cancer Institute (INACAN) for others. As the “Cancerotón” program, support which was supported for the with donations from migrants in Suerox, Nasalub Sonora, Mexico, we and Tukaliv. donated 3,606 pieces of Suerox for the Mexican Red Cross for the program #HidratandoMéxico. We deployed a group of 300 people from Genomma Lab Mexico to the main affected places by the September For 2017 earthquakes, to the third collection centers and consecutive affected locations such year, Genomma as Mexico City, Lab Colombia Puebla and The Distinctive collaborated with the Morelos. for Inclusive initiative “Gen Cero”, by Company was donating a percentage of renewed for the fourth their total sales of Tio Nacho consecutive year. and Asepxia. 147 Together Genomma Lab Foundation and Genomma Lab International along with the CCIDTES A.C (Training Center for Investigation and technological We development and sustainability) had were part brigades for clothing delivery to of the different social communities, College project 1500 pieces of Kaopetate “Programa and approximately 40lb Nacional Talentos of clothing were Creativos 1era handed out. Generación” with Con enfoque etico y Social” through the “A Favor de lo Mejor” organization with the “Sexualidad etica y responsable” and “Empoderamiento de México” topics. 926,800 pesos were raised by the Genomma Lab contributors, and by the company, with the purpose of supporting our team members Employees that were affected by the participated in earthquakes. the “Alegrando un Corazón” volunteering program, where toys were handed out to the children of the Distribution Center and for the community of Villa Guerrero, State of Mexico. The social labor of Genomma Lab is focused and keeping a close relationship with the on contributing primarily in social health communities with which it operates. benefits, by helping during natural disasters 148 GENOMMA LAB FOUNDATION 10 years ago, the Genomma Lab A .C. Foundation was founded with the mission to connect with Civil Societ y Organizations that suppor t health related causes. The foundation is under the Administration of the Sabrina Herrera Aspra, who is member of the Genomma Lab Board of Administration. 149 2017 DONATIONS: CANCERTON AND NATURAL DISASTER RELIEF In the same way, there has been support to other institutions such as: Fundación Duerme Tranquilo A.C. with 1,000 units of Vanart. National Cancerlogy Institute (INCAN) (Canceroton Puebla 2017). Mexican Red Cross donations, Sonora for the support of migrants with the campaign #HidratandoMéxico. In 2017, 3,606 pieces of Suerox were donated for this cause. Canceroton 3,000 pieces of Suerox and 3,000 pieces In 2017 the brand Suerox of the Shampoo Vanart where delivered to was the donation leader for the Cancer patients and to their families. Civil Societ y Organizations These products where distributed to the Cancer Treatment specialized institutions, as well as to the medical brigades of the rural zones. 150 Natural Disaster Relief As a response to the disasters caused by the earthquakes in Mexico on September 7 “Suerox helped to keep and 19, 2017, Genomma Lab helped those who were severely damaged in the State of rescuers hydrated to fulfill Oaxaca, in coordination with the National their mission in the best Institute of Perinatology and the DIF State of possible way.” Oaxaca, delivering: Juchitán, Oaxaca11,388 products from the brands: Next, Alert, Kaopetate, Suerox. Campo Marte, Mexican National Defense venue, the DIF Collective center for 22,456 products such as: Suerox, Kaopetate, Alert, Biolectro, Teatrical, Alliviax. National Red Cross HQ– 16, 896 pieces of Suerox. Puebla’s Red Cross Donatives to donations 27, the DIF at State 456 pieces of of Mexico and Suerox. Morelos – 44, 352 pieces of Suerox. 151 In addition to these donations, Together Genomma Lab Foundation we raised an internal and Genomma Lab International with the CCIDTES A.C (Training Center for collection for the affected Investigation and technological development contributors by the September and sustainability), the CCIDTES A.C, the 19, 2017 ear th quake. It was CEFESER S.C. (Business strengthening possible to donate a total Center for Entrepreneurs of the Rural Sector), the CEDI Laboral Certifications S.C of 926, 800 pesos by the and “Pequeños Gigantes que Transforman contribution of Genomma A.C (Little Gigants that Transform), had Lab International , and for brigades in different communities in the State of Puebla and Mexico City, to deliver the contribution of 1 peso 1,500 pieces of Kaopectate and nearly 40 lb. for ever y donated peso of clothes. collected, contributing to the noble action of looking for the interest of our people. We deployed a group of 300 people from Genomma Lab Mexico to the main affected places by the September 2017 earthquakes, to the collection centers and affected locations such as Mexico City, Puebla and Morelos. These teams delivered more than 85,000 pieces of Suerox with collaboration of Foundation Genomma Lab and the Mexican Red Cross. They were loaded by 7 Thorton during the early morning and delivered the next day of the events to rescuers and volunteers. This effort was performed in coordination with the areas of the Distribution Center, Sales, Finance and Social Responsibility. 152 NATIONAL CREATIVE PROGRAM TALENTS 1st Generation “With eth ical and social approach”. During 2017 the company participated in the initiative of the National Program of Creative Talent 1º generation “With ethical and social approach” of the A Favor de lo Mejor organization, through which the university formation was sought. Participating in an applied experience with the objective of showing their knowledge and their positive transforming intentions of their country. The university students created an audiovisual project that could be of good use to a “Social Cause” that promoted a company or an organization, with a non-lucrative project and would stand out for the needs of the society. In 2017 Genomma Lab International participated in the categories of “Ethical and Responsible Sexuality” and “Empowerment of Mexico”. 153 “EMPRESA INCLUYENTE” AND “EMPRESA FAMILIARMENTE RESPONSABLE” Four years ago, the company received the “ Empresa Incluyente” and “ Empresa Familiarmente Responsable” emblems, granted by the Ministr y of Labor and Social Securit y, that recognizes us as a commit ted company with good Labor practices towards handicapped personnel or in vulnerable situations; j ust as keeping a good balance between life and work, remarking the impor tance of the family union. The company counts with policies and practical actions based towards equat y and equalit y needed for men and women to develop with the same oppor tunities. 154 “ALEGRA UN CORAZÓN” Like ever y year, the body of volunteers integrated by our employees accomplished the annual new toy collection th rough the “Alegra tu Corazon” campaign celebrate the day of the wise men. In this occasion, the company decided to celebrate our employees’ children at the Distribution Center, giving them a total of 500 collected gifts and a party with a special visit of the wise men. Also, 75 toys where given to the communities of Villa Guerrero, State of Mexico, approximately 400 kids of the community where benefited through the civil association: Foundation Edmundo Rojas Soriano A.C. 155 PACT FOR THE CHILD MALNUTRITION IN COLOMBIA (GRI G4-15) Together for the ch ild nutrition “ Adequate care in the early ch ildhood, produces a greater social and economic equity, thus contributing to the progress of our country” Felipe Gómez Ángel Colombia Country Manager 156 One out of every eight Colombian kids suffer “ Let ’s feel proud of working from malnutrition, a condition that affects with an organization that their development for the rest of their lives. suppor ts a cause as impor tant More than 38,823 children under the age of as th is one, demonstrating five have been attended with the total social that sustainabilit y and the investment of 19,700 million, and Genomma welfare of the communities Lab is proud to be part of this achievement. where we operate is a priorit y.” Chronic malnutrition might provoke delayed Felipe Gomez Angel Countr y physical and cognitive development. In Manager Colombia Colombia 13% of the children under five years old suffer from chronic malnutrition. More information in the website: https:// Since 2016, Genomma Lab Colombia www.fundacionexito.org/gen-cero/que-es contributes with Éxito foundation in the Gen Cero program, which strives to With this initiative the country contributed to eradicate chronic malnutrition in Colombia the 1 goal of the Sustainable Development by 2030 and achieve a Generation without Goals. malnutrition. Gen Cero is a stake thought as a commitment for the Country, inspired by the children welfare for the present and future generations. The brands of Asepxia and Tío Nacho support the cause by donating a percentage of their total sales. Altogether,10 companies participated with this Pact that promotes Exito Foundation. 157 OUR TALENT (GRI G4-LA1, G4-10, G4-LA4, G4-LA3, G4-EC6) “At Genomma, we want to become an example of sustainability, oppor tunities are bigger every time. Our team works every day to implement more and bet ter initiatives, aligned with our values, wh ich are an evidence of our commitment. Let ’s create sustainability as a development strategy and growth for our business, our employees and our community” Leticia Campos Human Capital Management 158 During 2017, 93% of our employees were hired with undefined Our labor force is integrated contracts and 7% with by 781 employees, from which determined time. 491 are from Mexico. 100% of our employees work 80% of our full time. employees that occupy high-level jobs, such as: Coordinators, Specialists, Analysts and Auxiliary; and only 20% such as: There were 0% of victims Vice-presidency, Direction, by mortal accidents. Sub direction and Managers. For the third 58% of them consecutive year we held an awards were between 30 ceremony CEO AWARDS and 50 years old, 22% 2017, with the purpose of were less than 30 years rewarding those team members old, and only 5% were people who stand out for their extraordinary older than 50 years old. On the contributions in their everyday other hand, 63% were male work, following the Global staff members and 36% Competence alignments of Genomma Lab were female staff International. members. Genomma Lab In Mexico the renewed its Inclusive turnover rate was 37% Company Distinctive, while in the rest of the world which makes reference to the was 21% integration of people with social vulnerability as part of our working family. In Argentina, 100% of our directives are nationals. 159 The Distribution During 2017, 1,674 Center continues training hours were given. with the “Parvada Model” 564 team members were that in 2017 accomplished to trained, where 552 belong in make more efficient the other Mexico, and the rest from the programs and implement other countries. 100% of the cost reduction projects. During 2017, 10 of our employees In 2017, we obtained requested a for second occasion the maternity or paternity Family Responsible Company leave, returning to work Distinctive, granted by the without any inconvenient, Ministry of Labor and Social representing 100% of Security. reincorporation and retention after the permits. During 2017 we There were 0% of followed up the injuries, 0% program: Culture professional sickness, 260 support, Pass out your book in the rate of days lost at the 2017, Day of the Dead Distribution Center. celebration, and other celebration and festivities at the Distribution Center. 20% of the workers are part 80% of our workers were of our formal security and trained in Policies and Human health committees. Rights Procedures. Vaccine campaigns are carried out regularly at the Distribution Center. 160 For our company it is ver y impor tant to value our teamwork since employees make our company possible with their effor t on a daily basis. For us it is impor tant to keep a healthy working environment and create oppor tunities to grow professionally. Genomma Lab is rapidly transforming, so our teamwork must do so as well . In 2017 our business model required each time more global competitions. The h uman resources’ main focus is to encourage our talents, strengthen our capabilities to build professionals that could help us ach ieve our company ’s objectives. 161 WORKFORCE INTEGRATION The labor template of Genomma Lab International is made up of 781 employees that form our global talent, wh ich expor t experience, knowledge, abilities, challenges and innovation proposals. Th is labor communit y is distinguished for its diversit y and equit y, and promotes strategic th inking, leadersh ip and teamwork. 162 REGIONAL OFFICES Central America and the Caribbean4 22 Argentina 3 96 Peru-Bolivia5 20 LOCALS OFFICES USA 19 Colombia 35 Ecuador Chile 20 Brazil 19 Mexico 59 491 Total 781 2015 LABOR TEMPLATE 2016 LABOR TEMPLATE 2017 LABOR TEMPLATE 878 828 781 3 The region Includes: Paraguay and Uruguay 4 The region includes: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, the Dominican Republic and Trinidad and Tobago 5 The region includes: Bolivia 163 Our commitment is to improve our relations our employees had contracts for undefined with our employees, thus we elaborate duration and the remaining 7% where labor contracts for undetermined time or contracts for a defined time. for a determined time. During 2017, 93% of Total employees by contract form 7% 93% Determinated Undetermined The total distribution of employees by h ierarch ies is distributed in 80% occupying positions as: Coordination, Specialists, Analysts and Auxiliaries; and the other 20% of employees occupying positions as: Vice-president, Direction, Sub direction and Management. In the case of Argentina, 60% of the personnel occupying management positions are woman. Regarding the origin of senior managers, determines our hiring is focused on talent, in Argentina 100% comes from the local without making distinctions of gender or communities, in Colombia 85%, in Brazil age. 50%, and in Chile 25% of senior managers come from their country. Regarding the hiring in 2017, 58% of them were between 30 and 50 years old, followed We strengthen talent attraction and by 22% that were less than 30 years old, and retention continually, as well as help our only 5% were older than 50 years old. On the people to develop through time to reinforce other hand, 63% were male staff members their permanency. The main factor that and 36% were female staff members. 164 Hiring breakdown by gender at a global level 177 310 Female Male Turnover rate: 37.78% Turnover rates In Mexico the turnover rate was 37%,the rest breakdown of the world was 21%. by age From the total turnover rate, 184 people abandoned the company, 61% were male and 39% female. Likewise, the higher rotation percentage was in function of age, presented by a group of people younger than 30 years old, by 55%. 1% 43% 55% Turnover rates Older than 50 years Between 30 and 50 years Less than 30 years breakdown by gender Between 2016 and 2017 the turnover rates of people older than 50 years old has been significantly reduced. Nonetheless, the turnover rates for employees 30 years old or younger has grown. The company is currently working on getting better turnover rates and become a company where the 38% 62% employees can develop widely and attract Female Male the best talent. 165 DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND GENDER EQUALITY Our Code of Conduct and Ethics establishes the guidelines and norms that regulate the employees’ performance in the company. The company also has a diversity policy and committee. Constantly, we are searching and updating our tools to help us guarantee equal access to opportunities within the company. Policies, regulations and codes that we have today, help us apply these principles in the processes of recruitment, selection, At Genomma lab we are evaluation and development of human convinced that diversit y capital. and inclusion create a more innovative and effective In relation to our commitment to gender equity, the number of men and women that company. make up the workforce in 2017 was made up of 63% male and 36% female. For this reason, one of our main tasks is to create a distinguished team of members In addition, the company has an Inclusion from their diversity and equity, where their badge, which considers people with some likes and preferences can be respected, and motor disabilities, older adults, single discrimination can be avoided at all times. parents or mothers, among others. 166 TALENT MANAGEMENT: GENOMMA LAB INTERNATIONAL GLOBAL COMPETITION (GRI G4-HR2, G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11) The mechanisms implemented for the retention of talent motivate us to continue promoting these initiatives. For the th ird year in a row the CEO AWARDS 2017 were During 2017 we followed up on the talent given out, their objective is management mechanisms that started to reward those employees since 2015. Our culture performance has who stand out for their favored the development of our human capital, encouraging and supporting them extraordinar y contributions in in their personal and professional plans to their ever yday work, following set goals to grow within the company. Our the Global Competence strategy for its development is based on a alignments of Genomma Lab global competition that seeks to empower International . the talent of our employees, aligned with the objectives of Genomma Lab International. 167 GENOMMA LAB INTERNATIONAL GLOBAL COMPETITION LE ADERSH I P Capacities that inspire employees to: Envision: recognize the opportunities presented. Attachment: achieve others’ commitments. Energize: motivate your partners. Empower: make it possible and eliminate obstacles. Execute: develop and establish arrangements to achieve goals and strategies. VALU ES Strategic Thinking Change adaptation Team work Effective communication Aptitude and creation capacity 168 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (GRI G4-LA9) We teach courses, certifications and programs for all Genomma Lab employees, focused on their specific activity and level. During 2017, 1,674 hours of training were given. 564 employees were trained, of which 552 belonged to Mexico and the rest to the other countries. Our employees’ talent and Training hours in 2017 by country per formance with wh ich they carr y out their activities is Mexico: 1674 h / 564 personas strengthened th rough the Chile: 52 h / 11 personas development of abilities, Brazil: 440 h / 34 personas knowledge and skills that are promoted th rough training Colombia: 409 h / 36 personas allowing our team to work Ecuador: 56 h / 20 personas optimally. Total training hours: 2,631 Total members trained: 665 169 Training hours 2015 2016 2017 3,925 5,473 2,631 Regarding the total hours taught by hierarchical level, 11% correspond to the high levels categorized in the Vice-presidency, Direction, Sub director and Management, while 89% correspond to the Coordination, Specialist, Analyst and Assistant levels. Training needs vary from one employee to another, which is why we conduct assessments to determine the allocation of courses, graduate and postgraduate courses related to their different business areas. In countries such as Colombia, financial support was provided for employees to attend seminars, graduates, professional training and postgraduate courses; with the purpose that the staff have updated information and better knowledge in their working area. Training in health and safety issues has been offered to promote a self-care culture and thus develop safe activities when carrying out their work. Chile’s employees had the opportunity to take certificate courses and participate in the internal training programs. In Brazil and in Ecuador, the technical issues addressed in training are: products, regulatory issues and tax updates. New employees in Brazil 170 are constantly trained in the Code of Conduct and Ethics; there is also an integration and coaching program by their direct supervisor. In Colombia, programs are carried out to improve the employees’ capacities; they have been carried out through financial support and facilities for seminars, graduates, professional training and postgraduate courses. The purpose is for the employees to have updated information and updated knowledge in their working area. Training in health and safety issues has been offered to promote a self-care culture and thus develop safe activities when carrying out their work. In Ecuador, some of the training programs focus in topics such as courses with experts, which have allowed employees to update their knowledge in the accounting, tax, and safety and hygiene areas. In Mexico, induction courses for the company are given so that each new member has sufficient tools to perform the best work in their area. The program aims to publish the necessary information about the company for a proper incorporation. 171 REGULATIONS The objective of these programs is to provide guidelines or required processes by business regulations or regulator y Code of Conduct entities to ensure their Human Rights Policy. fulfillment. Procedures elaboration. Genomma Lab International’s training programs offer short and long-term Good storage practices policy. benefits. Our employees are prepared for the challenges they face on a daily basis, but Good documentation practices policy. at the same time acquire expertise for their future professional life; thus, contributing to Dress and personal protective our employees empowerment. An example equipment politics. of specialized training within Genomma Lab International is the one in the Distribution Center (CEDIS). 172 PARVADA MODEL: Specialized training at the Distribution Center In 2017 we prioritized science in time and in The “Parvada Model” was implemented at the reduction or elimination of losses, which the Distribution Center, and the employees commits us to have a constant mapping were trained in several functions carried out process for a continuous improvement so that every member acquired the skills to establish action plans in productivity, and acknowledgement to participate in quality, service and security, encouraging us every stage of the different processes. to improve the productivity of the staff. Flexibility Agility BILLS COMBOS Growth BALANCE AND DEVS Position training Area Quality system training SPECIFIC management TRAINING compliance MULTI-ABILITY Company introduction The 2017 objectives: Within the “Parvada Model” we have a 1. Loading 100% of sales volume. monthly performance evaluation system in which we assess our employees in 2. Implementing 100% of cost reduction projects. terms of quality, productivity, service and safety. From the results obtained we make 3. Satisfying our customers. a classification, and the best-evaluated members are invited to an event to recognize 4. Satisfying our people. and reward them for their results. This has 5. Complying with the internal controls and led to the healthy competition and solid regulations. growth of our workforce. 173 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE COMPANY In recent years we have endorsed our public commitment with the corporate sustainability through an annual review of As a result, we have received, our responsible social management in the elements of quality of life in the company, for the eleventh consecutive community affiliation, business ethics, year the “ Distintivo a Empresa environmental conservation. Socialmente Responsible”. LIFE BALANCE POLICY Our sense of responsibility towards “A Company that is Familythe well-being of our human capital is supported through the Life-Balance Policy, Responsible proves to that establishes the guidelines to reconcile be a promoter of good work-life with family and personal life of our employees, and thus promote their labor practices in gender performance in a good work environment and equit y, violence prevention positive productivity within an environment and sexual harassment of alliance, credibility and respect. prevention, as well as Our objective at Genomma Lab International, creating actions and through our Social Responsibility and human capital development programs is to improve policies to encourage the environment in which our employees and workers to at tend their families develop. In 2017, we were awarded the “Empresa Familiarmente Responsable” family responsibilities.” by the Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión (STPS) Social, reinforcing our commitment with the company towards the families of our employees. 174 In accordance with the labor provision of established days by law, depending on the each country, the commitment with mothers country where they are located. During 2017, within our workforce is, offering them 10 employees applied for maternity and/or various benefits, including compressed paternity leave, reincorporating themselves workweeks, flexible hours, work distance, to the company without any inconvenience, agreed working hours and maternity leave. this represented a 100% reincorporation and retention during 2017. In addition, we grant maternity and paternity leave to all our employees, in which men and women are able to request leave for the HUMAN CAPITAL POLICY The constant review, update, modification 3.Compensation and benefits policy: and renovation of our policies has helped We show a commitment to guarantee us strengthen our recruitment processes, benefits, agreements and compensation trainings, developments and talent retention, in addition to those required by law, which promoting continuous improvement in the allows our employees to enjoy a better management of our human capital. quality of personal and family life. 1.Training, development and 4.Policy for interns and trainees: performance management policy: It is the commitment of our company to We show the commitment to promote promote the recruitment and development the professional development based on of the best talent focused on the interaction knowledge, skills, experience and trajectory. between company and participation to achieve objectives in a responsible, inclusive 2.Talent attraction policy: and sustainable manner. Our commitment to allow access to employment respecting human dignity, 5.Work separation policy: human rights and determining our We show the commitment to grant the inalienable obligations, complying with legal corresponding and additional bonuses to the framework and social security. employee that separate from the company. 175 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (G4-LA2) A value added to the training, as par t of the talent management for the company, is the benefits that we grant to the personal wellbeing of our employees. In Genomma Lab International we offer benefits above the law, granting competitive salaries along with compensation where we consider gender equalit y and nondiscrimination, all of th is with the purpose of suppor ting our own employees to the ach ievement of their business, personal and professional goals. 176 The company offers benefits, such as life insurance and in some cases major medical expenses insurance, dining room service, transportation subsidy, educational support, daycare and parking rental, among others; which may vary between countries and job levels. Likewise, we grant corporate bonds following the internal policies of Genomma Lab International according to the results obtained. At Genomma Lab International , we fulfill our social obligations between employeedirector inside the benefit plans, wh ich may var y between countries depending on the local regulations; nonetheless, the bonus, vacations, saving fund for retirement and holiday bonuses are benefits that all our employees receive. 177 CULTURE PILLAR In Genomma Lab we developed programs for our members focused on strengthening the labor culture, developing their talents and guiding them to ach ieving our objectives. During 2017, we followed-up some social and cultural programs: 178 “PASS YOUR BOOK 2017” For the fourth consecutive year in partnership employees and their families, achieving with the Communication Council, the a total of 39,317 reading hours with the program promoted the reading habit in our participation of more of 200 employees. DAY OF THE DEAD CELEBRATION In our Distribution Center, the traditional award ceremony for the winners and with “Offerings Contest (or altars) in which our that, the Mexican customs where preserved employees and their relatives participate” as well as coordination and teamwork was held. During this activity there was an strengthening. 179 FESTIVITIES AT THE DISTRIBUTION CENTER As every year in the Distribution Center, Guadalupana Mass was held, the traditional the traditional end of the year celebration “posada navideña” and the “Concurso de was organized. Our employees and their Piñatas”. Likewise, as every year the soccer families have the opportunity to live together tournament is held, in order to promote a and celebrate the achievements obtained healthy lifestyle. during the year. In this celebration a 180 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH (GRI G4-LA6, G4-LA5, G4-LA8) For Genomma Lab International our employees are the core par t of the company, by wh ich we value and protect their health and physical integrit y. It is impor tant for us, so they can ach ieve their objectives and professional or personal goals. 181 The work efficiency and performance of Forklifts and electric skate regulation. our employees depend in large part of their mental health, that is why we care Personal protective equipment usage. about their health integrity and that of their families. Likewise, we recognize that our Quality status assignment of the product. employees are exposed to musculoskeletal diseases due to repetitive movements and Programs aimed at employees to provide stress. Consequently, we are committed the elements that allow them to take care of in offering and preserving a safe, healthy their personal safety in the work areas and and risk-free work environment through prevent accidents.. programs that provide health information, self-care and that motivate them to develop their workplace and personal abilities. During 2017 we registered and monitored the accidents that arose in the corporative offices as well as in the Distribution Center. The following courses correspond to the Safety and Hygiene trainings during 2017: Corrective and preventive actions of the procedure PNO-007 Safety and Hygiene. Safety and hygiene, and occupational health regulation update. Warehouse access control for internal and external staff. Control of access and exit of the Distribution Center for employees, suppliers and visitors. Forklifts safe handling. General maintenance of the facilities and own equipment. 182 HEALTH AND SAFETY KPIS CORPORATE DISTRIBUTION CENTER MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Accidents with Injuries 0 0 2 0 Rate of occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 Lost days rate 0 0 260 days 0 Absence rate 0 0 0 0 Mortal victims 0 0 0 0 INTERNATIONAL DATA In Brazil the absence rate was 3% There are no workers that develop professional activities with an incident or a Genomma Laboratories Mexico S.A. de high risk of determined diseases. C.V. had 2 accidents: from a male 1 and from a female 1. During 2017, there were no In Chile the absence rate is 6% claims about labor practices that have been submit ted 20% of the workers are part of our formal th rough the repor ting channel security and health committees. during the period covered by the repor t. 183 HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING 80% of the workers had training about political and procedurals related with h uman rights, with a total of 112 hours. 100% of the securit y personnel have received specific formal training on the policies or procedures of the organization in the field of h uman rights and its application to securit y 184 BASE SALARY AND REMUNERATION RATIO BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORIES 2017 VP/DIRECTOR/SUB COORDINATOR/SPECIALIST/ LOCATION DIRECTOR/MANAGER ANALYST/AUXILIARY Corporate Management 20% 43% Administrative 13% 39% Distribution Center Among other activities, this year with On the other hand, our commitment with assistance of the Ministry of Health, we the security of our Distribution Center is carried out the vaccination campaign against reflected through the different mechanisms, flu as part of our health and safety programs, such as damage insurance, which protects applicable in the Distribution Center. our facilities, furniture, machinery and Additionally, it is important to highlight that products, in case of a sinister, natural all employees are represented in the Health, disaster or other vulnerable conditions that Safety and Hygiene Committees, and in our valuable capital could face. the collective contracts that the company manages. In the case of Brazil, the health and safety care conditions for the employees are contemplated as part of the Company. 185 COMPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 186 ABOUT THIS REPORT SCOPE AND LIMITS (GRI G4-28, G4-29, G4-23, G4-17) The information in this report covers the We also reaffirm our commitment to period from January 1st to December 31st, responsible practices to strengthen, respect 2017 and in some specific cases we make a and protect human rights, environmental comparison in relation to previous years. We conservation and permanent work with present the performance of our operations anticorruption principles, which is why we in Mexico and incorporated relevant data endorsed our membership of the United for our international operation in which the Nations Global Compact initiative since following areas are considered, the regional 2007 and the alignment to the Sustainable office of Lima, Peru, also serves to Bolivia. Development Goals. The office located in San Jose, Costa Rica, monitors the operations of Central America During 2017, we strived to strengthen our and the Caribbean: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Social Responsibility and Sustainability Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, corporate strategy through a link with the Dominican Republic, and Trinidad and the Social Responsibility Faculty at the Tobago; a regional office in Argentina, also Universidad Anahuac, Institution that has serves Paraguay and Uruguay. In addition to given us constant advisory, the same that our local offices located in Brazil, Colombia, has helped us build this document. Ecuador and Chile, the United States offices provide services to Puerto Rico. Our report is aligned with the requirements of organizations that set the guidelines for the revelations of Sustainability Reports, under the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), reporting for the fourth time under the version of the GRI G4 Guide under the compliance essential option. 187 GRI KPI TABLE (GRI G4-32) BASIC CONTENT REFERENCES OR ANSWERS SDGs CONTENT STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior Message from the Executive G4-1 Director p. 6 decision-maker of the organization Description of key impacts, risks, Message from the Executive G4-2 Director p. 7, 8, 9 and opportunities ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE About Genomma Lab International G4-3 Organization’s name pg. 21, 22 Primary brands, products, and Our Products and Operations G4-4 services p. 21, 25 G4-5 Location of the organization Contact headquarters. p. 21, 199 G4-6 Number of countries where the About Genomma Lab International organization operates pg. 21, 22 Nature of ownership and About Genomma Lab International G4-7 legal form p. 21, 22 About Genomma Lab International G4-8 Markets served p. 21, 22 Organization dimensions About Genomma Lab International G4-9 p. 21, 22 Our Talent SDG 8 G4-10 Scale of the organization p. 158, 163 Percentage of protected employees G4-11 Does not apply by a collective agreement. Our Supply Chain G4-12 Organization’s supply chain p. 103 SDG 12 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the About Genomma Lab International G4-13 organization’s size, structure, p. 21, 22 ownership, or its supply chain Precautionary approach or principle Environmental Conservation and G4-14 is addressed by the organization Climate Change p. 77 188 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Pact against child malnutrition in G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to Colombia SDG 1, 2, 3, 12 which the organization subscribes p. 156 or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such G4-16 Participation in Initiatives, SDG 4, 17 as industry associations) and national or international advocacy Associations, Awards and organizations Adhesions p. 47 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the G4-17 Our Priorities organization’s consolidated financial p. 50, 51, 187 statements Process for defining the report Our Material Issues G4-18 content and the Aspect Boundaries p. 50, 52 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the Our Material Issues process for defining report content p. 50, 52 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the Our Material Issues organization p. 50, 52 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the Our Material Issues organization p. 50, 52 Effect of any restatements of Our Carbon Footprint G4-22 information provided in previous p. 84,85 reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Complementary Information reporting periods in the Scope and p. 187 Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT List of stakeholder groups engaged Our Stakeholders G4-24 by the organization p. 44 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Our Stakeholders G4-25 engage p. 44 G4-26 Organization’s approach to Our Stakeholders stakeholder engagement p. 44 Key topics and concerns that have G4-27 been raised through stakeholder Our Stakeholders engagement p. 46 189 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Complementary Information Reporting period Scope and Limits p. 187 G4-29 Complementary Information Date of most recent previous report Scope and Limits p. 187 Complementary Information G4-30 Reporting cycle Scope and Limits p. 187 G4-31 Contact point for questions Contact p. 199 regarding the report or its contents Level reaches, GRI indicators and GRI KPI Table G4-32 External Assurance Report p. 187, 188 Organization's policy and current G4-33 practice with regard to seeking About this Report external assurance p.187 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the Governance, Ethic Management, G4-34 organization, including committees Management Focus p. 55, 60-64 SDG 12 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-35 Composition SDG 12 Management Focus p. 55, 60-64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-36 Composition SDG 12 Management Focus p. 55, 60-64 Consultation between stakeholders Board of Administration Report G4-37 SDG 12 and the highest governance body p. 55, 63 Chair of the highest governance Board of Administration G4-39 SDG 12 body is also an executive officer p. 55, 60 Nomination and selection processes G4-40 for the highest governance body and Board of Administration SDG 12 its committees p. 55, 61 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-41 SDG 16 Composition Management Focus p. 41, 53, 55, 64, 68 G4-42 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, SDG 16 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55 G4-43 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, SDG 16 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55 G4-44 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55 190 Highest governance body’s role in the G4-45 identification and management of Board of Administration Report economic, environmental and social p. 53, 55 impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-46 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 G4-47 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-48 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-49 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-50 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-51 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Governance structure and Governance, Ethic Management, G4-52 Composition Management Focus p. 53, 55, 64 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Director Nomination and Selection G4-53 regarding remuneration, including the p. 53, 55, 65 results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each Does not apply G4-54 country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual G4-55 in each country of significant Does not apply operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Declaration of mission, vision and Code of Conduct and Ethics p. 68 G4-56 SDG 16 Codes of Conduct G4-57 Grievance Mechanism “RESGUARDA” Reporting Channel p. 72 G4-58 Grievance Mechanism “RESGUARDA” Reporting Channel p. 72 191 BASIC SPECIFIC CONTENT MATERIAL MANAGEMENT REFERENCE OR ANSWER SDGs ASPECTS INDICATOR INFORMATION ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Our Business in Numbers p. 30 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Our Business in Numbers and distributed p. 30 SDG 8 Financial implications and other G4-EC2 risks and opportunities for the Our Carbon Footprint SDG 13 organization's activities due to p. 85 climate change Financial assistance received from G4-EC4 Does not apply government G4-EC5 Minimum Wage Does not apply Proportion of senior management G4-EC6 hired from the local community at Our Talent p. 158, 160-164 SDG 8 significant locations of operation ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, Product Manufacturing Supervision G4-EC8 and Audits SDG 12 including the extent of impact p. 104 Proportion of spending on local G4-EC9 suppliers at significant locations of operation MATERIAL MANAGEMENT REFERENCE OR ANSWER SDGs ASPECTS INDICATOR INFORMATION CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Environmental Management p. 77, 80 G4-EN1 Materials Use of Waste and Materials p. 92 G4-EN2 Materials Use of Waste and Materials p. 92 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Our Carbon Footprint p. 84 SDG 13 organization 192 Energy consumption outside of the SDG 13 G4-EN4 Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 SDG13 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 90 SDG 13 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements Our Carbon Footprint SDG 13 of products and services p. 84, 90 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source No Information G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected No Information by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Water Water Consumption Commitment p. 98 SDG 6 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Guava Leaves protected areas and areas of high p. 110 SDG10 , 12 G4-EN11 Environmental Conservation and biodiversity value outside protected areas. Climate Change p. 77 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EN 12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Does not apply outside protected areas. G4-EN 13 Protected or recovered habitats Does not apply G4-EN14 Endangered Species Does not apply ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN 16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SDG 13 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 86 intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 87 193 Emissions of ozone-depleting Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 88, 89, 90 G4-EN20 substances (ODS) NOx, SOx, and other significant air Our Carbon Footprint p. 84, 88 SDG 13 G4-EN21 emissions G4-EN22 Effluents and waste Water Consumption Commitment SDG 6 p. 98 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Use of Waste and Materials SDG 13 disposal method p. 92 Extent of impact mitigation of Environmental Conservation and G4-EN27 environmental impacts of products SDG 13 Climate Change p. 77 and services G4-EN28 Does not apply Products and Services ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines Environmental Conservation and G4-EN29 and total number of non-monetary Climate Change sanctions for non-compliance with p. 77 environmental laws and regulations ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-EN30 Transport Our Carbon Footprint p. 80, 84, 86 SDG 13 ASPECT: SUPPLIERS G4-EN31 Environmental Investments Water Consumption Commitment p. 98 SDG 6 Supplier Environmental Product Manufacturing Supervision and SDG 12 G4-EN32 Assessment Audits p. 104, 105 Product Manufacturing Supervision and SDG 12 G4-EN33 Supplier Environmental Assessment Audits p. 104, 105 ASPECT: GENERAL Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, None during the reporting period G4-EN34 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 194 MATERIAL MANAGEMENT REFERENCE OR ANSWER SDGs ASPECTS INDICATOR INFORMATION CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-NGO DMA Disclosure on Management Our Talent p. 158 Total number and rates of new G4-LA1 employee hires and employee Our Talent turnover by age group, gender and p. 158 region Benefits provided to full-time SDG 8 G4-LA2 employees that are not provided to Employee Benefits temporary or part-time employees, p. 176 by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates Employee Benefits after parental leave, by gender p. 158, 160 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year Talent Management: Genomma Lab per employee by gender, and by International Global Competence G4-LA9 employee category p. 167 Programs for skills management SDG 8, 4 and lifelong learning that support Talent Management: Genomma Lab G4-LA10 the continued employability of International Global Competence employees and assist them in p. 167, 168 managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving SDG 8 G4-LA11 regular performance and career Performance Evaluation development reviews, by gender and p. 167, 170 by employee category 195 SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with Social Impact G4-SO1 implemented local community p. 146 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Incidents SDG 10 Operations with significant actual or p. 136 potential negative impacts on local G4-SO2 communities Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Not answered related to corruption and the G4-SO3 significant risks identified. Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Incidents G4-SO4 p. 136 SDG 8 procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption Incidents SDG 8 G4-SO5 and actions taken p. 136 Total value of political contributions Incidents SDG 8 G4-SO6 by country and recipient/beneficiary p. 136 Monetary value of significant fines Incidents and total number of non-monetary p. 136 SDG 8 G4-SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-PR1 health and safety impacts are Product Quality assessed for improvement p. 139 SDG 8, 9, 12 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4-PR2 and voluntary codes concerning the Product Quality health and safety impacts of p. 139 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 196 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for Product Quality G4-PR3 product and service information and p. 139 labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Product Quality G4-PR4 and voluntary codes concerning p. 136, 139 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Results of surveys measuring Product Quality G4-PR5 customer satisfaction p. 139 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Product Quality SDG 3, 8, marketing communications, p. 136-139 9, 12 G4-PR7 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Product Quality G4-PR8 customer privacy and losses of p. 136-139 customer data Monetary value of significant fines G4-PR9 for non-compliance with laws and Product Quality regulations concerning the provision p. 136-139 and use of products and services SUBCATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements Anticorruption Measures and G4-HR1 SDG 16 and contracts that include human Human Rights Protection rights clauses or that underwent p. 75 human rights screening 197 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights Talent Management: Genomma Lab G4-HR2 that are relevant to operations, International Global Competence including the percentage of p. 167 employees trained Total number of incidents of Talent Management: Genomma Lab discrimination and corrective International Global Competence SDG 5 G4-HR3 actions taken p. 75 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, and Product Manufacturing Supervision measures taken to contribute to the and Audits effective abolition of child labor p. 104 SDG 12 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Product Manufacturing Supervision G4-HR6 incidents of forced or compulsory and Audits labor, and measures to contribute Supplier Audits to the elimination of all forms of p. 104 forced or compulsory labor ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES Percentage of security personnel G4-HR7 trained in the organization’s human Anticorruption Measures and Human Rights Protection SDG 16 rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations p. 75 ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS Total number of incidents of G4-HR8 violations involving rights of Does not apply indigenous peoples and actions take ASPECT: ASSESSMENT Total number and percentage of G4-HR9 Product Manufacturing Supervision operations that have been subject to and Audits SDG 8 human rights reviews or impact p. 104 assessments 198 ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Percentage of new suppliers that Product Manufacturing Supervision were screened using human rights SDG 8 G4-HR10 and Audits criteria p. 104 Significant actual and potential Product Manufacturing Supervision negative human rights impacts in G4-HR11 and Audits SDG 8 the supply chain and actions p. 104 ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Number of grievances about human G4-HR12 rights impacts filed, addressed, and Incidents p. 136 SDG 8 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CONTACT GRI G4-31 The 2017 sustainability report presents E-mail: our annual sustainability performance. In addition to the information referred in fernanda.aguilar@genommalab.com the body of the report, we are attentive to sustentabilidad@genommalab.com the comments or suggestions you wish to share regarding its content. Phone Numbers: You can communicate with us through the following communication channels: 5255) 5081 0000 Ext. 4615 Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V. Adress: Antonio Dovali Jaime # 70 Piso 2 Torre C. Colonia Santa Fe, Delegación Álvaro Obregón, C.P. 01210, México, Ciudad de México 199
