Lodam report on social responsibility, 2018 Social responsibility WE SUPPORT Lodam at a glance 111 No. of employees on date of issue of this report. 2012 13 & 17 Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. The two Global Goals that Lodam supports in particular: 13. Climate action and 17. Partnerships for the goals. 11 No. 11 on the Great Place to Work® Institute’s list of the 80% 1.234 Accomplished and agreed competence development. Tonnes of CO2 per employee in 2017. best workplaces in Denmark 2017. Lodam’s values Contents Professionalism We strive to be a competent, Management statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 reliable business partner. A partner Lodam electronics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 that keeps its promises and consistLodam and social responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 ently delivers above the bar in terms UN Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 of quality, service and value. Environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Inclusiveness Lodam’s energy-efficient products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 We believe in individualism with a Heat pump controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 respect for diversity and the many Ventilation controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 cultures that come together to work under our roof. We are driven by Remote caretaking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 good attitudes, the mutual desire Lodam Star Cool controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 to achieve job satisfaction and our Supplier responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 preparedness for change. Supplier code of conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Good business acumen People responsibility.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 We are driven by sound business Anti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 practices in all daily decisions, both Final words and facts.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 internally and externally. All decisions should be ethical and to the benefit of the company as a whole. Page 2 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Management statement We are pleased to present Lodam’s complex development and producnew report on social responsibility. tion projects. The report gives an overview of our internal and external social responIn May 2015 Lodam entered into sibility activities from May 2017 to a partnership with the technical April 2018. The aim is to provide our humanitarian organization Engicustomers, employees and other neers Without Borders Denmark stakeholders with insights into (Ingeniører Uden Grænser) in order Lodam’s work with social responcontribute to advance broader sibility as well as our ambitions to societal goals such as the UN Suscontribute to social responsibility. tainable Development Goals. We are glad, that some of the things Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen People responsibility is important we have contributed with in this Managing Director to us, and we keep measuring emperiod have made a difference for ployee well-being via the Danish the organization. “Great Place to Work” employee survey, organized by the Great Lodam joined the UN Global Place to Work® Institute. In NoCompact initiative in 2012, and we vember 2017 continue to support the UN Global Lodam was ranked as no. 11 in the Compact and its ten principles on category of medium-sized compahuman rights, labour, the environnies in the Best Workplaces in Denment and anti-corruption. These mark list. It is a great achievement, principles reflect our continued that Lodam now throughout the commitment to running our busilast seven years, constantly have ness in a responsible and serious been in the absolute top of this way. list. This is something we are very proud of and something we aim to Lodam Management, Henning Højberg Kristensen Managing Director maintain in the years to come. For Lodam, the past period has been characterized by adapting Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, our organizational approaches Managing Director “The aim is to provide our and strategies to meet the recustomers, employees and quirements from our customers. other stakeholders with We have focused on setting the direction of the company and insights into Lodam’s work communicating it to all employHenning Højberg Kristensen, with social responsibility.” ees, and we have special focus on Managing Director cross-organizational collaboration, which is decisive to succeed with Page 3 Our mission is to be a global player within intelligent electronics for HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective and high-quality solutions, enabling our customers to consistently outperform their peers in usability, serviceability and energy efficiency. Page 4 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive know• OEM solutions for heat pump Values ledge and know-how about develand ventilation systems • Professionalism – a compeoping, producing and implementing • Compressor electronics tent and reliable business innovative and efficient electronic • Frequency converters for partner which keeps its promclimate control solutions. Lodam’s air-conditioning and refrigeraises and delivers quality. most important asset is its staff in tion compressors • Inclusiveness – individualthe form of more than 100 dedicat• Transport refrigeration for sea ism with respect for diversity, ed employees who work either at and land transport. driven by humour and job our modern facilities at our headhappiness and preparedness quarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, for changes. or at a branch office in Aarhus, Mission • Good business acumen – Denmark. Energy efficiency through intellisound business practices in all gent controls. daily decisions, both internally Lodam is a member of the BITZER Our mission is to be a global player and externally. Group, one of the largest groups within intelligent electronics for in the global refrigeration and HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective air-conditioning compressor and high-quality solutions, enindustry. abling our customers to consistently outperform their peers in usability, Employee satisfaction is imporserviceability and energy efficiency. tant to preserving an inspiring and creative working environment and Vision Lodam in short the commitment which is essential Our vision is to be the preferred • Danish company owned to securing the future development company in the eyes of our cusby the German company of innovative and energy-efficient tomers and employees BITZER. solutions. • Lodam wants to continuously grow through innovative solu• Lodam produces electronic Lodam’s control solutions are tions. control devices for OEM important and reliable integrated • Lodam wants to improve cusproducts within the parts of our partners’ total systems tomer satisfaction, as measHVAC&R* industry. – and help create a perfect climate ured in our annual surveys, by • Products are developed for humans as well as optimised having a Net Promoter Score in-house and produced by storage conditions for foods and (NPS) exceeding 25. global partners. other commodities. • Lodam wants to be one of the best places to work in • Our export share is about Today, Lodam’s innovative climate Denmark with a trust index of 75%. control solutions are used all over 95% as measured by the Great * Heating, Ventilation, Air Condithe world, for instance in the folPlace to Work® Institute. tioning & Refrigeration lowing areas: Page 5 Lodam and social responsibility The Global Goals In September 2015, world leaders 13. Climate action: Take urgent Lodam is a partner of Engineers committed to 17 Global Goals to action to combat climate change Without Borders Denmark, which achieve three extraordinary things and its impacts. is a technical humanitarian organiin the next 15 years: End extreme Lodam contributes through the sation that aims to help the world’s poverty, fight inequality and injussupply of energy-saving electronic poorest in building a better and tice and fix climate change. Ref. climate control solutions. Read more sustainable future. www.globalgoals.org. about our products and how they save energy on pages (18-21) Lodam is committed to supporting the 17 Global Goals. Given the na17. Partnerships for the goals: ture of our business and our prodStrengthen the means of impleucts, we contribute, in particular, to mentation and revitalise the global achieving 2 out of the 17 goals: partnership for sustainable development. Page 6 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Looking outwards Industry with controllers, which are Social Responsibility (CSR) from a As an international company we used in the Star Cool refrigerating strategic point of view. At the time, also look outwards when it comes units, and has been doing so since we were already following the printo human rights and social responthe launch of the units in 2006. ciples behind social responsibility sibility. In 2015, Lodam entered into One of Maersk Container Industry’s but hadn’t formalised it. a three-year partnership with Ensustainability targets is to reduce It made good sense for Lodam to gineers Without Borders Denmark energy consumption, which is take this step. Not only because (Ingeniører Uden Grænser (IUG)), one of the reasons why they have we have business worldwide but which is part of Engineers Without chosen Lodam’s energy-efficient also because it was during a phase Borders International, www.iug.dk. cooling control solutions for their when we were growing substanIUG is a technical humanitarian orreefer containers. tially – doubling our number of ganization that, through the vision employees. “a life after survival”, aims to restore In 2011, Maersk Container Industry The program was an essential triglifesaving services for people in invited Lodam to take part in its ger to put focus on our CSR work need. They work in disaster-affectResponsible Procurement proand we also decided to join the ed areas to ensure access to safe gramme, and in November 2015 United Nations Global Compact as drinking water, proper sanitation they asked Lodam to participate a natural step of this process.” and emergency shelter, as quickin a sustainability status interview ly as possible. IUG also provides in order to learn about Lodam’s assistance and support to projects experiences. in developing countries where their members’ technical knowledge can These are some of Lodam’s experihelp alleviate suffering and fight ences from participating in Maersk poverty. Container Industry’s responsible procurement program: Participating in customer’s responsible procurement pro“Maersk Container Industry’s gramme request was the opportunity to Lodam supplies Maersk Container look at our work with Corporate Page 7 Lodam’s social responsibility partnerships and networks Lodam is member of a number and organisations that support the ees or their children are active. The of networks, supporting social local communities in which we do employees can apply for sponsorresponsibility activities together business. ships once a year. with other companies and organisations. The list below illustrates Lodam also supports a number of Lodam’s commitment to human local clubs and associations, e.g. rights, environmental innovation sports clubs in which our employHuman rights • Cabi, www.cabiweb.dk (in klubben.dk (in Danish) • UN Global Compact, www. Danish) • Delta – Wireless Klubben, unglobalcompact.org • cleantech.talentattractiondenwww.wirelessklubben.dk (in • Engineers Without Borders mark.com Danish) Denmark / Ingeniører uden • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, grænser, www.iug.dk Education www.fgk.de (in German) • Cooperation agreements with • ASERCOM – Association of Environment University of Southern DenEuropean Refrigeration Com• Project Zero, www.projectzero. mark and Aalborg University ponent Manufacturers, www. dk • Energy sponsor programme at asercom.org • CO2-neutral websites, www. Aalborg university CO2neutralwebsite.com • The panel of employer repreIndustrial cooperation sentatives at the University of • Confederation of Danish IndusLocal cultural branding Southern Denmark, www.sdu. try (Dansk Industri, DI), www. • Cultural and sports sponsordk di.dk ships: “Kultur i Syd”, Sønder• Guest lectures in e.g. techno• Member of DI’s CSR network borg Hus, Sønderjyske Elite logy and innovation, sales and and Conflict Minerals network, Sport and Dybbølhallerne marketing and CSR www.di.dk • Sponsorships for local clubs • Industrigruppen Sønderborg and associations in which Innovation and technology • Member of Sønderborg VækstLodam employees are active • TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk råd, vaekstraad.sonderborg.dk • CLEAN, Danish cleantech clusEmployer branding and attraction ter, www.cleancluster.com • Great Place to Work® Institute, • Member of Mechatronics Cluswww.greatplacetowork.dk ter Denmark, www.mechatron• Work Live Stay, www.workicscluster.com (in Danish) live-stay.dk • Partner in local project “Green • Career in Denmark, www.caPower Electronics Test Lab”, reerindenmark.com supported by e.g. Green Labs dk • Dansk HR, www. danskhr.dk (in • SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk Danish) • Delta – EMC Klub, www.emcPage 8 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Results goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Result: 98% of all Lodam employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the Danish Great Place to Work 2017 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. New goals and actions (May 2018 April 2019) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 98%. Lodam supports local clubs and associations. Page 9 Lodam supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Page 10 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 UN Global Compact The world’s largest corporate susembed markets and societies with tainability initiative universal principles and values for the benefit of all. The ten principles of the The United Nations Global ComUnited Nations Global Compact pact is a strategic policy initiative The UN Global Compact asks for businesses that are committed companies to embrace, support Human rights to aligning their operations and and enact, within their sphere of 1. Businesses should strategies with ten universally influence, a set of core values in support and respect the accepted principles in the areas of the areas of human rights, labour protection of internationhuman rights, labour, environment standards, the environment and ally proclaimed human rights; and and anti-corruption. anticorruption: 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human Overall, the Global Compact purrights abuses. sues two complementary objectives: Source: www.unglobalcompact.org Labour 1. Mainstreaming the ten prin3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associciples in business activities ation and the effective around the world recognition of the right to 2. Catalysing actions in support collective bargaining; of broader UN goals, including 4. the elimination of all the Millennium Development forms of forced and comGoals pulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and The UN Global Compact incorpo6. the elimination of discrimrates a transparency and acination in respect of emcountability policy known as the ployment and occupation. Communication on Progress (COP) policy. The annual posting of a Environment COP is an important demonstra7. Businesses should support a precautionary tion of a participant’s commitment approach to environmento the UN Global Compact and its tal challenges; principles. Participating companies 8. undertake initiatives to are required to comply with this promote greater environpolicy. mental responsibility; and 9. encourage the developIn summary, the UN Global Comment and diffusion of environmentally friendly pact exists to assist the private technologies. sector in managing increasingly complex risks and opportunities Anti-corruption in the environmental, social and 10. Businesses should work governance realms, seeking to against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 11 Page 12 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Case: Lodam helps educating disabled in Kenema Together with IUG Lodam are Vibeke Madsen, HR Manager at around Kenema City. This means focusing on building opportuniLodam. that the supply is periodically staties for the world’s poorest. The ble in the rain season (from May to goal is to create a better and more The OTC is a training center which October), but in fact not available sustainable future in their local ensures that disabled individuals in the dry season which stretches environments. are getting an education and a over 6 months. The establishing brighter future without poverty. of a E-power station is therefore Torben Jandorf, IUG Denmark (EnDisability is a major issue in Kenevital in the future developments in gineers Without Borders Internama, where 2,4 % of the population Kenema. tional) is looking at the sun rising are disabled. The country has had in Kenema this morning. During the major issues with the polio disease IUG are now working closely tonext two weeks he will investigate and is, besides that, still suffering gether with OTC on establishing a whether a financial help can lift from different horrendous methods stable energy supply and creating the Opportunity Training Center in used during the Civil war 20 years a new IT-Learning Dept., a solar Kenema to a higher level. ago. cell system and the best possible internet connection to open a new Lodam entered into a partnership 61 people are today a part of the world for many disabled in Kenewith IUG in 2015. The aim was OTC. They are doing different acma. to support a project which focus tivities within tailoring, electronics, on sustainability and assistance metal, hairdressing and IT-learning. supplementary to ongoing efforts They are also engaged in creatin the local environment. ing sustainable solar systems for the future. One big issue must be “We are proud of doing a difference solved before further development through the OTC in Kenema. It’s an – The lack of electricity. example of sustainable help where individuals throughout education Electric supply to the OTC comes gets a brighter future,” says Anne from primarily Water Power Plants Page 13 Environmental responsibility Lodam takes an environmentalefficiency and manufacturing our ly responsible approach to the products close to the markets running of our business, and we for which they are destined. Our focus on the areas where we can strategy is an efficient logistics minimise our impact on the enviapproach, which we call “in the ronment the most. One area is our area, for the area”. The purpose products that reduce energy conof Lodam’s localisation project is sumption for end-users, ref pages to ensure that our manufacturers 18-21. We also require that our supare sited near our main customers. pliers take care of the environment, Furthermore, Lodam is working to ref. our Supplier Code of Conduct find qualified subsuppliers, which ref pages 25-27. are located near the manufacturers. All in all, transport and logistics In-house we look at optimisation at are minimised, saving money, time our facilities. We keep a list of ideas and energy. for environmental improvements. The list is available to all employIn the past period we have focused ees, who may also add ideas to on reducing air transport as this is the list. The ideas are evaluated at both the most expensive, and also regular CSR meetings, where it is the most energy-intensive mode decided which ideas to look further of transport. We have specifically into or implement. Many of the idefocused on monitoring and reas have already been implemented, ducing our use of air transport of and there are still being added new product parts and components. ideas to the list. Furthermore, we have looked into and evaluated potential subsupThe ideas that have been implepliers, which are located near the mented since the last report range manufacturers. In particular, we from insulation of a building to have been looking for sub suppliserving tap water to guests instead ers of heavy components, which of bottled water (which makes have the greatest impact during air perfectly sense in Denmark that transport. has some of the cleanest tap water in the world). The result has been a considerable fall in use of air transport, and in These are some of the areas we general a decrease in sea and land also focus on: transport. Localisation We will continue the project and Localisation is about streamlinour focus will now be on anchoring ing logistics, increasing transport the processes in the long term. Page 14 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Refurbished spare parts made, either if requested by one of indoor climate. From January 2016 Lodam has finalised a pilot project our customers, or if Lodam believes all ventilation systems are conthat involved looking into introducthat this would be a good idea and trolled again by week programs ing refurbished spare parts. in line with Lodam’s strategies. (active on working days from 6 am Apart from following developtill 6 pm). The week programs have ments in national legislation on the Air and heating been switched off for some time recycling of electronic waste, we Lodam’s main building is heated due to internal test purposes in looked into whether spare parts for by water-borne floor heating. The our development department (the one of our products could be reheat comes from (ground-to-waventilation systems are controlled furbished, and to what extent. The ter) heat pumps, which we have by Lodam software), so we expect pilot project was a success, and developed and produced ourselves. to see the energy savings being following evaluation by the cusWhen the temperature drops beaffected in our consumption figures tomer, it was included in our regular low freezing point, we supplement below next year. scope of supply. this heating solution with natural Based on our experience from the gas. We have seasonal control pilot project, we are now considerof our heating to ensure a more ing extending the concept to other homogeneous indoor temperature customers. We see considerable and save energy. long-term potential. Lodam has rented a set of pavilApart from the obvious environions, which we use as extra meetmental benefits, our aim is for the ing rooms. However, these pavilrefurbishment of spare parts to ions are heated by electricity, which bring considerable advantages for is not ideal, neither from a cost nor customers in terms of both cost-effrom an environmental point of ficiency and quality. view. However, we have concluded, that initiating new activities will be Environmental certification too expensive as our present plans Lodam has looked into the process are only to keep the pavilions for a of obtaining ISO 14001 certificafew more years. tion in terms of scope, costs, risk analyses and strategy, and we have Ventilation systems are installed in established a detailed overview of all buildings (except the pavilions). the steps involved. An actual plan These are very energy-friendly for the certification process will be solutions, which also improve the Page 15 Energy consumption 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The table on this page shows our kWh per m2 152 127 122 142 137 143 147 150 energy consumption for the past hereof kWh per m2 29 20 18 15 14 14 years relative to floor area and for testing number of employees. kWh per employee 6802 5485 4649 5301 4649 4648 4885 4546 Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with during the winter period in 2013. approx. 1,000 sq m. During the period of The low figures for 2014 are partly due to construction, our ground-to-water heata very mild winter and partly to the insuing system was switched off. lation of the building acquired in 2013. In 2012, we split the measuring of energy In 2014, the low figures are partly due to a consumption into energy used for prodvery mild winter and partly to the insulauct testing and energy for our ordinary tion of the building acquired in 2013. facilities and activities in order to monitor In 2017 we made an agreement with how energy is used. Ørsted about 100% removal of biological In 2013, we extended our facilities with a gas. This shows in the numbers, which new 396 sq m building. This building was is the lowest we have had in the last 10 not as well-insulated as the other buildyears. ings, and thus more energy was used 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Tonnes of CO2 per 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 0.043 0.036 0.038 0.036 m2 Tonnes of CO2 per 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 1.448 1.180 1.276 1.234 employee Notes: Above we show our CO2 emissions, Some of our energy consumption relates also relative to floor area and number of to natural gas, which is weighted more employees. highly in the CO2 emission calculations. The above CO2 calculations are made using a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. Environmental inspection The Danish local authorities inNovember 2008: 1 remark spect local companies to ensure (paper sorting handled incorrectly). that they comply with environMarch 2012: 0 remarks mental regulations governing the minimisation of pollution. Due to The next inspection is expected to the nature of Lodam’s business actake place in 2018 (it has not yet tivities, inspections are only carried taken place at the time of release out about every three five years. of this report). Page 16 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Energy audit according to The recommendations will be paper. We always print a limited 2012/27/EU added to Lodam’s list of initiatives number of copies. Our current supAs part of the BITZER Group, a and will subsequently be evaluplier of printed matter is located large international group, Lodam is ated and implemented where it very close to Lodam, which saves subject to the EU Energy Efficiency makes sense. Lodam’s facilities are energy for transport. Directive (2012/27/EU). Therefore, generally energy-optimised and in See www.fsc.org. an external consultant performed a good condition. an energy audit of our facilities in January/February 2016. Printed matter The audit resulted in a report with a All printed matter, including this few recommendations for improvereport, is printed using environmenments to the existing installations. tally friendly ink on FSC-certified Results goals and actions (May 2017April 2018) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Result: Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. In the last period, we have replaced 350 fluorescent tubes with energy-conserving LED-lightning tubes, and insulated hot water pipes. The list is available to all Lodam employees on the intranet. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. Result: The result so far has been a considerable fall in the use of air transport, and a general decrease in sea and land transport as well. New goals and actions (May 2018 April 2019) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. Page 17 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Lodam develops innovative conwater. The controllers can be used trol solutions for heating, ventiin both domestic and industrial lation and refrigeration systems. heat pumps. Today, the solutions are used all over the world, for instance in the following areas: Air-handling units Lodam air-handling control soluOEM solutions tions are key to creating perfect • Heat pumps comfort and climate for people – • Ventilation systems e.g. in homes, industrial buildings • Others and schools Compressor electronics Frequency converters • Compressor protection and Lodam’s converter solution elecmonitoring tronically controls compressor • Frequency converters capacity to match actual cooling demands by changing the comTransport pressor speed. The result is im“Innovative control • Reefer application proved part-load performance, solutions used all • Truck & Trailer units thus saving energy and cutting CO2 over the world.” emissions. Monitoring & Control solutions • Energy optimization Accessories • Remote monitoring Multiple accessories are avail• Indoor climate able for all Lodam controllers to add extra value to the solutions: Heat pumps Innovative and user-friendly user Lodam’s heat pump controllers panels with colour displays, remote ensure COP (coefficient of perforcommunication devices, sensors mance) optimisation of individual and data loggers, web modules systems and add knowledge about and Windows-based multi-tools additional aspects such as anti-lefor communicating with the congionella control of domestic hot trollers. Page 18 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Heat pump controller Controlling domestic hot water and heating Lodam’s heat pump controller You can remotely control and monHow does the Lodam heat pump controller save energy makes it possible to gain total itor the heat pump via the internet, compared to other products? control of domestic hot water and and download a data log for serheating for domestic comfort. The vice and diagnostic purposes. • The unit cuts energy conoptimised control ensures low sumption and costs through energy consumption and is comFurthermore, with the Lodam heat intelligent capacity control bined with a user panel for easy pump controller, you can make via a frequency converter. operation. your heat pump Smart Grid-ready. • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. • Pre-programmed outside temperature compensation curves adapt to the fastest control/better comfort. • The controller can be used for heat pumps with air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is possible. Page 19 Ventilation controller A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption With Lodam’s ventilation controller, goal is to ensure optimised comfort a perfect climate can be created using as little energy as possible. everywhere with minimum energy Lodam’s ventilation system has a How does the Lodam venticonsumption due to demand-drivnumber of features that contribute lation controller save energy en ventilation. The ventilation conto that goal. Some of the features compared to other products? troller operates in both household include remote access, which al• The ventilation controller and industrial units. lows support and service from the controls the supply and office, as well as advanced status exhaust air with energy-savThe supply of fresh, filtered air to alarms to facilitate fault finding. ing EC fans or AC fans with maintain air quality is key to an converters. optimised indoor climate and comfort. As ventilation costs energy, the • The controller ensures demand-driven ventilation by means of CO2 and humidity sensors; if the humidity and CO2 values rise above a stipulated level, ventilation is stepped up, and as soon as the humidity and CO2 values are acceptable, the level of ventilation is reduced again. In this way, only an absolute minimum of energy is consumed to maintain a given level of comfort. • The ventilation can be adjusted according to outside temperature and day-and-night or weekly requirements. Page 20 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Remote caretaking A perfect indoor climate at all hours With Lodam’s remote caretaking • By ensuring that the systems How does the Lodam service, it is possible to monitor and run efficiently at all times, it is remote caretaking service configure all ventilation systems in possible to prevent outbreaks save energy? a building or a block of flats from of mould in flats. Mould is a central location via a web-based unhealthy for those living in • Optimising the operation of application on a PC or via a smartthe flats and expensive for the ventilation systems ensures phone application. landlord to remove. a perfect indoor climate with minimum energy conRemote access to ventilation • In case of fire near a building or sumption. However, if one systems is a unique opportunity block of flats, it is possible to or more systems are turned to ensure optimised operation of remotely turn off all ventilation off, either due to technical the ventilation systems level at all systems in order to prevent errors or by a tenant, there times. smoke from entering the buildwill be an instant increase ing or flats and causing smoke in energy consumption. The caretaking service has three inhalation injuries. With the remote caretaking significant advantages: service, it is possible to monitor that all systems are • By remote-controlling all ventirunning in the most optilation systems, you do not have mised way, receive alarms to arrange service visits to each if one or more of them individual flat. This is convenare not, and subsequently ient and saves time for both remotely reconfigure and landlords and tenants. restart them. Page 21 Lodam Star Cool Controller Reefer container operators depend The Star Cool controller features on reliable and economical equipa unique humidity control system, Lodam’s transport cooling ment. which minimizes weight loss and control solutions created guaranteed even higher product for a range of applications: Maersk Container Industry producquality upon delivery. Star Cool es the Star Cool reefer container, containers with the CA technolo• Reefer containers which features a controller degy is now the preferred choice for • Truck & Trailer Units veloped by Lodam. The Star Cool Mexican avocado producers. The reefer container controller meets Star Cool CA system offers accordthe increasing demands for high ing to local Sales Export Manager, quality and low operating costs, Roberto Rodriquez, the longest easy and user-friendly functionshelf life and reliability compared ality and optimised serviceability. to other CA systems on the marIn fact, customers using Star Cool ket. Furthermore, the Star Cool reefer containers have cut operatcontroller sets new standards for ing costs and energy consumption user-friendliness and safety. by minimum 30%, but savings of up to 140% are possible compared to using conventional reefer containers. Page 22 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Lodam develops innovative control solutions for climate system applications. Page 23 Supplier responsibility Lodam’s suppliers are our close suppliers’ production facilities. For of those materials, e.g. tin, tungpartners. They have been carefully the time being, these registrations sten, tantalum and gold. These selected based on their quality, are used for monitoring purposes minerals are part of our electronic innovation and flexibility. We strive only. products through the components to select suppliers that are comprocured for our solutions. At presmitted to maintaining high ethical For some of our suppliers, we also ent, we do not have the full picture standards in the same way that perform audits of their suppliers, of the origin of these materials, we are. The incorporation of social i.e. at the next supplier level, using but we have started requesting the responsibility into our supply chain the same supplier audit templates. necessary information from our is an ongoing process, and we genThis is the case for selected, stratesuppliers. Due to the complexity of erally experience a positive attitude gic suppliers, or suppliers where we our supply chain, this is an ongoing and approach from our partners in know from experience that it would process. this matter. be a good idea. The main purpose is to ensure the right quality of their Lodam performs regular audits deliveries; however, the audits also of our strategic suppliers, and our cover environmental, health and supplier audit templates include safety issues. environmental, health and safety issues, ISO 14001 certifications and Conflict minerals deviations, if any. The templates Conflict minerals are raw materials also include the use of solvents, that come from particular parts discharge of waste water and of the world where conflicts occur disposal of waste in general at our and affect the mining and trading Results goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Result: a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strategic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress (April 2017). b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. New goals and actions (May 2018 April 2019) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Page 24 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Supplier code of conduct Preface Lodam strives to select suppliers The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier who are committed to maintaining Code of Conduct is to outline in high ethical standards. We are a greater detail the standards we signatory to the United Nations’ expect our suppliers to adhere to. Global Compact, and we expect Lodam views these requirements our suppliers to share the fundaas an integral part of our business mental principles of the UN Global relationship with individual suppliCompact initiative, whether signaers. We believe that ethical, social tories or not. and environmental standards will provide competitive advantages The Supplier Code of Conduct for the benefit of Lodam and our comprises the following specific suppliers. areas: • Remuneration and employThis Code of Conduct applies ment conditions to suppliers doing business with • Working hours Lodam. Suppliers must comply • Freedom of association and with this code of conduct in all the right to collective bargainaspects of their operations that reing late to their business with Lodam. • Discrimination Supplier companies must ensure • Harassment and disciplinary that their employees comply with measures this code of conduct in all activities • Child labour related to the suppliers’ business • Forced labour with Lodam. • Health and safety • Environment We expect our suppliers to ensure • Corruption and bribery that their subsuppliers are aware • Conflict minerals of and comply with the principles expressed in this code of conduct. Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply with all relevant national legislation and regulations. Page 25 Specific requirements Discrimination We expect the supplier’s hiring and Remuneration and employment employment practices (including conditions promotion, training and rewards) We expect the supplier to comply not to be discriminatory on the with all legislation and regulations grounds of race, colour, ancestry, governing pay and working hours, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to miniexpression, sexual orientation, age, mum pay, overtime pay, sick leave, physical or mental disability, health piece rates and other compensatocondition, pregnancy, political ry elements. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, union memWorking hours bership, marital status, citizenship We expect the supplier not to restatus or veteran status. quire employees to work more than 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary time, or more than the limits on measures regular and overtime hours permitWe expect the supplier not to use ted under local law, whichever is or permit the use of corporal punthe lower. Workers must be entitled ishment or other forms of mental to at least one non-working day in or physical coercion, disciplinary every seven-day period. actions or sexual harassment. Particular employees with unusual Child labour working conditions may be exWe expect the supplier to ensure empted from this general requirethat no person is employed at an ment when covered by specific age younger than 15 (or 14 where national or international legislation; the law of the country permits) however, in the course of 12 weeks or younger than the age for comno employee must be required to pleting compulsory education in work more than an average of 60 the country of manufacture where hours per week, including overtime. such age is higher than 15. Freedom of association and right The supplier must protect young to collective bargaining workers of legal working age, up We expect the supplier not to preto the age of 18, from any type of vent employees and other workers employment or work which, by from associating freely with any its nature or the circumstances in lawful workers’ association or which it is carried out, is likely to collective bargaining association of jeopardize their health, safety or their choice. moral. Page 26 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 If a child is found working, the supThe supplier must comply with all minimise damaging effects to the plier must act in the best interest of applicable local legislation and regenvironment. the child, and any measures taken ulations to prevent accidents and must aim to improve and not worsinjury to health arising out of, linked Corruption and bribery en the child’s situation. with, or occurring in the course of We expect the highest standards of work or as a result of the operation integrity in all business interactions. Forced labour of the employer’s facilities. The supplier must not engage Forced, bonded or indentured lain any form of corrupt practices, bour or involuntary prison labour is We expect the supplier to continincluding extortion, fraud or bribery, not to be used. uously improve working conditions whether direct or indirect. and reduce workplace-related risks Health and safety and hazards by e.g. setting tarConflict minerals We expect the supplier to progets and conducting appropriate We expect the supplier to initiate a vide safe and healthy working training. process to ensure delivery of “conconditions and take appropriate flict-free minerals” products and precautionary measures to proEnvironment to implement a conflict minerals tect employees from work-related We expect the supplier to meet all policy that prohibits the purchase hazards and anticipated dangers in relevant local and national environand use of conflict minerals. the workplace. mental regulations and to strive to Page 27 People responsibility Lodam is still one of the very best From a top level perspective, we workplaces in Denmark. In 2017, have focused on setting the direcour trust index was 93% and we tion of the company and comare ranked as no. 11 among medimunicating it. In the beginning of um-sized companies in Denmark 2018 the managing directors met by the Great Place to Work Instithe individual departments and tute®, which is an advancement presented the strategy with focus from the year before. Furthermore, on the 2018 goals. Hereafter each we received the communication department focus on converting award and were nominated for the the strategy into relevant areas, diversity award. where each department and each employee can contribute. The In this report, we have chosen to strategy efforts are also followed present some of the areas that we up with focus on the leadership have focused on in particular since and co-operation guidelines. the last report in order to meet our vision, which is to be one of the Trust index: best places to work in Denmark Cross-organisational collaboraRefers to the overall average with a trust index of 95% as meastion result of the Trust Index® ured by the Great Place to Work Cooperation and knowledge Employee Survey by the Great Institute®. sharing across the organization is Place To Work® Institute. decisive to succeed with complex Management and leadership development and production proWe have improved the employees’ jects. We have worked to improve view of the management’s ability our abilities to match expectations to manage and delegate. One of including our dialogue competencthe basic things we have focused es in order to reach the planned on is for the individual manager to goals. reserve more time to leadership. One of our tools to work with Another focus area has been to cross-organizational collaboration increase the empowerment in the is to make agreements on specific organisation. That is to move the issues between two departments. decisiveness from the manageOne example is an agreement ment into the organisation. The between Sales and R&D on how to management has worked with this have a closer relationship between at management seminars and also the customer and R&D, where the discussed the theme with Lodam’s two departments have agreed to Advisory Board, which comprises use the same terms and definitions both employees and managers. – to speak the same language. Page 28 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Other tools are accomplishing • We have four internships for value stream mapping projects and engineer students every year. working with a thorough project • Every year, we have two or Lodam’s values model to have a common basis for three students write their final Our values are the foundation the collaboration. thesis at Lodam every year. of our organisation. They help • We always have one PhD us to make business decisions Dialogue and communication are student and influence all of our interthus very important. Receiving the • We always have one apprenactions within the company – communication award from the tice. At the moment, we have personal and professional. Great Place to Work Institute® in two, one of them being an 2015 shows us that we are on the apprentice from a new educaProfessionalism right track, but we still have work tion(EUX) within electronics. We strive to be a competent, to do. • We take one new graduates, if reliable business partner. A possible, partner that keeps its promCross-organization collaboration is • We make room for employees ises and consistently delivers very much supported by a strong who need special employment above the bar in terms of experience of team and family conditions. quality, service and value. spirit, which is why we still work on Inclusiveness improving this goal. We believe in individualism with a respect for diversity In the years to come, improved and the many cultures that cross-organizational collaboration come together to work under through improved organizational our roof. We are driven by cohesion will remain a focus point. good attitudes, the mutual desire to achieve job satisfacDiversity / Inclusiveness tion and our preparedness for Inclusiveness is one of our values. change. This value is multifaceted, but it also includes our responsibility to Good business acumen include people in training and eduWe are driven by sound cation to become strong members business practices in all daily decisions, both internally of the workforce. These are examand externally. All decisions ples of how we contribute: should be ethical and to the benefit of the company as a • Under an agreement with the whole. local university (SDU), we offer four student jobs every year for engineer students Every year, we offer four internships for students of engineering. Page 29 People responsibility goals The indicators below relate to ees, recruit new employees and Work® Institute. Lodam wants to Lodam’s ability to maintain and create new jobs. . These numbers improve in all areas measured by improve employee well-being, relate to our overall vision of being the Great Place to Work® survey; motivation and job satisfaction. one of the best places to work in however, the goals set out below Furthermore, they give an idea of Denmark with a trust index of 95% are specifically important to us. Lodam’s ability to retain employas measured by the Great Place to TarDescrip2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 get Comments tion 2018 No. of 91 employ102 employ101 employ103 em107 (JanuAn inWe expect an increse employees ees at 1 Janees at 1 Januees at 1 Januployees at ary 2017) crease of employees during uary 2014 ary 2015 ary 2016 1 January of 4% 2018. 2017 An increase An increase of Target was an An increase of 11% 14% increase of An increase of 4% less than 5% of 2% Staff turn6.9% 6.8% 11.9 6,8% About 15% About Measured as the over (3% of whom 5-10% no. of employees retired) who left the company compared to Above target, the average no. of which was employees. below 5% Sick leave 1.31% 1.7% 1.66 3,0% 3,2% Not to Incl. long-term sick exceed leave. The target was (excl. long (excl. long 1,8% not to exceed term sick term sick 1.5% leave 1,4%) leave 1,5%) No. of physi0 1 0 1 0 0 Lodam focuses on cal injuries preventive activities. No. of psy0 0 1 case of 2 cases of 1 0 Lodam focuses on chological stress-related stress-repreventive activities. injuries, e.g. sick leave lated sick All managers have stress leave attended a course on how to prevent and spot stress at an early stage. Agreed and 85%: 86%: 80% 80% 80% WorkThe final 20% are accom65 % Acing on courses that cannot plished 67% ac67% accom61% accom70% accomplished 80% be accomplished competence complished plished and plished and complished and 15% (June for various reasons developand 18% 19% sched19% schedand 10% scheduled 2019) (cancelled by the orment scheduled uled uled (1 May scheduled (May 2018) ganiser, postponed (1 May 2014) (1 May 2015) 2016 etc.) Notes: These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. Page 30 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Page 31 Anti-corruption Lodam strives to maintain strong Gifts from Lodam, including busiethical standards and to be a comness partner care, are also based pany of good standing and integrion the reasonability principle. We ty. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy do not give individual Christmas is based on the UN’s Convention gifts, but we may give gifts to show against Corruption as well as our our appreciation of special efforts, obligations under the tenth prinalso based on the reasonability ciple of the UN Global Compact principle. Moreover, we prefer to initiative: Businesses should work give gifts to a group of people inagainst corruption in all its forms, stead of just one person. The gifts including extortion and bribery. that Lodam or a Lodam employee Corruption is defined by Transparmay receive are accepted only if ency International as “the abuse of they comply with the reasonability entrusted power for private gain.” principle; if not, they are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received Within our supply chain, we ensure are donated to Lodam’s Christmas that our partners work against lottery, in which all employees can corruption as well, by asking our participate. “Lodam has an internal suppliers to comply with our Supgift policy based on the plier Code of Conduct (see pages Our focus area has been and will reasonability principle.” 25-27), which includes a continue to be on awareness and paragraph on corruption and understanding of this issue. The bribery. instruction held for all employees includes information on grey areas Lodam has an internal policy between corruption and building regarding gifts. Gifts to and from relationships and what the reasonexternal partners must respect a ability principle means. reasonability principle, whereby they do not act as a means of persuading someone to do something which is dishonest, illegal or represents a breach of confidence. Page 32 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Results goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Result: a. An annual general instruction was held in 2016. The instruction is part of Lodam’s general internal training programme. b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts were held in 2016. Participation is registered. c. No incidents have been registered (as per 1 May 2018). Nwe goals and actions (May 2018 April 2019) Goal: Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all new employees. b. Special annual instructions to new employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Page 33 96% of all Lodam employees feel good about the way Lodam contributes to society. Page 34 Lodam report on social responsibility 2018 Final words and facts Lodam’s report on social responframework of UN Global Compact, sibility is one of five accountings in order to show our social responFacts that Lodam accomplishes each sibility towards customers, suppliyear. The other four are our finaners and employees. Date of issue of this communicacial statements, our quality assurtion on progress (COP): ance accountings, our customer As a socially responsible company, 2 May 2018 satisfaction survey and the Great Lodam will continue to implement Place to Work® employee survey. and incorporate the ten principles Company name and address: These are accountings in which we of the UN Global Compact initiaLodam electronics a/s measure ourselves in relation to our tive into our strategies and our daily Kærvej 77 targets and goals. work. DK-6400 Sønderborg The overall purpose of the CSRVAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 report is to report on Lodam’s conBank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: tinued, prioritised efforts within the DK12626509 No. of employees on date of issue: 111 Management: Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, Managing Director Henning H. Kristensen, Managing Director Board of Directors: Christian Wehrle Gianbattista Parlanti Rainer Große-Kracht Frank Hartmann Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012 This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified paper in a limited number of copies. See www.fsc.org. Page 35 Copyright ® 2017 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Innovative and energy saving climate control When it comes to climate control Lodam is one of the most experienced you can turn to. For more than four decades we have developed, produced and implemented electronic solutions dedicated to optimising applications like: • Compressors • Condensing units • Heat pumps • Air conditioning • Refrigerated truck and trailer • Reefer applications We know the importance of reliable, energy-efficient operation – and constantly push technoVer. 8.0 07.05.2018 logical boundaries to bring you the most innovative and forward-thinking solutions. As part of the BITZER Group we are backed by one of the world’s leading players in the refrigeration and air conditioning industry. This alliance provides us with extensive network and application knowhow and allows us to stay at the forefront of climate control innovation. And to help ensure comfortable surroundings for humans and reliable protection of valuable goods anywhere in the world. Lodam electronics a/s For more information visit: Kærvej 77 Tel. +45 7342 3737 6400 Sønderborg Fax +45 7342 3730 www.lodam.com Denmark lodam@lodam.com
