UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 December 2017 – November 2018 Dr. Franck Vazquez, CEO MDPI AG, Basel CEO’s Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that MDPI AG reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. MDPI will further demonstrate its commitment to sustainable management and responsibility towards its employees. As a global publishing house, we see it as our duty to develop responsible practices that will ensure a bright future for our company and for our planet. Therefore, we have committed ourselves to the ten principles associated with the UN Global Compact, and will focus on contributing to the following defined goals: Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning. Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Franck Vazquez CEO UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment At MDPI we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation MDPI agrees and implements to all 31 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights during the reporting period. We will continously work to make sure that all our employees know the MDPI policy on human rights. The guidelines are also implemented in MDPI’s ‚General Employment Conditions’ Humanity Graffiti at 798 ArtDistrict Beijing. Photo: Matthias Burkhalter. Labour Rights Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment MDPI has not participated in any form of forced, bonded or child labour and has fully complied with minimum wage standards during the reporting period. Implementation The guidelines are implemented in MDPI’s ‚Employee Benefits Regulations’. MDPI Employees at the B2Run Event in Basel, Switzerland. Photo: Franck Vazquez. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment MDPI is strongly committed to support societally-relevant research that contributes to regional and global efforts toward a sustainable world. Implementation As part of this effort, MDPI has initiated the World Sustainability Forum (WSF), an international conference at which the World Sustainability Awards will be presented, as well as its smaller counterparts—the physical WSF local forums and the electronic WSF electronic forums. Furthermore, MDPI fosters scholarly exchange on issues of sustainability with its according publications—the open-access journal Sustainability and the edited book series Frontiers in Sustainability (FinS). Thandi Mgwebi, Max Bergman, Lisa and Jeffrey Sachs (Joint Winner of the World Sustainability Award) and Franck Vazquez. Photo: Matthias Burkhalter during the Award Ceremony in Cape Town, South Africa. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Committment MDPI is fully commited and strongly supports to work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Implementation Anti-Corruption guidelines are also implemented in MDPI’s ‚General Employment Conditions’. Happy Participants at the 6th World Sustainability Forum in Cape Town, South Africa. Photo: Matthias Burkhalter MDPI and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The World Sustainability Forum and the Basel Sustainability Forum series will focus on the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Sustainable Development Goals via UN News Centre. As a global publishing house, we see it as our duty to develop responsible practices that will ensure a bright future for our planet. Based on our purpose and company scope, we aim to focus on three UN Sustainability Development Goals: Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning In 2016, we announced the World Sustainability Award and the Emerging Sustainability Leader Award to encourage new initiatives and developments in sustainability. Both awards are bound to the ultimate aim to foster the transfer from sustainability research to sustainable practices and societies. Recipients of the World Sustainability Award (USD 100,000) Professor Jeffrey D. Sachs and Dr. Sonia Ehrlich Sachs were the joint recipients of the first World Sustainability Award at the end of January 2017. Jeffrey Sachs is a world-renowned economist and senior United Nations (UN) advisor and director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. Sonia Sachs is a pediatrician and public health specialist, and director of the Health Centre at the Centre for Sustainable Development, also at Columbia University. Winners of the Emerging Sustainability Leader Award (USD 10,000) The joint recipients of the first Emerging Sustainability Leader Award were Dr. Esther Ngumbi and Dr. Xiaosong Hu. Esther Ngumbi is a postdoctoral researcher at Auburn University in Alabama, USA and served as a 2015 Clinton Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Since the foundation of MDPI two decades ago, we have provided our staff with equal opportunities to grow and develop their career. At MDPI, we foster gender equality and refuse any form of discrimination against women at work. We support women in management positions: 50 % of MDPI Management are women. Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Being an academic open access publisher, we support innovation by nature. In comparison to a traditional publishing house, we produce less printed output and impact the environment in a sustainable and positive way.
