2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report About This Report Contents Overview 2017 HIGHLIGHT 04 LSIS has been publishing an annual sustainability report since 2015 in CEO Message 06 order to share with stakeholders its economic, environmental and social performance. In this fourth report, our progress and achievements on sustainable management in 2017 is presented in a balanced and About LSIS transparent manner. This report will serve as a means for communication with our stakeholders and allow us to grow together. Corporate Profile 10 Corporate Governance 12 Reporting period Stakeholder Value Chain Map 14 This report is based primarily on data for January 1 to December 31, Global Business 16 2017, but the results for the first quarter of 2018 are included for some Power Solutions Business 18 contents. Industrial Automation Business 20 Railway Infrastructure Business/DC-Relay 21 Reporting scope This report provides key information from the materiality assessment, mainly covering domestic business sites but also some overseas sites Core Issues of Sustainability Management where relevant. Integrated Sustainability Management 24 Materiality Assessment 26 Reporting standards This report is in accordance with the GRI Standards Core and the UNGC Ethical Management 28 Index. Compliance Management 31 Integrated Risk Management 32 Assurance Customer Satisfaction Management 34 For the credibility of this report, third-party verification was conducted Safety and Environment Management 46 by Korea Management Registrar. Shared Growth with Suppliers 54 Employees 62 Inquiries Local Community Contribution 68 For more information or suggestions, please contact us using the following information: 10F, LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, 14119, Korea LSIS Corporate Planning Team Website www.lsis.com Tel +82-02) 2034 4432 Fax +82-02) 2034 4949 Cover Story The cover design of this report represents LSIS as a leader in power solutions and automation heading into the future with smart integration and convergence solutions. The simple lines and mission icons symbolize LSIS pioneering the future of smart energy. Customer Satisfaction Management 34 Safety and Environment Management 46 Shared Growth with Suppliers 54 Local Community Contribution 62 Employees Appendix Economy 76 Membership and Awards 80 68 Safety and Environment 77 UN Global Compact COP 80 Employees 78 GRI Standard (Core) Index 81 Share Growth and 79 Third-Party's Assurance Statement 84 Social Contribution 4 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report 2017 HIGHLIGHT J a n u ar y ← Selected as one of the Top 100 Global Innovators by Clarivate Analytics for six consecutive years LSIS was ranked among the Top 100 Global Innovators by Clarivate Analytics (the former Thomson Reuters Intellectual Property & Science business) for six years in a row. Only four companies besides LSIS were selected in the energy category, an indicator of the global competitiveness of LSIS in energy-related intellectual property. M arc h → Commercialized cast resin transformers with the best seismic performance in Korea LSIS launched Susol, a cast resin transformer onto the market. It demonstrates the highest seismic-resistant performance in Korea, withstanding earthquakes up to a magnitude of 8.0 on the Richter scale. In its design, the stress (strain) on transformer fixtures has been significantly improved to meet the Uniform Building Code (Zone 4). June ← Acknowledged as a ‘Korea’s Best Enterprise’ for ten consecutive years In recognition of its R&D investment in smart energy, power solutions, and automation, as well as for its contribution to securing a new growth engine focusing on overseas markets, LSIS has been selected as a ‘Korea’s Best Enterprise’ for ten years in a row. S e p t e mb e r ← Won a bid to build an 18 MW Hanamizuki solar power plant in Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan LSIS was selected as the final bidder for a KRW 46 billion (JPY 4.55 billion) project to construct and operate a Hanamizuki photovoltaic plant in Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan. This 18 MW plant to be built on an area of 300,000㎡ by March 2019 will supply electric power to 5,000 households for 20 years ← Awarded the Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Prize for Strategic Trade CP LSIS won the Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Prize for the Strategic Trade Compliance Program (CP) at the 2017 Trade and Security Day. The prize is given to companies that implement, promote, and contribute to the government’s strategic trade and export control system. Since the company introduced its CP in January 2014, a team dedicated to strategic trade has been created and related rules have been set as company standards. Power Solution Business About LSIS 5 O ctob e r ↑ Completed construction of the 28 MW Chitose Solar Plant in Hokkaido, Japan LSIS completed the largest solar power plant in Hokkaido, Japan. Capable of supplying power to more than 10,000 households, it is the nation’s first photovoltaic plant integrated with an ESS (energy storage system). No v e mb e r → LSIS Modular Scalable PCS won the Power Electronics Manufactures of the Year Award At the regular general meeting of the Korean Institute of Power Electronics in 2017, our Modular Scalable PCS received the Power Electronics Manufactures of the Year Award. Since this platform-based 2 MW PCS exclusively developed by LSIS features modularized components, the product size can be reduced by more than 30% while maintaining a steady level of performance. In addition, the ESS smart operating system helps minimize system downtime. No v e mb e r ← Received citation from the Minister of SMEs and Startups in the supplier association category At the 2017 Corporate Partnership Week organized by the KCCP, LSIS won a citation from the Minister of SMEs and Startups in recognition of its contribution to promoting supplier associations as a communication channel. 6 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report CEO Message CEO Message 7 Distinguished stakeholders, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude for your continued interest and support. In 2017, LSIS was able to achieve meaningful results through its 'smart and simple management based on minimalism,' even in the face of difficult conditions in environments both inside and outside of the company. In recognition of promoting efficiency through smart energy, including ESS, EMS, HVDC, and smart factory technologies, and of strengthening R&D efforts to develop and commercialize core technology, LSIS has been named on the ‘Korea’s Best Enterprise’ in the electricity and cable industry for the last ten years. In addition, the company has been ranked among the Top 100 Global Innovators since 2011. A difficult business environment is expected in 2018 due to a resurgence of protectionism worldwide and the decline in large-scale investment in Korea. However, we will be focusing on the following as we lay a foundation for continued sustainable growth. First, we will increase our presence in global markets. Global markets are the key to achieving sustainable growth. In this regard, we will accomplish growth through focusing resources on target countries and changing growth paradigm. Second, we will secure technological competitiveness through digital transformations. The fourth industrial revolution is being fueled by new technologies, including IoT, cloud computing, big data, and machine learning. It is not only shaking the foundations of existing markets, but also establishing new ones. In this regard, we will accelerate our efforts to devise a new business portfolio by developing a product lineup of digital devices and solutions using ICT and big data. Third, we will streamline our profit structure. The profit structure will be stabilized with optimized product portfolio and financial risk management. Distinguished stakeholders, Our efforts at sustainability management will be sustained in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibility, communicate with stakeholders, and build trust based on a positive corporate culture. By doing so, we will be able to spearhead the future of smart energy and enhance the value both in our lives and society. In this journey, we look forward to your unwavering support and encouragement. Thank you. Chairman & CEO Ja-Kyun Koo 8 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Corporate Profile 10 Corporate Governance 12 Stakeholder Value Chain Map 14 Global Business 16 Power Solutions Business 18 Industrial Automation Business 20 Railway Infrastructure Business/ 21 DC-Relay Power Solution Business About LSIS 9 About LSIS LSIS, a leader in industrial electric power and automation solutions businesses in Korea since 1974, is pioneering the future of smart energy with quality products based on its technical prowess. 10 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Corporate Profile Since its establishment in 1974, LSIS has grown into the leadProfile ing industrial electric power and automation solutions comCompany name LSIS Co., Ltd pany in Korea. LSIS was separated from the LG Group and Established July 24, 1974 re-launched itself as the LS Group in 2003, and, in 2005, it CEO Chairman Ja-Kyun Koo, Vice President was renamed to LSIS. In 2015, the company declared FuturYong-sang Park, Vice President Ki-won Nam ing Smart Energy, a new mission to take another leap forward. Head office LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea With its quality products and technological prowess, LSIS’s efEmployees 3,402 forts will continue to pioneer the future of smart energy. Credit rating AA(corporate bond), A1 (CP) (rated by Korea Investors Service) Organization chart CEO Financial data summary (consolidated basis / KRW billion) Audit Dept. Sales 2,343.7 Executive Director of Operating income 158.4 Executive Business Administration Director of Business Group Total assets 2,255.8 Total liabilities 1,107.7 Industrial Power Solutions China Business Automation R&D Group Business Group Group Total equity 1,148.1 Business Group Company history 1987 2003 2009 03 R enamed to Goldstar 12 Separated from LG Group 03 Announced Green Industrial Systems Business 10 Incorporated LS Mecapion as a subsidiary 1995 2007 02 Renamed to LG Industrial 02 Established LSIS Systems (ME) FZE in Dubai, 09 Merged with Goldstar UAE Instrument & Electric and Goldstar Electric Machinery 1994 2000 2008 07 Held an 06 O pened a factory in Dalian, China 04 M  oved the headquarters initial public 09 Power Testing & Technology (LS Tower in Anyang, Korea) offering (IPO) Institute designated as a certified testing organization 1974 1999 2005 2010 07 E  stablished Lucky 04 Merged with LG Metal 03 Renamed to LSIS 02 Established LS Packing 09 O pened a factory to produce electric power Sauter & automation equipment in Wuxi, China 04 Opened a plant in Busan Corporate Profile About LSIS 11 Vision and strategy Management Philosophy Mission Vision Strategy 1 2 3 4 Boosting our Leading new Expanding Securing market position as markets through overseas operational a power solution convergence and markets excellence provider combination Core Value Collaboration Execution Creativity Integrity 2011 2016 10 O pened a HVDC factory in Busan 03 The R&D Campus building earned Korea’s first BEMS 11 Selected as 500 Fastest Growing Companies by the Fortune Korea certification 09 Received Presidential Citation for outstanding achievement for FTA 2013 09 Became the first company in Korea in implementing ESS for emergency power supply in the R&D Campus 05 Signed a contract for HVDC technology transfer and manufacturing with KAPES and GE 11 Received the USD 500 Million Export Tower 11 Awarded the grand prize in quality sector at the 39th National Quality Management Competition 2014 2017 05 Won the Gold Tower Order of Industrial 01 Selected as the Top 100 Global Innovators Service Merit on the 49th Invention Day for six consecutive years 07 Celebrated the 40th anniversary of the 03 Listed on the Top 100 Companies in terms foundation of LSIS of patent application in Europe 06 Acknowledged as the Korea’s Best Enterprise 2012 for ten consecutive years 05 Opened an EV relay factory in Cheongju 09 Awarded the Industry, Trade and Energy 12 Established a subsidiary in the US Minister’s Prize in Strategic Trade CP 11 Received citation of the Minister of SMEs and Startups in the supplier association category 12 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Board of directors (BOD) LSIS maintains a board of directors to ensure a transparent and rational decision-making process. It consists of three inside directors and three outside directors in accordance with governance rules, including the Articles of Association and the Board of Directors Regulations. Within the BOD, two subcommittees, the Audit Committee and Outside Director Nomination Committee, are operated. Members of the board Type Name Position Career background Date of appointment Inside •(Present) Chairman & CEO, LSIS Chairman of the board, 2017.03.17 directors (3) Koo Ja-Kyun •Professor of Graduate School of International Chairman & CEO (reappointed) and Public Affairs, Korea University •(Present) Senior Executive Vice President, LSIS 2017.03.17 Park Yong-Sang Vice President & CEO •Director of China Business Group, LSIS (newly appointed) •(Present) Senior Executive Vice President, LSIS 2018.03.20 Nam Ki-won Vice President & CEO •Vice President & CEO, LS Metal (newly appointed) Outside •(Present) Professor of electrical engineering, Outside director / 2017.03.17 directors (3) Moon Seong-Il Seoul National University Audit Committee member (newly appointed) •Director, Korea Smart Grid Institute •(Present) Member, Presidential Council on Outside director / Intellectual Property 2017.03.17 Kim Ho-Won Audit Committee member •(Former) Commissioner, Korean Intellectual (newly appointed) Property Office Outside director / •Professor of accounting, Chungnam National 2018.03.20 Lee Won-chang Audit Committee member University (newly appointed) * One outside director resigned from the board. (2018. 04. 19) Committees in the BOD BOD and subcommittee meetings in 2017 Audit Committee This committee of three outside direcCategory Meetings AttenItems Items tors assists the board of directors in its governance and overconvened dance resolved reported sight responsibilities. It reviews operating results and finanBOD 6 100% 16 13 cial statements on a quarterly basis and is authorized to audit Audit Committee 5 100% 4 10 overall accounting affairs and financial status as needed. Outside Director 2 100% 2 Nomination Committee Outside Director Nomination Committee The nomination Remunerations of directors in 2017 process by this committee is conducted in fair and transparent manner. The committee selects outside director candidates to Limit of remuneration Total remunerations paid 5 2.45 offer professional consultation and advice based on their personal expertise and serve as checks and balances to corporate KRW billion KRW billion management. Corporate Governance About LSIS 13 Shareholder/Investor status As of December 31, 2017, the number of floating shares is 29,325,028, which is 98% of total shares issued excluding 2% of treasury shares. LS Holdings is the largest shareholder with LS Holdings 46% ownership followed by the NPS* with 12%. Individual 10% 46% Share Shares held Category Relations type In number In percentage LS Holdings The largest 13,800,000 46 Foreign Share ownership shareholder 18% (as of Dec. 31, 2017) Treasury shares 674,972 2 Institutional NPS More than 5% 3,646,403 12 investors of ownership Common Institutional Treasury shares share Others 3,457,250 12 24% 2% Foreign investors 5,307,719 18 Individual investors 3,113,656 10 Total 30,000,000 100 * NPS : National Pension Service Shareholder returns (dividends) LSIS has maintained a higher dividend payout ratio than the Communication with shareholders and investors KOSPI average since 2014 in our commitment to higher shareProviding shareholders and investors with information in a holder returns. Going forward, our efforts to bring more value timely and transparent manner is essential for building a trustto and grow together with shareholders will continue. based relationship. To this end, investor relations meetings and events are held to share information, including operating performance, financial information, mid-/long-term strate2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 gies, and progress on new businesses. Our efforts to communicate with investors at home and abroad will continue through 32.3 29.3 regular earnings release meetings and diverse IR events. 23.5 Category Note Regular Feb. 2016 Q4 earnings release NDR* Organized by Kiwoom Apr. 2017 Q1 earnings release NDR Organized by 1,100 Hanwha 1,000 Jul. 2017 Q2 earnings release NDR Organized by NH 800 Nov. 2017 Q3 earnings release NDR Organized by Kiwoom Ad-hoc Mar. Hanwha Investment & Securities Corporate Day Apr. Analyst Day Jun. Hana Financial Investment Total dividends (KRW billion) Dividend per share (KRW) Corporate Day Aug. Shinhan Investment Mini NDR (Unit : %) Sept. KSG Expo, Analyst Day Visit to Smart Category Grid Expo and 2015 2016 2017 presentation Dividend payout ratio 1) 42.2 40.5 34.0 Nov. Korea Investment & Securities Corporate Day Dividend yield 2) 2.17 2.01 1.69 Nov. Shinhan Investment Corporate Day 1) Dividend payout ratio: Total dividends / Net profit Overseas Sept. NDR in Hong Kong and Singapore Organized by 2) Dividend yield: Dividend per share / Year-end closing price (based on KRX data) Shinhan ※ Dividends on common shares were counted only. Dividends on class shares were * Non-Deal Roadshow excluded. 14 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Stakeholder Value Chain Map Local communities Team in charge Social contribution Participants activities 119 1,590 Public Relations Team Key communication channels •Meetings with local communities •Direct communication with the person in charge •Meetings with the management •Surveys Shareholders Team in charge and investors Treasury Team Dividends and interests 49.4 Key communication channels •NDR KRW billion •Company visits •Company website Environmental organizations Team in charge Safety & Environment Team Investment in safety and environment 10.4 Key communication channels •Regular meetings •Company website KRW billion •Direct communication with the person in charge Stakeholder Value Chain Map About LSIS 15 LSIS has been creating and sharing value with stakeholders in every facet of our business activities. Going forward, we will strive to promote even greater value with our stakeholders. (Non-consolidated basis) Employees New employees (permanent) Team in charge 41 HR Team Key communication channels •Communicator •LinkerS Salary and employee training expenses •LSIS Monthly Magazine 305 •Surveys •WeLS KRW billion Suppliers Purchase of raw materials and parts Team in charge 1,186.3 Win-Win Growth Team KRW billion Key communication channels •Supplier Exchange meeting Financial support •Management seminars 13.9 •Quality innovation meetings •Performance sharing meetings KRW billion •TOPS (internet portal for shared growth) Customers Advertising expenses Team in charge 6.9 Marketing Team KRW billion Key communication channels •Exhibitions and seminars Seminars •Meetings with customers 68 •Distributors meetings •Visit to customers •Customer service centers 16 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Global Business Moscow Amsterdam Qingdao Nanjing Dalian Beijing Jinan Tokyo Shenyang Shanghai Chengdu Dubai Wuxi Guangzhou Hanoi Bangkok Ho Chi Minh Anyang R&D Campus Head Cheonan plant Office Cheonan Automation R&D center Jakarta Cheongju plant 1 Cheongju plant 2 Cheongju Electronic power R&D center Power Testing & Technology Institute Busan Busan plant Global Business About LSIS 17 Employees in overseas locations (as of the end of December 2017) 680 199 14 19 12 7 5 4 Chicago China Vietnam Japan UAE Netherlands US Russia Indonesia Subsidiary companies Core Biz Manufacturing copper tubes and STS steel pipes Address Gangnam-gu, Seoul Head office Domestic operations Overseas subsidiaries (production) Overseas subsidiaries (sales) Core Biz Manufacturing industrial electronic equipment Address Dalseo-gu, Daegu Overseas branches Global service centers Global R&D centers Core Biz Selling BAS/IBS and GBS systems Address Geumcheon-gu, Seoul 18 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Power Solutions Business LSIS provides a total solution that allows safe and Targets for 2017 •Focus resources on target countries efficient management for the entire process from •Expand business areas by entering new markets power generation to consumption. Our main sys•Increase presence in renewable energy markets through products and solutions tems are divided into two groups: transformers for adjusting system voltage to a safe value, and cirPerformance in 2017 cuit breakers designed to prevent overcurrent and •Established a detailed target country strategy •Maintained market share in areas with a competitive edge and entered new ensure an adequate power supply. Recently, High markets voltage direct current (HVDC) systems, energy •Entered the KEPCO FACTS market storage systems (ESS), energy management sys•Implemented the ESS solutions package and developed the digital IPP business tems (EMS), and power conversion systems (PCS) Plan for 2018 •Promote localization in overseas markets with strategic importance and produce for ESS have been added to our product portfolio. results These products enable households and enterprises •Expand the scope of markets and products to minimize power loss, thereby promoting the use •Diversify business models in the smart energy area of eco-friendly smart energy at reduced cost. Key Power Products 1 High Voltage Direct current (HVDC) Electric Power Transmission This transmits electricity by converting alternating current into direct current. 2 Gas insulated switchgear (GIS) This protects power plants and substations from accidents caused by overload, grounding, and shorted wires. 3 Power transformer 1 2 3 This stably transforms voltage and current through either a step up or step down in voltage. PV module ESS* for renewable energy integration ESS* for FR businesses Power Solutions Business About LSIS 19 Smart Energy LSIS is developing solar power generation and ESS (energy storage System) businesses with our power solutions technology platform and power electronics technology for automation. Our services are delivered in the form of individual products, turn-key systems, or EPC contracts as best suitIndustrial ESS* ed to customer needs. Our optimal solutions, technological strength proven through established projects, strict quality control, and one-stop service are building the foundation from which we are spearheading the smart energy era. Household ESS * 2017 performance in power solutions business (non-consolidated basis) Building ESS * Sales KRW 1,415.9 billion Share of overseas sales 31 % 8 7 6 Share of businesses 78 % 8 Molded case circuit breakers (MCCB) This interrupts the flow 7 Air circuit breaker (ACB) This prevents the loss of 6 Distribution transformer (TR) This transforms AC voltage of current with manual lives and equipment by by using an electromagnetic or electrical operation. breaking the circuit when induction device. In the case of overload an abnormal current flows or short circuit, power is in low voltage distribution automatically shut off. lines. 4 5 4 Switchgear 5 Vacuum circuit breaker (VCB) *ESS : As electricity produced is This monitors electric power This prevents the loss of lives and captured and used at a time of systems and manages safety equipment by breaking the circuit short supply, the efficient use controls using electrical in a vacuum when an abnormal of energy is promoted. switches, fuses, and/or circuit current flows through high voltage breakers within an enclosed distribution lines. electrical box. 20 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Industrial Automation Business LSIS provides a wide range of automation soluPlans for 2017 tions from single unit machines to process con•Promote the GMC (general motion controller) business •Put more focus on direct sales in the domestic market trol for efficient operation of industrial facili•Concentrate resources on target countries ties. Our key product portfolio includes PLC for •Expand the portfolio of smart factory solutions equipment control, AC Drives for motor speed Performance in 2017 adjustment, and HMI for real-time equipment •Developed the GMC business •Made a significant breakthrough with technology support to customer monitoring. Moreover, as part of our efforts to in the target domestic market improve energy efficiency in overall businesses, •Strengthened an overseas distribution network of target countries including factory operations, we are promoting Plans for 2018 •Strengthen the capability of domestic/global distributors smart factory solutions that provide optimized •Expand the scope of product portfolio and applications IT services using collected information. •Establish a business model for smart factories 2017 performance Industrial Automation Business (non-consolidated basis) CPS solutions Sales Share of Share of As a platform that connects reality with virtual reality, it promotes overseas sales businesses 391.5 39 22 efficient factory operation. It monitors data generated by field devices and collected by automated devices, and the accumulated information KRW billion % % is transferred to the business information system. Programmable logic controller (PLC) Human machine interface (HMI) This is a universal controller programmed to operate machinery This allows users to easily check the operative status of under set orders and conditions. It has a wide range of applications different production equipment on a touchscreen so that from large-scale automation equipment in factories/plants to measures can be taken as necessary. car-wash machines, golf ranges, and general use. AC drive (inverter) Decelerator Motion/Servo This helps conserve energy by Connected to the motor shaft, it delivers This offers precision control through feedback when changing the frequency of the decreased speed but increased torque equipment is moved to a new location or operated at the power supply to control the by load. It has wide applications for speed/torque required by the system. speed or torque of a motor. semiconductors, displays, beverage machinery, and logistics machinery. Industrial Automation Business·Railway Infrastructure Business·DC-Relay About LSIS 21 Railway Infrastructure Business LSIS offers a total solution for E&M (electrical and mechanical) systems ranging from design to manufacturing, installation, testing, trial runs, operation, and maintenance of railways for high-speed trains, general trains, subways, and light rail. In addition, integrated management based on high system reliability helps us successfully implement the E&M system. Based on our accomplishments in this area as a leader in Korea, we are expanding the scope of our overseas businesses. Railway power system Traction lines and power supSignaling system Comprehensive train control (signal/ ply facilities are applied to supply electric energy from the communication) and engineering technologies are applied railway system to railroad cars. for effective management of train intervals, paths, operational security, and IT equipment. DC-relay With the rapid development of the EV and eco-friendly vehicle market, the market for DC-relay parts ensuring a stable power supply is growing steadily. LSIS, the second-largest player in the global relay for electric vehicles market, is increasing its presence in industrial relay market. Relay for electric vehicles This is installed between the battery and load in EVs to ensure stable power supply and isolation. Industrial Relay Used in renewable energy and general transport systems, it supplies and draws power to and from batteries and DC load. 22 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Core Issues of Sustainability Management Our target for sustainability management is to earn respect through trust-building with our stakeholders. To this end, we will strive to build a healthy corporate culture and proactively communicate with our customers, partners, shareholders/investors, local communities, and employees as we grow and create value together. Power Solution Business About LSIS 23 Integrated Sustainability Management 24 Customer Satisfaction Management 34 Materiality Assessment 26 Safety and Environment Management 46 Ethical Management 28 Shared Growth with Suppliers 54 Compliance Management 31 Employees 62 Integrated Risk Management 32 Local Community Contribution 68 24 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Integrated Sustainability Management Under the goal of earning respect through trust-building with er Engagement, Sustainability Enhancement, and Integrated stakeholders, three strategic directions have been impleRisk Management. LSIS will continue to proactively communimented under stakeholder-specific action plans: Stakeholdcate with stakeholders as we achieve shared growth. Framework Goal Earning respect through trust-building with stakeholders Three strategic directions Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Enhancement Integrated Risk Management Communication Key stakeholders Shareholders Local Customers Suppliers Environment Employees & Investors communities Action plans Creating Achieving Promoting Nurturing Increasing Supporting by stakeholder customer value shared growth environment creative talent shareholder local communities with product by establishing management in and improving value through through voluntary responsibility a culture of fair line with global quality of life management social contribution and proactive trade standards integrity and communication transparent disclosure Roadmap for Sustainability Management Building a consensus Strengthening capability for Expanding to global operations (-2015) implementation (2016-2018) (2019-) Integrated •Providing in-house training •Evaluating performance •Strengthening the infrastructure sustainability •Operating the Council on •Reinforcing implementation for sustainability management in management Sustainability Management strategies by function overseas plants •Promoting activities for global initiatives Shareholder •Assigning teams in charge and •Developing a process for •Expanding the scope of engagement defining R&R by stakeholder incorporating stakeholders’ stakeholders to the global level and feedbacks enhancing R&R of each team Sustainability •Strengthening requirements on •Making an organized effort in the •Reinforcing green marketing enhancement disclosing environmental data environmental monitoring of the activities at a global level value chain Integrated risk •Enhancing the integrated system to •Establishing monitoring processes •Building a system to identify and management manage risks to identify key risks manage risks in overseas plants Core Issues Core Issues of Sustainability of Sustainability Management Management Integrated Power Sustainability Solution Business Management 25 Implementation system CSO (an executive responsible for Enterprise-wide Council CEO sustainability management) on Sustainability Management Council on Sustainability Management Enterprise-wide Council on Sustainability Management Operation of the integrated sustainability management system and council (by Corporate Planning Team) Corporate Innovation Integrated risk Customer Quality Economic governance activities management satisfaction management Ethical Compliance Activities for local Shared growth Human rights Social Employees Management management communities with suppliers and labor Environmental management, Green Environmental health and safety products Responding to UN SDGs In order to contribute to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals, LSIS will continue to explore and pursue all feasible options. No. UN SDGs Activities No. UN SDGs Activities Social contribution activities 1 No Poverty by region 10 Reduced Inequalities LSIS’s business and service 2 Zero Hunger 11 Sustainable Cities and communities areas 12 Responsible Consumption and Safe and environment 3 Good Health and Well-being Employee welfare policy management Production Social contribution activities 4 Quality Education 13 Climate Action Measures for climate change by LS Group 5 Gender Equality Equality policy for employees 14 Life Below Water Safe and environment Safe and environment 6 Clean Water and Sanitation management 15 Life on Land management LSIS’s business and service Transparent corporate 7 Affordable and Clean Energy areas 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions governance Talent policy and business 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 17 Partnerships for the Goals Shared growth with suppliers growth Activities for management 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure improvement 26 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Overview A total of 16 out of the 37 topics identified in the material assessment have been selected as key topics by considering the potential impact on our business and the level of interest among stakeholders. The selection process is comprised of 1) creating a pool of topics; 2) prioritizing topics; and 3) identifying key topics. Creating a pool of topics Internal/external reviews 37 Opinions from the Council (reviewing the agendas of major 2017 pool of topics on Sustainability bodies at LSIS and evaluation topics selected Management. results by external organizations) Prioritizing topics S T EP 1 Stakeholder survey Participants September-October 2017 Online/Offline surveys 819 Including customers, employees, suppliers, environmental organizations, shareholders, and investors S T EP 2 Media & Web analysis October 2017 Big data analytics Source from major broadcasting networks, newspapers, and business magazines S T EP 3 CSR-level diagnosis Participating teams November 2017 Tools of external agencies 14 The Council on Sustainability Management CoreIssues Core Issuesof ofSustainability Management Power SustainabilityManagement Materiality Solution Assessment Business 27 Identifying key topics The materiality assessment matrix is designed based on the potential impact on business and the level of interest among stakeholders. Please refer to the page indicated in the legend below for details on each key topics. Materiality assessment matrix Potential impact on business Key topics J C Q D A H F L R M N G K I P B E O Level of interest of stakeholders Legend Category Core Topic Page Category Core Topic Page Ethics & risk A. Ethical management 28 Safety and J. Worksite safety and health 48 environment B. Compliance management 31 K. Energy conservation and climate change 49 management C. Integrated risk management 32 L. Worksite safety management 50 Customer D. Competitiveness in quality 36 M. Eco-friendly products and services 53 satisfaction E. A  ctivities to ensure product reliability 38 Shared growth N. A culture of shared growth 56 management with suppliers F. Technological competitiveness 38 O. Competitiveness of suppliers 57 G. Intellectual property management 40 Employees P. Talents management 65 H. Communication with customers 42 Q. H  uman rights and labor-management 67 relationship I. Information security 45 Contribution to R. Social contribution activities 70 local community 28 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Ethical management Goal of ethical management The goal of ethical management at LSIS is to fulfill our corporate responsibility to customers, suppliers, shareholders, and society based on the principles of fairness, honesty, and integrity. Customers Shareholders Fairness •Building trust in the company •Enhancing the company and product Ethical value and image •Securing a stable foundation management •Establishing a reliable for growth foundation for investment Honesty Faithfulness Suppliers Society Transparent management·Fair competition·Social stewardship Ethical management system Code of Ethics and Conduct Organizations in charge LSIS has established its Code of Ethics and Conduct as criThe Ethics Committee is the highest body for implementing teria for actions and value judgments among employees. It is ethics management. It is made up of members of the HR applied to all the subsidiaries of LSIS. For overseas subsidiarCommittee. Under this committee, the Ethics Committee ies, however, local laws and regulations must be considered Secretariat is operated by the Audit Department as well. The Code is reviewed annually to keep it up to date, and activities are conducted to raise employee awareness of it. Executive Director of Code of Ethics Summary CEO Business Chapter 1. Providing information / Serving customers / Responsibilities and Executive Director of Protecting the interests of customers duties for customers Business Administration Chapter 2. Fair competition / Respecting related laws, Group / CHO Fair competition regulations and business practices Chapter 3. Selecting suppliers through a transparent Audit Department (Ethics Fair trade process / Promoting fairness in transactions Ethics committee Committee Secretariat) and evaluation / Maintaining order in trade / Supporting suppliers Chapter 4. Keeping one’s dignity as an LSIS employee Basic ethics / Reporting with honesty and integrity / for employees Protecting the company’s property / Avoiding Roles of the Ethics Committee Secretariat the conflict of interests against the company / Preventing sexual harassment at work •Developing and promoting the system to comply with code of Chapter 5. Fostering talent / Ensuring fair treatment / ethics, and providing training Responsibilities for Promoting health and safety / Respecting •Establishing and operating the procedures of reporting employees employees’ opinions unethical cases or potential risks Chapter 6. Doing business right / Protecting the •Making authoritative interpretation in ethical practices and Responsibilities interests and rights of shareholders / submitting key issues to the Ethics Committee for the nation and Protecting the environment / Contributing to society the nation and society Core Issues of Sustainability Management Ethical Management 29 Policies and systems in operation ity those who voluntarily report unethical acts. Previously, an Reporting hotlines exemption announcement was made in 2010, 2014 and 2017. To eradicate unethical acts within the company, LSIS constantly operates a variety of communication channels, inReporter protection policy cluding phone, post mail, e-mail, and a cyber reporting LSIS does not disclose the personal information of anyone channel. Suppliers, employees, and customers can report reporting, the reported details, or any other information that any cases of corruption, irregularities, or unfair business could identify them without their consent. If the reporter is dispractices by LSIS employees. Complaints on product quality advantaged due to a disclosure, the company will take responor inquiries about products and services are transferred to sibility to restore the disadvantaged person to the original state the customer service center. and assume liability accordingly. Reports received and resolved by channel (unit: case) Reported details and the personal information of reporters Cyber reporting channel Phone Mail Others are kept strictly confidential and the reporting system is operated in a secure and safe manner. 15 Self-reporting by those who were involved in unethical acts is taken into consideration when resolving the case. 11 Information on reporters and interested parties is strictly 9 protected and an investigation is conducted to ensure the fair and objective resolution of the case. 7 If a disadvantage to the reporter is recognized as a result of any information leakage, LSIS will compensate the disadvantage or take equivalent remedial measures. 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 2015 2016 2017 Procedures to respond to unethical acts In accordance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, a thorReports received and resolved by category (unit: case) ough investigation is conducted on unethical acts and the Disciplinary Committee reviews and deliberates the results Reporting category 2015 2016 2017 to determine any disciplinary actions. Unfair trade 7 1 5 Corruption and irregularities 1 3 2 Online systems Unfair practices 1 Cyber reporting channel LSIS is operating a cyber-reClaim 6 2 porting channel through which stakeholders (customers, Others 5 8 9 partners, shareholders, and employees) can report any corTotal 19 13 18 ruption or irregularities and cases of unfair business practices by LSIS employees. Anyone suffering any disadvantage * The reporting category may not be consistent with the investigation result as it is classified based on reporters’ judgment. can access the system to report it, and the reporter’s information and the report details are strictly managed as classiSelf-reporting program fied information according to policy. To promote a healthy corporate culture by eliminating unethical acts, LSIS operates a self-reporting program through which Audit result follow-up system With the aim of monitoremployees who might have accepted bribes and/or offers ing the status of internal audit results by each group and of entertainment can voluntarily report according to defined team, an audit result follow-up system has been implementprocedures. To encourage self-reporting, a special announceed since June 2014. The system helps employees implement ment is made on a periodic basis to exempt from responsibilaction plans to prevent the same issues from reoccurring. 30 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Implementing ethical management asking suppliers and distributors for cooperation in eradicatActivities for implementation ing the practice of giving and receiving gifts, entertainment, Pledge to practice ethical management As part of the and money. This announcement is also made to employees to efforts to raise awareness and promote transparent business encourage them to report any violations and to further proprocess, LSIS employees must biannually submit a written mote LSpartnership, the management philosophy of LS Group. pledge to practice ethical management. Since 2013, all employees of LSIS and its subsidiaries, excluding employees at Survey for suppliers/distributors LSIS conducts an anoverseas worksites and on leave, have joined these efforts. nual survey of suppliers and distributors to evaluate the level of satisfaction with the company’s ethical management. The Employee survey A biannual survey is conducted to evalcollected survey results, including changes in the satisfaction uate the level of satisfaction among employees on the comlevel, ethical management index, suggestions, and feedback, pany’s ethical management and to check for unfair acts that are utilized to set directions for planning ethical management could go unnoticed. The survey results, such as changes in activities. According to the 2017 survey, the satisfaction level satisfaction level (or ethical management index), suggestions, of suppliers was 4.23, which has remained at a similar level and feedback are utilized to set directions for planning ethical since 2014, while 4.08 was recorded for distributors, showing a management activities. The most recent survey identified emsteady upward trend. ployee awareness of the Code of Ethics and Conduct as an improvement area. To resolve this issue, a banner announcing the Training status (unit: person) Code has been implemented on the main page of the compaLS Group offline group training LSIS offline group training Online training ny’s intranet in 2017 to help employees gain better access to it. 1,211 Training on ethical management Training on ethical management is provided through an introductory course for both non-career and career employees in order to strengthen ethical management. Since 2013, the training that had been con144 102 84 133 49 ducted only at the company level has been provided to all members of the LS Group. In 2014, the GVT (Greater Value Together) 2015 2016 2017 program was launched to implement ethical and compliance Satisfaction level on ethical management (unit: point) management at the Group level, promote LSpartnership, and Suppliers Distributors Employees facilitate organizational and individual growth. Online training is also provided to all employees. Starting from 2015, the 4.24 4.19 4.01 4.23 4.08 3.98 3.95 topic of ethical management has been included in the training course for new managers to help raise their awareness of ethics and allow them to better respond to ethical dilemmas. From 2017, training materials are also being made available 2015 2016 2017 via the Intranet. Training for Suppliers Performance-sharing meetings and Strengtheningpartnershipwithsuppliers/distributors lectures by external experts organized by the Shared Growth Official document for cooperation to suppliers/distribTeam under the Strategic Purchasing Group are provided to utors Before the Thanksgiving(Chuseok) and Lunar New suppliers to help them better understand LSpartnership and Year’s holidays, LSIS sends an official document from the CEO to build a consensus on ethical management. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Compliance Management 31 Compliance Management Since a compliance officer system was introduced in 2012, and work on improvement measures using the list. The activities to promote compliance management have been results of self-assessment are updated with risk categoconducted, including a proclamation ceremony in 2014, ries once a year. CP (compliance program), voluntary inspections, classifiThe compliance officer ensures that employees voluntarily cation of legal risks, and training. The head of the Legal check their compliance status using the checklist on an Affairs Division serves as the compliance officer and is annual basis. The officer monitors self-assessment respearheading these efforts. sults to decide whether to further investigate compliance. Compliance officer Training and information sharing activities The compliance officer is appointed by the BOD in accorTo raise awareness of compliance, the compliance officer dance with Article 542-13 of the Commercial Act. In 2012 ensures that themed training is provided to employees and and 2015, the head of the Legal Affairs Division was apinformation on revised laws and regulations and governpointed as the compliance officer, and a support team was ment policy is shared among the related teams. In 2017, formed under the Legal Affairs Division to report activities 20 sessions of compliance training were offered and inforto the BOD every year. The main activities of the complimation sharing activities were conducted 10 times. ance officer are 1) categorizing legal risks in business operations; 2) creating a checklist to prevent and manage Topics risks; 3) supporting self-assessment using the checklist; and 4) providing compliance training. Fair Trade Act, Subcontracting Act, Agency Act, Electrical Construction Compliance Business Act, State Contract Act, contract Self-inspection activities training terms on industry-academia R&D and development service, and information The support team is providing a checklist to help employsharing meetings on strategic trade ees analyze, categorize, and manage legal risks associated with business operations. Sharing Product Liability Act (revised), Agency Act information on (revised), General Data Protection ReguThis checklist consists of yes/no questions on compliance revised laws and lation (GDPR), and measures to prevent by category of legal risk. For non-compliance identified regulations serious industrial accidents through the questions, employees can check the reason 32 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Integrated Risk Management Internal control of financial reporting To manage the processes related to the calculation of finanInternal Internal Statement of work cial statements, an internal control system was built in 2005 verification accounting system system Enterprise level based on the COSO* Framework and was put into operaStatement tion in 2006. The internal accounting manager reports the Work level of control operational status of the system to the BOD and the Audit Account balance test Committee, and the Audit Committee reports its evaluation Capital SRM control results to the BOD. Ad hoc disclosure control * COSO : Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Risk management categories A total of 104 risks have been defined and grouped by category, division, and section. Among them, 26 key risk items were selected based on the quality of their management and evaluation by worksites and the teams in charge. The pool of risks at the corporate level External Category Strategic risk Financial risk Compliance risk Operational risk environment risk Division •Economy •Business plans •Market •Contract/Lawsuit/ •Project •Country/Politics/ •Growth •Capital balance Trade •Support process Society/Environment •PR/Communication •Asset impairment •Laws/Regulations •Key process •Market condition •Financial statements •Ethics/Misconduct •Accident/Disaster Section •Economy •Business plans •Credit rating •Contract •Project cost •Country •M&A •Raw materials prices •Fair trade (anti-trust •Purchasing/ •Politics •Business portfolio •Exchange rate policy) Procurement •Competitors •Social contribution •Liquidity •Other laws •Design/Manufacturing •Customers •Development and •Trade receivables •HR/Labor •Bidding/Winning •Procurement/ investment in new •Intangible assets •IP/Privacy protection contracts Suppliers businesses •Tangible assets •Overseas/Export •Project management •External stakeholders •Brand/Reputation •Assets in stock •Environment/Safety •Corporation •Natural disaster •Public relations/ •Investment assets •Irregularities management Communication •Asset impairment •Corruption •HR •Investor relations (common) •Ethics/Compliance •Environment/Safety •Tax •Purchasing/ •Financial statements Procurement •Accounting fraud •Logistics •Production/Quality •Sales/Marketing No. of risk 13 16 22 19 34 items Core Issues of Sustainability Management Integrated Risk Management 33 Selecting key risk items tion of work processes. In 2016, an approach for proactively From the pool of risks at the corporate level, 26 key risk items identifying and managing risks was devised and applied to key have been selected based on the quality of their management risk items in order to establish an efficient response system. and evaluation by plants and teams in charge. The scope of this approach will be expanded to all 104 defined risks along with detailed pertinent guidelines. In addition, arProactive risk Identification eas requiring improvement and the degree of related manageCorporate risks are categorized by management type, such as ment risk will be monitored through efforts such as utilizing emergency response, proactive risk control, and internalizathe checklist for risk prevention and quantifying risk volatility. Emergency response Proactive risk control Internalization of work process Management organized response according to Identifying improvement tasks and type pre-defined action plan on the Risk prevention activities using the conducting activities by incorporating occurrence of an event, and recovery checklist risk management into daily work and mock exercises Checklist Internalization of work process Proactive risk Evaluation is conducted and results Teams in charge prepare the checklist are reflected based on the internal identification and check the status using it. accounting management system at the company and supply-chain levels. Risk management process Risks identified using the proactive approach are evaluated, quantified, and then managed. When a risk exceeds the pre-defined limit, the Emergency Response Committee is convened to monitor conditions and respond at the company level. Through this management process, risks are continuously reviewed and follow-up measures are taken for mitigation. Recognition Response Monitoring Follow-ups Evaluation 34 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Management Commitment In 2017, all sorts of efforts were made to expand opportunities to communicate with customers and provide solutions best suited to a specific environment by participating in exhibitions and seminars, visiting industrial sites and universities, and providing technology training programs. Going forward, we plan to work even harder to communicate with more customers and provide optimal products and solutions. Byoung-Soo Koo Sang-Won Hwang / Marketing Team Leader, Industrial / Marketing Team Leader, Automation Business Group Power Solution Business Group The product development capability of LSIS is one of the key elements that enables us to achieve sustainability management. In 2017, the development process was changed in order to ensure higher quality, and activities to accelerate R&D were conducted to promptly reflect customer requirements. In 2018, we will make fuller use of digital technologies to allow a more efficient operational process and craft new product and solution models to maximize customer satisfaction. Jang-Cheol Seo / Director of Technology Strategy Team, Research & Development Group Core Issues of Sustainability Management Power Solution Business 35 LSIS is creating new value for customers through innovative products and technologies and working towards the goals of sustainability management by providing the highest possible product quality and reliability ideally suited to customer needs. In 2017, there was a paradigm shift to pursue preventive management as a means to enhance product quality and reliability. At the same time, the development and verification process has been strengthened to achieve an even higher level of quality. To adapt to fast-changing customer needs, we are proactively communicating with customers based on diverse approaches. KPI in 2017 R&D invested (consolidated) No. of IPR (intellectual property rights) Customer satisfaction survey results for power board & switchgear 70.5 points 113.7 3,731 Customer seminars held KRW billion Korea Overseas 4,752 68 Key performance and targets •Shift the paradigm to pursue preventive quality management •Optimize processes for product development and reliability Targets for 2017 •Hold more exhibitions and seminars •Raise awareness on information security •Shifted the paradigm to pursue preventive quality management •Strengthened the foundation for verifying quality in advance Performance in 2017 •Accelerated R&D efforts •Promoted and diversified exhibition and seminar activities •Provided the company-wide training on information protection •Advance the system for developing and verifying products •Strengthen customer-oriented diagnosis and evaluation Targets for 2018 •Foster talent in quality and proprietary technologies •Innovate R&D methodologies •Further promote exhibition and seminar activities at home and abroad 36 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report To fulfill our mission of being 'Great Company prospering for 100 years with quality that creates customer satisfaction', quality is the top priority of LSIS. Mission and vison for quality management and its focus Approach Mission Manufacturer Quality “Great Company prospering Customer Customer characteristics quality for 100 years with quality that creates Specifications Claim rate customer satisfaction” → Customer → Service rate needs Focus Manufacturing Development Vision quality quality “Pride in quality” Pass/Fail Claim rate Gaining a competitive advantage → Statistical → Reliability Parts quality in the global markets and heralding the era of quality control Inspection marketing based on zero-defect quality. → Assurance Quality management system all been identified as key processes for delivering value to The quality management system of LSIS was established customers. Infrastructure such as IT systems and facilities by incorporating the requirements of ISO 9001(1993-), ISO as well as management and support processes have also 14001(1996-), K-OHSMS(2008-), and TS16949(2010-), relatbeen added to the system to ensure efficient operations. ed laws and regulations, customer and market demands, This system has been applied to all domestic and overseas and requirements identified in business operations. Product worksites to improve performance. planning, development, manufacturing, and services have Management process Management Improvement Key processes Marketing Sales Design/Development Procurement Production year Installation/Service Support process General Affairs/ Finance/Accounting Information (IT) HR/Labor Safety/Environment Quality assurance Calibration/Test Legal Affairs Core Issues of Sustainability Management Customer Satisfaction Management 37 Product quality management Power Testing & Technology Institute LSIS has strengthened the verification of product design Established in 2000 in order to improve product performance within the R&D process to ensure pre-launch quality. The and reliability, the Power Testing & Technology (PT&T) Inlevel of execution at each development phase is evaluated stitute is the first private-sector facility equipped with a cato guarantee product quality. In particular, verification of key pacity of 2,000 MVA to test short circuits, high voltage, and features and environments has been reinforced at the design reliability. The institute has also become globally recognized stage. In 2018, greater focus will be placed on nurturing by signing MRAs (Mutual Recognition Arrangement) with UL talent for quality proprietary technologies to enhance quality (US), CE (EU), KEMA (Netherlands), and CESI (Italy). management. Since its launch, the testing period has been reduced by approximately 30%, resulting in annual cost savings of KRW 4.5 billion. Above all, it allows us to manage testing schedules Product planning (CP) to ensure product quality and reliability at an early stage and enhance product performance. Development planning (DP) •Design verification using simulation Design verification (DV) •Verification of key modules of initial products Product verification (PV) Pilot production (PP) Front view of PT&T High voltage short-circuit transformer Radiated RF-electromagnetic field immunity test 38 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Reinforcing product reliability Complaint handling process As part of the company’s systematic efforts to heighten Customer complaints are managed according to the comproduct quality and reliability, the LSIS-700-based developpany’s guidelines and a pre-defined process utilizing QIS ment process has been implemented since 2017. (Quality Information System). Complaints received by the These efforts include conducting product design activities customer service center are immediately transferred to the using reliability-oriented robust design guidelines and interresponsible teams for prompt resolution. pretations from the perspective of front loading, promoting Since 2012, the Q-Post Tour has been operated to respond to working-level reliability technologies, and providing custompotential customer complaints. Customer needs identified ized training. through a Q-Post Tour are reflected for improvement of the designs of new and existing products, and the results are announced to customers. This also allows sales and service Structure for improving reliability divisions and plants to establish a more cooperative process, ensuring business continuity and improved efficiency. Category 2015 2016 2017 Research (R&D, design) VOC improvement rate 86.2 86.1 89.4 Reliability design Product planning, and capability improvement R&D activities As a total solution provider for smart power and automation, LSIS has been striving to further promote core businesses and secure next-generation growth engines. In Functional particular, we are concentrating resources on R&D in orParts reliability safety (FSM) der to proactively respond to rapidly-evolving digital transTechnical support formations and provide leadership in the smart energy and Reliability to project Sales analysis factory markets. To this end, a system to enhance R&D sites/ worksites productivity has been established, maximizing business Reliability (RAM) EMC performance and efficiency. LSIS maintains R&D centers in Anyang, Cheongju, and Cheonan, Korea, and well as an additional R&D center in the plant in Wuxi, China that creates synergies between research and production. Customer monitoring R&D investment Reliability Customer Since LSIS is fully aware that R&D is the key to corporate management monitoring technique competitiveness, five percent of sales is invested in R&D activities to develop next-generation products, new businesses, and core technologies. Quality management (QM, QA, QS) Core Issues of Sustainability Management Customer Satisfaction Management 39 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 R&D support LSIS maintains rewards programs to motivate employees to focus on R&D activities and promote a performance-driven corporate culture. Every year, the Best R&D Award is given to outstanding R&D projects. The project 117.6 winning first prize is submitted to the Tech Fair organized by 115.5 113.7 LS Group so that the performance can be shared and celebrated. Meanwhile, LSIS R&D Campus boasts cutting-edge infrastructure that helps researchers enhance their technological expertise. 5.3 5.1 5.0 R&D investment (KRW billion) R&D investment-Sales ratio (%) Securing R&D capabilities Creative Zone Advanced development system LSIS is working on innovating its R&D methodologies by establishing an advanced Key R&D performance in 2017 development system. This reliability-based system will alESS Modular Scalable PCS low us to secure the platform, common core modules, and ESS G1 Platform PCS, a new platform designed in order parts required for product development through prior deto secure a competitive edge in the ESS market, was honvelopment activities and consequently significantly improve ored by winning the Power Electronics Manufacture of the development lead time. In addition, efforts are being made to Year Award from the Korean Institute of Power Electronics. reinforce key platform technologies, including their reliabiliDuring its creation, part sharing and software development ty, to promote R&D efficiency. systems were established and external organizations were involved in product development and verification in order to Enhance technological expertise through Tech Map ensure reliability. As the ESS market for renewable energy Based on data-driven R&D management, Tech Map is apand for utilities to stabilize systems is expected to grow with plied as a tool to check pertinent levels of technology and the government’s plans to promote energy, it will signifihuman resources and develop and manage them to meet cantly contribute to boosting LSIS’s ESS business. business goals. It aims to provide an enterprise-wide communication channel and serve as a means for accelerating the efforts to achieve our vision. Tech Scouting The Tech Scouting program is dedicated to identifying and securing technologies related to the company’s R&D strategies for mid-/long-term future businesses. To increase R&D productivity and efficiency and secure external technologies, it is pursuing technological cooperation with domestic and international partners. 40 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Expanding the line-up of LVDC products (up to 1,500V) Intellectual Property strategy Due to the growing role of renewable energy, there has The strong portfolio of intellectual properties at LSIS albeen an increase in DC load to help improve energy effilows us to create both tangible and intangible profits, ciency and facilitate connection to distributed power sysstrengthening our competitiveness in global businesses. tems. In response, LSIS is developing new DC products In an effort to hone technological competitiveness in the based on our established AC technologies. The product midst of the fourth industrial revolution, we have been seline-up has been expanded up to 1,500V to lead the LVDC curing IPs in the fields of IoT, big data, and ICT convergence market. In addition, our and integration technology. Furthermore, cross-functional DC platform technoloIP analysis between R&D and IP teams is being conducted gies are in line with the to prevent any potential disputes with competitors. ESS/PV market trend Notably, in 2016 LSIS was ranked for the first time among towards higher voltage the Top 100 Patent Applicant Companies by the Europeand larger capacity and an Patent Office as a result of strengthening our internaare helping us gain a tional IP portfolio in alignment with our global business competitive market adstrategies. Our IP is regularly evaluated in order to explore vantage and prepare for its full utilization. We also take part in efforts for shared the future. growth by transferring IP to SMEs for free. A variety of training programs are provided to nurture IP experts, and LS-IP Forum consisting of IP departments from LS Group subsidiaries is operated to enhance IP competitiveness at the Group level. Big data and AI-based technologies To keep pace with the fourth industrial revolution’s new Securing patents Utilizing patents industrial platforms using digital technologies, LSIS has •Making patents •Monitoring patent been working to lay a foundation for smart and special•Establishing k infringement or Cr a patent tw s fro e ized solutions with an IoT and cloud computing platform t •Patents Buildin ts portfolio g profi enforcement for power and automation systems. In particular, the study of p a ne ing nts ate Securing at pate n technological m of energy efficiency and productivity using big data analyand market competitiveness sis has confirmed the possibility of enhancing productivity and quality while saving process energy. Based on the po Pre ny s ten venting a pute results, a range of studies are being conducted to devise tial patent dis a new business model for smart energy, smart factories, Supporting R&D and businesses and diagnosis. •Prior art/Patent analysis •Patent litigation/Claim/Licensing Core Issues of Sustainability Management Customer Satisfaction Management 41 IP portfolio Customer satisfaction survey As LSIS products are gaining market recognition for their LSIS has been conducting an annual customer satisfacglobally competitive technology, IP disputes and copytion survey on its primary products. In the 2017 survey, 200 cat products are on the rise. In this regard, strategic IP customers at home and aboard were asked about their activities to strengthen global competitiveness are being satisfaction with switchgears. LSIS scored 70.5 points on conducted for the products and technologies identified as average (70 points for product and price, and 71 for logisfuture growth engines. tics and service), higher than its competitors. In addition, the survey on product quality and reliability for PLC and (as of the end of 2017) (unit: case) drivers and customer interviews both indicate that satisCategory Rights Registration Application Total faction is higher than in 2015 for reliability, quality, robustDomestic Patent 2,112 1,464 3,576 ness, miniaturization, and service handling. Design 154 1 155 Total 2,266 1,465 3,731 International Patent 2,755 1,795 4,550 Design 191 11 202 Total 2,946 1,806 4,752 Customer satisfaction survey results on switchgears (unit: point) Customer satisfaction on industrial automation (unit: point) Company A Company B LSIS 2015 2017 64 Reliability 71 Product & 62 74 Price 70 Quality 74 78 Compatibility 73 Place & 58 71 59 SVC 71 Technical 74 documentation 73 Robustness/ 72 54 Miniaturization 77 Promotion 53 Service 74 71 handling 76 42 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report EXHIBITIONS and SEMINARS LSIS strives to create additional opportunities to meet with customers by regularly participating in domestic and international exhibitions and seminars to improve customer communications. J a n u ar y → 2017 AHR Expo (Las Vegas, US) The largest HVAC exhibition is organized by ASHRAE. It is held every year in major cities in the US to share industry trends and announce new technologies. LSIS joined this exhibition as part of its strategy of targeting the North American market and presented products and solutions dedicated to automation and power. F e br u ar y → INT’L Smart Grid EXPO (Tokyo, Japan) As part of World Smart Energy Week, the largest energy exhibition in Asia, the International Smart Grid EXPO 2017 was held. LSIS demonstrated its performance in projects conducted in Japan, promoting its image as a company with EPC competence for supporting PV+ESS power production. A p ril ← HANNOVER MESSE 2017 (Hanover, Germany) At this expo held on the theme of Integrated IndustryCreating Value, LSIS introduced integrated solutions spanning all of its businesses and promoted its brand among participants as a global smart energy company. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Customer Satisfaction Management 43 S e p t e mb e r octob e r ← Roadshow utilizing a five-ton wing body truck (Southern part of Korea) LSIS visited plants, industrial complexes, and government offices around the southern part of Korea to introduce new products, provide consulting services, and host seminars. For these activities, a customized five-ton wing body truck was used. Seminars were also held in 16 plants and eight universities. octob e r → Korea Smart Grid Week (COEX, Seoul) At Korea Smart Grid Week, the world’s largest smart grid exhibition, LSIS promoted its advanced business models alongside its smart energy and technical competence as a total solution provider for the global market. No v e mb e r ← BIXPO 2017 (Kimdaejung Convention Center, Gwangju) At the BIXPO, a venue for global power-sector technology exchanges organized by KEPCO, LSIS promoted its technical prowess with ESS modular scalable PCS, floating photovoltaics, PV+ESS package solutions, Digital IPP, DC solutions, PDPS, and smart MV solutions. 44 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Design management 2017 G O O D D E S I G N Established in 2015, LSIS Design Center is the Korean indusAward trial equipment manufacturing industry’s first design center. It embodies our efforts to introduce customer-oriented design in a manufacturer-oriented industry where speedily reflecting GIPAM 3000 customer needs can be a challenge. The center is operated GIPAM 3000 is a digital power monitoring device that under the direct control of the CTO in order to swiftly react provides a comprehensive monitoring of switchgears to specific and sophisticated customer needs. Its efforts to in the electrical room of buildings with high power actualize the company’s technical prowess and devise with consumption. The design for the drawable handle uticustomer-focused designs have enhanced design quality, lizing the principle of levers allows engineers to concontributing to strengthening product competitiveness and duct maintenance without opening the switchgear enhancing our corporate image. The center ultimately aims to door where high voltage current is flowing. Moreover, achieve sustainable designs taking into consideration the prefa disconnecting action simultaneously is triggered to erences of customers and the user experience. Going forward, physically block the current, sigmore efforts at sustainable design will be made for customer nificantly increasing usability and communication and value creation. safety. The front sheet is made using the UV molding technique Activities for emotional quality has a sophisticated hairline texCompany -wide Expanding the scope (HW, equipment design) ture. It is highly resistant to polactivities Core (led by the Design Center) (sales, lutants and scratching. marketing) Equipment design Mechanism De les Sa sig Gridsol MG nS Service UI/UX W Gridsol MG, established through a national project by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy is the first Emotional quality connected microgrid operations system implemented at an educational institution in Korea (Seoul National Marketing Design University). In its UI/UX, the flow of energy and the opsig MK n erational status are displayed in an animated graphic, T Function & De Performance and the consistent arrangement of colors with no spurious frills helps operators intuitively understand the HW data. In addition, dark colors are mostly used in order to minimize eye fatigue. Emotional quality Prior Design Emotional quality design planning design confirmation management Customer needs, Defining the Confirming Check list market research concept the design Usability Shape CMF* UI/UX * CMF : Color, Material, Finishing Core Issues of Sustainability Management Customer Satisfaction Management 45 Customer information protection Security training To protect data, including customer information, from hacking Security training is provided for all employees, including R&D, and viruses, security solutions are implemented and pertinent sales, and production team members, at least once per year. training is provided on a regular basis. Database encryption Topics such as software compliance, ransomware protection, and access control solutions are in place to prevent any leakand privacy protection are all covered during this one-hour age of personal information, and the systems are monitored training. 24/7 by a private security company. Employees of LSIS and its Employees who handle personal information, including subsuppliers must periodically submit a security pledge and uncontractors, are required to take part in the training twice per dergo awareness-raising training. In 2018, consultations are year, and an inspection is conducted at least once in accorunder way to expand the scope of protection for customers’ dance with the Personal Information Protection Act. information. Related promotional materials are uploaded regularly on the company intranet and security posters are hung in public areas at all LSIS plants to expand awareness. Information protection process IT security system 10% 80% 10% (percentage of attacks) Internet malware e-mail malware Physical malware •Drive-by download •e-mail attachment •Infected USB memory sticks, •File sharing •Black URL link CDs, DVDs, memory cards •Pirated software and keygen •Spear phishing •Infected application backdoor Primary •DNS and routing mods equipment detection/ response Firewall to respond APT to block any e-mail threats Media control solutions to any external threats •Next-generation firewall introduced •APT solutions introduced in 2017 •Media control solutions in 2015 to prevent any threats using implemented •A feature of blocking ransomware e-mails •USB sticks and external hard adopted in 2016 drive blocked •Firewall checkup conducted regularly •Network access control (NAC) Attacks bypassing blocking solutions Secondary detection/ response End-point solutions under review DB access control (adopted in 2012) 24/7 security control by Ahnlab (IPS, web firewall) / Server monitoring (implemented in 2017) Control/ Monitoring Strengthening monitoring to protect from any external threats Scope: networks, servers, PCs, and security equipment 46 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Management Commitment Assuming corporate responsibility for safety and the environment is key in business management today and essential for sustainability management. LSIS has been working to establish an environmentally-friendly and safe process throughout the value chain all the way from product development to manufacturing. The importance of safety management has grown with the industrial accidents that have occurred at a number of sites in recent years in Korea. Gi-Seon Kim / In this regard, intensive safety training, campaigns, and Safety & Environment Team worksite improvement activities are being conducted at LSIS Leader, Plant Supporting Group plants and suppliers. To fulfill our responsibilities, we will keep working to strengthen the foundation for safety and environmental protection. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Power Solution Business 47 A number of industrial accidents have occurred recently in Korea, mainly at construction sites. LSIS has strengthened its safety management at both its plants and project sites. In 2017, the Cooperation for Coexistence Program was implemented to expand the scope of these efforts to suppliers. We will continue to fulfill our corporate responsibility for safety and the environment by establishing a standard for green products, prohibiting harmful materials, and investing in product development. KPI in 2017 Investment in safety Industrial accident rate GHG emissions intensity Energy (electricity) use and environment intensity KRW 10.4 billion 0.04 % 0.15 tCO2eq / KRW million 3.12 MWh / KRW 100 million Key performance and targets •Strengthen safety management at project sites Targets for 2017 •Identify safety risk factors and conduct inspections by theme •Reinforce management on harmful substances and potentially dangerous equipment •Promoted safety management at project sites •Provided safety and environmental support to suppliers (Cooperation for Coexistence Program) Performance in 2017 •Conducted a company-wide safety/health/environment diagnosis (SHE Control Tower) •Improved fire-fighting equipment in vulnerable areas (fire compartment in utility pipe conduit at plants) •Reinforced safety management in handling deadweight cargo using a crane •Implement a safety management grade system by production line •Improve processes that safety risks exist Targets for 2018 •Operate eco-friendly plants •Support suppliers in acquiring the certification for the risk evaluation system •Strengthen emergency response measures 48 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Safety and environment management Strategy and vision LSIS is committed to achieving the vision of G3 (Global, Green To respond to the tightening of domestic and international and Great) SHE (Safety, Health, and Environment) Company by regulations, LSIS is operating a system for safety, health and establishing an accidentand pollution-free workplace. To this environment in order to ensure plants free from accidents, end, we make our utmost efforts to strengthen environment pollution, and loss. and safety management and enhance operational efficiency. Safety and environment management S T EP 1 S T EP 2 S T EP 3 S T EP 4 Planning according to laws Activities for SHE Check Follow up •M  onitoring new and •Taking measures in case of emergency •C  onducting regular check-ups •Analyzing the cause for failure revised laws •Providing SHE training and newsletter of SHE facilities •Setting the direction for •Identifying legal risks •R  educing GHG emissions and energy use •C  hecking SHE activities and improvement •Setting the goal for SHE •Checking and improving work environment performance •R evising standards (operational •B  udgeting (necessity for •Identifying potential risks and conducting •A  uditing management status efficiency) improvement) safety check-ups on SHE •M onitoring whether improvement Facility investment and •Managing the concentration level of pollutants •T  aking measures for measures are taken repair improvement areas •Managing potentially dangerous machines and equipment Declaration on safety, health and environment management LSIS will proactively implement the followings to establish an environmentally-friendly, safe and heathy workplace as a foundation for acting on our management philosophy of Greater Value Together. SHE Management policy SHE management system Promoting green plants Accident-free plants and pleasant work •Minimize environmental impacts on the whole process from Safety environment product design to disposal to fundamentally prevent pollution. •Apply green production technologies to conserve resources and energy. Health Health promotion and management •Comply with related international conventions, laws, corporate standards, and requirements. Green company, and eco-friendly products and •Conduct environmental assessment regularly to analyze Environment services performance and improve environment management system. •Provide employees with awareness-raising training and encourage them to be actively engaged in environmental conservation efforts. Creating a safe and healthy workplace SHE inspection activities To ensure accident-free plants, all LSIS employees voluntarily •Consider the impact on safety and health first in regards to products, work areas, equipment, processes and technologies conduct safety inspections to create a safe and pleasant work •Set the management standards higher than international environment. The activities for identifying and minimizing risks conventions, laws, regulations, and requirements and act on them for continuous improvement. are periodic, non-periodic and theme-based. In 2017, an in•U  se appropriate resources to improve safety and health and spection of deadweight cargo handling was conducted on the train employees to encourage them to join the efforts. •Identify potential risks, make action plans to minimize them, High Voltage Switchgear Production Team at the Cheongju and implement the plans for improvement. plant in cooperation with the Korea Industrial Safety Associ•Conduct activities to promote health and prevent accidents ation to eliminate potential risks and devise a secure safety thereby enhancing productivity upgrade. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Safety and Environment Management 49 Safety inspection on plants •Daily/weekly/monthly In daily life •Accident prevention •Preventing unsafe act •Following basic safety rules at workplace •Monthly inspection by suppliers Regular •Joint activities between the labor and management •Identifying and improving potential risks •Checking safety features in using harmful •Inspection by theme materials and machines Theme-based •Safety check on project sites •Safety and health management system •P revention of fire, explosion, wind and flood damages •Complying with laws, regulations and standards Special on SHE •Company-wide SHE diagnosis (SHE Control Tower) Preliminary SHE inspection Response to climate change In order to comply with laws and regulations on new equipClimate change strategy ment, pollutant discharge, hazard risk prevention planning, In response to international climate change regulations, LSIS and KC (Korea Certification), a preliminary SHE inspection is is taking part in a variety of activities. We announced a comconducted. pany strategy to manage GHG emissions by joining the CDP in 2011. From 2014, when the Cheongju plant was subjected Investment in environment and health to the Energy Target Management System by the government, LSIS endeavors to minimize the impacts on environment, activities have been conducted based on GHG reduction and safety, and health in the entire product life cycle from producenergy savings plans. tion to disposal by developing green products and enhancing processes. To this end, continuous investment is made to conVerification of GHG emissions serve energy and eliminate environment and safety risks. GHG emissions and their sources are being monitored based on LSIS’s calculation guidelines and inventories. Since the Investment plans Cheongju plant falls under the government’s Energy Target Safety and Management System, third-party verification is conducted at environmental the plant. analysis Review and (Unit: tCO2eq) Risks deliberation Category 2015 2016 2017 Prevention No risks measures GHG emissions Scope 1 226,975 186,792 250,704 (by source) Scope 2 25,706 26,646 25,553 Investment Total 252,681 213,438 276,257 * GHG emissions in 2017 has increased year on year due to a rise in production of GIS Normal operation using insulating materials. 50 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Energy conservation and GHG emissions reduction supplied by the respective local governments. Wastewater is Electric power and LNG are used in production processes, stored in separate water collection systems and disposed of heating, and air-conditioning. There were concerns over an inby third-party contractors. In addition, sewage flows to the crease in electric power consumption due to the investment in pertinent treatment plant are being monitored to check their production facilities and air-conditioning and heating systems. environmental impact. However, steady conservation efforts at plants has helped maintain a similar level compared to the previous year. On the Waste management Wastes generated in the production other hand, LNG use rose due to cooling and air-conditioning process are sorted for recycling based on their characterfacilities and the manufacturing process at the Busan plant. istics and disposal methods and then treated by third-party contractors. In 2017, more than 80% of wastes were recycled. Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Energy Electricity MWh 55,252 57,150 57,153 Chemical substances For the chemical substances used MWh/KRW 100 million 3.09 3.30 3.12 (generation cost) in LSIS plants, an inventory has been established to manage Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). Training is also providLNG km3 2,189 2,136 2,337 ed for those who handle chemicals in order to educate them km3/KRW 100 million 0.12 0.12 0.10 (generation cost) on the risks posed by these substances and help them swiftly respond to any potential leakage accidents. Photovoltaic power generation system and ESS To maximize energy efficiency using renewable energy at the Busan Workplace safety management plant, a 910 kW photovoltaic power generation system has Accident-free plants been installed on the roof of the production factories and Safety is the top priority at industrial sites. In order to estabutility buildings. The system is expected to generate 1,140 lish an accident-free workplace, LSIS introduced a compaMWh of electricity and reduce 900 tCO2eq of GHG. In addiny-wide safety and health management system in 2008 and tion, 2.7 MW ESS has been implemented to efficiently manhas conducted risk evaluations and improvement activities age the remaining power. based on redefining roles and responsibilities. Employees at the plants take part in activities designed to minimize poHigh-efficiency lighting installation Lighting facilities tential risks, and training is provided by position level in an (metal/halogen) in existing production buildings are being effort to create a safe and healthy workplace. replaced with highly efficient LED lights. Old utility equipment will also be replaced to conserve energy. Average industrial accident rate (Unit : %) Pollutant management 2015 2016 2017 Air pollutants Air pollution prevention facilities are being operated for pollutants generated by the production process. 0.39 0.38 Air pollutants are tested on a regular basis to ensure that the emissions level remains below 50 percent of the legal limit. 0.25 Optimal prevention technologies will be introduced and applied 0.04 to older facilities according to the medium-/long-term plan. 0.02 0 Industry average LSIS Water use and wastewater disposal Water required for the * The 2017 average above is based on LSIS calculation criteria. The government agency in manufacturing process, human needs, and fire suppression is charge is currently working on the average. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Safety and Environment Management 51 Safety awareness activities using cranes and forklifts at worksites are required to have a To promote safety awareness among LSIS employees, a safelicense for operation issued and receive the pertinent training. ty evaluation system has been incorporated into the compaCategory Details Frequency Note ny-wide target management system (MIP) for teams and deBasic Introductory Year-round New employees partments. At the same time, a safety training performance course Regular Monthly All employees evaluation is being applied to enhance the quality of the traintraining (offline/online) ing. Managers and supervisors are required to complete onManager/ Annual Managers/ Supervisor (offline/online) Supervisors line training courses so that they can manage worksites based training Special Year-round Employees on specialized safety knowledge. Moreover, a variety of protraining handling potentially motional activities, including safety campaigns, suggestions, dangerous machines Professional Crane operator Year-round License issuance for and prizes, are conducted as part of the efforts to encourtraining operation age each employee to take the initiative in safety compliance. Forklift operator Year-round License issuance for training operation Supporting suppliers Safety Council in the Plant Supporting Group Employees from in-house suppliers appointed as persons in The Safety Council is held monthly with the aim of strengthcharge of safety are trained and cooperate with LSIS in efforts ening safety at worksites. In the council led by the head of such as joint safety and health measures and theme-based the Plant Supporting Group, plant managers and heads of inspections to prevent industrial accidents. An emergency reteams and departments share their safety inspection reporting system has also been implemented to minimize damsults, identified risks and best practices to further promote age by responding at an early stage. LSIS is providing support safety at all LSIS plants. for evaluations to better eliminate potential risks of accidents at worksites. For external suppliers, an annual Safety, Health, Safety and health campaigns and Environment (SHE) consultation is provided to help them We have been conducting campaigns to raise awareness on promote health and safety at worksites. Support activities safety. In 2017, LSIS declared ten basic rules for safety and also include safety inspections and certification of potentially health and has promoted them to all employees. dangerous machines and equipment on lease. Ten basic rules for safety and health Safety & Environment Team, LSIS Safety and health training 1. C heck whether the equipment has completely stopped To raise safety awareness and promote a culture of safety and then take measures to correct errors. 2. S trictly control and prohibit access to areas where cargo at LSIS plants, intensive training is offered by position level. is being lifted. Monthly regular training and annual training for managers 3. Install safety handrails and bars and wear safety gear for work involving heights. and supervisors are provided online and offline. Employees 4. D ouble-check whether power has been switched off before performing electrical work. 5. C omply with the speed limit of 10 km/h when operating forklifts and loading vehicles. 6. A pply a safety cover and ground any charging unit. 7. A ttach a protective cover to areas with a risk of crushing or jamming. 8. W ear the safety gear required for each specific task 9. A pply locking devices and attach safety warnings to any part under repair. 10.Keep worksites clean and well organized and secure the space needed for safe passage. Seeing the risks is the starting point for ensuring safety. Safety and health compaign 52 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Improving the work environment Handling harmful factors Category Others To create a pleasant working environment, strict criteria Yes No are applied to each plant based on the principles of compliEmployees Comprehensive check-ups and their (annually conducted for employees aged 35 or older) ance management. LSIS has been commissioning external spouses Comprehensive check-ups institutions to biannually measure harmful elements in the (biannually conducted for their spouses) working environment. Improvements are made based on the Regular General General General check-ups examination examination examination results, including replacing tools, developing technologies, Special examination Applicants and investing in facilities. New Check-ups for new Check-ups for Check-ups for employment employees new employees new employees Promoting employee health Job Check-ups for assignment employees assigned For the purpose of improving employee health, a variety to new positions of programs are being operated. Comprehensive medical Symptoms Whenever necessary check-ups are provided for employees and their spouses. Depending on the results, medical expenses of up to KRW 10 million are subsidized for treatment and consultation on Health care center visit (Unit: %) healthcare. Support is provided for those who are diagnosed 62 as falling into a high-risk group for four major diseases (including high blood pressure and diabetes), such as medical treatment, exercise programs, and work adjustment. More26 over, diverse healthcare programs have been put in place for 20 smoking cessation, losing weight, and preventing cardiovas6 6 cular diseases. CPR training is provided to all employees in Disease Health MusculoExternal Others order to help them quickly respond to emergency situations. mgt. mgt. skeletal injuries In addition, healthcare centers equipped with a body composition analyzer, ultrasonic treatment equipment, and blood Safety management at project sites analyzer are being operated at all LSIS plants to help emWith the aim of strengthening prevention by identifying ployees detect health issues early and receive appropriate safety, health, and legal risks at project sites, regular intreatment. spections and safety patrols are provided by the Safety and Environment Team. In addition, construction managers and suppliers at project sites are subject to annual safety training, and regular safety training is provided to all employees at the site to promote a culture of safety. Management on the use of harmful materials LSIS manages the use of harmful materials by tracking annual usage by material and determining the applicability of new materials through reviews. For their own safety, employees handling materials are informed of their potential for harm through special training and MSDS. In addition, working environment measurements and special examinations are conducted in parallel to ensure a pleasant and Enhancing the work environment AED training healthy environment for employees. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Safety and Environment Management 53 Safety management at company research centers Green product standards In accordance with the revision of the Act on the EstablishTo enhance its position as a green energy company Futuring ment of Safe Laboratories in July 2015, dedicated lab safeSmart Energy and to actualize sustainability management, ty managers have been appointed and safety management LSIS has defined its Green Product Grade Model based on regulations have been established to prevent potential acciwhich eco-friendly products are categorized by grade. All dents. The appointment of a safety manager and person in LSIS product models are evaluated and classified as either charge for each research lab encourages researchers to join Grade 1, 2, or 3 based on the level of eco-friendliness. This the efforts to promote safety. approach will facilitate the development of customer-oriented green products. Fire prevention system Products to which technologies LSIS has created a map of zones vulnerable to fire and exwith the government’s Green plosions in order to take a systematic approach to managing Certification1) are applied the related risks in all its plants. It has been working to meet Grade3 Products that meet the Grade 1 criteria and green technology2) level fire safety levels set by insurers based on the NFPA* safety Grade2 set by the government standards. Furthermore, a Smart Management System has Products that meet LSIS’s Rules been implemented to effectively manage the fire protection of Responding to Environmental Grade1 Regulations to cope with domestic system and prepare for emergencies at plants. laws on hazardous substances, * National Fire Protection Association international environmental regulations and customer requirements Emergency response procedures 1) Green Certification : This is a governmental accreditation system to specify green Based on scenarios created for specific accident types as technologies and businesses according to the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Growth with the aim of expanding the participation of the private sector in the green preparation for emergency situations at all LSIS plants, industry and promoting the growth of technology markets and industries. training on emergency evacuations and response measures 2) Green Technology : This includes technologies for GHG mitigation, effective energy use, clean manufacturing, clean energy, resource recycling, and eco-friendliness that are periodically provided. Through this training, employees help conserve and efficiently use energy and resources in the entire process of social learn how to respond swiftly and safely to emergency sitand economic activities thereby minimizing GHG emissions and pollutants. uations and how to do CPR. Fire drills are also conducted regularly to promote safety awareness. Eco-friendly product development process •Disseminating information on the situation LSIS is operating an R&D process to develop additional Accident occurrence •Identifying the accident type and analyzing green products. During the planning stages, an R&D plan severity should be created that considers any environmental impliEmergency •Convening the Crisis Management Council measures •Evacuating and taking emergency measures cations. Existing and new parts and components are tested for environmentally harmful substances, and those that fail •Analyzing the cause Accident investigation •Conducting activities to prevent additional cannot be applied to products. In the development stages, accidents a design review is held at which department heads of and Recovery •Establishing and applying a recovery plan working-level employees check the qualitative and quanactivities •Implementing a plan for business continuity titative performance of the green plan. In the final report, •Making a reoccurrence prevention plan Reoccurrence whether or not the products developed qualify for the com•Reviewing the effectiveness of the accident prevention response system pany’s green product grade is determined by considering RoHS, Green Technology, and Green Certification. 54 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Shared Growth with Suppliers Commitment To meet the high quality standards at LSIS, Hangil EST has been cooperating with its purchasing, design, and production technology teams. This has helped us raise our competitiveness in terms of quality. In 2017, new products were developed through a variety of LSIS support activities, resulting in improved technology development for Hangil EST and price competitiveness for LSIS. I firmly believe that LSIS’s proactive communication efforts with its suppliers that behind this success lies. I hope this relationship based on steady Gi-Seok Yun / and flexible communication efforts will serve as a basis for shared CEO, Hangil EST growth. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Power Solution Business 55 Thinking of its suppliers as partners in achieving shared growth, LSIS is supporting them in increasing their competitiveness in the global market. In 2017, activities such as ACE Club Innovation Exchanges for working-level employees and ACE Club Reflection were launched, diversifying communication channels, and expanding the scope of such activities. KPI in 2017 Purchasing amount Financial support Suppliers using the Shared-Growth by ACE Club members for suppliers Payment System (primary and secondary) KRW 224.8 billion KRW 13.9 billion 826 Key performance and targets •C onduct activities to comply with fair trade and related laws •S upport suppliers to increase global competitiveness Targets for 2017 •F acilitate channels for communication and information-sharing •R espond to conflict minerals regulations •Organized activities for legal compliance •Qualified for the Excellent grade in the share-growth index Performance in 2017 •Expanded the scope of communication and diversified channels •Established a response process and system for conflict minerals •Strengthen activities to comply with the Fair Trade Act and Subcontracting Act Targets for 2018 •Support suppliers to gain competitiveness •Promote a culture of shared growth 56 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Establishing a culture of fair trade Dispute resolution mechanism LSIS maintains a mechSigning and fulling a contract anism for the swift resolution of disputes between the comIn compliance with the Fair Trade Act and Subcontracting pany and its suppliers in regards to non-payment or delayed Act, LSIS has been signing a Basic Subcontracting Contract payment, as well as unfair receipt of goods, returns, price and Subcontracting Fair Trade Agreement with suppliers decisions, and reductions. Disputes occurring within three on an annual basis. In 2017, we concluded this essential years after the completion of a transaction can be subject contract with 549 subcontractors. The contract is based on to the resolution mechanism. In addition, complaints from the Standard Subcontracting Agreement as recommended suppliers are collected on a quarterly basis and transferred by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, reflecting in particto the pertinent departments or teams for resolution. TOPS, ular the article for promoting suppliers’ right to fair trade. an internet portal for shared growth, features the SubconIn addition, the pledge to implement ethical management tracting Dispute Resolution, Bulletin Board for Communicais included as part of the contract for their compliance. tion, and Cyber Reporting Channel functions. Meanwhile, the Subcontracting Fair Trade Agreement was signed with 337 suppliers as a reflection of our commitment Training on the Subcontracting Act To comply with the to shared growth. Subcontracting Act and promote a culture of fair trade, annual training is provided for employees of LSIS and its supActivities to prevent violations and pliers. In 2017, employees in charge of procurement and promote compliance design who work closely with suppliers took part in training Four action plans for shared growth The plans consist organized by the Legal Affairs Team. The scope of employof: signing contracts through a fair process; ensuring a fair ees receiving training will be further expanded in the future. supplier selection process; operating an internal subconIn addition, case-based training on compliance and ethical tracting audit committee; and issuing and archiving documanagement is offered at the Procurement Build-up meetments. These are reflected in company standards such as ing in order to raise awareness. We will continue these efthe rules on domestic procurement management and supforts to prevent unfair business transactions. plier management. In addition, to prevent any violations of subcontracting laws, a monthly internal audit committee is Post-hoc analysis of the legality of subcontracting convened by the CPO to review the risks of delayed payment deals For self-monitoring of compliance with related to suppliers, examine the evaluation of newly-registered laws, LSIS biannually reviews business transactions with suppliers, and check the appropriateness of the supplier suppliers who have signed the Subcontracting Fair Trade transaction cancelation process. Agreement. According to the monitoring for 2017, LS concluded the Subcontracting Basic Contract with 337 suppliers and there was no case of an unfair price decision or addition of unjust special provisions. In cases of changes in design and raw materials prices, prices were adjusted accordingly while a technological information request was issued upon prior agreement with suppliers. Apart from honoring the payment within 60 days of receipt, LSIS set the expiration date for alternative payment of bills to be within 60 days of receipt and abided by it for all trades. Internal audit committee on subcontracting Core Issues of Sustainability Management Shared Growth with Suppliers 57 Supporting suppliers CEOs of ACE Club member companies. At these seminars, in securing competitiveness experts are invited as special lecturers and LSIS executives ACE Club join in as speakers to share and discuss key management Member selection and support The ACE Club was issues. In April 2017, a special lecture was provided on the launched in 2008 as a program to select suppliers based on theme of Tax Management for SME CEOs. It focused on exthree areas: taking swift action (Activity); pushing the enveamples related to tax affairs and laws and regulations. This lope (Challenge); and achieving high performance as supeprogram provides an opportunity to promote management rior partners (Excellence). LSIS provides guidance on qualiexpertise and leadership among SME CEOs. ty, production, and overall business management based on its existing expertise in order to cooperate with suppliers as Benchmarking activities for innovation LSIS is offerpartners for shared growth. A comprehensive evaluation is ing programs through which suppliers make benchmarking conducted for membership, considering product quality, onvisits to leading manufacturers at home and abroad to offer time delivery, cost competitiveness, and advocacy of shared them opportunities to heighten their innovation and global growth. competitiveness. From 2008 to 2016, a total of 288 suppliACE Club members benefit from preferential payment er employees had a chance to observe the rapidly changconditions and activities for productivity improvement and ing market environment and learn best practices for quality benchmarking. As a result, LSIS was awarded a citation and production management by visiting 28 companies in ten from the Minister of SMEs and Startups at the 2017 Corpocountries, three international exhibitions, and five domestic rate Partnership Week organized by the KCCP in recognition companies. In 2017, these activities were conducted twice. of its contribution to promoting supplier associations as a In April, suppliers visited leading smart factories in Korea to communication channel. enhance their awareness of manufacturing innovation and review the effectiveness of smart factories. In November, Category 2015 2016 2017 they traveled to Vietnam and the Philippines to study the ACE Club membership 19 20 19 Southeast Asian market environment and benchmark cases Purchasing amount 214.4 222.5 224.8 of Korean SMEs that have successfully entered this market. (KRW billion) In particular, the November program reflected the needs of Average purchasing amount 11.2 11.1 11.8 per member (KRW billion) ACE Club members who consider global expansion an important avenue for overcoming difficulties in the domestic Companies with purchasing 9 9 9 amount of over KRW 10 billion management environment. We will continue to support our suppliers through these activities that help them discover CEO seminars LSIS has held seminars on business stratfuture industry trends and broaden their views on business egy, finance, marketing, leadership, and economics for the management. CEO seminar Benchmarking for innovation 58 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report ACE Club Innovation Exchanges In 2017, innovation acpurchased and donated to the vulnerable in the surrounding tivities led by CEOs have been directed to programs focusing area. on working-level employees under the ACE Club Innovation The scope of participants in the efforts was expanded in Exchanges. These aim to spread best practices and conduct 2017 to include working-level employees from the ACE Club. execution-oriented innovation activities that create synerThese activities allow LSIS and the ACE Club to work togethgies. er with local communities toward shared growth while imAnnual targets were set by suppliers at the kick-off meeting plementing sustainability management. in March, followed by quarterly exchange meetings featuring activities such as benchmarking best practices, establishing action plans, and holding discussions. In April, members paid a visit to the LSIS subsidiary in Wuxi, China and its Chinese suppliers. In July they took part in a Love Volunteering event as a social contribution program. The activities at the Innovation Exchanges have increased the satisfaction of working-level employees and CEOs as well. Going forward, more focus will be on activities led by working-level employees to help them produce more tangible results. CSR activities with suppliers ACE Club Reflection The ACE Club Reflection program was launched in 2017 to explore possible improvements Increasing support to suppliers to the ACE Club by conducting an annual review of its acFinancial support and Shared-Growth Payment System tivities and draw lessons. The activities conducted include Financial support LSIS raises funds through a number of CEO seminars, benchmarking at home and abroad, Innoavenues to help suppliers finance equipment investment, invation Exchanges for capacity-building, CEO communicacluding expanding manufacturing facilities for enhanced protion events, and partnership-building CSR activities. At the ductivity by providing them low interest rate loan support. In Reflection held in December, members were able to reflect 2017, KRW 13.9 billion out of the total of 23.8 billion raised was on their activities over the year and discussed areas for imused to support 68 primary and secondary suppliers, improvprovement and ways to hone their competitiveness. LSIS will ing their cash flow and financial stability. Besides loan support continue to work on measures to promote the ACE Club by for primary and secondary suppliers, efforts are being made motivating and supporting the members to enhance their to enhance the cash payment rate and the payment conditions competitiveness. for sub-contractors. CSR activities with suppliers LSIS has conducted Love Suppliers with loan support and the amount (Unit : KRW billion) Volunteering activities together with its suppliers since 2015 Category 2015 2016 2017 as a way to contribute to local communities and act upon Suppliers Amount Suppliers Amount Suppliers Amount its philosophy of sustainable management. In September 2017, 30 volunteers from LSIS and the ACE Club visited YesDirect 2.2 2.7 2.5 3.0 2.6 2.8 im House (a vocational facility for the disabled in Cheongju) Combined 2.1 5.1 2.5 7.2 2.6 8.1 for a sharing event. There, they played yut nori, a Korean Special 1.4 2.6 2.7 4.2 1.6 2.9 traditional board game and had a tea time with physically Total 5.7 10.4 7.7 14.4 6.8 13.9 challenged workers. Products made by the workers were Core Issues of Sustainability Management Shared Growth with Suppliers 59 Shared-Growth Payment System LSIS became the inResponse to conflict minerals regulations With the condustry’s first company to introduce a Shared-Growth Payment flict mineral regulations that started in the US expanding to System in August 2013 with the aim of improving payment countries in Europe and beyond, LSIS developed a system in conditions for its suppliers. The system allows primary, sec2017 to respond to these regulations and prevent risks that ondary, and tertiary suppliers to access account receivable could be faced by suppliers. The process of determining collateral loans using the credit of LSIS. As of 2017, a total of whether or not conflict minerals* are being used in parts and 826 suppliers have joined the system and received payments materials from suppliers is the key to managing this issue. In worth KRW 718.2 billion. The number of primary suppliers this regard, two presentation and training sessions were conaccessing the system has increased twelve-fold since 2014, ducted to help suppliers understand the importance of data inand the number of secondary and tertiary suppliers benefittegrity regarding conflict minerals. We will work on advancing ting from it has risen ten-fold. As a result of our efforts with the system for compliance with regulations in cooperation with the system, LSIS supplier Hangil EST was selected as one of our suppliers to ultimately achieve the goals of sustainability the model companies utilizing the system. We will continue to management. * Tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold support the system to ensure that suppliers can steadily collect payments and relieve concerns over nonpayment of bills, Support for suppliers’ FTA origin management system thereby supporting a sound supply chain network. FTAs are accelerating the pace of change in the export environment. LSIS has been supporting its suppliers since 2016 as they work to establish an origin management system and sePerformance of the Share-Growth Payment System 2015-2017 (Unit : KRW billion) cure the integrity of origin certificates and minimize post-verCategory 2015 2016 2017 ification risk. In 2016, support activities were conducted with 36 suppliers for system establishment, management process Payment from LSIS to primary 210.8 527.5 667.5 suppliers consulting, training employees in charge of FTA issues, and information on origin management. In 2017, the number of Payment from primary to second/ 32.8 38.9 50.6 tertiary suppliers supported suppliers increased by twelve. As a result, tariff benefits totaling KRW 4 billion (0.4 billion for exports and 3.6 (Unit : company) billion for imports) have been achieved as of 2017. In addition, Category 2015 2016 2017 the system helps suppliers to effectively manage FTA origin issues and the system of connections between LSIS and its Primary suppliers utilizing the 173 527 669 system suppliers allows multi-directional communication. Secondary and tertiary suppliers 109 115 157 benefitting from the system Support for the production management system (NAMOS ERP) LSIS has provided suppliers with its free-of-charge NAMOS ERP production management system linked to its ordering information system. It was implemented by 34 suppliers from 2015 to 2016, and in 2017, support activities were conducted for stable system operation. Professional resources from LSIS were dispatched to suppliers to help them assess and diagnose their use of systems and address identified vulnerable areas, and also to provide training for efficient production management. The results include enhanced productivity, stabilized quality, reduced inventory costs, and higher on-time Selected as one of the best companies utilizing the system delivery rates. 60 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Training support LSIS has been operating training and educaPurchasing (investment) support When suppliers require tional programs for its suppliers since 2007 in an effort to enhance facilities investment, LSIS can support them with its expertise their competitiveness. Programs provided in association with the in the purchasing process from the selection of vendors to Korea Standards Association focus on job training. In particular, price analysis so that they can make a purchase under comin 2017 LSIS employees with expertise in FTAs and NAMOS parpetitive conditions. ticipated as lecturers. In 2017, a total of 196 employees from 172 suppliers attended programs on quality, production, costs, and Communicating with suppliers and promoting business management (11 courses, 14 sessions). In addition, the shared growth satisfaction level of participants with the training has gradually inRenewal of TOPS creased from 4.4 out of 5.0 points in 2016 to 4.5 in 2017. With the aim of building a communications channel with suppliers and strengthening cooperation, the internet portal for Technological support (technology development and proshared growth named TOPS (http://tops.lsis.com) was retection) Technology development (New Product Develnewed and reopened in January 2017. It provides information opment on the Condition of Purchase Project) : LSIS has such as support programs for suppliers and monthly news joined forces with suppliers in the government’s New Product and announcements on activities for shared growth, allowing Development on the Condition of Purchase Project since 2012, suppliers to actively use it as a communication channel. In adcontributing to enhancing technological capacity and increasdition, LSIS’s four action plans for shared growth are disclosed ing the sales of suppliers. LSIS has been working on a project to suppliers via the site. Going forward, we plan to expand the with its subsidiary EKOS since 2017 with a plan to complete descope of TOPS users to secondary and tertiary suppliers to velopment by 2019. These activities will be promoted as our key promote communications throughout the supply chain. R&D businesses for shared growth with the aim of motivating suppliers to focus on development, promote the localization of New Year’s Greeting Gathering parts supply, and ultimately enhance national competitiveness. and Performance Sharing Meeting We host the New Year’s Greeting Gathering at the beginning of Technology Protection : As damage due to the leakage of the year and the Performance Sharing Meeting in the first half the trade secrets of SMEs is increasing, LSIS introduced the of the year. These serve as venues for communication to build a Certification of Original Documents on Trade Secrets in 2015 consensus on partnership by sharing LSIS's business direction, to safeguard suppliers’ technologies and trade secrets. Cerpurchasing policy, and the achievements made with suppliers. tification by the Korea Institute of Patent Information serves In January, 2017, a total of 148 companies attended the gatheras a means to confirm the ownership of proprietary technoling to exchange New Year’s greetings and renew their commitogies and business information by SMEs, helping them proment to innovation. At the July meeting featuring participation tect themselves against theft and leakage of technology and by 131 companies, there were discussions led by respective information. In 2017, we assisted five suppliers in certifying 11 plant managers, the introduction of LSIS’s support system for technology and trade secret cases. shared growth, and sharing of best practices on innovation. Launch of the renewed TOPS New Year’s Greeting Gathering and Performance Sharing Meals for Communication Meeting Core Issues of Sustainability Management Shared Growth with Suppliers 61 Communication activities Shared-Growth Innovation Meeting (Walking Together / Meals for Communication) As an activity to support suppliers and ensure part quality, the To discuss pending business issues and devise pathways for Shared-Growth Innovation Meeting has been held every month mutual cooperation through communication between LSIS since 2014. At this monthly meeting organized by the head of and its suppliers, Walking Together, a program for CEOs orgathe Strategic Purchasing Group, suppliers reviewed quality nized by the head of the Strategic Purchasing Team, was operstatus and shared issues and improvement cases regarding ated three times. Participants actively engaged in a discussion subcontracting. The topic of the meeting, which mainly foon the challenges faced by suppliers. The program provides cused on issues surrounding quality, was expanded in 2017 to a communications channel confirming that cooperation is esinclude partnerships, such as enhanced trade relations, pursential for the resolution of issues. chasing policies, and shared growth. The meeting will continue to serve as a venue where LSIS and its suppliers can freely Due to the growing importance of promoting shared growth exchange their views. in the supply chain, communications activities with LSIS and primary and secondary suppliers have been conducted since Survey results on shared growth activities 2013. Recently, a new approach called Meals for CommuniLSIS has been conducting a survey on the level of satisfaction cation has been applied to increase the flexibility of the activiof suppliers with shared growth activities since 2015 on the catties. In 2017, employees from LSIS, four primary suppliers, and egories of trade relations, support policies, and the operation eight secondary suppliers shared a meal together to create a system. In the 2017 survey of 32 major suppliers, 6.1 out of 7 chance to discuss their difficulties with one another and deeppoints were scored for trade relations, 5.8 for support policies, en mutual understanding. LSIS will take diverse approaches and 5.9 for the operation system. In detail, the satisfaction levin communicating with its suppliers and take the initiative in el was high in terms of fair trade, ethical management, trainpromoting shared growth. ing and financial support, and communications activities. On the other hand, payment adjustment for delivered goods and technical support were identified as areas for improvement. NE W S The survey results will be carefully considered and reflected LSIS spearheading efforts for shared growth when setting the direction for future shared growth activities. At the SMART GRID EXPO held in September 2017, LSIS operated the LSpartnership Zone where supplier outreach activities were presented to participants and purchasing consultations were provided to SMEs. This received a highly Satisfaction level on shared growth activities (out of 7.0 points) positive response. In addition, HYEIN Electric and Hangil EST, prominent members of the ACE Club, took part in introducing 2016 2017 LSIS programs for shared growth, their benefits, and the club’s activities. The participation of suppliers made the event even more meaningful. LSIS will expand the scope of these activities in the future to further promote a culture of shared growth. 6.1 6.1 5.9 5.8 5.8 5.9 Trade relations Support policies Operation system 62 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Employees Commitment Based on our policy that human resources provide the core competitiveness of the company, LSIS is striving to secure and nurture talent. To this end, a variety of programs such as educational support for graduate school and special training by job and position are provided to help employees further develop themselves and gain additional expertise. In addition, to create an environment in which employees can reach their full potential, considerable effort is made to strengthen communication between management and labor and Sang-tae Park / HR Team Leader, HR/ promote employee welfare. We will continue to work resolutely on Management Support Division behalf of the wellbeing and growth of our employees. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Power Solution Business 63 Our human resources and sound corporate culture make up the foundation of our sustainable growth. LSIS is giving its all to ensure a positive working environment and nurture talent. In 2018, we plan to refine the systems and activities for promoting our employees’ work-life balance and continue to develop a variety of capacity-building programs. KPI in 2017 New employees in 2017 Training expense per employee Labor union membership rate (permanent position) 41 KRW 1.65 million 32.1 % Key performance and targets •Strengthen global competitiveness of employees Targets for 2017 •Create a good place to work •Build a solid labor-management partnership •Secured a pool of talent by focusing on global competitiveness of employees Performance in 2017 •Reviewed system improvement according to changes in the work environment. •Balance work and life Targets for 2018 •Further promote communication with employees •Improve the system for HR innovation 64 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Work-life balance Go Camp This annual camp held in July is for elementaRecently, work-life balance has emerged as one of key sory/middle school children of employees. It aims to develop cial issues in Korea. To help bolster their quality of life, LSIS emotional stability and logical thinking. A variety of activities provides its employees with Vacation Weeks, programs and besides playing go are conducted to help them further develevents for employees’ families, and daycare centers. op strategic thinking and teamwork. Vacation Weeks Family events Vacation Weeks is a system that allows employees to take a LSIS holds events for employees and their families to provide threeto five-day vacation in addition to a summer vacation chances for open communication and to encourage employwithin the limits of their paid leaves in accordance with reees to develop a sense of pride in the company. lated laws and collective bargaining agreements. Employees are currently taking advantage of it to refresh themselves afSmart Working, Happy Life! “Smart Working, Happy ter long-term projects or to enjoy personal events. Life!” is an annual event for celebrating employees promoted to managerial positions. It includes the participation of Family programs family members and LSIS executives. The event started in Families are key to quality of life. Under the motto of ‘happy 2011 and has become a venue where executives ask new families mean happy employees’, LSIS is operating a variety managers to live up to their responsibilities, express their of programs for employees and their families. gratitude to family members for their support, and share the company vision. Family Happiness Camp The Family Happiness Camp program is designed to encourage communication among Family Fun Event on Children’s Day This Children’s Day family members by providing an opportunity for them to concelebration serves as an opportunity for the children of emtemplate what makes a family happy. They learn how to comployees to better understand the importance of family and municate with each other, express themselves, and discuss develop a sense of pride in their parents’ company. what they can do for family happiness. Dream Camp Our Dream Camp aims to help children think about their ambitions and how to make them come true. This camp for children of LSIS employees features programs to help them reflect on their good and bad habits and explore ways to realize their dreams. Family programs Dream Camp Go Camp Family Fun Event on Children’s Day Core Issues of Sustainability Management Employees 65 Daycare centers Recruitment channels and processes LSIS operates daycare centers at worksites to promote emLSIS strives to secure human resources through a variety of ployees’ work-life balance. An LS daycare center was opened channels, including biannual open recruitment of career and in Anyang in March 2015 for employees at LSIS headquarters non-career track employees and a global recruitment proand the Anyang R&D Campus. LSIS joined a consortium to gram that targets Korean college graduates in North America construct a daycare center in the Cheongju industrial complex. and China along with people from other countries with R&D It has been in operation since March 2014. Expert daycare inexpertise. Moreover, a year-round recruitment program is stitutions are commissioned to operate the centers to ensure being operated to attract researchers in new business areas. that children of employees remain well taken care of in a seWidespread efforts are made to discover needed resources cure environment. through on-campus recruitment, employee recommendations, and professional search firms. In 2017, 41 non-career Securing and nurturing talent employees joined LSIS. HR philosophy Applicants’ basic skills, growth potential, and interest in and To proactively respond to shifting business paradigms and passion for work are the key elements LSIS examines in reachieve our G365 vision, LSIS proclaimed Imagineers for the cruitment. In order to ensure the objectivity and consistency of Future of Smart Energy as an HR philosophy in 2016. Imagevaluation criteria, the value assigned to job-competency and ineer, a word coined by blending ‘imagine’ with ‘engineer’, English-aptitude test results in the paper screening has been describes people who take pride in their work and company increased and the interview process has been standardized (Pride), have a vision for the future of smart energy (Vision) through related training provided to interviewers. based on advanced technology (Technology) and a global outRecruitment process look (Global Outlook), and work together for better results (Partnership). LSIS employees are dedicating themselves as S T EP 1 S T EP 2 S T EP 3 Job Paper Personality and imagineers to achieve this corporate mission. application screening aptitude test An evaluation is •Applicants’ knowledge of and interest in the conducted based area are assessed considering their major and on the company’s targeted job positions. recruitment •Applicants are required to make a presentation criteria. and be interviewed in foreign languages DREAM (including English), depending on job positions. Having a vision for the S T EP 4 S T EP 5 S T EP 6 S T EP 7 future of smart energy Interview at the Interview Medical examination Announcement working level by executives of successful For securing talent in line with LSIS For ensuring candidates applicants HR philosophy and LSpartneship are in good health to PARTNERSHIP PRIDE perform their jobs Working Taking pride together in the work for better IMAGINEER for Career development programs for prospective employees and company results Program Description Corporate It provides support to excellent students throughout funded their master’s or doctorate courses, allowing them build scholarships expertise before joining LSIS Lab Tour LSIS pays a visit to outstanding university labs in electronics to promote communication with schools. Summer It allows future employees to experience LSIS and GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY internship understand its vision by conducting tasks and working Global Understanding of program with its employees. competitiveness technologies LS Job Fair Job seekers are invited to LSIS to participate in the company overview presentation, mock interviews, and lunch with LSIS employees 66 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Programs to help new hires adjust to the company first year of work at LSIS. This allows them to reflect on the A variety of programs are currently in place to help new hires past year and think about their future with the company. adjust to the company. On the day of the announcement of successful applicants, they receive a congratulatory message Development of human resources and a flower basket from the CEO. They are also provided a LSIS has been providing superb facilities and well-organized chance to tour the Jeju HVDC Smart Center before starting training programs to enhance employees’ competitiveness. work. Group-wide and company-wide introductory training In 2005 the LSIS Training Center won the President’s Award programs are provided so they can learn the basics required of as an exemplary vocational training institution. It obtained a LSIS employees. Mentoring programs and on-the-job training grade of A in a governmental review program for four years in also help them to strengthen their job competencies. In addia row from 2012 to 2015. Based on the belief that continuous tion, the Future Camp program is offered after completing the individual and organizational growth will set the course for the future of the company, training programs are operated in inPoint of time Program Period ternational skills, organizational development, and job training Before job Before Jeju HVDC Smart Center tour 3 days categories. In 2017, per-employee average spending reached assignment start working KRW 1.652 million. In addition, as the global competitiveness to Feb •Group-wide introductory training 3 weeks 1 of employees has become increasingly important, a Global •Company-wide introductory week training Lounge where employees can learn foreign languages and After job Jul. •Mentoring 4 months about different cultures was launched at headquarters and at assignment •On boarding Package 1 week the Cheongju plant. Meanwhile, LSIS also provides programs After job One year Future Camp 3 days ranging from product user training to in-depth training on assignment power solutions and automation for customers and students. Training system Organizational Global Position level Job development Executive Purchasing Executive Global Lounge Program seminars Foreign languages New executives Team leader General Intervention Assimilation W/S , PI , Organizational diagnosis Introductory program for career employees (LSIS/Group) / Plant on-boarding China Biz. Academy/On-boarding for employLCP capacity-building Coaching manager New team leaders SW (17 programs) HW (5 programs) R&D Overseas dispatch UT-Austin External language support based targets set through a consensual process New team leader WR Design (13 programs) Common LS MBA, LS T-MBA (Leadership Challenge Prg.) Senior Promoted manager to general Strengthening team’s capability to act Understanding different cultures Second foreign language speaking managers ees returning from overseas subsidiaries New senior Global Lounge Program Solution Leader Program Global communication managers GBT Promoted Manager On the Job English Production to senior 1:1 English Coaching managers (US/China/Middle East/Iran/Vietnam) In Company English New managers Daily News Briefing Promoted to managers Reliability (7 programs) Intensive (English/Chinese) Quality New assistant SPC (3 programs) Assistant Strengthening innovation managers QMS (6 programs) manager Promoted FMEA (2 programs) to assistant managers capability for office workers Mentoring RankLS Future Camp Support (8 programs) and-file Introductory program for non employee -career employees (LSIS) Sales (5 programs) Introductory program for non -career employees (LS Group) Production Production supervisor supervisor/ capacity-building Strengthening Common (13 programs) Production innovation capability worker Production worker for factory workers capacity-building * LSIS also provides 32 training programs for customers and suppliers. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Employees 67 Evaluation and compensation human rights. LSIS believes that fair evaluation and compensation are the In addition, annual negotiations over wage and collective agreefoundation of sustainable development. In our performance ments are conducted between the management and labor evaluation system, targets are set at the group, division, team, representatives in order to improve working conditions. Freeand employee level in order to achieve the company’s mandom of association is guaranteed in order to ensure that emagement goals. At the beginning of the year, targets are estabployees are never disadvantaged due to labor union activities. lished through a consensual process. Progress is monitored via daily/interim checks, and preventive measures are taken to Labor-management partnership for shared growth guarantee that targets are met. The causes of any failure are Since the labor union for LSIS was established as the Goldstar identified for future improvement. In each evaluation process, Industrial System on July 27, 1987, labor-management relaappraisers interview the appraisees. The evaluation results tions have been based on partnership for shared growth. In are explained to appraisees in order to ensure transparency order to bridge any gaps through mutual trust, a working-level and they are reflected in setting future targets and in plans for taskforce team addresses pending issues. In addition, to creemployee capacity-building. Teams’ ratings based on the evalate an environment beneficial to shared growth, quarterly lauation results are linked to individual ratings, and the results bor-management meetings are held at the company level and are used for determining bonuses, salaries, promotions, and at plants to discuss working conditions and welfare benefits career development. as well as HR matters and corporate development strategies. Notably, management regularly holds an information session Operational process for executive officers with the labor union regarding management performance at plants in order to promote management Modification Consensus on targets /Interim check Evaluation transparency. Meanwhile, representatives from management Applying Adding and labor visit overseas subsidiaries together to observe the Interview ProgSelf EvaluaSetting for a conand Intertargets sensual and conress adjusting -evaluview tion by global management environment and share a sense of urgensensus check ation superior process targets cy. Besides the labor union, diverse channels such as LinkerS, Appraiser Organizational Monitoring and Evaluation by Smart Board, and Ace Board are operated to promote com(Team) target evaluation superior munication within the plant and position levels. Through these Interview Consensus on Check and Agreement on means, we can continue to improve the working environment targets support results for employees. Appraisee Setting individual Self-check Self-evaluation targets Labor union membership (as of the end of 2017) According to the collective agreements and labor rules, 100% Respecting human rights and of production workers have joined the labor union, and 1,021 guaranteeing basic labor rights or 32.1% of LSIS employees are union members. LSIS maintains a system to prevent any and all discrimination with regard to gender, race, religion, or place of origin. To this Category Job group 2015 2016 2017 end, policies to promote diversity are being implemented to Non-union Office worker 2,258 2,233 2,081 member foster an environment in which employees are given equal opProduction advisor/ 83 79 78 (person) portunities to reach their full potentials. We have completely Others Union Production Male 867 849 854 forbidden any form of child or coerced labor, and we strictly member worker abide by any related domestic and international laws. There (person) Female 168 167 167 has never been a case of violations related to these issues. We Union membership rate (%) 30.6 30.5 32.1 will remain committed to improving this system for respecting * The union participation rate is the ratio of unionized workers to total employees. 68 2017-2018 2017-2018 LSIS LSIS Sustainability 지속가능경영 보고서 Report Local Community Contribution Commitment Korean society is rapidly aging, and issues such as poverty among the elderly living alone are real concerns. LSIS’s efforts and contributions for supporting senior citizens in need have become a model for others. We will continue to cooperate with LSIS in its social contribution activities by communicating with social welfare centers that benefit the vulnerable and underprivileged. Jee-hee Byeon / Anyang Senior Welfare Service Center Many disabled people living at home suffer from both physical and financial struggles, and their opportunities to enjoy culture and the arts are limited. In this regard, LSIS’s programs for 2017 provide a chance for them to actively participate in society and recharge their rehabilitation. I hope LSIS will continue to devise and implement a variety of activities to support people with disabilities. Min-woo Lee / Anyang Suri Welfare Center for the Disabled Core Issues of Sustainability About LSIS Management Power Solution Business Power Solution Business 69 LSIS has been faithfully conducting activities that help us contribute to forging a better society. Based on the three principles of Partnership, Initiative and Continuity, community-based and seasonal support programs including donations to low-income households are in place. In 2018, we will create diverse programs to help employees more easily participate in practicing the philosophy of sharing in their daily lives as we fulfill our corporate social responsibility. KPI in 2017 Employees participating Total amount of annual donation Social contribution activity cost in volunteer activities 1,590 KRW 493.8 million KRW 50.1 million Key performance and targets •Establish a communication channel to listen to stakeholders, including social welfare workers, experts, citizens and the government Targets for 2017 •Strengthen cooperation between LSIS plants and local organizations •Continue to implement seasonal support programs for the vulnerable •Promote a culture of sharing to employees •Strengthened cooperation with local welfare centers for the elderly and disabled Performance in 2017 •Launched new programs, including ‘Let’s Make It Green with LSIS’ •Increased seasonal support for the underprivileged •Expand the scope of contribution activities Targets for 2018 •Devise activities that meet the needs of local communities •Encourage employees to practice the philosophy of sharing in their daily lives 70 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Social contribution activities Activities at the LS Group level Philosophy LS Dream Science Class LSIS’s social contribution activities are conducted at the LS The LS Dream Science Class is an LS Group program that was Group level based on its management philosophy of LSpartinitiated in 2013 to support elementary school students in conership. This effort aimed at creating greater value together operation with the Child Fund and the National Academy of as trustworthy partners reflects the LS Group’s philosophy Engineering of Korea. Science classes are provided to around of providing a reliable partner to support the underprivileged 400 fifth and sixth graders from elementary schools in nine and future generations. In accordance with this philosophy, regions where plants of LS Group subsidiaries are located. The its subsidiaries are conducting social contribution activities at program provides them with opportunities to learn scientific home and abroad focusing on creating greater value through principles in an easy and fun way, fueling their interest in scicooperation and sharing. ence and in school in general. Volunteer LSIS employees and college students majoring in science and engineering provide LS Group’s A reliable partner to support the underprivileged and science lessons as teachers and mentors after undergoing rephilosophy future generation of social lated training. LSIS employees at the Cheongju, Anyang, and contribution •Create greater value through sharing and cooperating Busan plants also participate in the program as one-day lecbased on the philosophy of LSpartnership •Devise and run programs in line with the LS Group’s turers or as guides for plant tours. philosophy to create synergies LSIS’s Providing support to ease social conflicts and help the LS Dream Village: philosophy vulnerable of social Overseas volunteer group / LS Dream School contribution •Partnership: Participation to ease social conflicts and The LS overseas volunteer group is composed of 20 college help the vulnerable •Initiative: Sincere and voluntary activities students selected through an open application process, em•Continuity: Continuous social contribution activities ployees of LS Group subsidiaries, and experts from the NGOs cohosting the program. Participants undergo training and prepare for their volunteer activities for two months before deImplementation structure parture. LSIS has been developing and operating its own programs LS Group has been operating this program biannually since rather than simply following those being pursued at the Group 2007 with the aim of providing support for children in devellevel. Our Public Relations Team leads these company-wide oping countries and improving their educational environment. activities. At the plant level, the HR Support (Support InnoFrom 2013, the LS Dream School project has been implementvation) Team and LinkerS (a representative body for office ed in association with overseas volunteer activities. Under this workers) are conducting activities tailored to specific regional project, the construction of two schools was completed in needs. 2013. By 2018, a total of ten schools will be built. CEO Public Relations Team Cheongju plant Cheonan plant Busan plant LinkerS *L inkerS: It is a representative body for office workers at LSIS to lead the efforts for open culture and social contribution. It is comprised of 17 employees. LS Dream Science Class LS overseas volunteer group Core Issues of Sustainability Management Local Community Contribution 71 LS Dream Orchestra days, and cooling equipment in summer. For the Lunar New LS Dream Orchestra was launched in June 2012 for children Year, a ddeokkuk (a traditional holiday dish) sharing event is and young people from underprivileged families. It is modheld for the elderly living alone in cooperation with local senior elled after El Sistema, a Venezuelan program for social uplift welfare service centers. In 2017, the program of outings and through classical music. Along with offering them hope and cultural events for the disabled living at home that began in dreams for the future, the program aims to change society Anyang will be expanded to other worksites. through music by providing free education on classical music. To this end, it provides opportunities such as lessons on Environmental cleanup programs musical instruments, music camps, attending concerts, and ‘Let’s Make It Green with LSIS’ is a campaign to preserve ecohosting concerts and recitals. It is being operated in Daejeon, systems in cities and protect the environment in cooperation Cheonan, Ulsan, and Pohang. In May 2017, a concert was held with local communities and civic groups. As part of these efon the island of Dokdo, and a children’s traditional Korean muforts, a volunteer group of 30 LSIS employees, International sic orchestra was formed in Wanju-gu, Jeollabuk-do Province. Environmental Action Association members, and local resIn October, the fifth regular LS Dream Orchestra concert was idents held a Making a Clean Anyang Stream event in June held. LSIS will continue to support the orchestra and help its 2017. They infused EM (effective microorganisms) soil balls members reach their full potentials, develop their passion for into the stream, cleaned away garbage, and removed invasive music, and build their sprit of teamwork. plants disturbing the ecosystem. Similar environment cleanup activities are being conducted regularly at other worksites as Community-based social contribution activities well. LSIS has been faithfully conducting activities that help us contribute to forging a better society. Based on the three principles Programs open to suggestions of Partnership, Initiative and Continuity, community-based and LSIS performs an annual satisfaction survey for our social seasonal support programs including dotations to low-income contribution activities. We target local government officials, households are in place in Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan, Busan employees at welfare service centers, volunteers, and experts. where LSIS plants are located. The results are reflected in the next year’s activities. The satisfaction level has been high overall (over 90 points out of 100). Seasonal support We will continue to improve programs and develop new ones From 2014, we have donated winter clothes to low-income based on the survey results. households in winter, lunchboxes during the Chuseok holiLS Dream Orchestra Seasonal support program Environmental cleanup program 72 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report REGIONAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES ← Anyang In Anyang, where the LSIS headquarters and R&D Campus are located, a variety of activities are performed in cooperation with the Anyang Senior Welfare Service Center and Suri Welfare Center for the Disabled. Since 2014, winter clothes have been donated to low-income senior citizens in winter, and a watermelon-sharing event is held in summer for the elderly living alone. In addition, activities such as a lunchbox gift for the Chuseok holidays and sponsorship of sports events are conducted in cooperation with the Anyang Senior Welfare Service Center. Major activities: a  ddeokkuk (holiday dish) sharing event for the Lunar New Year; donation of winter clothes for the elderly living alone; a watermelon-sharing event in summer; support of disabled people living at home in their outings; and cleanup of an Anyang stream Cheongju → Employees at the Cheongju plant take part in efforts to communicate with local communities for sharing. Activities include the Green & Clean Day, protection of local cultural assets such as Sangdang Fortress, and a cleanup on Bumo Mountain. Jandihoe, an employee volunteer group formed at the plant in 1998, has conducted a variety of activities including a kimchi-sharing event, and employees regularly visit Yesim House and Cheongju Senior Care Center for volunteering. Core Issues of Sustainability Management Local Community Contribution 73 In order to strengthen communication with the local community, the Cheongju plant focuses not only on volunteer activities together with local social welfare centers, but also on programs for protecting cultural properties and the environment. Major activities: T  he LS Dream Science; volunteer activities at Gomduri Gymnagium and Yesim House; support for selling agricultural products under One Company One Village sisterhood; fortress keepers: Green & Clean Day; removing invasive plants disturbing the ecosystem in a Miho stream; and activities by Jandihoe ← Cheonan The Cheonan plant conducts diverse sharing activities in an effort to promote interaction with the local community. In coordination with the Cheonan Hope Sharing Volunteer Center, LSIS distributes free meals monthly to the homeless and others in need. This volunteer project focuses on solving pressing problems, but it also provides ongoing support to vulnerable and lowincome households. Apart from these regular activities, various sharing events are being planned to improve the livelihoods of the underprivileged. In addition, the Green & Clean Day for environmental cleanup and blood donation events are organized on a regular basis. Major activities: F  ree meal events at the Cheonan Hope Sharing Volunteer Center; rice purchase from a local village under a 1 Company 1 Village program; blood donation events; and coin collection campaigns Busan The Busan plant has been conducting various activities by identifying tasks for implementation based on LSIS’s CSR model, including volunteer work, social contributions, and donations. Group volunteer work at senior centers and welfare facilities and meal giveaways are provided as part of the efforts to contribute to local communities. The plant is also managing environmental cleanup programs such as a Green & Clean Day and its One Company One Stream campaign, along with free plant tours for students and local residents. Major activities: Meal giveaways; group volunteer work at senior centers and welfare facilities; and the One Company One Stream campaign Appendix Economy 76 Safety and Environment 77 Employees 78 Share Growth and Social Contribution 79 Membership and Awards 80 UN Global Compact COP 80 GRI Standard (Core) Index 81 Third-party's Assurance Statement 84 76 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Economy Consolidated Summarized statement of financial position (unit: KRW million) Item 2015 2016 2017 Assets 2,251,674 2,261,806 2,255,821 Current assets 1,394,335 1,417,503 1,416,121 Non-current asset 857,339 844,302 839,700 Liabilities 1,236,975 1,195,739 1,107,681 Current liabilities 618,075 680,590 649,818 Non-current liabilities 618,900 515,150 457,864 Equity 1,014,699 1,066,066 1,148,140 Total equity attributable to stockholders of the company 1,013,260 1,064,582 1,145,723 Non-controlling interest 1,439 1,485 2,417 Total liabilities and equity 2,251,674 2,261,806 2,255,821 Summarized statement of comprehensive income (unit: KRW million) Item 2015 2016 2017 Sales 2,201,676 2,213,616 2,343,745 Operating income 154,402 124,424 158,442 Income from continuing operations before tax 113,642 101,984 138,489 Net income 70,554 80,748 106,005 Summarized statement of cash flows (unit: KRW million) Item 2015 2016 2017 Cash flows from operating activities 100,301 242,227 144,598 Cash flows from investing activities (95,890) (101,968) (163,772) Cash flows from financing activities (50,599) (87,330) (54,074) Net increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents (46,188) 52,930 (73,247) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 332,334 286,081 340,137 Effect sof exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (65) 1,125 (5,383) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 286,081 340,137 261,507 Government subsidies (unit: KRW million) Item 2015 2016 2017 Machinery 112 11 7 Office equipment 6 4 41 Building 267 246 225 Development cost 2,120 1,873 1,678 Appendix Economy·Safety and Environment 77 Safety and Environment Safety and environment index Sector Item Unit 2015 2016 2017 Investment Green product development KRW million 5,342 3,118 9,052 in safety and Investment in environmental and safety facilities KRW million 616 566 822 environment Maintenance of environmental and safety facilities KRW million 319 219 488 Green Purchasing of green products KRW million 180 381 399 purchasing Environment Dust emissions kg 1,015 1,076 824 Water consumption k㎥ 243 233 212 Wastewater discharge ㎥ 214 172 45 Waste discharge General ton 3,730 3,671 4,251 Designated ton 70 92 99 Waste recycling rate ton 247 259 278 GHG emissions 1) Scope 1 tCO2eq 226,975 186,792 250,704 (by source) Scope 2 tCO2eq 25,706 26,646 25,553 subtotal tCO2eq 252,681 213,438 276,257 GHG intensity tCO2eq/KRW 0.14 0.12 0.15 million Energy Electricity consumption MWh 55,252 57,150 57,153 toe 12,708 13,145 13,135 Electricity intensity MWh/KRW 100 3.09 3.30 3.12 million LNG consumption k㎥ 2,189 2,136 2,337 toe 2,283 2,227 2,432 LNG intensity k㎥/KRW 100 0.12 0.12 0.10 million Safety Industrial accident rate2) % 0.02 0 0.04 Training hours (cumulative) hour 78,034 92,468 90,446 Trainees (cumulative) person 33,899 37,439 19,027 Raw Steel ton 18,155 11,277 12,181 materials Nonferrous metal ton 4,530 3,566 3,884 Resin ton 4,812 587 700 Production cost KRW 100 million 17,906 17,325 18,320 * LSIS is operating the Occupational Safety and Health Committee where the labor and management discuss or deliberate on safety and health issues of employees working at the plants to build a safe and pleasant working environment. 1) GHG emission data may differ from the national statistics due to differences in aggregate range. 2) The 2017 average accident rate is based on LSIS calculation criteria. The government agency in charge is currently working on the average. 78 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Employees HR index (as of the end of 2017) Index Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Total employees Executive Person 22 20 20 Permanent employee Person 3,351 3,292 3,168 Temporary employee Person 243 243 214 Temporary employees included Total Person 3,616 3,555 3,402 Employees by region Anyang Person 1,176 1,135 1,030 Cheongju Person 1,581 1,537 1,525 Cheonan Person 557 550 509 Busan Person 193 187 182 Others Person 109 146 156 Total Person 3,616 3,555 3,402 Employees by age 20s Person 421 357 272 (permanent employees) 30s Person 1,165 1,112 1,027 40s Person 1,166 1,216 1,179 50s and older Person 599 607 690 Total Person 3,351 3,292 3,168 Newly hired (permanent) Person 105 101 41 Retirement rate (permanent) % 2.97 2.69 3.25 Female employees (permanent) Person 419 454 418 Percentage of female employees (permanent and temporary) % 11.6 12.8 10.4 Female managers Person 33 33 36 Manager level and higher Percentage of female managers % 1.0 1.0 1.1 Employees with disabilities Person 45 45 50 Permanent employee Percentage of employees with disabilities % 1.3 1.4 1.6 Foreign employees (permanent and temporary) Person 18 15 12 Foreign employees working at domestic sites Training expenses KRW 1,000/ 2,106 2,109 1,652 person Training hours PD/person 10 10 7 1PD: eight hours of offline group training; and one month for online training Welfare benefit expenses KRW 13.7 14.1 16.5 million/person Employees who used childbirth leave Person 17 19 13 Employees who used parental leave Person 17 19 14 Employees returned from parental leave Rate of return to work after parental leave % 100 100 100 Retirement pension program Index Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Defined benefit (DB) Amount* KRW million 152,441 182,152 183,184 Subscribers Person 3,317 3,293 3,252 Defined contribution Amount KRW million (DC) Subscribers Person 1 6 92 * The amount is based on the balance of the retirement pension fund management company at the end of 2017. Appendix Employees·Share Growth and Social Contribution 79 Shared Growth and Social Contribution Shared growth Index Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Ethics index of suppliers Point 4.24 4.19 4.23 Ethics index of distributors Point 3.98 4.01 4.08 Supplier training on the subcontracting laws Sessions Session 3 1 Signing of the Shared Growth Agreement Agreements Case 388 350 337 Financial support to suppliers Fund raised KRW 100 million 218 238 238 Fund provided KRW 100 million 104 144 139 Suppliers supported Company 57 77 68 Shared-Growth Payment System Total amount of credit KRW 100 million 2,436 5,644 7,182 issued Supplier training support Participants Person 612 424 196 Technology sharing for suppliers Suppliers benefitted Company 15 Offering patent rights for free Technology protection for suppliers Support cases Case 39 44 11 Certification of Original Document of Trade Secrets Technology development support for New product Case 2 1 1 suppliers development projects Technological Case 74 66 cooperation tasks KRW 100 million 33 44 ACE CLUB (Supplier Association) Membership Company 19 20 19 ACE CLUB innovation capacity support Company 2015: Leadership Innovation Suppliers supported 19 20 19 Program for CEOs Employees supported Person 19 20 19 2016: Innovation Competition 2017: Innovation Exchanges Performance sharing meetings with suppliers Participating suppliers Company 600 470 279 Communication activities for suppliers Session 2 3 3 2015: CPO Talk Concert 2016: CLO Talk Concert 2017: Programs for CEOs Purchase by region (unit: %) Index 2015 2016 2017 Note Asia (excluding the Middle East) 95 94 70 Europe 4 5 23 Americas 1 1 5 Middle East 0 1 1 Total 0.02 Total 100 100 100 Materials supplied from 31 countries (2017) Social contribution activities Index Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Donation KRW million 672 958 494 Accounting amount Cost KRW million 51 43 50 Activities Case 161 156 119 Participants* Person 955 1,385 1,590 * The number of people involved in social contribution activities is counted as the number of volunteers, which is different from the data of existing reports. 80 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Membership and Awards Membership Domestic Overseas Korea Chamber of Commerce, Korea International Trade Association, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korea Standards Association, Korea Electric UN Global Compact, Association, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, International Mechatro Link, Contractors Association of Korea, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea New&Renewable Energy Ether CAT Tenchnology Group, Association, Korea Fire Safety Association, Korea Customs Association, Korea Invention Promotion Association, CIRED, CAN in Automation Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korea Device Net Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Association of ESCO, Korea Information and Communication Contractors Association, Korea Railway Association, Korea Railway Signal Engineering Association Awards Category Date Title Organized/Hosted by Award Company 2017.01. Top 100 Global Innovators Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global Innovators Company 2017.06. Korea’s Best Enterprise (power and cable sector) Korea CEO Association Grand prize Company 2017.09. Citation in Strategic Trade CP Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Citation Individual 2017.09. Award of Merit at the World Environment Day Ministry of Environment Minister’s Citation (Ryu Gi-Hyeon, Manager) Individual 2017.09. Award of Merit for the Smart Grid Industry Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Citation (Son Chang-Hee, General manager) Individual 2017.11. Award of Merit for Parts and Material Technology Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Citation Development (Cho Wook-Dong, Head of the Center) Company 2017.11. Citation in the supplier association category Ministry of SMEs and Startups (Korea Minister’s Citation Commission for Corporate Partnership) Individual 2017.11. Korea Energy Efficiency Award Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy Prime Minister’s (Ahn Sang-Ho, General manger) (Korea Energy Agency) Citation Individual 2017.12. Contribution to improving technology regulation issues Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Energy Minister’s Citation (Park Woo-Hyun, Manager) (Korean Standards Association) Individual 2017.12. Contribution to land and transport affairs Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Minister’s Citation (Kim Mi-Kyung, Manager) (Korea Railway Association) UN Global Compact COP The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Page LSIS policies Human 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Ethical management LSIS Code of Ethics and rights rights. p.28~31 Conduct for Employees Employee p.67 2. Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment LSIS Environmental p.46~53 policies 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. B  usinesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Ethical management LSIS Code of Ethics corruption and bribery. p.28~31 and Conduct for Employees Appendix Membership and Awards LSIS ∙ UN Global Power Solution Compact Business COP∙ GRI Standard (Core) Index About 81 GRI Standard (Core) Index Topic Disclosure Page Omission/Comments Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 10 profile 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services 18-21 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10, 16 102-4 Location of worksites 16-17 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 12-13 102-6 Markets served 16-17 102-7 Scale of the organization 12-13 102-8 Employee Information 78 102-9 Supply chain 14-17 102-10 Significant changes in the organization and supply chain 10, 14-17 Establishment of an overseas branch in Thailand (18.03) 102-11 Principles and approaches in preventive measures 32-33 102-12 External initiatives 25, 80 102-13 Membership 80 Strategy 102-14 Statement by the top decision-maker 7 Ethics and 102-16 Value, principles, standards, and code 28-31 integrity Governance 102-18 Governance 12-13 Stakeholder 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups 14-15 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement 67 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 14-15 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 14-15 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 26-27 engagement Report profile 102-45 Companies included in the organization’s consolidated financial 16-17 statement 102-46 Report details and the scope of topics 26-27 102-47 A list of key topics 26-27 102-48 Restatement of information No modification 102-49 Changes in the report No modification 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of the latest report 2 102-52 Reporting period 2 102-53 Contact information 2 102-54 Reporting in line with GRI Standards GRI Index 2 102-55 GRI Index 81-83 102-56 Third-party assurance 84-85 82 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Topic Disclosure Page Omission/Comments Management 103 Management approach 35, 47, 55, approach 63, 69 Economy Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14-15 performance 201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 78 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 76 Purchasing 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of 14-15, 79 procedures operation Anti205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related 28-31 corruption to corruption and the significant risks identified 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and proce28-31 dures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No anti-corruption cases substances during the reporting period Environment Raw material 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 77 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials No use of recycled raw materials Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 77 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 50 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 50 Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 77 Water supply 303-2 Water resources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 50 Water supplied from the local governments Emission 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 49, 77 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 49, 77 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 77 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions intensity 50 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 49, 77 Waste water 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination 50, 77 and waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 50, 77 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills No spill of hazardous substances during the reporting period 306-4 Transportation of wasted deem hazardous Entirely disposed of by third-party contractors 306-5 Water bodies significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of Entirely disposed of by water and runoff third-party contractors Compliance 307-1 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No violation to environmental laws and regulations during the reporting period LSIS GRI Appendix Power Solution Standard (Core) Business Index About 83 Topic Disclosure Page Omission/Comments Society Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 78 gender and region 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 78 Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 67 relations Occupational health 403-1 Percentage of workers in the management-worker health and safety committee 77 and safety 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 50, 77 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender 403-3 Workers with high incidence of high risk of diseases related to their occupation 50-52 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 50-52 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee (by gender, and by employee 78 education category) 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 66 employability of employees and assist them in managing career ending 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 66 reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and equal 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 78 opportunity Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of No cases of association and association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and infringement collective bargaining measures taken to support these rights Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 56, 67 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents or forced 56, 67 compulsory labor or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Investment 412-2 Total number of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concern67 ing aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Local communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 72-73 assessments, and development programs Public policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions None Customer health 416-1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and 53 and safety safety impacts are assessed for improvement 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes (by case result) Marketing and 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None labeling concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy None and losses of customer data Compliance 419-1 The number of cases of and monetary value of significant fines for non-compliNo cases of violation ance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and during the reporting services period 84 2017-2018 LSIS Sustainability Report Third Party's Assurance Statement To the Readers of LSIS 2017-2018 Sustainability Report: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: 407-1 Child Labor: 408-1 Foreword Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Korea Management Registrar Inc.(hereinafter “KMR”) has Human Rights Assessment: 412-2 been requested by of LSIS Co., Ltd. (hereinafter “LSIS”) to verLocal Communities: 413-1 ify the contents of its 2017-2018 Sustainability Report (hereinPublic Policy: 415-1 after “the Report”). LSIS is responsible for the collection and Customer Health and Safety: 416-1, 416-2 presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s reMarketing and Labeling: 417-3 sponsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific Customer Privacy: 418-1 data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 Scope and standard LSIS describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate This Report excludes a data and information of joint corporate, social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. LSIS, a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) among report boundaries. as an assurance standard. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of InclusivOur approach ity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed selected GRI Standard indices as below, where professional scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance stanjudgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. dard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: •GRI Reporting Principles •Universal Standards - Reviewed overall report •Topic Specific Standards - Reviewed materiality test process and methodology - Management approach of Topic Specific Standards - Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-3, 201-4 - Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Procurement Practices: 204-1 - Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 Materials: 301-1, 301-2 Our conclusion Energy: 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews Water: 303-1, 303-2 and interviews, we had several discussions with LSIS on the Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement Environmental Compliance: 307-1 and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the reEmployment: 401-1, 401-3 sults of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any Labor/Management Relations: 402-1 inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with Occupational Health and Safety: 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 404-4 the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our atTraining and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 tention that causes us to believe that the data included in the Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1 verification scope are not presented appropriately. Appendix Third-party's Assurance Statement 85 Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic reaccordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standard. sponse to sustainability - L SIS is developing and maintaining stakeholder commuRecommendation for improvement nication channels in various forms and levels in order to We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholdfor stakeholders and recommendation for improvements ers. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder LSIS left out during this procedure. - Q  uantitative emphasis report: When a report is reported as quantitative rather than qualitative data, it will increases Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and sigthe trust of stakeholders. It is recommended to focus on nificance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A quantitative data to improve the quality of future reports. material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, ac- S  takeholder diversity: It is important for stakeholders of tions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. different types and levels to participate in the process of - L SIS is determining the materiality of issues found out developing and achieving strategic responses to sustainthrough stakeholder communication channels through ability management. It is recommended that future reports its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance include channels for stakeholder engagement and reflect team could not find any critical issues left out in this prostakeholder expectations and concerns. cess. Our independence Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s reWith the exception of providing third party assurance services, sponse to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability perKMR is not involved in any other LSIS’s business operations formance and is realized through decisions, actions, and perthat are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts formance, as well as communication with stakeholders. of interest and to maintain independence. - The assurance team could not find any evidence that LSIS’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. April, 17th, 2018 CEO Eum-Ju Hwang 000-129 General publication management Chie Strategy Officer: Young-Shik Shin Corporate Planning Team: Sang-Soo Lee, Jeong-Wook Chang Contributors to report preparation Jong-Sopb Choi, Tea-Hoon Nam, Sang-Won Hwang, Yong-Jik Kwon, Hwan Jeong, Yoon-Tak Jeon, Byung-Su Ku, Sang-Hee Hong, Kyoo-Keun Seon, Si-Ho Choi, Jang-Cheol Seo, Sang-Ho Jeon, Yung-Ho Yuon, Sang-Rae Park, Sung-Man Kim, Hae-Sook Kim, Hyung-Jun Jeon, Sung-Hwan Kim, Jang-Se Jung, Jae-Kwon Koh, Dong-Ick Moon, Ju-Hye Kim, Ki-Bok Kim, Hye-Yeong Seo, Hyung-Taek Myung, Myoung-Guen Choi, Do-Yup Kwon, Bong-Soo Shin, In-Kyoung Kim, Sang-Tae Park, In-Seok Cheon, Seung-Seok Oh, Yun-Wook Cheon, Han-Sol Baek, Kwan-No Yoon, Sik-Il An, Ki-Seon Kim, Sang-Kweon Lee, Jae-Hyun Park, Jung-Eun Lee, Hee-Tack Roh, Taek-Yoon Kim, Dae-Seok Chae, Won-Ki Kim Date of Publication 2018. May Publisher Ja-Kyun Koo Publishing Company LSIS Co., Ltd Design intoGraphic 02-583-7688
