HL Sustainability Report 2017 1 / 14 Sustainability Report 2017 The better shopping experience HL Sustainability Report 2017 2 / 14 Creating the better Sales Companies HL Partners shopping experience We help customers around the world to create attractive and profitable in-store environments About the Company that strengthen the consumer’s shopping experience. HL Display AB has its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, and sales companies in 21 countries in Europe, the Middle East and Asia. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the listed Swedish Present in 50 countries, either via own sales companies investment company Ratos. The Company or via distributors, we provide retailers and brands with has 1,100 employees, net sales of SEK 1,445m merchandising and communication solutions that drive and a total capitalisation of SEK 566m. sales, save labour costs, create differentiation and reduce waste. Today our solutions are installed in more than 265,000 stores around the world. Our mission: to make retail an experience, About the report not just a transaction This report constitutes HL’s Communication on Our vision: to be the preferred supplier in our industry, Progress as part of the Company’s commitment and lead the development in creating innovative and to the UN Global Compact. It is also HL’s first sustainable solutions for a better shopping experience sustainability report with the support of Global around the world Reporting Initiative’s standards. The report covers the global activities of the HL Display Group, i.e. Our values: i) We take Ownership HL Display Holding AB and all its subordinate ii) We operate with Speed iii) We are One HL team legal entities. Operations beyond HL’s direct control, such as suppliers, are not included in the report. The sustainability information presented in the sustainability report for 2017 has not been assured by an external party. HL Sustainability Report 2017 3 / 14 Statement will be of great importance to our increased efforts in the area of sustainability. In 2010, HL signed the UN Global C ­ ompact, confirming by the CEO that we support the UN’s fundamental values and the ten principles on human rights, labour, environ­ment and anti-corruption, and that we are committed to make them part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day business. I am pleased to confirm our continued support for the In 2016, HL formulated a new vision that will be the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to guiding principle for the Company’s future development: the initiative and its ten principles. to be the preferred supplier in our industry, and lead In 2018 we bring the Company one step closer to the development in creating innovative and sustainable our vision with an expanded offer of both recycled solutions for a better shopping experience around the plastics, and bio-based, compostable plastics. This is a world. The new vision will bring an increased focus on momentous step for HL and a welcome addition to our sustainability and responsibility issues, particularly as one market leading offer for our customers. And proof to both of the six key strategies for achieving the vision is to be employees and stakeholders that we are committed to first choice for sustainable merchandising solutions. our vision and our role as a responsible employer and While creating the new vision, we have also established partner. an updated Corporate Responsibility policy and an initial road map with associated measures for the development Nina Jönsson, of sustainability work in the coming years. All in all, this President and CEO, HL Display HL Sustainability Report 2017 4 / 14 Management of the corporate responsibility work As part of HL’s commitment to provide a better shopping material aspects of the Company’s impact on sustainable experience, the Company aims to avoid negative aspects development has been categorised and prioritised during present in any supply chain process. HL’s corporate workshops arranged and facilitated by HL’s owner Ratos. responsibility ­programme is established and decided by The categorisation was based on intelligence gathering, the Board of ­Directors. HL’s Group Marketing Director industry analysis and a process that weighs in the has overall responsibility for the Group’s sustainability different stakeholders’ priorities and highly relevant issues efforts with the support of other members of Group for the operations. management. The Group’s local entities have a high level The following sustainability aspects have the highest of responsibility for day-to-day sustainability work, parpriority for HL: ticularly regarding environmental, and health and safety – Responsible operations with a focus on efficient use of issues at the ­production facilities. The effectiveness of resources the corporate responsibility performance is evaluated and – Promote corporate responsibility throughout the supply reported externally by Group management. chain – An attractive employer offering healthy and safe Policy documents working environments HL has developed clear guidelines for the corporate responsibility work. The important governing policy Stakeholders documents are HL’s Corporate Responsibility policy, HL engages in several different ways with its stake­ the Company’s Code of Conduct, policy for equal holders. For example, employees are engaged through opportunities, policy for external and internal working the annual employee survey and performance appraisals. environment, policy for whistleblowing and purchasing Customer interactions include ongoing dialogues and policy. The Board reviews the Corporate R ­ esponsibility meetings. HL connects with suppliers through regular policy annually. audits. The owners are represented in the Board of The Code of Conduct is a key policy document and a Directors and thus active in discussions and steering culture carrier that HL wants to permeate the Company. the Company and its sustainability agenda. HL’s key It is linked to other principles, including those enshrined stakeholders are: in the UN Global Compact. The Code of Conduct – Employees clarifies the fundamental principles that HL expects every – Customers employee to follow. It contains information about how – Owner the Company views its responsibility in terms of social – Suppliers and ethical, as well as environmental issues. The areas – Financial institutions and banks of responsibility described include among others human – Shoppers (the customers’ customer) rights, labour standards, environment, anti-corruption, consumer interests, competition and conflicts of interest. Materiality Assessment HL’s Group management has decided on key topics for the Company’s work on sustainability. In this work, the HL Sustainability Report 2017 5 / 14 Cooperation with suppliers Human Rights HL has a significant number of suppliers of products and production inputs around the world and it is important that they adhere to the same UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES standards as HL. HL has clear requirements for its suppliers. A central component of work Principle 1 in this area is that all suppliers must sign HL’s Businesses should support and respect the protection purchasing policy. By signing the document of internationally proclaimed human rights; and suppliers agree to meet defined requirements in several areas. These include compliance with ILO Principle 2 (International Labour Organization) conventions make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. and other principles related to human rights and labour. In addition, there are clear guidelines on business ethics (corruption) and environment. HL’s Code of Conduct expresses clear statements Failure to comply with the purchasing policy of position ensuring that the Company supports and can lead to the contract being cancelled. respects the protection of human rights and that the Company is not complicit in human rights abuses. HL HL regularly makes site visits and audits of the is also actively working to ensure that employees are Company’s most important suppliers. These treated fairly, equally and with respect (please see section will be audited at least once every other year. on Labour for information about the working conditions During 2017, HL conducted 5 audits of important and standards, health and safety at work and equal suppliers. All significant new suppliers in 2017 opportunities at HL). were screened in-line with the Code of Conduct. Making sure all employees are aware of the contents of the Code of Conduct and that they agree to comply with The audit is made up of two parts. The first it is an important part of the work to secure that HL is not part concerns if suppliers fully understand and complicit in human rights abuses. apply HL’s requirements in accordance with the All new employees in the Group in 2017 had the Code purchasing policy. The second part relates to the of Conduct explained to them and all employees in HL production organisation. Representatives from HL have signed the Code of Conduct, thereby agreeing to perform a review of the workshop based on several comply with it. predefined criteria, basically making sure that the Suppliers that HL engages must sign the Company’s workshop is at the level required to produce for HL. purchasing policy, thereby undertaking to comply with areas such as respect for human rights. (See also the The result of the audit is a rating ranging from A, Cooperation with suppliers section to the left.) which is the rating of a top supplier, to D, which is HL had no reports of violations of the Code of Conduct the worst rating leading to an immediate cancellaor the Purchasing Policy regarding human rights in 2017. tion of the cooperation. The B and C ratings imply that improvements are needed in various degrees. HL Sustainability Report 2017 6 / 14 Labour HL also expects its suppliers to adhere to the same standards in these areas. Suppliers are required to sign the Company’s purchasing policy, thereby undertaking compliance with ILO conventions and similar principles on working conditions. (See also the Cooperation with UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES suppliers section on page 5.) Principle 3 Equal opportunities Businesses should uphold the freedom of HL is a multicultural company with operations in association and the effective recognition many countries around the world. The overall gender of the right to collective bargaining; ­distribution is 46 percent women and 54 percent men. The Company will endeavour to give all its employees Principle 4 equal opportunities for professional development, the elimination of all forms of forced promotion and pay growth, regardless of background, and compulsory labour; gender, ethnicity or age. Zero tolerance applies to all forms of discrimination. Principle 5 HL is working in a long-term perspective on initiatives the effective abolition of child labour; and to increase gender equality in recruitment and career development. When there is a recruitment need, for Principle 6 example, the Company’s HR staff support the managers the elimination of discrimination in respect to increase quality in the recruitment process by ­reviewing of employment and occupation. existing groups to identify and correct any imbalances in areas such as gender distribution. HL’s HR staff are qualified in using tests to evaluate candidates’ ability, The working conditions and standards that HL follows are behaviour and personality, to ensure an unbiased and defined in the Code of Conduct. In brief, these include well-founded decision based on the canditates’ merits. a clear statement of position in favour of freedom of ­association and the right to collective bargaining, and an equally clear position against forced labour, child labour and all forms of discrimination. In addition, HL will offer a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. HL is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreements are in place. 17 percent of employees are covered by formal collective bargaining agreements. In general, the terms of employment that HL applies are in accordance with local laws and applicable collective agreements, whether the employees choose to be unionised or not. There is a further emphasis on the working environment in HL’s external and internal working environment policy. The policy states, for example, that HL will respect European health and safety standards in its factories, respect e ­ mployees’ freedom of association at all workplaces in accordance with the principles of the ILO (International Labour Organization) and UN, and work ­systematically to ensure compliance with legal requirements. Employees by employment contract Women Men Total Permanent employees 452 565 1,017 Temporary employees 47 30 77 Scandinavia Rest of Europe Asia Total Permanent employees 194 701 122 1,017 Temporary employees 4 67 6 77 84 employees work part time or are on temporary leave of absence from a permanent position (e.g. parental leave, study leave). 72 of these are women and 12 are men. Data compiled using HL’s global Human Resources system. HL Sustainability Report 2017 7 / 14 In the global annual employee engagement survey, the workforce to 80 percent. At the same time, induction employees were asked whether they felt they were given training for new employees has been enhanced. A new, equal opportunities for new roles/job advancement more comprehensive training package related to workas others in the workplace, if applicable. 88 percent place health and safety was also prepared. responded positive. The aim of the question is to identify The measures have had the intended effect, which areas of improvement and to work proactively. meant that the number of injuries decreased considerably in 2017. The number of workplace accidents leading Employee development to absence or sick leave in the Group in 2017 was 7 The basis of HL’s efforts to develop employees, and to (2016: 26). Of the 7, 2 were women and 5 men. No fatal have clear targets for both the job and for career developaccidents occurred. ment, consists of a well-established annual performance review process, which is followed up after six months. (More information about HL’s Human Resources and employee development work can be found on page 8.) OHSAS 18001 certification Whistleblower function In 2017, HL carried out work aimed at obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification for the production plant in Gliwice, A whistleblowing function has been in operation Poland. The application was submitted in 2017 and the at HL since 2013. The whistleblowing channel factory received its certification in May 2018. This means in use at HL is called Whistleblowing Centre, that all production facilities are now certified (Sundsvall in which is part of TripleB, a Swedish sustainability Sweden, Suzhou in China, Harlow in the UK, and Gliwice consultancy. By using the site, the employee in Poland). The Logistics Centre in Tours, France, also is guaranteed anonymity when reporting received its OHSAS 18001 certification in 2017. malpractice. Reports made through the system go directly to the Group Marketing Director who Health and safety in the workplace is responsible for HL’s sustainability work, and Health risks at HL are mainly associated with production. simultaneously to the principal owner Ratos’ HL aims to ensure safe workplaces with a good working representative on the Board of Directors. environment by carrying out preventive work, including regular updates of safety procedures and examination Examples of malpractice that HL wants to pick of different risk factors. All major offices and production up by having implemented a whistleblowing facilities have joint management-worker health and channel include non-compliance with local laws or safety committees. More than 80 percent of the workers breaches of HL’s Code of Conduct in areas such have their workplace controlled by a formal joint manas human rights, labour and anti-corruption. agement-worker health and safety committee. In 2017, all factory employees at HL’s production facilities have Information that comes through the whistleblowing undergone health and safety training. channel will be investigated centrally. If the At the factory in Gliwice in Poland, there was a temmalpractice proves to be well founded and correct, porary increase in workplace accidents in 2016. This was it will result in disciplinary and, where applicable, because production was expanded, and new production legal action. One (1) report was made through processes were added, while the proportion of temporary the whistleblowing system in 2017 (2016: 0). The staff increased. This resulted in a series of measures in report was investigated in accordance with HL’s 2017. Among other things, a major focus was placed on process. No further actions were necessary. ­increasing the proportion of permanent employees in HL Sustainability Report 2017 8 / 14 ­ anagers. The system also ensures that documentation, m which may contain sensitive data, can be handled in a safe and correct manner. Employees also have constant access to their own information through the system and can go back and follow up on agreed goals and the d ­ evelopment steps to be taken. The fact that the process is fully digital also facilitates monitoring for senior ­managers, who, for example, can easily check that all employees have completed the annual performance appraisal. As a further check, all employees were asked whether they had undergone a scheduled performance appraisal in the annual employee survey that the ­Company conducts, and 90 percent scored positive. Further development in digitising the HR processes in 2017 have added the process of determining ­compensation and benefits to employees, as well as additional analysis tools. Employee engagement survey In 2017, HL has continued to develop its employee engagement survey. The survey is fully digital and employees who do not use computers in their daily work are able to access tablets to participate in the survey. The response rate was 90 percent, which is high compared to other companies with a large part of the staff working in production. The survey is closely linked to the company strategy and covers four areas: Efficiency, Leadership, HL’s HR work Engagement and Sustainable work life. Based on the results, HL will prioritise and implement improvements that strengthen the Company’s position as an employer and support efforts to achieve the Company’s goals. In a­ ddition to the results at Company level, results are In 2016, HL began work on digitisation of shared with, and owned by, each local manager, and ­processes in the area of human resources. In about 100 managers have received their own results 2017 this work has continued, and a ­ dditional for their teams. Based on the results, they take local functions have been added to the HR system, measures – which are monitored– aimed at improving their business. The survey generated group-wide actions, including the process of determining such as internal communications and training. ­compensation and benefits to employees. Learning at work HL is working continuously on further training of HL is an international company that strives to occupy ­employees to ensure they are well-equipped for success a leading position in its areas of operation. This in turn in their work. ­Examples include continuous product places demands on employees’ skills and abilities, training for sales personnel at the Company, where the as it is ultimately their expertise, motivation and drive Company’s product managers organise local training for that enables HL to continuously strengthen its market the sales force as well as operations teams around the position. It is therefore a key task for HL to create the right world. In addition, global sales trainings for key account conditions for employees to develop and feel committed managers and account executives are held twice a year. to the Company. In 2017, HL introduced a new onboarding program for new employees who work internationally and in Established process for performance appraisals positions with many contacts with various parts of HL has had an established process for helping employees the HL ­organisation. The introductory program is held to develop for many years. The process consists of in Sweden, and both the CEO and other members of annual performance appraisals, in which employees Group Management participate in giving employees a receive constructive feedback on their work, together deep ­understanding of the company’s strategies and with clear goals defined jointly by the employee and their objectives. immediate supervisor. This also includes a development In order to further emphasise HL’s strategy and create plan, including training needs, with future development commitment to the Company’s chosen path forward, steps to be taken, and career planning. A mid-year review the company has also set up a Leadership Forum, takes place after six months, in which the individual goals which is a cross function meeting held twice a year. It is and development plan are followed up. aimed primarily at the Company’s top managers, such as regional and factory managers, who also receive Digital system for Human Resources presentation materials to be used and distributed in their HL uses a dedicated HR-system to facilitate performance own organisations. appraisal implementation both for employees and HL Sustainability Report 2017 9 / 14 Environment Environmental impact The main environmental impacts of HL’s production are related to plastic waste, use of plastic raw materials, and use of water and energy. The Company has a presence in approximately 50 markets, either direct or through UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES ­distributors, which means that shipments of products represent a source of environmental impact. Principle 7 HL also defines environmental requirements for its Businesses should support a precautionary ­suppliers in the Company’s purchasing policy. Suppliers approach to environmental challenges; must guarantee that they comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations in the country where Principle 8 they operate. They must also sign a written undertaking undertake initiatives to promote greater regarding REACH (the EU’s chemicals legislation). HL’s environmental responsibility; and major suppliers are large international producers of plastic raw materials, which have their own comprehenPrinciple 9 sive environmental programmes in place. encourage the development and diffusion of ­environmentally friendly technologies. ISO 14001 certification An on-going process in compliance with the ISO 14001 environmental management standard is an important part HL’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Code of Conof HL’s efforts to continuously improve its environmental duct define the fundamental guidelines that the Company ­performance. Within the framework of working with ISO follows regarding environmental impacts. These include 14001, several important parameters that influence the that HL has a precautionary approach to environmental Company’s environmental performance are monitored challenges and will work systematically to reduce the annually. environmental impact of its operations. A precautionary As of 2017, the production facilities in Sundsvall in approach is used in all investment decisions in production Sweden, Gliwice in Poland, and Suzhou in China have as well as in sourcing decisions, i.e. choice of suppliers. ISO 14001 certifications, meaning that 75 percent of HL’s production facilities are certified. The facility in Harlow, The supply chain UK remains to be certified and it is HL’s aim that this will HL has production in four factories. be done as soon as it is practicable. – Sundsvall in Sweden for extrusion of plastics – Gliwice in Poland for injection moulding, heat bending Raw materials and printing. HL’s main raw material is plastic, notably PVC. (See graph – Harlow in the UK for extrusion, injection moulding, heat to the left for more details about raw materials use). bending and printing. Several projects related to raw materials were launched in – Suzhou in China for extrusion and injection moulding of 2017. IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute conplastics. ducted a lifecycle analysis of HL’s products from cradle to grave. By clearly establishing the current situation, it will The majority of the products HL markets is produced at be easier for HL to ensure that the Company’s developthe Company’s own factories. Approximately 30 percent ment choices, such as the use of recycled materials or of sales consists of products sourced from external the development of brand new materials, will result in the suppliers in Asia, Europe and the USA. desired improvements from a sustainability perspective. Today, HL offers customers products within both extrusion and injection moulding, with 20 percent recycled material, which reduces environmental impact by Raw materials and input goods 10 percent according to the lifecycle analysis. 2017 % (2016) In 2017, HL also begun production of products made with plastics that are starch-based instead of oil-based – so-called PLA-materials – and thereby biodegradable. The products are now being tested in stores in Sweden and Finland. The new materials have been developed as part of a close collaboration between HL and KTH the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, that started in January 2017. HL complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals ­legislation, and this is considered in the Company’s PVC 31.7 (42.5) approval of new materials. PET 15.6 (19.8) Polystyrene (PS) 3.2 (3.5) ABS 2.9 (3.9) Other plastic materials 7.7 (3.1) Packaging materials 10.6 (11.2) Aluminium, steel and wire 15.9 (10.6) Other materials 12.4 (5.3) HL Sustainability Report 2017 10 / 14 Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Recycled /regranulated inhouse/ for own production 57 – – – – 57 – Recycled externally 1,228 389 197 42 – 1,856 1 Recycled for heating – – – 53 – 53 – Deposit – – – – 212 212 – Waste management Transport The waste generated at HL’s factories consists largely HL engages third-party suppliers for its transport and of plastics. HL addresses the problem of waste in requires these suppliers to have environmental proproduction in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic grammes in place. waste generated in production by streamlining production The majority of shipments are by truck, for example processes where possible. The second is to recycle from the European factories to the European hubs, and plastic and other waste as far as possible. from the hubs to the customers. Sea transport is the It is also HL’s aim to use plastic waste directly in its primary shipping method for ready-made goods from own production – both its own waste and waste material Asia and the USA, as well as for tools bought in Asia for from external sources. During the year, the Company use in the European factories. invested in production equipment at the Gliwice factory, HL constantly endeavours to improve transport effiwhich makes it possible to reuse plastic waste from the ciency by increasing the number of products per package production processes in new products. The recycled and reducing package size. The ability for a product to be material is blended with virgin material to ensure strength efficiently packaged is taken into consideration already in of the products. Similar solutions are in use at the factory the product development phase. in Sundsvall, Sweden. HL’s goal is that all waste from production will The Company’s fleet of vehicles eventually be recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s It is HL’s aim to gradually reduce CO₂ emissions from production facilities in 2017 was 2,187 tonnes (2016: 2,057 its fleet of vehicles. The Company has four different tonnes), and 90.2 percent of this was recycled (2016: 94.5 ­categories of vehicles and there are limits on CO₂ percent). emissions for each category. These limits are reviewed every 12-18 months to see if they can be lowered. The Energy consumption upper limit for carbon dioxide emissions is 125 g/km. HL’s direct electricity consumption in production was 25.8 GWh in 2017 (2016: 25.5 GWh). 43 percent of HL’s Respect for the environment in all operations energy consumption comes from renewable sources and, HL endeavours to promote a high level of environmental as an example, HL’s S ­ undsvall factory runs entirely on awareness in everyday activities at its offices around the ­hydrogenerated electricity. Various measures for reducing world. This means collecting and sorting paper, packagelectricity consumption are being implemented at the ing material and old electronic equipment and ensuring factories. These range from heating the premises using they are sent for recycling. waste heat from machinery to installing time-controlled HL has been using telephone and video conferences lighting. as an alternative to travel between offices for many years Water usage in production is primarily related to now. With technological development and the launch of the cooling of extruded and injection moulded plastic services such as Skype, Google Hangout and others, the products. HL’s factory in Gliwice uses a closed cooling use of video conferencing at HL has increased further. water system for injection moulding to reduce water This means lower travel costs for the Company and a consumption. reduction in the environmental impacts of business travel. During the year, preparatory work has been initiated to investigate new opportunities to significantly reduce water consumption at the Sundsvall factory. In 2017, 367,499 m³ of water (municipal water supplies) were used at the Group’s production facilities (2016: ­367 000 m³). Energy consumption 2017 11,040 8,596 6,213 367,499 Electricity ”Green” (MWh) Electricity ”normal” (MWh) Gas (MWh) Water (m³) HL Sustainability Report 2017 11 / 14 Anti-Corruption The training focused on all aspects of ­contracts from an economic as well as a contractual and ethical perspective. Measures also include that all new employees in 2017 had the Code of Conduct, which contains clear rules of practice regarding corruption, explained to them. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES All employees in HL have signed the Code of Conduct, thereby agreeing to comply with it. Clear guidelines on Principle 10 business ethics are also included in the purchasing policy Businesses should work against corruption in that all suppliers must sign. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption a risk area The risk analyses that HL has conducted previously have Credibility, sound ethical values and regulatory identified corruption as a risk area for the Company. ­compliance are essential for HL to be a preferred partner Risks are mainly associated with purchases made in local to its c ­ ustomers and continue to develop successfully. markets. The risk of corruption also exists in customer HL’s Code of Conduct demonstrates the Company’s relationships. HL operates in some risk markets, where strong position against corruption. The Company will some parties may try to facilitate deals by making direct maintain a good reputation for honesty, integrity and payments to individuals in the client company. taking responsibility. This means that HL will not tolerate Increased centralisation and control of purchasing involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption in any form. activities plays an important part in the Company’s anti-corruption efforts. Any local suppliers that HL wishes Measures to counter corruption to engage in the regions must be validated centrally. HL has well-developed management systems and strucThis ensures that the prices and other terms are in line tures for financial monitoring and reporting. These are key with the Company’s other collaborations. Under the local tools to, in daily work, minimise the risk of irregularities purchasing procedures, the individual placing a purchase and corruption in the business. order is not the one who identifies and selects a supplier. The regulatory framework “Instructions for Authorities, In the selling activity, agreed prices are entered into HL’s Decisions and Approvals” represents an important tool for ERP system. Invoicing and customer payments relating to combating irregularities in the business. It contains clearly each order are controlled by the Company’s back-office documented rules that govern the authority of employees function and are separate from field sales. at different levels in the Company and how decisions are HL did not have any corruption-related incidents that to be made and approvals given in the Group. led to disciplinary action in 2017 (2016: 0). In 2017, all employees who have contract negotiations in their duties have undergone training in contractual law. HL Sustainability Report 2017 12 / 14 GRI Index Page GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Standard Disclosures Organizational Profile GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2 hl-display.com 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 102-4 Location of operations 2, 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 102-6 Markets served 2 hl-display.com 102-7 Scale of the organization 2 102-8 Information on employees and 6 other workers 102-9 Supply chain 9 102-10 Significant changes to the organization No significant change and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 9 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact 102-13 Membership of associations UN Global Compact plus various trade organisations in the markets where HL Display operates Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 2, 4 This report norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure www.hlBoard of directors and its display.com committees: Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 4 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 6 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 4 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Nothing outside normal business and ­organisational ­improvement programs HL Sustainability Report 2017 13 / 14 Page GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Standard Disclosures Reporting Practice GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated HL Display Holding AB financial statements and all subordinate legal entities 102-46 Defining report content and topic 4 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 4 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period 2017 102-51 Date of most recent report This is HL Display’s first GRI report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Peder Clason, Group the report Marketing Director, HL Display 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with This report has been the GRI Standards prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index 12, 13 102-56 External assurance The report has not been assured by an external partner Page GRI Standard Disclosure reference Comment Material topics Environmental Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 4, 9, 10 GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 9 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdraval by source 10 Social Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 4, 6, 7 GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-1 Workers representation in formal 7 and Safety joint m ­ anagement–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 7 HL only accounts for ­occupational diseases, lost days, and number of incidents leading ­absenteeism, and number of work-related to absence or sick leave fatalities Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1/2/3 Management approach 4, 5 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 5 Assessment social criteria HL Sustainability Report 2017 14 / 14 The better shopping experience HL DISPLAY AB (publ) Box 1118, Cylindervägen 18 Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 info@hl-display.com SE-131 26 Nacka Strand Sweden www.hl-display.com
