GN Store Nord A/S Responsibility report The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 2 Communication on Progress ⋅ Contents Contents Contents Company profile 3 Statement of support from the Executive Management 4 Human & labor rights 5 People excellence 7 Product safety and development 9 Environment and climate 11 Citizenship 13 Membership of UN Global Compact Member since: January 14, 2010 Number of employees: 5,575 Sector: Health care equipment and electronics Reporting date: February 7, 2018 The report covers the period: January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 This report forms part of the management’s report in the Annual Report 2017 for GN Store Nord A/S, and constitutes GN’s corporate responsibility report according to Section 99a in the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report is not covered by the audit. Visit www.gn.com/About/Corporate-responsibility to read our responsibility guidelines and policies. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 3 Communication on Progress ⋅ Company profile Contents Company profile The GN Group’s declared purpose is Making Life Sound Better with a vision to become the leader in intelligent audio solutions that transform people’s lives through the power of sound. Building on the Group’s highly specialized sound processing know-how, GN offers an exceptional portfolio of medical, professional and consumer audio solutions Our business Our headsets are sold via distributors and retailers in some 70 countries around the world. Three regional warehouses in the The GN Group operates in 100 markets across the world and United States, the Netherlands and Hong Kong optimize leademploys 5,575 people at its own locations in around 50 time. The global distribution of products is handled by one countries. partner responsible for the entire process – from leaving the factory via a warehouse to the final customer delivery. The company was founded in 1869 and is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Our headsets are produced by carefully selected manufacturers in China, and most components are sourced GN Hearing from suppliers in Asia. GN Audio works with a small number People with hearing loss are at the heart of everything we do. of tier-one manufacturers supported by more than 100 subOur hearing aids help people feel more involved, connected suppliers. and in control. In an ever-smarter world, we think big and challenge the norm so that we can transform lives through GN’s shared purpose, vision and proposition the power of sound. Purpose Our hearing aids are sold in 100 countries across the world. Making Life Sound Better GN Hearing has its own organizations in 50 countries and operates via partners and distributors in another 50 countries. Vision The leader in intelligent audio solutions transforming lives GN Hearing has its central manufacturing facilities in China, through the power of sound Malaysia and Denmark. Regional manufacturing centers are located in the United States, Great Britain and Malaysia. Brand proposition Intelligent audio solutions that let you Hear More, Do More GN Audio and Be More than you ever thought possible GN’s integrated headset and communications solutions assist professionals in all types of businesses in being more Please visit www.gn.com for more information. productive. Our wireless headsets and earbuds are designed to fit any lifestyle from sports enthusiasts to commuters and office workers. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 4 Communication on Progress ⋅ Statement of support from the Executive Management Contents Statement of support from the Executive Management GN’s purpose is Making Life Sound Better. We believe in the We do this by helping users block out noise and by delivering power of sound to transform people’s lives, and through our crystal-clear sound. GN’s consumer headsets and earbuds are intelligent audio solutions we enable people to Hear More, Do engineered to deliver supreme sound and great battery life to More and Be More than they ever thought possible. users for whom calls, music and media consumption are important in their daily lives. Our products improve people’s mobility and quality of life and enable them to control their own soundscape in an As a company, we are committed to acting in a responsible increasingly busy and noisy world. manner throughout our entire value chain and in all business matters. We consider this essential for reaching our longSince 1869, GN has utilized technological innovation to term strategic goals. facilitate and enhance communication between people. We recognize that our manufacturing, logistics and products Today, our focus is on helping people with hearing loss live do not only affect the users of our products, but also our life as unimpededly as possible, and on assisting professionals employees, our suppliers and partners, and the communities and consumers with state-of-the-art headset and in which we operate. communications solutions. All GN’s stakeholders should always be able to trust that our GN’s legacy of producing world-first sound solutions and products are produced in a safe manner and that we conduct pioneering advancements in hearing technology include: 5th our business based on high ethical standards. This is at the generation 2.4 GHz technology in hearing aids for direct top of our agenda at all times. connectivity; 3rd generation Binaural Directionality for leading natural sound; the world’s first Made for iPhone With this report, we reconfirm our commitment to the ten hearing aid with direct stereo sound streaming; the world’s principles of the United Nations Global Compact. first cloud-based remote fine-tuning solution; award-winning apps providing optimal user experience and satisfaction. Executive Management GN’s professional headsets and speakerphone solutions are From left: engineered to help businesses be even more productive by René Svendsen-Tune, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Audio enabling users to better concentrate, communicate and Anders Hedegaard, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing collaborate, and to make conversation easier. Marcus Desimoni, CFO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 5 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents Human & labor rights The GN Group sets the bar high when it comes to its business standards and interaction with employees and suppliers. GN is responsible for the people who take part in the manufacturing and support of its products and services worldwide, as well as for our impact on the surrounding world Supply chain Qualification of new suppliers When we engage with a new supplier, we follow a strict Responsible sourcing qualification process to ensure that the new supplier can live GN requires all its suppliers to comply with GN’s up to our standards and requirements: Code of Conduct, which covers bribery, human and labor rights (child labor, wages, working hours) and 1. Initial screening: Before engaging with a new supplier, our safety. It is essential for GN to ensure that no violations of procurement team visits the supplier to understand their such rights occur. business However, GN acknowledges that in a long-term commercial 2. Capability screening: We have a team with technical, marelationship there is a risk that the supplier may shift its focus terial and quality knowledge, which evaluates and audits from human and labor rights as well as safety issues towards the potential partner’s capabilities and processes cost optimization. In order to mitigate such risk, GN is in close dialog with its suppliers as the best results are created 3. Evaluation: We document our conclusion of these screenthrough clear expectation setting and cooperation. ings, and a decision is made in alignment with our sourcing strategy In addition, GN continually assesses its suppliers and monitors their compliance through supplier self-assessments, 4. Qualification: The qualification is finalized when the properformance monitoring, audits and site visits. curement team signs a supply agreement that regulates the future cooperation Regular meetings are set up with all key suppliers to ensure follow-up on standards, procedures, quality, etc. 5. Performance monitoring: Performance of all suppliers is monitored, and audits are conducted frequently to ensure If GN experiences any issues or breaches in relation to its a consistent high performance. Code of Conduct from suppliers, it raises a non-conformity case, and suppliers will be required to provide an action plan Repetitive work to correct findings within an agreed time frame. However, if GN Hearing has its own manufacturing facilities. GN discovers critical issues at its suppliers it will not hesitate The main hearing aid manufacturing and to take more severe actions. distribution sites are located in China, Malaysia and the United States. In addition, certain key components Both GN Hearing and GN Audio have responsibility-related are manufactured at GN’s site in Denmark. requirements included in their supplier audits. Audit topics include issues such as child labor, working hours and health & All jobs in these facilities are reviewed and rated for potential safety. health & safety related concerns. Repetitive work is being mitigated through task rotation to vary work positions as well In 2017, GN Hearing and GN Audio performed 70 audits at as prolonged break times for particularly exposed employees. suppliers. Most audit findings were related to CSR and Quality, including working hours, health & safety issues in All sites have managers with direct health & safety production and manufacturing process control. GN Hearing responsibility to ensure operator safety. and GN Audio are in constructive dialog with suppliers where a non-conformity case has been raised, in order to ensure implementation of required remedial actions. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 6 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents Occupational health & safety In 2017, GN took steps to enhance the process for assessing Providing a safe and secure working environment is important and managing corruption risk associated with third-party to GN, and GN’s operations are relatively low-risk compared business partners. This work will continue in 2018. We also to other industries in general. conducted two thorough anti-corruption compliance reviews of selected GN business units, in order to identify risk areas We acknowledge that suppliers may implement occupational and ensure compliance with applicable legislation and GN health & safety standards in a less stringent manner than at policies. GN’s own sites. Therefore, we have a strong focus on ensuring compliance with our occupational health & safety Whistleblower system requirements, both when onboarding new suppliers and GN’s whistleblower hotline, Alertline, is available partners as well as through regular supplier audits. in 27 countries and 21 languages and is independently managed by a third party. The Compliance hotline can be used by employees as well as external parties to report a concern or perceived misconduct. Business ethics Reporting can take place via the internet GN’s commitment to business ethics and (www.gnstorenord.alertline.eu) or via one of the local compliance with international regulations and Alertline phone numbers. internal policies is anchored in our Ethics Guide, anti-corruption policies, our Codes of Conduct The system is an important tool for ensuring that alleged and other internal guidelines. These outline the fundamental illegal or unethical conduct is reported and immediately requirements for how GN operates and describe the addressed. All complaints are treated with confidentiality, and responsibilities and ethical standards expected of all GN will not discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass or in employees and relevant business partners. any other way discriminate against an employee due to any lawful action taken by the employee with respect to good To ensure and document employees’ familiarity with our faith reporting of complaints or participation in a related Ethics Guide and other key policies at all times, relevant investigation. This is emphasized in the GN non-retaliation employees electronically sign off on their compliance within policy. specific areas and take GN’s e-learning courses within anticorruption and competition compliance on a regular basis. In 2017, GN received eight reports within the scope of issues This is supplemented with face-to-face compliance training which can be reported through the hotline. The allegations for selected groups of employees. were primarily fraud against GN, conflict of interest/corrupt practices and lack of business integrity. All relevant cases have been investigated, and appropriate remediating as well as disciplinary actions were taken where relevant. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 7 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents People excellence GN’s employees are essential in building a winning team. Offering all employees, irrespective of gender, age and nationality, the same opportunities for development as well as an engaging working environment is our responsibility. To further promote this effort, it was decided in 2017 to strengthen the HR function in GN by investing in the first GN Global Human Capital Management System (HCMS) to be fully implemented during 2018. This system will facilitate the work on several aspects of people excellence in GN and function as GN’s employee master data system. Leading talent Leadership principles and development GN’s goal is to build the best team and create the best working environment to support its purpose of Making Life Sound Better. The GN Group has developed a set of shared leadership principles to be applied by all GN’s leaders. These principles have been introduced to guide people managers across GN in how to lead in accordance with GN’s values and strategic direction. The principles have been integrated into GN’s talent management program. A leadership development program aimed specifically at senior leaders was launched in 2017, and the leadership principles have been included as part of performance appraisals for senior managers as well. A total of six programs have been conducted throughout GN in 2017, including workshops and training sessions. Performance-based career development High performance is the driver for qualifying for senior positions in GN. We want career development to be connected to performance, irrespective of gender, age and nationality, as we firmly believe that diverse teams and leadership have a substantial positive impact on business results and organizational performance. To ensure performance-based career development, all whitecollar employees conduct a performance review and a development planning dialog with their manager at least twice annually, which is followed up upon in regular one-toone meetings. This gives the manager and the employee an opportunity to reflect on past and future performance and development. The individual performance review and development planning dialog is supplemented by a talent review and succession The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 8 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents planning process where all managers assess their employees’ Gender diversity in senior management and performance potential. These assessments are further rethe Board of Directors viewed in the individual management teams to align evaluations. This provides input for GN’s succession planning for key Senior management positions and individual development plans. During the year, By the end of 2017, women filled 19% of the company’s HR, individual business units and senior management conduct senior management positions. GN aims for 25% during the quarterly follow-up meetings to ensure progress on actions. implementation of the 2017 2019 strategy and will continue to strengthen efforts to build a pipeline of future female Mentoring and graduate programs candidates for senior positions. Developing talent of today into tomorrow’s leaders is important to continue the GN Group’s sustainable growth. Our mentoring programs are Percentage of women in senior strategic development activities, which aim at management positions developing high performers and growing a leadership pipe25% line. The mentoring programs include mentees from all re19% gions of the company. 14% 15% 16% Three candidates completed the GN Group Global Graduate program in 2017. Currently 13 graduates are enrolled in the programs. Four of these are women, supporting our goal to increase the number of women in management, as outlined 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020e below. New graduate programs are planned for 2018 in Global Finance and Global Marketing. Board of Directors The Board of Directors is dedicated to the belief that diversity Onboarding strengthens any governing body and acknowledges the importance of diversity in general, including diversity of gender, Highly committed and motivated employees nationality and competencies. An engaged workforce is key to achieving GN’s ambitions as a company. To measure the engageThe GN Board of Directors had two female members by the ment, we conduct a group-wide global Engageend of 2017 and aims to have three female board members ment Survey. The next survey will be conducted in the first by the end of 2020. half of 2018. Results from the most recent survey – carried out in 2015 – showed that employees were highly motivated and committed. We achieved a response rate of 95%. Strong emphasis is placed on following up on the survey results, and managers and teams at all levels work to identify and execute on action plans to constantly improve GN as a workplace. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 9 Communication on Progress ⋅ Product safety and development Contents Product safety and development The GN Group is committed to delivering superior quality and to continuously increasing customer satisfaction with the user experience in focus. Utilizing GN’s core technologies and sound expertise, the Group will consistently deliver new and improved offerings with strong user benefits and features Product development products are developed under a highly regulated quality GN possesses a unique combination of system complying with ISO 13485 and FDA 21CFR 820 CGMP competencies across our business areas – in as well as other national standards, which are used by GN relation to technology, engineering and Hearing to control a number of product standards and commercial execution. processes. GN is the only company with intelligent audio expertise Animal testing across the medtech, the enterprise and the consumer space. Hearing aids are classified as medical devices and GN’s technology is founded in world-leading expertise in the must comply with European and US regulations as human ear, sound, wireless technology and miniaturization, well as other regulatory standards applicable in the linking deep insight and knowledge from the hearing aid and country in which the devices are sold. the headset industries – all under the same roof. This implies that all materials and components of hearing aids Our research and development spans a wide range of discithat are in contact with human skin must fulfil all relevant plines, including acoustics, signal processing, neuroscience, biocompatibility requirements. The evaluation of human-computer interaction, artificial intelligence, audiology biocompatibility includes testing of the relevant and engineering. material/components for cytotoxicity, skin sensitization and irritation, and includes animal testing to some extent. We use these unique in-house competencies to develop intelligent audio solutions that let our users Hear More, Do More GN Hearing’s policy is to always try to minimize the amount and Be More than they ever thought possible, and to fulfil our of testing required by setting up tests and test schemes in the purpose of Making Life Sound Better for our users. most efficient way. All animal tests used by GN Hearing are performed by contract laboratories. We continually refine the way our products are produced to make the most of the raw materials and to design more sustainable products with the highest possible safety. Policies Quality policies Product safety The GN Group is committed to delivering superior quality and the best value to our customers and has made its quality poliMaterials and substances cies available online. The GN Group is conscious about materials and substances in its products. To avoid harmful maConflict minerals policy terials and substances in products, materials and Conflict minerals (gold, tantalum, tungsten and components undergo thorough testing during the developtin) originating from mines controlled by military ment phase. groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo and nine adjacent countries have been widely reported to be the GN complies with the ROHS 2 directive as well as other local major driver of violence in Central Africa. and international legislation. In addition, both GN Hearing and GN Audio have implemented the REACH regulation. Changes The GN Group is concerned for the well-being of people and to standards and legislation are monitored closely. communities and consequently does not want to use any conflict minerals. We have, therefore, implemented a groupDue to the different nature of the two group companies, wide policy to avoid conflict minerals from these mines in GN different quality controls and procedures apply. Regulations products. Under this policy, GN is taking the following actions: for GN Hearing are, by nature, more comprehensive as the products are classified as medical devices. GN Hearing’s The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 10 Communication on Progress ⋅ Product safety and development Contents 1. GN requires its suppliers to exclude conflict minerals from GN products 2. GN requires suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct 3. GN has put an audit program in place where proof of compliance will be required from suppliers that conflict minerals are procured only from smelters end refiners that have been found to be compliant with the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program of the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) By the end of 2017, GN Hearing and GN Audio have achieved 100% data coverage on validating the smelters identified and used in our supply chain as conflict-free. Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 11 Communication on Progress ⋅ Environment and climate Contents Environment and climate The GN Group is committed to minimizing its impact on the environment and climate through responsible planning and execution of activities throughout the supply chain Product development sumption, including installation of electrical lighting sensors, The GN Group strives to find unique ways to improve conversion of lamps to LED and upgrading of high power quality of life with superior technology. GN continuequipment, such as exhaust systems and pumps. These initiaally evaluates the way it creates products to make tives led to a reduction in energy use at GN’s manufacturing the most of raw materials and to design more sustainable facility in Denmark of 10 %, 6 % at facilities in Spain and the products with the highest possible quality. UK, and 3% at the Xiamen facility in China. GN’s products are by nature small. A typical hearing aid Water consumption at GN’s manufacturing facilities is very weighs between 2 and 6 grams, while headsets, including limited and is primarily used for sanitation purposes. base station and power supplies, weigh between 10 and 550 Initiatives to reduce water consumption include employee grams. Due to the nature and character of our business, our awareness training, water consumption control and environmental and climate impact is assessed to be low. installation of water-reducing toilets. In 2017, these initiatives have led to a reduction in water use of 43% at the facility in The main risks of causing negative environmental and climate Denmark, and a 20% reduction at the facility in Xiamen. impacts arises at the manufacturing facilities and in the supply chain, stemming from the use of energy and water, generWaste in production ation of waste and waste management. Consequently, optiFor all our production lines, we have set a mal use of resources at the manufacturing facilities and rethreshold for acceptable waste levels. If waste sponsible supply chain management are focal areas for GN’s exceeds this threshold, it will trigger a production activities relating to climate and environment. stop. Corrective and preventive actions will then be implemented to decrease waste before production is Supply chain and production restarted. Energy and water consumption Waste management In 2017, several initiatives were taken by our Most of our waste is very small in quantity, but all manufacturing facilities to minimize energy conour manufacturing facilities use licensed disposal contractors that remove any waste and properly Energy and water consumption Energy reduction (2017) Reduction in water consumption (2017) 12% 10% 10% 50% 43% 8% 6% 40% 6% 30% 20% 4% 3% 20% 2% 10% 0% 0% Praestoe (DK) Xiamen (CN) Spain/UK Praestoe (DK) Xiamen (CN) The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 12 Communication on Progress ⋅ Environment and climate Contents dispose of it. Waste may include plastic, chemicals, paint, Certifications scrap parts etc. ISO 14001 Some waste is re-used (e.g. boxes and plastic) via recycling GN Audio’s repair center in China is certified under operations managed by external companies. Other waste, the ISO 14001 environmental management syssuch as electronics, is processed to allow other companies to tem, and its suppliers are requested to be certified reclaim and re-use materials. under this standard also. In addition, preliminary work was commenced in 2017 to have GN manufacturing facilities certified under ISO 14001. Policies Sustainable IT certification GN’s approach to the climate and the environment A number of GN Audio’s headsets for professional work enviis founded in the Group’s CSR policy, where GN afronments are TCO Certified. TCO certification is an internafirm its commitment to reduce negative environtional third-party sustainability certification for IT products. It mental and climate impact throughout the supply combines requirements for corporate responsibility at the chain. Furthermore, GN expects its suppliers to adhere to relmanufacturing facilities, user safety and ergonomic design as evant environmental legislation as stated in GN’s Supplier well as minimal environmental impact for both the product Code of Conduct. and its production during its entire life cycle. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 13 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents Citizenship Being a global citizen is essential for how the GN Group does business. We believe that the long-term success of the company is dependent on the affluence of the communities in which GN operates The GN Store Nord Foundation Supporting research The GN Store Nord Foundation provides grants for scientific, technical, national, non-profit and humane purposes in acSponsoring research at the Technical University of Dencordance with its mission and is very pleased to be able to mark support purposes deemed to be of social importance to sociGN Hearing co-sponsors the research activity of the Centre ety. for Acoustic-Mechanical Micro Systems (CAMM) at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). The focus of the research Social projects center is to study how sound and vibration interact in closely coupled acoustic-mechanic microsystems, such as hearing Access to healthcare: Hearing aid project in aids. South Africa GN’s hearing aid project in South Africa continued This is a new field of research, and GN Hearing expects CAMM to contribute to the overall hearing health in to provide a solid platform for potential product development 2017. In this program, South Africans with limited financial that will benefit the hearing impaired through findings and resources and difficult living conditions are eligible to receive the professional knowledge of the center’s future candidates. free hearing aids donated by GN. GN Hearing is also co-sponsoring The Centre for Applied Hearing Research (CAHR), which was established in 2003 at In 2017, a total of 469 completely new hearing aids were the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) to conduct fundaprovided to and fitted on eligible patients identified by GN’s mental and applied research with focus on human speech local partner in the project. All recipients have their new communication, auditory processing and perception, hearing hearing aids professionally fitted by an audiologist educated impairment and hearing instruments. by GN’s partner at their local hospital or at a local charity organization, securing a high level of user satisfaction. CAHR is part of DTU Hearing Systems, and the sponsorship is an ongoing commitment by GN. The purpose of the center is The South African hearing aid project was initiated in 2011 to promote research and education within the field of when GN entered into collaboration with the public sector in acoustic communication with focus on the origin, nature and South Africa. The program initially covered two provinces but consequences of hearing impairment. The center has has been extended to cover all nine provinces. developed to become one of the world’s leading research institutes within their field with a total staff of 45 academics, Helping 90,000 people with the basics including 22 PhD students. In 2017, GN Audio entered into a partnership with HAMAP, a non-governmental organization that works to improve the life Supporting clinical research and health of some of the world’s most vulnerable people. GN Hearing co-sponsors a research project on Better hEAring Rehabilitation (BEAR), which was With this partnership, GN Audio has made a contribution in established in 2016. This five-year project is helping close to 90,000 people gain access to clean drinking carried out by a consortium of hospital clinics, universities and water, basic sanitation and education, emphasizing GNs comhearing aid manufacturers. This large-scale effort will mitment to improving living conditions globally. document the effect of the current clinical practices, develop new diagnostic methods for creating more customized solutions for the patients and establish new guidelines for improved clinical practices benefitting consumers. The aim is to improve the education of fitters of hearing aids to the benefit of patients. So far, approximately 2,000 patients have been enrolled in the project. The BEAR project will employ 11 PhD students and five postdocs. The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017 14 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents As part of a global roll-out in 2017, GN’s values were discussed – and celebrated – by GN employees across the world. In Denmark, all employees gathered for the GN Values Games at a sports stadium – and for a photo of a gigantic human GN logo, signifying the crucial importance of people for GN’s continued sustainable growth. GN Store Nord A/S Lautrupbjerg 7 DK-2750 Ballerup Denmark Co. reg. no 24257843 +45 45 75 00 00 info@gn.com gn.com The GN Group’s Communication on Progress 2017
