Sustainability Report Executive Summary CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary A Message from the CEO and Chairman Companies increasingly embed sustainability efforts into their businesses because it is the right thing to do and because these changes create positive impacts on performance. Today, we see business leaders actively pursuing transparent and responsible practices that improve their company’s bottom line, and the world itself. At CA Technologies, our motivation comes from the opportunity to help shape the future. We concentrate not only on what is essential to our business success, but also on what works for our people, our communities and our shared natural environment. CA’s position gives us the ability to influence core themes we believe must be addressed in order for our industry to thrive today and in the years to come. These imperatives are climate change; industry trust and security; and skills for the future workforce. We have also embedded the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our sustainability strategy to help accelerate progress. Climate. Research from the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) says the tech sector could help cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2030 by enabling companies and consumers to use and save their energy more intelligently. According to the GeSI’s research, information and communication technology (ICT) enabled solutions are predicted to generate $11.4 trillion in stakeholder benefits by 2030, thanks to new revenues and cost savings from greater efficiencies and decreased waste. At CA Technologies, we work to maximize opportunities for our customers’ IT operations by providing an efficient platform that limits resource use and products that strive for sustainability in all respects. We have the capability to reduce our customers’ electricity consumption by writing algorithms for maximum efficiency by minimizing idle time. We aim to ensure that our products make efficient use of physical resources, like materials and energy, throughout their life cycles. These kinds of software solutions have contributed to our own reductions in energy use, helping us to achieve our first greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction target five years ahead of our 2020 goal, and reducing our overall carbon footprint by approximately 37 percent since 2006. Trust and Security. According to the World Economic Forum’s Global Risk Report 2018, cyberattacks are now the third most likely global risk, behind only extreme weather and natural disasters. The cumulative impact of data breaches and data theft is immense, with the total cost to companies and consumers estimated to be $2 trillion by 2019. The fact is, no matter how old or new it is, every business is becoming a digital business. At CA, we offer identity and access management solutions that empower our customers to take a proactive approach to enterprise security. And when our customers are more secure, their customers can put more trust in technology, knowing their private data is being protected. We bolstered our security capabilities with the addition of Veracode to our suite of solutions, which enables developers to run a dynamic security scan for a deployed Web application to track release content from planning to production. Skills for the Future Workforce. We recently announced our goal to reach 50,000 under-18 students in Europe by 2020 to inspire them to consider future careers in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM fields), and to help address the chronic skills gap. We’re also a founding partner of the World Economic Forum’s IT Industry Skills Initiative, helping to address job displacement arising from automation and the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The initiative is committed to reskilling one million people with resources and training opportunities on the SkillSET portal by January 2021. In the U.S., we continue to work with our nonprofit partners to address the gap in STEM skills, including the Tech Girls Rock initiative we created with Boys & Girls Clubs of America. 1 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary A Message from (continued) the CEO and Chairman At CA, our solutions help customers optimize their resources and execute on their strategic visions. They help drive competition and the economy. And they can help level the playing field by providing educational and financial opportunities to those who might not otherwise have them. Part of being sustainable is reducing our impact by continually focusing on resource efficiency. We have accomplished a lot through this concentrated effort, and we’ll continue to work to decouple our environmental impact from that of business growth. Beyond our own operations, we believe data, insights and software are the enablers of future growth across the globe. We’re committed to unlocking these opportunities to accelerate greater efficiencies for our customers and community. Mike Gregoire Art Weinbach Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board 2 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability at CA Technologies We believe software is a key enabler in solving the world’s most pressing problems. That’s why we’re committed to utilizing our unique skills in areas like energy efficiency, diversity and inclusion, innovation, customer experience and STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) to address current challenges like climate change, cybersecurity, and re-skilling, as well as the issue of trust within the technology sector. We continue our journey to be a responsible, progressive, and thoughtful company, and our 40 years of experience helps us carefully consider the changing role technology plays in our daily lives. CA in Focus: Larry Castellanos Larry Castellanos School Computer Technology Specialist Talented & Gifted School for Young Scholars Harlem, New York When Larry Castellanos was in kindergarten at the Talented & Gifted School for Young Scholars, it probably never occurred to him that he would return to the very same school years later as the school’s computer technology specialist. Larry is responsible for maintaining the technology in the school—from the existing infrastructure to any new technology that may be added. “I’m the person they consult when it comes to improving the school’s technology and upkeep of it,” says Larry. “I’m also the data analyst—we have state tests every year, and I’m responsible for analyzing data, converting raw numbers into something presentable, and finding trends within the data.” Larry is also involved with the Guppy Tank App Challenge, an initiative created by CA and PENCIL, a nonprofit that partners businesses and public schools. How did Larry get interested in technology in the first place? It may have all started when he and his fourth-grade class took a field trip to CA’s headquarters almost a decade ago. “The CEO asked if anyone had questions,” remembers Larry. “I asked him what his typical day was like—and that’s when he started the President for a Day program.” The idea was to introduce students to CA and technology as a career—and Larry was the first CA President for a Day. He spent a day getting an inside look at a major technology company—and that’s one reason he works in technology now. “To be exposed that early in my life to the possibilities really opened my eyes to what could be,” says Larry. Today, that includes using his data analysis skills to play a role in the progress of his school’s students. “I enjoy being able to contribute by helping the teachers pinpoint the strength of education and the curriculum where Common Core ends and where these students need help,” explains Larry. “It’s great to be able to use technology to help improve the education and progress of the school.” 3 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability (continued) at CA Technologies Our Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals At CA, we carefully consider the relationship between our business and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and have couched our sustainability goals and initiatives within this framework. Focusing on the five goals that most closely reflect our company values and sphere of influence, we have set specific targets to directly assess our progress against the UN’s vision for sustainable growth. Two of these five goals directly address environmental impact (Goal 7— Affordable and Clean Energy, and Goal 13—Climate Action). CA has committed to reducing our carbon footprint by 40 percent by 2030 as compared with 2015 levels. This commitment affects every decision we make within the business, from our resources and supply chain to IT management, through to our approach to waste management. Below, we have outlined these goals based on their relevance to our operations and sustainability areas of focus. Primary/Core Importance SDG 4. Quality Education SDG 5. Gender Equality SDG 7. Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 13. Climate Action SDG 17. Partnerships for the Goals Quality education and gender equality are core to CA’s commitments around diversity and STEM education. CA is also strongly committed to affordable and clean energy, and to climate action. And our company has historically sought out partnerships—with nonprofits, nongovernmental organizations, government agencies, and other companies—to amplify our impact within our primary areas of concern. In 2017 we examined the UN’s specific targets contributing to these SDGs. We used those targets to further outline our alignment with the SDGs and identify specific activities that CA can leverage to best impact positive change. Below are the key initiatives that we have identified that best support the Sustainable Development Goals. UN Global Target Compact SDG Number Target CA Support (04) Quality 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access We partner with multiple education Education for all women and men organizations, particularly in the areas to affordable and quality of STEM education. We work with over technical, vocational and 20 organizations worldwide to promote tertiary education, including quality technical education to underserved university populations and communities. 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase Through our Create Tomorrow program, the number of youth and CA pledges to reach 50,000 under-17 adults who have relevant students by 2020 to inspire them to skills, including technical consider future careers in STEM and to help and vocational skills, for address the chronic skills gap. Additionally, employment, decent jobs and CA is a founding partner in the World entrepreneurship Economic Forum IT Industry Skills Initiative to re-skill 1 million adults by 2021 and prepare them for jobs of the future. 4 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability (continued) at CA Technologies UN Global Target Compact SDG Number Target CA Support (04) Quality 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender We are committed to eliminating the Education disparities in education gender gap in STEM education and (continued) and ensure equal access to technical professions. As part of this all levels of education and commitment, CA has partnered with the vocational training for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America to develop vulnerable, including persons and run the Tech Girls Rock initiative with disabilities, indigenous to provide STEM workshops to girls in peoples and children in underserved communities. vulnerable situations (05) Gender 5.b Enhance the use of We support the advancement of women Equality enabling technology, in and girls in technology and support particular information and our own workforce in realizing their communications technology, professional goals. Externally, CA partners to promote the empowerment with organizations such as AnitaB.org of women to help in connecting, inspiring, and supporting women in pursuing technical vocations. (07) 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially We are continually examining Affordable the share of renewable energy opportunities to include renewable energy and Clean in the global energy mix or support for renewable projects in our Energy own utility use. For example, two of our global facilities are powered by 100% renewables, and our Boulder, CO location is equipped with rooftop solar panels. 7.a By 2030, enhance international We are part of BSR’s Future of Internet cooperation to facilitate access Power working group collaborating with to clean-energy research other technology companies to promote and technology, including the use of renewable energy by industries renewable energy, energy that support the tech industry. efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean-energy technology (13) Climate 13.1 Strengthen resilience and We examine the materiality of climate Action adaptive capacity to climateimpacts to our operations, identifying related hazards and natural particular areas of risk or opportunity, and disasters in all countries plan accordingly. 5 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability (continued) at CA Technologies UN Global Target Compact SDG Number Target CA Support (13) Climate 13.2 Integrate climate change We are a member of multiple Action measures into national organizations that collaborate between (continued) policies, strategies and industries and sectors to tackle the planning environmental problems facing our world. In addition to collaborating with our peers and customers, CA is a proud signatory of the “We Are Still In” network, a broad cross-section of the U.S. economy that has assembled in pursuit of climate action, and to uphold the Paris agreement. (17) 17.16 Enhance the global In 2017 we entered into a large partnership Partnerships partnership for sustainable with the UN’s One For All campaign, for the Goals development, complemented providing the technical backbone for the by multi-stakeholder scaling of this initiative. In conjunction with partnerships that mobilize a large number of public, private, and NGO and share knowledge, organizations this initiative aims to engage expertise, technology and public citizens with the SDGs, spurring financial resources, to support global commitment to collaboration and the achievement of the progress. sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries 17.17 Encourage and promote We maintain a large list of partnerships effective public, public-private and collaborative memberships, and civil society partnerships, wherein CA leverages its expertise as building on the experience a company that enables change and and resourcing strategies of agile development for the betterment of partnerships business and society. Secondary/Industry Importance SDG 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 9. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SDG 10. Reduced Inequalities These SDGs expand on our core areas of focus, impacting our industry and business directly. As a business, CA seeks to provide our employees and the communities where we operate with decent work and economic growth. The progression of industry, innovation and infrastructure leads to technological advances, which in turn allow the software and tech industries to create new employment opportunities. Reducing inequalities involves minimizing socioeconomic disparity; as the tech industry evolves around the world, we have a responsibility to serve and uplift the communities in which we operate. 6 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability (continued) at CA Technologies Tertiary Importance SDG 1. No Poverty SDG 2. Zero Hunger SDG 3. Good Health and Well-Being SDG 6. Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities SDG 12. Responsible Consumption and Production SDG 14. Life Below Water SDG 15. Life on Land SDG 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions While these SDGs are not directly related to our business and operations, we understand our indirect impact and the ways technology can help solve society’s most pressing problems. 1.7 Goals and Performance Commitment: 2017 Update ENVIRONMENT 1. Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 35% by 1. In 2015, we succeeded in reducing our carbon 2020, from base year 2006 footprint by over 35% since 2006, and have now committed to a 40% reduction by 2030, based off a 2015 baseline. 2. Implement water management program 2. Our primary use of water is for domestic purposes and a closed-loop cooling system for our IT environment. We continue to find opportunities to divert rainwater for landscaping needs. 3. Increase TelePresence to reduce travel; 3. Continuous upgrades to conferencing units expand use of hybrid and alternative-fuel globally and a dedicated team to support vehicles for more sustainable travel employee usage. An electric vehicle pilot program is underway in Germany and the United Kingdom. 4. Adopt a green lease policy for all new and 4. We currently occupy about 575,000 square feet; renegotiated leases this year approximately 19% of total office space is either LEED Certified or under green lease, with more due to come. GOVERNANCE 1. Use third party to audit future sustainability 1. KPMG LLP reviewed and issued an Independent reports, including assurance of processes, Accountants’ Report on our 2016 Scope 1, 2 and 3 methodologies and data (business travel only) greenhouse gas emissions as presented in our 2016 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report. 2. Work with Ceres to develop a broad 2. CA Technologies continued to be a member of stakeholder engagement program Ceres and BICEP. 7 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Sustainability (continued) at CA Technologies Commitment: 2017 Update EMPLOYEES 1. Maintain our employee engagement rate in 1. In our latest Employee Opinion Survey, we’ve the Employee Opinion Survey continued to maintain an employee engagement rate consistent with our industry. 2. Continue global CSR Champions program 2. We support local teams championing positive practices. For example, in our Colorado offices we sponsor a bikeshare pass program to encourage our employees to bike to work and remove vehicles from the road. Additionally, we engage with our employees during our annual CA Together in Action volunteer week. CSR 1. Continue to strengthen philanthropic focus 1. CA Technologies has expanded its focus on on science, technology, engineering and math advancing STEM learning through memberships (STEM) education and partnerships with organizations including 100K in 10, the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Change the Equation, Citizen Schools, the Clinton Global Initiative, Code for America, DonorsChoose.org, Iridescent, IT-ology, NPower, and PENCIL. 2. Continue to expand global volunteer program 2. Participation in employee volunteerism continues to grow worldwide, with activities in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Finland, France, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S. 3. Continue to support advancement of women 3. Through partnerships with organizations and girls in IT like the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, and our Tech Girls Rock initiative with Boys & Girls Clubs of America, CA Technologies is committed to promoting gender diversity and supporting the advancement of women in technology. 8 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Enabling Efficiency At CA Technologies, we continuously seek more efficient ways to run our business, from managing our energy use to developing and maintaining smart facilities and reducing our GHG emissions. We also aim to increase our operating efficiencies by forming strategic alliances with business partners. We view software as an enabler of business efficiency. It enables our customers to easily optimize resources and minimize unnecessary expenditures and energy use. In addition to increasing efficiency, our software solutions improve IT availability, reduce risk, enhance agility and boost automation. These benefits enhance our customers’ ability to plan and prioritize their future business efforts. CA software also helps ensure the optimal performance of Web and mobile applications and identifies bottlenecks through real-time reporting and comprehensive analytics. From products that enable energy supply-and-demand monitoring to streamlining the end-user experience, CA is very much in the business of energy efficiency. Climate Change: Our Approach Climate change continues to represent risks to assets and infrastructure across the globe. It is characterized by uncertainty regarding regulatory change and global instability. In response, societal needs are clear, and present opportunities in the low-carbon economy, improved health and well-being, productivity gains, and efficient, sustainable use of natural resources. As a company, CA Technologies recognizes that we operate within a larger environment. Climate change and environmental considerations are integrated into our business strategy and operations, resulting in a robust and integrated climate reporting program. CA is a proud signatory of the “We Are Still In” network, a broad cross-section of the U.S. economy that has assembled in pursuit of climate action, and to uphold the Paris agreement. We continue to seek ways to improve our own operations by optimizing devices and servers, gaining business efficiencies through automation, artificial intelligence and machine learning, and committing to the Science Based Targets initiative to set our emissions reduction targets in line with climate science. Greenhouse Gas Emissions We first started reporting our GHG emissions in 2006 and have been focused even longer on reducing what our company emits. Since then, we have evolved our emissions reduction strategy from an operational efficiency focus to being a priority issue for CA Technologies and our stakeholders. In 2017, we reported a total of 59,853 metric tons of GHG emissions, approximately 37 percent lower than in 2006. The 37 percent reduction—or 35,335 metric tons—is equivalent to taking 7,464 passenger vehicles off the road for one year, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. In 2012, we established our first GHG reduction target of 35 percent of emissions by 2020, based off a 2006 baseline. In 2015, we achieved that target. The urgency of climate action has not abated, and, as a result, we are committed to achieving our next GHG reduction target of 40 percent by 2030, based off a 2015 baseline. This goal earned us a Climate Leadership Award for goal-setting, and achieving it would represent a total reduction of over 60 percent since first reporting our emissions in 2006. Due primarily to our global office footprint and IT infrastructure, we view both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as within the boundaries or our operational control. Outside of our operational control, we continue to report Scope 3 emissions from commercial air and rail travel, and will continue to engage with our suppliers on their environmental footprints. 9 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Enabling (continued) Efficiency Smart Facilities Because our facilities represent one of our largest environmental impacts, they are the focus of our efforts to enable efficiency. As leases come due, we are continually rightsizing our real estate footprint, and have already gone from 8 million square feet 10 years ago to under 3 million square feet today. Green Buildings. Reducing energy use reduces CO2 emissions. We have begun shutting down over 3,000 devices, including servers, storage, and networks—work that will continue through 2018. These steps alone will eliminate an estimated half-ton of CO2 emissions on an annual basis. We also continue to use automation and machine learning to uncover hidden efficiencies by intelligently monitoring demand and usage patterns. We continue to drive more automation in multiple areas, to evolve from standard automation to the realm of robotic process automation (RPA)—including some machine learning to drive decisions and make the automation more intelligent. Our dedicated solutions for Service Orchestration, Workload Automation and Release Automation enable complete end-to-end automation. Water Management. We get water data for 13 sites globally. Our main uses of water are for domestic purposes, including landscaping at large locations. Outside of domestic water use, the closed-loop water systems in our data centers minimize water use. We continue to find ways to divert rainwater for landscaping needs. For example, we reclaim close to 100 percent of rainwater from surfaces at our Hyderabad, India, facility. Also in Hyderabad, where there is no public sewer, businesses have their own sewer-treatment plants that handle all wastewater within their building systems. At our facility, we treat wastewater and reuse it in landscape sprinkler systems. In 2017, we also changed the way we maintain cooling towers in Hyderabad to eliminate the need to completely drain the towers each week, resulting in greatly reduced water use. Waste Management. We have made a companywide, global commitment to minimizing our impact on landfills by reducing, reusing and recycling. We support our regional facility managers in working with local waste haulers to find new opportunities to divert waste from landfills. Green Carpooling sRide is an app that makes it easy to find safe and approachable carpooling partners. Carpooling reduces traffic congestion, fuel consumption and carbon emissions. In 2017, CA Technologies Hyderabad went from completing 7,327 shared rides covering 9,957 kilometers the previous year to 44,508 rides covering 92,345 kilometers. This carpooling effort avoided 18,469 kilograms of CO2, the equivalent of planting 879 trees. Supply Chain Management We are proud to use the power of collaboration to work with our vendors to ensure that they are committed to sustainable, ethical practices. We continually monitor related issues throughout our supply chain, and determine the material impact, if any, of all our suppliers. We require compliance to our Partner Code of Conduct which defines our expectations as a partner. Our supplier agreements contain human rights clauses. 10 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Employee Empowerment In the not-too-distant future, up to 3 million jobs will be unfilled in the U.S. due to shortages of STEM skills. At the same time, unintended consequences of technological advances may lead to job displacement, disproportionately impacting older workers. Our challenge as a society will be to re-engage those marginalized workers while providing opportunities for young, digitally adept workers. Because job displacement has the potential to impact everyone, technology opportunities must be democratized. Thrive: Workforce Diversity and Inclusion We believe that innovation and invention are the by-products of an inclusive and diverse workplace. Diversity of perspective, experience and thought are key to driving creativity, innovation and results. We are committed to providing equitable opportunities and offering employees avenues for success—both personal and professional. We believe that workforce diversity is an important topic in the technology sector, and we are dedicated to moving the conversation on diversity forward. That’s why part of our talent strategy is a program called THRIVE. At CA, we thrive by creating an inclusive work environment that values and leverages uniqueness, while motivating employees to unleash their full potential. This workforce diversity and inclusion initiative has two main goals: Create the Best Place to Do Business by attracting, enabling and retaining a diverse workforce to win in our marketplaces, workplaces and communities across the world. Create the Best Workplace by leveraging an inclusive, flexible work environment that values uniqueness, and encourages and motivates employees to realize their full potential. Recent THRIVE activities and accomplishments: • We allow 18 weeks of fully paid maternity leave and 12 weeks of paternity or non-birth parent leave. • We support all working parents with a range of benefits and programs that center around work/life balance, flexibility and opportunity. • Montessori Child Development Centers (with subsidized tuition) welcome children from six weeks to six years of age at select offices. • CA’s North America Diversity candidate slate program that ensures that all open requisitions have at least one diverse candidate for consideration in the interview process. CA Technologies always hires the best candidate for a job, and this program has strengthened our ability to do just that. Since the program’s implementation, more than 75 percent of our open job requisitions in North America have involved a diverse slate of candidates. • In 2017, we expanded our Unconscious Bias webcast to in-person workshops. • CA CEO Mike Gregoire has signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion™ pledge. 11 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Employee (continued) Empowerment CA Communities CA Communities is an online forum where members collaborate daily on CA Technologies products. Customers, partners and CA employees can participate in these communities to get answers to product-related questions, submit product ideas, view product tips and tricks, and more. Fellow members help customers become experts on the products they use every day, and even help shape the future of CA products by submitting product enhancement requests and voting on the ideas of other community members. Members are located in more than 170 countries and participate in hundreds of thousands of conversations across more than 40 individual communities. 12 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Working at CA Technologies Every day at CA is an opportunity to help shape tomorrow and to create a career path that will take employees wherever their talent leads. CA offers an innovative and mentally stimulating environment that allows employees to balance their work and personal lives in a diverse culture where ideas are openly shared and respected. Our culture is fast-paced. Our teams are diverse. Our approach is collaborative. And we’ve been widely recognized as one of the best employers in the industry by respected third parties. Recruiting Talent When recruiting candidates, we consciously try to avoid bringing in people who all think the same way, because we know we need new perspectives and different ideas. Our diverse candidate slate requires at least two prospects in every candidate pool to qualify as diverse. Similarly, we ensure that we have diverse representation among the interviewers. We’ve also stopped asking candidates what they’re currently earning, because we want to pay people for the job they’re doing—offering competitive compensation packages based on knowledge, skills and abilities helps eliminate any previous existing pay parity issues that may have been rooted in bias. All of these efforts are beginning to work. Last year, 13 percent of our senior management hires were multicultural women. In the last two years, we have increased the representation of women in technical roles by 14 percent. Talent Development Leadership Development Program CA employees are thinkers, makers and disrupters who help us develop amazing products. We’ve developed our Leadership Development Program (LDP) for them, to ensure a pipeline of highly capable leaders at all levels of our company. Target participants include mid-level managers and individual contributors who want to enhance their leadership capabilities and build skills for the future. Participants increase their self-awareness, reflect on and challenge their current ways of thinking, experience new ways of working that can optimize their chances of success, and learn from both senior leaders and others within the program. Based on feedback: • Participants feel overall job performance will improve by 60% as a direct result of the LDP. • 96% of participants agreed that LDP was a worthwhile investment in their career development (industry average is 72%). • 78% Net Promoter Score—average of the two in-person sessions (industry average is 48%). Managing & Leading A program for both new and experienced people managers at CA Technologies, Managing & Leading is a social immersive manager skills development experience aligned to our Mission and DNA. It connects participants with an extended network to build knowledge through dialogue and communication in order to strengthen themselves and, in turn, to effectively manage and lead their teams. Leaders at all Levels Our award-winning Leaders at all Levels (LaaL) platform provides employees with resources to develop key skills centered around our Mission and DNA. The platform provides access to external and internal thought leadership and learning opportunities designed to increase the skill and engagement of leaders at all levels. 13 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Working at (continued) CA Technologies #LifeAtCA If you’d like to get a glimpse of what daily life at CA is like, just visit our Instagram feed, #LifeAtCA. A recent sampling included students working on Guppy Tank App Challenge presentations, an event in New York City where the National Association for Female Executive’s “top companies” were honored, and CA Security Day in Istanbul. But life at CA is much more than a hashtag—it’s about creating a more efficient, competitive and sustainable workforce by supporting both the professional and personal goals of our employees. Pet Benefits In addition to our popular benefits for parents, CA offers pet benefits for pet parents. We think of them as best-in-breed pet benefits for CA employees’ fur babies. Employees can take time to appropriately welcome the addition (paw-ternity leave, if you will) or to grieve for the death of their beloved animal friends. We also send special gift bundles to welcome new fur babies to #LifeAtCA. Enhanced Leave Policy Effective January 1, 2017, CA’s paid family medical leave (FML) time off was increased from 6 weeks to 12 weeks for leaves that are otherwise unpaid (such as maternity, paternity, adoption, care for ill family member, leave to care for self if approved for family medical leave but not approved for short-term disability [STD]). For maternity leaves, the 12 weeks begin after the conclusion of any disability leave, meaning a typical maternity leave is fully paid for 18 weeks. We also provide a generous, fully paid phase-back-to-work program that enables employees to return to work gradually over a two-week period. Balance Your Life Our Balance Your Life health and wellness program is offered in partnership with CareAllies, a leading health solutions company, and is available to eligible employees, spouses and domestic partners. Our goal is to help participants better manage their health for a more balanced life at work, at home and at play. CA Montessori Children’s Centers We now have eight on-site CA Montessori Children’s Centers around the world for children from 6 weeks to 6 years of age. We chose the Montessori philosophy because of its focus on the whole child and its emphasis on exploration, practical life experiences, individualism, a sense of independence, and the child’s control of his or her environment. 14 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary Customer Solutions It used to be that the best companies were built to last. But today, the most competitive firms are built to change. They’re built on software that allows them to thrive in a climate of constant disruption, short innovation cycles and ever-changing customer expectations. Modern companies don’t just use software; they’re powered by a “Modern Software Factory”—a whole new way of designing and operationalizing software development to drive competitive advantage. The Modern Software Factory is where agility, automation, insights and security work together to power a company’s digital transformation in the application economy. This philosophy has sustainability built in—from the efficiency gained and time and resources saved through automation to the stability and security we’re providing to the digital economy that helps enable business continuity. Key Principles of the Modern Software Factory Creating a Modern Software Factory involves far more than just technology and processes. It demands a highly agile and collaborative working environment—which in turn requires the right people, culture and structure. The key principles that underpin the Modern Software Factory are: Agility Delivering compelling experiences for customers means being able to respond rapidly to their needs. Methodologies such as agile, DevOps, and continuous delivery are essential to this capability. Enabling such fluid processes results in more efficient allocation of time, money and natural resources. CA Technologies products that facilitate an agile development environment include: • Agile Solutions • Project & Portfolio Management (PPM) Automation The software development life cycle must be fully automated, optimizing both speed and efficiency. This calls for consistent and standardized ways of working, capturing feedback from users and other stakeholders, and communicating it to developers. CA Automation products include: • Release Automation • Workload Automation • Continuous Delivery Director 15 Customer CA Technologies Continued (continued) Sustainability Report Executive Summary Solutions Insights Developers need processes to monitor, sense and respond effectively. And they need the analytical tools to enable them to receive feedback, improve software, and track the impact of the changes they make. Here are some of the ways our solutions help: • CA Digital Experience Insights • CA App Experience Analytics • Application Performance Management • Mainframe Operational Intelligence • Infrastructure Management Security CA is the market leader in helping our customers deliver and connect trusted applications to their users. We provide the core identity and access management technologies that authenticate your users to your apps and online services. We enable trusted access between your users and your apps—through continuous authentication and risk analytics that detect user, network and device risk automatically and transparently—making risk-adjusted access decisions and preforming step up authentication only when needed and with minimal friction to the user. • CA Veracode • DevSecOps Customer Experience A customer-centric mind-set is at the heart of everything we do. Delivering a superior customer experience (CX) is a core CA Technologies goal, one that is written into our promise to customers. A premier CX drives higher levels of customer loyalty, creates competitive differentiation and enables growth for CA. We call our customer experience strategy CX 2020. It’s our North Star and we continue to make progress on this intersection of culture, code and experience. It’s how we inspire employees to build products that matter and wrap them in exceptional customer experience. In 2017, we took the idea of customer-centricity a step further with the creation of the CA Design Center. This unique facility, which is located in our Santa Clara, California, office, invites customers to work with us face-to-face to design products. The Design Center breaks down customer problems so solution concepts can be designed. You see, we’ve found that engaging customers and collecting feedback dramatically reduces the time needed to create actionable innovations in our products while increasing the likelihood of delivering value. 16 Awards and Recognition CA has been recognized and won awards for CX impact by CXPA, as a world-class support organization by TSIA and Omega, and as a customer success innovator by Gainsight. • Inclusion in Global Compact 100 CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary • Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World and North America Index • Working Mother 100 Best Companies • Best Companies for Multicultural Women • Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI)—measures gender equality across internal company statistics, employee policies, external community support and engagement, and gender-conscious product offerings • Fortune’s 2017 Best Workplaces for Diversity • World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute Learn More To learn more about CA Technologies sustainability initiatives and products: ca.com/sustainability-report @CAinc instagram.com/lifeatca facebook.com/CATechnologies Contact Us CA Technologies 520 Madison Avenue, 22nd Floor New York, NY 10022 ca.com Copyright © 2018 CA Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
