Profiler GmbH | United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress C O M M U NI C ATI O N O N PRO GR E SS F OR 20 1 7 ABOUT PROFILER Profiler is a leading provider of expertise. We empower businesses by offering expert knowledge through Consulting & Staffing Solutions. With our extensive pool of experts, we are able to support renowned companies from various industries in implementing their projects quickly and effectively. We form the link between experts and companies – Profiler has been active in the IT-Industry for over 11 years and the Aerospace Industry for 5 years. INTRODUCTION Statement Of Continued Support This is Profiler‘s fourth Communication on Progress and covers all of the company‘s actions and improvements with regard to the Global Compact during 2017. We became a signatory to the UNGC in 2014, since we believe that a company’s success should not only be measured by its profitability but also by its social and “I am pleased to confirm that Profiler corporate responsibility – becoming a member has helped us to keep sight of these values in our daily reaffirms its support of the United Nations business. Global Compact and the Ten Principles in the During our fourth year of actively participating in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment UNGC we continued adapting our business processes and Anti-Corruption. and policies accordingly. I am proud of the progress we have already made. It is my goal to actively continue Fathima Khan, Founder & Managing Director promoting each principle by educating and creating awareness amongst our employees and other stakeholders. We will continue contributing to make business in our industry and market more social and sustainable. 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. FOCUS THIS YEAR Human Rights & Labour We support the International Human Rights, stated in the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights. We are a multicultural company, stand strongly against discrimination and place great value on tolerance, diversity and mutual respect. The key to success in any company or program is not the technology, nor the process or the strategy but the people and their expertise This is why, this year, we have mainly focused on the areas of Human Rights & Labour. CORPORATE HEALTH MANAGEMENT ๏ Ensuring the health, vitality and well-being of everyone at Profiler is very important for us and central for the quality of our service. By creating a positive and healthy work environment, we want to help improve not only our employees’ health but also their worklife balance and all-around well-being. Profiler benefits from it as well, as it reduces risks at the workplace, creates a healthy working atmosphere and improves everyone’s joy of working – employees tend to recover from sickness quicker and are at a smaller risk of long term illnesses. ๏ We find that it is every employer’s responsibility to care for their employees and offer them the best opportunities. Therefore, this year we have formed a cooperation with HBC – Healthy Business Consulting. This cooperation allows us to offer all our employees a premium membership at the largest fitness and wellness club chain in the region, with the possibility to visit 15 different gyms in the Rhine-Main-Area free of charges, including various courses, personalized workout plans and wellness areas. Everyone at Profiler can take part in monthly group fitness courses as well as biyearly Health Days. Furthermore, quarterly lectures under psychological guidance are held, focusing on topics regarding health, fitness and personal as well as professional well-being. ๏ Regular Teambuilding events help the team by encouraging collaboration, building skills like conflict resolution and communication and they boost team performance. Socialising and seeing colleagues in a different or new light allows to get to know each other better and leads to more open dialogue, team spirit and over all better workplace atmosphere. HELFERKREIS ASYL & TEACHERS ON THE ROAD ๏ Social Engagement is an important part of Profiler’s company culture and we find that businesses must play an active role in helping to tackle social issues. In the light of the ongoing refugee crisis we feel obligated to expand our engagement. ๏ Profiler’s Management is part of Helferkreis Asyl in Ober-Ramstadt, which is a group of volunteers focusing on helping and supporting refugees in finding suitable work, trainings and education. Additionally, volunteers accompany refugees to appointments at authorities or doctor’s offices and take care of any issues needing translation or further explanation. ๏ Furthermore, since 2016 we have been offering our office premises as seminar rooms for “Teachers on the Road” to hold German classes for refugees. UNICEF – SPENDEN STATT SCHENKEN Donations Instead Of Gifts ๏ This year, instead of gifts, we participated in UNICEF’S “Spenden statt Schenken” initiative and donated the money we usually spend on gifts, Christmas cards and postage to UNICEF. ENVIRONMENT ๏ Although our possibilities as a service provider to set environment-sparing processes are rather limited, we kept steadily reducing our environmental footprint in the last years by encouraging our employees to only print when absolutely necessary, only on recycled paper, and to keep the communication with colleagues, consultants and business partners electronic. ๏ We encourage our employees to use public transportation whenever possible, therefore providing every employee with a job ticket. ๏ We kept avoiding business travels by continuously preferring video and telephone calls for preliminary decisions as well as webinars instead of on-site seminars. ๏ We extended our digital document management system and keep all correspondence with our accounting firm paperless. ๏ Our new office premises are also in close proximity to both our clients and public transportation and big office windows allow us to use natural light whenever possible. ANTI-CORRUPTION ๏ Profiler prohibits any form of corruption and every employee is instructed to report any form of corruption or suspicion of corruption. There have not been any indications of corruption, extortion or bribery. OUR GOALS 01 Extending and improving the Corporate Health Management. We especially want to focus on implementing even better Health Management – as well as all the information and suggestions we receive from our regular health days and seminars – into our everyday office life. 02 Holding regular seminars for all employees, Focusing on the personal career development of every employee in the form of i.a. Soft Skill Trainings and specialised trainings for different professional groups. 03 Long-term Goal: Donating a set percentage of Profiler’s annual profit to charity and keep supporting charities not only financially but also through personal and active contribution.
