What if business were society’s greatest problem solver? As a proud participant in the United Nations Global Compact, EY is committed to helping solve society’s toughest challenges. EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 1 Read on to learn how A statement we uphold the UNGC by: from our Global Chairman and CEO Supporting our people and communities 06 We live in an age of unprecedented social, environmental and economic disruption. The ever-increasing pace of change poses new, often unexpected challenges that are becoming more complex and interconnected than ever. Business has an important role to play in finding Supporting our clients solutions and a tremendous opportunity to innovate and collaborate to and profession help tackle the world’s toughest challenges. Organizations such as EY are re-examining how we think about business and exploring how we can create a sustainable and inclusive future. The United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC’s) Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals provide a comprehensive framework and are aligned with EY’s purpose of Building a better working world. 12 In this report you will discover the ways in which we are both fulfilling our purpose and upholding the UNGC principles. You will see illustrations of our actions and progress, including details about the Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism — our collaboration with CEOs of more than Supporting environmental 20 global companies to provide a framework for companies to analyze sustainability the full value they create and the impact businesses have on the world around them. EY is proud to continue its participation in the UNGC and we look forward to building a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers longterm value to people and communities. 16 Mark A. Weinberger For more information on EY’s EY Global Chairman and CEO involvement with the UNGC, @Mark_Weinberger please contact: Meg Salzetta EY Global Corporate Responsibility Leader +1 312 879-3683 Dan Gray EY Global Corporate Responsibility Communications +44 20 7980 0350 ey.com/ungc 2 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 3 Supporting the Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals The Ten Principles of the Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact Human rights Human and labor rights • Businesses should support and respect Supporting our people and communities the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Make sure that they are not complicit in Inside EY In our supply chain human rights abuses • Encouraging suppliers to operate responsibly • Creating an exceptional experience for our people • Increasing supplier diversity • Growing employment • Strengthening our diverse and inclusive culture In our communities Labor • Achieving worldwide recognition for D&I • Scaling impact entrepreneurship • Investing in our people • Supporting the next generation • Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Increasing flexible working • Working with others for positive change association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Listening to and recognizing our people • Looking to the future • B ► eing recognized as a “great place to work” • The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • The effective abolition of child labor Anti-corruption • The elimination of discrimination in respect Supporting our clients and profession of employment and occupation Serving the public interest Operating responsibly Environment through our services • Anchoring our actions in our values and • Building trust and confidence in the capital markets Global Code of Conduct • Businesses should support a precautionary • Managing risk and the quality of all our services approach to environmental challenges • Empowering business to focus on long-term value • Helping businesses to innovate with purpose • Engaging with our stakeholders and the • Undertake initiatives to promote greater investor community • Helping tackle corruption in all its forms environmental responsibility • Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment Supporting environmental sustainability Anti-corruption • Helping our clients become more sustainable • Businesses should work against corruption • Positively influencing change in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Managing our own impacts 4 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 5 Inside EY The FY17 class of newly promoted EY member firm partners is among the most diverse ever, with 36% from emerging markets and nearly 30% women. Whose tomorrow will you change today? At EY, we believe only high-performing teams, which utilize the power of different opinions, perspectives and At EY, we’re using our knowledge, skills and cultural backgrounds, will succeed in the global marketplace. That’s why we strive to create an environment experience to help drive inclusive growth in the where all our people feel, and are, valued; where they can bring their differences to work each day; and where communities where we live and work they contribute their personal best to businesses, government and communities around the world. Supporting Reducing social inequality is at the heart of driving inclusive growth. Creating an exceptional Strengthening our diverse Investing in our people experience for our people and inclusive culture our people This captures the essence of our Our people are the lifeblood of our commitment to human and labor organization. They have the power to Our promise to our people is this: Our global Diversity and Inclusiveness (D&I) build, grow, innovate, create and add value and communities rights and to building a culture of whenever you join, however long you Road map is fundamental to how we deliver to our clients, people and communities. respect and inclusion — not only stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts a exceptional client service, creating an Recognizing our responsibility to equip inside our own organization, but lifetime. It’s about everyone at EY having environment where all our people feel they them with the right tools and skills — and also throughout our supply chain the opportunity to do something that belong, where all differences are valued, anticipate the skills they will need in the and across the communities where matters; to own their career, shape their and where the richness of our talent is future — we invested US$500m in more we live and work future and become the leader they want reflected in promotions and leadership than 12m hours of training in FY17, to be; and to gain the experience that lets appointments. The FY17 class of newly including immersive online learning them create their own legacy and be part promoted EY member firm partners is experiences that will help build our next of building a better working world. among the most diverse ever, with 36% wave of digital leaders. from emerging markets and nearly 30% • Global review 2017 (Chapter 4) women. • Global review 2017 (Chapter 4) • Our people and culture • Global review 2017 (Chapter 5) • FY17 results • EY Alumni Network • Our global D&I Road map • FY17 partner promotions 6 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 7 In our supply chain As well as setting a stretch target to double global procurement spend with diverse suppliers in FY18, EY has committed to sourcing US$100 million of services from womenowned businesses by 2020, the majority of which will be based in low and middle income countries. EY’s commitment to promoting principles of inclusiveness, sustainability and responsibility — including in relation to human and labor rights — extends beyond our own organization. It also includes our continued efforts to promote high business standards within our supply chain, and to maintain and grow a diverse supplier base that reflects the markets, clients and communities we serve. Growing employment Achieving worldwide Increasing flexible Encouraging suppliers to Increasing supplier In FY17 we grew to nearly 250,000 recognition for D&I working operate responsibly diversity people across 151 countries. Nearly two While strengthening D&I across our entire We remain committed to all our people Just as EY’s Global Code of Conduct sets Identifying, developing and doing business million people applied for roles with EY organization is an ongoing journey, our having the flexibility to build a successful out the standards expected of every EY with diverse suppliers is a key component member firms. We hired just over 3% of our progress has seen EY member firms career at EY while maintaining a positive person, our Supplier Code of Conduct does of our strategic sourcing and procurement applicants — that’s 65,000 people, which earn multiple accolades for diversity, work-life balance. With 6% of our global the same for our suppliers. We view their activities. Through our D&I procurement equates to one person every 8 minutes, women’s leadership, LGBT inclusion and workforce already contract workers, and performance as an integral part of the initiative, we actively encourage small and 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Nearly family friendliness. These include being in anticipation that this number will grow EY value chain and expect all suppliers to minority-owned businesses to become 25% of all experienced hires came to EY ranked #1 among DiversityInc magazine’s significantly, we’re also embracing the meet high legal, ethical, environmental and registered suppliers and support them to via referrals, and more than 10% of our 2017 Top 50 Companies for Diversity in gig economy with the creation of GigNow. employment-related standards. achieve their full potential. hires were alumni, or boomerangs, who are the US, being named among the Top 10 This online portal matches contract talent people returning to EY. • Procurement • Procurement Best Companies for Women in India, and with relevant opportunities at EY, enabling • Global review 2017 (Chapter 4) continuing recognition as a Stonewall Star contract workers to find assignments that • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier diversity Performer in the UK. offer the professional growth and flexibility they desire. • Global review 2017 (Chapter 5) • Global review 2017 (Chapter 4) • Our global D&I Road map (external recognition) • FY17 results • GigNow 8 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 9 In our communities With support from our Corporate Responsibility Governance Council, which includes nine members of the EY Global Executive, we’re bringing greater scale, focus and cohesion to our efforts to drive inclusive growth in our communities. Photo credit: M-KOPA We believe business can and must do more to empower as many people as possible to contribute to and share in the benefits of economic growth. Through our social impact programs, we’re extending the value of our knowledge, skills and experience to people and places we might not otherwise reach, applying them to help address some of society’s toughest challenges. Scaling impact Supporting the Working with others for Looking to the future entrepreneurship next generation positive change With direction from the EY Corporate Responsibility Governance Council, we In FY17, we have continued to strengthen We also continue to focus on helping Inclusive growth requires long-term, have been laying the foundations to our support for the new wave of impact equip young people for success in collective effort to drive systemic change. increase EY’s social impact. This includes entrepreneurs at the forefront of progress today’s working world, with an increasing Examples of EY leading and participating development of a global flagship program toward the Global Goals. As well as emphasis on development of the mindsets in such collaborative efforts include to bring greater scale, focus and cohesion providing low and pro bono services and transferable skills they will need continuing to work with key stakeholders to our efforts, and to empower significantly that help improve their businesses’ to adapt and thrive in a transformative in the public and private sector through higher numbers of our people to use their resilience, productivity and capacity for age. In addition to our continued our Women. Fast forward program to help knowledge, skills and experience to help sustainable growth, we’re also seeking to support for organizations such as JA accelerate achievement of gender parity drive inclusive growth in our communities. hasten development of the entire impact Worldwide and the Network for Teaching in the workplace, and also, the launch of entrepreneurship sector by sharing insights Entrepreneurship, 2017 has seen “future the Embankment Project to work on a on dealing with common challenges, such skills” become a key focus of member proof-of-concept reporting framework that as last-mile distribution. firms’ careers advice and the People encourages and measures long-term value Advisory Services they provide to clients. creation for all material stakeholders. • Global review 2017 (Chapter 6) • Global review 2017 (Chapter 6) • Embankment Project • Impact Entrepreneurship Yearbook 2017 • Future skills • Women. Fast forward • Are your customers in the loop? Using customer insight to crack the last-mile • Future Work Now • A Report into the Ethnic Diversity distribution challenge of UK Boards 10 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 11 • EY at the World Economic Forum Serving the public interest Through our collaboration with the Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism on the Embankment Project, we aim to advance a new framework that helps businesses focus on the true sources of long-term value for all their stakeholders. Building trust and confidence in capital markets Could changes to As auditors, we provide a vital function — to serve the public interest and strengthen measures change trust and confidence in the capital markets. Through our Sustainable Audit the world? Quality (SAQ) program, which we have implemented across the global EY network, we are making comprehensive changes By advancing a new framework for assessing longacross EY to drive improved quality results. term value creation for all stakeholders, EY and SAQ embodies our sustained commitment the Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism aim to pave the way for more inclusive, sustainable growth. to providing globally consistent, highquality audits. • Global review 2017 (Chapter 7) • Audit Quality: A Globally Sustainable Approach • Our commitment to audit quality Supporting As a global professional services organization, EY recognizes Helping business innovate with purpose Helping tackle corruption in all its forms Empowering business to focus on long-term value our clients its pivotal role in serving the public interest and positively Working with academic leaders, such as the EY’s steadfast commitment to tackling Through our collaboration with the and profession influencing business behavior, Oxford Saïd Business School and Harvard corruption is not only embedded in globally Coalition for Inclusive Capitalism on the including working against Business Review Analytic Services, our consistent policies and practices, including Embankment Project, we aim to advance a corruption in all its forms. research examines how embedding mandatory training on anti-bribery and new framework that helps businesses focus Through our services, we help purpose into the core of business models corruption, it is also embodied by our Fraud on the true sources of long-term value. to build trust and confidence drives innovation and sustainable growth, Investigation & Dispute Services (FIDS), The goal is to be able to create a tool to in the capital markets, guided customer loyalty and talent retention, which provide clients with proactive and assess how they promote more inclusive by the belief that every audit, and the positive impact of business on reactive services to help address risks and sustainable growth by creating society. Through the EY Beacon Institute, related to fraud, bribery and corruption. value for a range of stakeholders beyond every tax return, every advisory our Purpose-Led TransformationTM service Additionally, our ongoing EY Fraud shareholders, including employees, supply opportunity, every interaction offering and our EY-Sinek Performance Survey series continues to provide valued chains, communities and society at large. with a client or colleague can Practice, we continue to provide insights perspectives and insights on key risks help make the working world and advice to our global clients to inspire relating to business ethics and how to • Embankment Project better than it was before. and amplify the growing movement of tackle them. • Long-term value purpose-led business. • Fraud Investigation & Dispute Services • EY Beacon Institute (FIDS) • Purpose-Led Transformation • EY Fraud Surveys 2017 12 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact • How can purpose reveal a path EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 13 through disruption? Operating responsibly Anchoring our actions Engaging with external Managing risk and the in our values and Global stakeholders quality of all our services Code of Conduct Believing the best answers are found when We continue to invest in strong Quality and the most people are contributing to the Professional Practice functions that evaluate Every day, EY people make choices discussion, we continue our regular dialogue client service for quality as well as compliance and decisions that directly affect our with our many different stakeholders to with EY policies and professional standards. colleagues, our clients, our communities deepen our understanding of the policy Additionally, our Risk Management function and our other stakeholders. EY’s values environment and the evolving social teams with all parts of our organization to and Global Code of Conduct, which contract between business and society. This provide coordinated advice and assistance all EY people affirm annually, provide includes increasing our engagement with to client-serving teams to help identify and the confidence that we are using investors and regulators around the world to manage risk and support responsible growth. common principles to help us make the make sure we understand their perspectives right decisions throughout our global • Global review 2017 (Chapter 7) on auditing, financial reporting, corporate organization. governance and other capital market issues. • Global review 2017 (Chapter 7) • Global review 2017 (Chapter 7) • Our values • Our public policy viewpoints • EY Global Code of Conduct • EY Center for Board Matters 14 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 15 Development of a new EY global environment statement, launching in 2018, will galvanize further efforts to minimize environmental impacts right across our Does growth global organization. have to cost the earth? EY continues to play a leading role in developing standards and approaches that encourage companies to preserve and enhance natural resources, rather than depleting them. Supporting Wherever they occur around the world, climate shocks hit Helping our clients become more sustainable change Positively influencing Managing our own impacts environmental the poorest in society hardest, putting inclusive growth at Our Climate Change and Sustainability We continue to contribute to the broader We continue to invest in ways to address sustainability risk. EY remains committed to Services (CCaSS) teams help organizations sustainability dialogue, sharing global our biggest environmental impacts of driving purposeful action that assess and respond to, and measure viewpoints on some of the key issues our office energy use and business travel, minimizes the negative impacts and report on, some of the world’s most clients are facing — such as addressing and to improve the way we measure our of businesses’ activities on significant resource and environmental environmental, health and safety risks progress. With a number of EY member the environment. We continue challenges. In particular, CCaSS teams — and shining a light on the increasing firms already pursuing bold targets, up to make our most valuable have innovated in areas such as climate importance of meaningful environmental, to and including becoming carbon and contribution as a leading resilience, the circular economy, renewable social and governance (ESG) analysis for water neutral by 2020, we have developed energy, water accounting and alternative institutional investors. a new global environment statement provider of climate change and waste treatment. to galvanize further efforts to minimize sustainability services, while • Sustainability matters environmental impacts right across our challenging ourselves to work • Climate Change and Sustainability global organization. This will come into in a more environmentally Services • Is your nonfinancial performance force in 2018. sustainable manner. revealing the true value of your business? • Our global carbon footprint • EY sustainability reports 16 EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact EY’s support for the United Nations Global Compact 17 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2018 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. 00819-183GBL ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
