Symsoft CSR Communication of Progress PERIOD 01/01/2017 TO 31/12/2017 VERSION 1.0 CONTENTS Contents 1. Introduction 2 1.1 Managing Director’s statement of continued support for the UN 3 Global Compact and its ten principles. 2. Labour Practices 4 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4 2.2 Implementation 5 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 5 3. Human Rights 6 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 6 3.2 Implementation 6 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 7 4. Environment 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 8 4.2 Implementation 9 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 9 5. Fair Business Practices & Anti-Corruption 11 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 11 5.2 Implementation 11 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 12 6. Sustainable Procurement 13 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals 13 6.2 Implementation 13 6.3 Measurement of outcomes 14 01 INTRODUCTION 01 Introduction During the fiscal year 2017, Symsoft has continued working actively with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Symsoft strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability, and is committed to continuously working with environmental issues to make as small an environmental footprint as practicably possible. Symsoft believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity, and is important for our business conduct – as well as our partners and our suppliers’ business conduct. Holding high standards is the best way forward for the continued success of our business. “ Symsoft strives to CSR is becoming more and more tightly incorporated into the daily work and develop the business business needs at Symsoft, we believe that we have, and will continue to evolve and have, good processes in place covering the areas of: Environment, with maintained Labour Practices, Human Rights, Fair Business Practices and Supplier Management. sustainability Symsoft is part of CLX Communications group, who as of 2017 publish a Sustainability Report as part of their Annual Report. This report outlines Symsoft's work in the areas of Environment, Labour Relations, Human Rights and Fair Business Practices. 02 INTRODUCTION 1.1 Managing Director’s statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles I am pleased to confirm that Symsoft supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are increasingly making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We are also engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Symsoft also makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders, and the general public. We recognise that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact, and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-corruption) A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results) Johan Rosendahl MANAGING DIRECTOR 03 LABOUR PRACTICES 02 Labour Practices 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced, compulsory or child labour. All Symsoft employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff are presented with an Employee Handbook, which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Employee Handbook is available at all times on the company intranet. Symsoft complies with all relevant Health & Safety legislation, and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Contractors are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment, and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Symsoft employees. All Symsoft employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labour unions and to bargain collectively, provided that this right is not in conflict with any local laws. 04 LABOUR PRACTICES 2.2 Implementation Symsoft has a range of Human Resource policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment, including the Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention, and the Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. All Symsoft employees have regular performance and development talks with their manager, where objectives and expectations are set and followed up, and individual development plans are created. For major organisational changes, union representatives are consulted, unless this is in conflict with local laws. An employee satisfaction survey is conducted twice a year, where all staff can rate and comment on work environment, learning and development opportunities, management, business direction, internal communication and teamwork, as well as social factors in the workplace. Symsoft has an employee Health and Safety Policy. Health, safety and work environment are handled in a committee with employee representatives. The committee has regular meetings and works systematically to sustain a good work environment at Symsoft locations. Risk assessments are conducted at least annually, and overtime work and sick leave are monitored continuously. Minutes from committee meetings are made available for all employees on the company intranet. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes In October 2017, Symsoft launched a new company intranet. This has improved internal communication and made policies and handbooks more easily available to all employees. All employees have had performance and development talks with their manager. Individual development plans have been created, and training requirements have been met, provided they are in line with company policy. The employee satisfaction survey was not conducted in 2017, it is scheduled for 0 Employees Spring 2018. Action plans from the 2016 survey have been implemented, to aim on long-term for an even better result in 2018. sick leave. Overtime work and sick leave have remained low during the fiscal year, with no employees on long-term sick leave. During 2017, new people managers and work environment officers have been trained in general employee health and safety, with the main focus being on organisational and social work environment. In December 2017, Symsoft’s headquarters in Stockholm were relocated to a building closer to the city centre. The new office provides sufficient space for the growing organisation, and a modern and well-functioning physical work 0 Legal cases or environment. investigations Symsoft has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Symsoft has not been subject to any Health & Safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. 05 HUMAN RIGHTS 03 Human Rights 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are convinced that our values, the way we treat our employees and counterparts, and the way we act in the line of business will have a positive influence on other stakeholders and counterparts when it comes to human rights. Symsoft has policies for Anti-Harassment, Equal Employment Opportunity and Workplace Violence Prevention, and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Symsoft will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. 3.2 Implementation All Symsoft policies are easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through the policies and confirm their compliance in their employment contract. As we expand our operations internationally, we make efforts to have a positive influence on human rights in other locations. Symsoft supports ‘Hand in Hand’, an organisation helping female entrepreneurs in developing countries to start businesses. 06 HUMAN RIGHTS Symsoft has a range of Human Resource policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights, including the Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention, and the Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes In October 2017, Symsoft launched a new company intranet. This has improved internal communication and made policies and handbooks more easily available to all employees. In the past year, Symsoft has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. 07 ENVIRONMENT 04 Environment 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft’s products and services make it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our solutions, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible for people in different cities or countries to have conversations without the need for travel. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact: Principle 7: “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes”; Principle 8: “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”; and Principle 9: “Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Symsoft complies with applicable local environmental laws and internationally recognised standards. Symsoft’s Code of Conduct also covers all CSR areas, including Environment & Sustainability. Symsoft has an Environmental Management System. Part of this system is to identify KPIs based on where we feel Symsoft might cause the greatest environmental impact. Symsoft is measuring and following up on these KPIs, and consider this an important part of the company’s journey of continuous improvement work. 08 ENVIRONMENT 4.2 Implementation Symsoft’s Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all employees to access. A procedure is in place where all staff are required to read through the Symsoft Code of Conduct and sign to say that they’ve read, understood and agreed to follow our policies. The Symsoft Management Team, headed by the Managing Director, are ultimately responsible for making sure the Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed in all parts including Environment & Sustainability. Symsoft strives to minimise its environmental impact and to ensure that finite resources are used responsibly and carefully. Symsoft promotes operational practices that reduce any environmental burden associated with our activities. Symsoft continuously improves and seeks innovative environmentally friendly solutions in products and services. If possible, meetings are held over the phone, or internet based media rather than travelling. When travelling is required, we choose the train whenever possible. Symsoft measures and monitors its energy consumption. Symsoft has taken actions to keep energy consumption low, and will continue to work on this. Among other things, our office is fitted with various innovative power saving features. Symsoft has water saving features installed. Symsoft has a recycling system in place for paper, cardboard, aluminium, batteries and glass. Discarded electronic equipment is sent to licensed recycling stations. Symsoft thinks about sustainability and the environment when selecting suppliers, and has accordingly chosen to rent office space from a very environmental conscious company, Vasakronan. Vasakronan prioritises environment and climate work. They are a carbon neutral company, and also Sweden’s first property company to offer green leases and green offices. Vasakronan works according to the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact, and has the following environmental certificates: BREEAM, Green Building, ISO 14001, LEED, Miljöbyggnad. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes In October 2017, Symsoft launched a new company intranet portal. This has improved internal communication and made policies and handbooks more easily available to all employees. During 2017, Symsoft had their policies and Code of Conduct documents and related reports reviewed by EcoVadis as part of a Corporate Social Responsibility assessment. We are proud to have reached Gold level in the EcoVadis CSR rating for the third year in a row. 09 ENVIRONMENT Symsoft is determined to keep on monitoring CO2 emissions, aiming to keep them as low as possible, and doing whatever is reasonably practical to reduce them. Measurements over the years have shown that transportation cost go up and down, this is influenced by factors that the company cannot control. Symsoft is increasingly delivering solutions that can be installed in the cloud on virtual servers, but on occasion we are required to deliver systems on traditional physical hardware in order to fulfill customer needs this often includes assistance/support with transport. During 2017, Symsoft's CO2 emissions decreased, with 34% measured as kgCO2/employee/month, compared to the previous fiscal year. One of our CSR goals this year was to invest further in a video conferencing system, aiming to further reduce the need for travel. This goal was achieved, and the new video conference system is now being used for internal meetings when we have teams in different locations. We also set a goal to decrease consumption of energy, water, heating and cooling by at least 5% compared to the previous fiscal year. We partially realised this goal, with energy consumption reduced by 14%, measured as Kwh/employee. Water consumption also decreased by 6%, with heating consumption remaining the same, and cooling 4.6% higher than previous year. To minimise environmental impact, Symsoft encourages staff to choose train travel whenever possible rather than going by air, and to choose economy class, enabling more travelers to fly in the same airplane, rather than choosing business class when travelling by air. 14% reduction in our energy consumption 6%water consumption decreased 10 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES & ANTI-CORRUPTION 05 Fair Business Practices & Anti-Corruption 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact Principle 10 “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”. Symsoft supports the UN Convention against corruption. The Symsoft Code of Conduct clearly describes what could be considered bribery in terms of business operation. The policy also covers gifts, hospitality, extortion and money laundering. Symsoft’s goal is to continue to have no cases of unfair business practices, bribery or corruption. 5.2 Implementation The Symsoft Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff to access. All new employees are provided with the Symsoft Code of Conduct as part of their employee contract, and are required to read it through. The Symsoft Management Team, headed by the Managing Director, is ultimately responsible for making sure the Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed. 11 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES & ANTI-CORRUPTION At Christmas time Symsoft has chosen to give a contribution to the charity organisation ‘Hand in Hand’ instead of sending suppliers, customers, business partners etc. gifts. ‘Hand in Hand’ reduces poverty through job creation via social mobilisation, business training, access to credit and linking women entrepreneurs to markets. As Symsoft has grown, we have increased our contribution to ‘Hand in Hand’ Most of our suppliers and customers also donate to charity rather than sending gifts to their business associates. If any gifts from suppliers or customers are received, they tend to be small items like chocolates for Christmas or candies for Easter Holidays, these are put on the coffee table for all employees to share. In this period, we have noticed less gifts and more charity donations. Symsoft has a separate Procurement Policy as well as a Procurement Process. When selecting suppliers, Symsoft has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect our suppliers to comply with. See section 6 about Sustainable Procurement for details. pictures courtsey of 5.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft accounts are subject to a yearly external audit. This is one of the methods we use to find any suspicious business transactions. Symsoft has successfully trained all line managers and key staff in fair business practices through UN’s Fight against Corruption e-learning (http://thefightagainstcorruption.org/certificate/). Symsoft has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption, extortion, money laundering or bribery. 12 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 06 Sustainable Procurement 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact 10 Principles. We expect our suppliers to run their business according to equivalent principles; this is described in the Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct. Symsoft believes we have made, and will continue to make, proper provision for the health, safety and welfare of our employees at work and of others who may be affected by Symsoft’s activities. Symsoft cares for the environment and is committed to good environmental practices. Symsoft strives to achieve high standards of business conduct, and we expect the same approach from those with whom we do business. Symsoft mainly delivers software and services related to our software, however we also increasingly deliver our software 'as a service' either based on private or public cloud networks. It is Symsoft’s strategy to deliver the majority of our business 'as a service'. The 'as a service' approach allows multiple vendors and/or applications, and sometimes customers, to share the same hardware. This is a major opportunity for operators everywhere to reduce their hardware needs Hardware components are sometimes needed to support Symsoft software, deliveries of this nature account for approximately 5% of our revenue, due to the nature of our business, hardware deliveries make up a larger part of the indirect environmental impact from our business. The majority of all non-software goods delivered by Symsoft are procured from external well renowned manufacturers. 13 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Thus, Symsoft suppliers have an indirect impact on social, financial and environmental factors where we conduct business. Procuring goods and services in a sustainable way, keeping high standards and requiring the same from those we choose to work with, we believe Symsoft’s actions can influence the social, financial and environmental domain of our suppliers. To conduct our business, Symsoft procure goods and services both in the technology sector for IT infrastructure, primarily for re-distribution to customers, and from other sectors, such as facilities, office disposables, refreshments, etc. Our goal is to continuously work to evaluate new suppliers against the “Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct”. We will insist that suppliers either meet or exceed these requirements, and we will follow up regularly with existing suppliers to make sure that our main suppliers live up to our standards and expectations. 6.2 Implementation Symsoft’s Procurement Policy and Symsoft’s Procurement Process is used when selecting suppliers and subcontractors, no matter what type of product or service we are purchasing. This could be anything from call centres to data centres, IT equipment to any other internal equipment used, as well as products used to deliver to Symsoft customers. We are assessing our suppliers against Symsoft Code of Conduct in order to make sure they measure up to our standards when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes To address this area, Symsoft has reviewed where our main suppliers stand when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility issues. Furthermore, we have developed a separate policy for this area, the Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct, and updated our Procurement Policy and Procurement Process accordingly. Assessed hardware suppliers follow UN Global Compacts 10 principles or equivalent. In addition, our main suppliers are ISO 14001 certified. All major hardware technology suppliers that have a direct contractual relationship with Symsoft adhere to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct or equivalent. All new major suppliers (3rd party suppliers for our solution and consultants) for the period have signed and committed to our Supplier Code of Conduct. 14
