2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY 102-3, 102-7 ▾ At Southwire Company, LLC—one of North America’s leading manufacturers of wire and cable used in the transmission and distribution of electricity—We Deliver Power…Responsibly®. Headquartered in Carrollton, Ga., we have more than 7,500 full and part-time employees who work at more than 40 locations throughout the United States, Mexico, Canada, Honduras, China, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. With approximately 2.28 billion pounds of products and $5.5 billion in net sales in 2017, our products help provide power to millions of people around the world. 102-4 ▾ Southwire operates 36 manufacturing plants in the United States, Mexico, Honduras and China and 11 customer service centers in the United States and Canada. We also hold growing international presence with several sales and support ofﬁces strategically positioned to serve customers in markets all over the world. FACILITIES MAP 102-10 ▾ In January 2017, Southwire announced a planned closure of operations at our Flora, Illinois, manufacturing facility. Full plant operation subsided in the ﬁrst quarter of 2017, and the facility continued to operate at a limited capacity until the fourth quarter. In addition, the company moved operations at the Southwire Dallas Customer Service Center in Arlington, Texas, to the company’s newly acquired facility in Denton, Texas. As the company continues to focus on efforts to accelerate growth, in December 2017, Southwire announced the expansion of our distribution facilities in the West Georgia area. Adjacent to the company’s existing West Georgia and Retail East Customer Service Centers in Villa Rica, Ga., a new 400,000 square foot property is currently under development. Southwire continues to bolster our portfolio of innovative and sustainable products to position the company for long-term growth. Following the 2016 acquisitions of United Copper Industries, Inc. (UCI) and Sumner Manufacturing, Inc., Southwire announced the acquisition of DCN Cables of Youngsville, N.C. in October 2017—an industry leader in manufacturing power whips for mission critical facilities. Through the addition of DCN Cables, Southwire now offers 24-hour turn around and an expansive, customized offering of receptacles, color choices and variable cable lengths built to ﬁt speciﬁc customer requirements. Learn about our organizational structure and products on the Markets & Products page. Information on our workforce is located here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY MARKETS & PRODUCTS 102-2 ▾ A leader in technology and innovation, Southwire Company, LLC is one of North America’s largest wire and cable producers. Southwire and its subsidiaries manufacture building wire and cable, metal-clad cable, portable and electronic cord products, utility products, OEM wire products and engineered products. In addition, Southwire supplies assembled products, contractor equipment and hand tools, and designs and manufactures systems that produce copper and aluminum rod. To our knowledge, none of our products or services are speciﬁcally banned anywhere in the world. Southwire’s products help provide power to millions of people around the world. The Southwire brand, along with individual product brands such as SIMpull Solutions®, TAPPAN™ and SCR®, is our promise to our customers. We established a companywide branding style guide to be governed, managed and maintained by marketing teams across all business units. The guidelines also address all acquired brands as they fold into the Southwire branding structure. 102-6 ▾ To best serve customers’ needs, Southwire’s two business groups, Power Systems & Solutions (PSS) Group and Construction Systems & Solutions (CSS) Group, provide a centralized structure for our commitment to customers while fostering creativity and providing market-driven solutions to deliver value to our end users. POWER SYSTEMS & SOLUTIONS (PSS) GROUP CONSTRUCTION SYSTEMS & SOLUTIONS (CSS) GROUP Southwire > Energy > Electrical Business Units > Industrial > Tools & Assembled Products > Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Sectors > Energy > Residential Construction > Industrial > Institutional Construction > OEM > Commercial Construction Customer Types > Electric Utilities > Electrical Distributors > Engineering, Procurement & Construction > Contractors > Transit > DIYers > Oil & Gas > Retail Outlets > Auto > Appliance > Rod > Factory Automation Focus Area > Working with customers to provide innovative products, solutions and > Creating innovative products that help end users of services that not only meet, but exceed our customer’s expectations, our products and services save time, increase with a foundation in R&D and engineering expertise that is unparalleled efﬁciency and, most importantly, increase safety in the industry on the job site Product & Service > “Made to order” approach > “In stock” products Offering* > Material handling resources > “Made to order” options *The Technology & Innovation page highlights Southwire’s products and services for both business groups. A strong, integrated support function backs the company’s business groups, allowing Southwire to sell across product lines more effectively and maximize the value the company brings to our customers. To support the success of these business groups, Southwire is investing in technologies to maintain and govern best business practices for marketing assets in supporting product management. These technologies allow us to be more efﬁcient and make it easier for customers to do business with us. This is a scalable and sustainable method to support future growth. For example, our Power Systems & Solutions Group unveiled a Customer Experience Center at the Huntersville Plant in Huntersville, N.C. The updated lobby allows visitors to journey through our company history with a focus on medium, high and extra-high voltage products. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY OUR PEOPLE Southwire cares a great deal about our people. Our focus on Living Well means we will preserve and enhance the lives of our employees by building a workplace that is satisfying, meaningful and fun. In doing so, we will make certain that safety and health are always top priorities and will treat each other with dignity and respect. Read more about our approach to Living Well. 102-41 ▾ Southwire provides a desirable workplace for its employees with fair compensation and a well-developed company culture based on a “family feel.” The majority of Southwire’s employees are full-time, hourly workers. With positive employee relations, collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 3.1 percent of our full-time employees located at our Waukegan, Ill. manufacturing operations and Pleasant Prairie, Wis. customer service center in 2017. 102-8 ▾ We compiled the data for 102-8: Information on employees and other workers through SAP SuccessFactors, which excludes employee data for Mexico, Honduras, China, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Therefore, breakdowns by gender and employment type do not represent Southwire’s entire population of 7,571 employees. Male (Permanent*) 5,242 (74.47%) United States (Permanent*) 6,390 (84.40%) Female (Permanent*) 1,269 (18.03%) United States (Temporary) 527 (6.96%) Male (Temporary) 300 (4.26%) Honduras (Permanent*) 303 (4.00%) Female (Temporary) 228 (3.24%) Mexico (Permanent*) 158 (2.09%) Canada (Permanent*) 121 (1.60%) Canada (Temporary) 1 (0.01%) China (Permanent*) 63 (0.83%) United Kingdom (Permanent*) 6 (0.08%) Netherlands (Permanent*) 2 (0.03%) *An employee hired to work without a speciﬁc time frame for exit 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SOUTHWIRE’S STAKEHOLDERS 102-40, 102-42 ▾ Southwire regularly engages with the following stakeholder groups: customers, suppliers, shareholders and board members, regulators, industry associations, community members and Southwire employees. We identify stakeholders through interviews with executive leadership, the Southwire environmental leadership committee, the sustainability committee of the Southwire board of directors and various other employees. We select stakeholders for engagement based on their knowledge and understanding of Southwire’s overall operations, industry positions, regulatory history and community involvement. ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 102-43, 102-44 ▾ Internal Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement—a business imperative for Southwire—occurs in many ways. We invest in numerous mechanisms to engage our employees. For material sustainability topics covered in this report, click on the links below to learn how Southwire addresses the issues our employees care about most. APPROACH FREQUENCY PURPOSE TOPICS & CONCERNS RAISED Employee Engagement Approximately every 18–24 The results of these voluntary surveys > Employee Engagement & Development Survey months; process evolving in deliver a better understanding of our > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency 2018 employees’ wants and needs, allowing > Financial Performance periodic adjustments to management > Inclusion systems and approaches. > Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being Roundtable Discussions Monthly Our CEO engages with employees, providing > Financial Performance an avenue for open discussion about > Operations Topics company successes and areas for > Product Quality & Safety improvement around Southwire. The > Inclusion discussion hosts a rotating group of 15-20 employees in various functions who meet with the CEO and other members of leadership. Feedback is gathered and discussed with senior leadership to create plans and processes for continued growth. Town Hall Meetings Quarterly Our CEO conducts an in-person state of the > Financial Performance business meeting from various Southwire > Business Plans locations. These video-recorded meetings > Market Conditions stream live across Southwire. The meetings > Product Quality & Safety provide timely information concerning the company’s overall performance while > Inclusion affording employees the opportunity to ask > Expansion/Reduction of Operations questions about speciﬁc interest areas. Operational Perfection at Ongoing This program drives total employee > Operations Topics Southwire (OPS) involvement in operational excellence in > Product Quality & Safety manufacturing. Employees participate in team activities that engage them to identify problems and implement solutions that improve our operations. Ethics Hotline 24 hours a day, seven days a The Ethics Hotline is available for > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency week employees to anonymously report unethical > Legal and Policy Compliance business practices, including violations of > EHS the Company’s Standards of Business > Product Quality & Safety Ethics and Conduct. Just Ask 24 hours a day, seven days a Via online access, paper drop box or call in, > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency week employees can ask questions and/or offer > EHS suggestions concerning Southwire policies, > Employee Engagement & Development procedures or practices. External Stakeholders Southwire’s external stakeholder engagement centers on employee involvement and membership in industry organizations and associations (see 102-13: Membership of associations, below) as well as various civic, environmental, health and safety organizations across our geographic footprint. Other key external stakeholder engagement opportunities include interactions with customers, suppliers and community members. The table below shows the various methods we use to engage our external stakeholders; material sustainability topics and concerns raised link to Southwire’s management approach. STAKEHOLDER GROUP APPROACH & FREQUENCY PURPOSE TOPICS & CONCERNS RAISED Customers Ongoing: To better align our products and services to > Product Quality & Safety > Voice of the Customer meet customer needs. > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency survey > Technology & Innovation > Satisfaction surveys > Materials > User forums > Energy & Air Emissions > Trade shows > Scorecard reviews > Site visits > Customer Support Center hotline > Materiality assessment interviews Suppliers Ongoing: To best understand the risks and > Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being > Sustainability surveys opportunities present throughout our value > Financial Performance > On-site audits chain. > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency > Meetings > Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement > Materiality assessment Practices interviews > Water & Wastewater > Technology & Innovation Shareholders and Board Quarterly: To report progress on various metrics and > Water & Wastewater Members > Board meetings targets, seek input and direction on key > Energy & Air Emissions issues and address member questions and > Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being Every 3 years: concerns > Materiality assessment > Product Quality & Safety interviews > Financial Performance > Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency > Employee Engagement & Development Regulators Ongoing: To seek guidance on potential projects, > Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being > Pre-application meetings report progress on activities and initiatives, > Water & Wastewater > Progress updates pursue OSHA Voluntary Protection Program > Energy & Air Emissions (VPP) certiﬁcation and address potential > Voluntary program audits compliance concerns and complaints > Compliance inspections and inquiries Industry Organizations (see Ongoing: To improve access and sustainability of > Indirect Economic Impacts memberships below) > Product feedback products and services in the industry by: > Energy & Air Emissions requests > Giving a voice to customers; > Product Quality & Safety > Apprentice training > Increasing awareness of our sustainable > Technology & Innovation innovations; > Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being > Assuring product safety and sustainability; > Sharing our expertise with policy makers; and to create a sustainable workforce by fostering the success of the next generation of contractors. STAKEHOLDER GROUP APPROACH & FREQUENCY PURPOSE TOPICS & CONCERNS RAISED Community Members Annual: Southwire’s CEO hosts more than 150 > Financial Performance (Carrollton, > Update meeting community and business leaders to discuss > Community Engagement Georgia area) the company’s performance, future plans > Future Plans and community impact. This meeting enables the open exchange of questions, answers, thoughts and ideas between the community and Southwire leaders. Community Members Every 3 years: To understand Southwire’s greatest > Water & Wastewater > Materiality assessment sustainability impacts, risks, and > Giving Back interviews opportunities to make a positive impact. > Energy & Air Emissions > Operational Waste 102-13 ▾ Southwire strongly supports and participates in industry associations that champion our key customers’ needs. Our engineers and leaders work to maintain and create our industry partnerships. As we engage our customers and other industry interest groups through these associations, we request feedback on our products’ performance and identify needs or gaps around products or services that may or may not exist. Southwire has trained apprentices through partnerships with the Electrical Training Alliance (ETA), National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) and Independent Electrical Contractors (IEC). In 2017, Southwire trained more than 2,000 apprentices through sessions at ETA and NECA. Through these associations, which provide access to young, less experienced electricians, Southwire will continue to create a sustainable workforce by fostering the success of the next generation of contractors. We proudly participate in the following organizations: ORGANIZATION SOUTHWIRE’S CURRENT INVOLVEMENT SOUTHWIRE’S PREVIOUS CONTRIBUTIONS Aluminum Association > Health and Safety Committee > Building and Construction Committee American Copper Council > Company Membership American National Standards Institute > Member of U.S. Technical Advisory Group to ISO > Chairman of ANSI C119 on high temperature (ANSI) Technical Committee 176 operation of conductor connectors ASTM International > Advise on standards creation for bare wire > Chairman of B01 Committee on Conductors products in North America Canadian Standards Association > Participate in standards development for utility wire & cable products in Canada Continental Automated Buildings > Platinum Board Member Association (CABA) Copper Club > Board of Directors Copper Development Association > Board of Directors > Wire and Cable Section Chair Council for Harmonization of > THSC 20, Building Wire and Cable > President Electrotechnical Standardization of the > THSC 20, Wire and Cable Test Methods Nations of the Americas (CANENA) > CSA > Type MC Electrical Manufacturers’ Club > Board of Directors Electrical Training Alliance (ETA) > Platinum Training Partner (previously called NJATC) Electro Federation Canada > Board of Directors ORGANIZATION SOUTHWIRE’S CURRENT INVOLVEMENT SOUTHWIRE’S PREVIOUS CONTRIBUTIONS EMerge Alliance > Help develop standards leading to the rapid adoption of DC power distribution in commercial buildings Independent Electrical Contractors (IEC) > Platinum Level Sponsor Institute of Electrical and Electronics > Flexible Cord and Electrical Vehicle Committee Engineers (IEEE) > UL STP 62 Committee > Industrial Ethernet Committee IEEE Industry Applications Society > Petroleum and Chemical Industry Committee (IEEE/IAS) (PCIC) IEEE Power and Energy Society (IEEE/PES) > Overhead Lines Committee, Chair and multiple working groups > Substations Committee, multiple working groups > Contribute to the development of wire and cable system design for overhead lines and substations > Member of the Long Range Planning Board (LRP) Industry Data Exchange Association, Inc. > Chairman of the Board of Directors (IDEA) Insulated Cable Engineers Association > President (ICEA) > North American cable manufacturers association writing standards for utility cable systems Insulated Conductors Committee (ICC) > Chairs, Vice Chairs and Committee Members of multiple working groups International Association of Electrical > Code Panelist for IAEI Section Meetings Inspectors (IAEI) International Cablemakers Federation > Vice President and Board of Directors International Council on Large Electric > Contributing Editor to the CIGRE international > Convener of B2.04 WG on High Temperature Systems (CIGRE) Overhead Lines book Operation of Conductors > Participate in multiple overhead and underground working groups developing recommended International Grid design practices National Armored Cable Manufacturer’s > Association Chair Association National Electrical Contractors Association > Premier Partner (NECA) National Electric Energy Testing > Founding Member Research and Applications Center > Serve on both the Advisory Committee and Board > Advise and drive testing, research and development of application guides for utility power systems National Electrical Manufacturers > Board of Directors Association (NEMA) > Executive Committee > Codes and Standards Ofﬁcer/Past Chair ORGANIZATION SOUTHWIRE’S CURRENT INVOLVEMENT SOUTHWIRE’S PREVIOUS CONTRIBUTIONS National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) > NEC Code Making Panel Panelist > Fire Protection Research Foundation North American Association of Utility > Develop relationships between utility distributors > Chairman – Supplier Advisory Council Distributors (NAAUD) and manufacturers Northwest Public Power Association > Share current event topics relevant to public (NWPPA) power entities in the Northwest Plastic Pipe Institute (PPI) > Share industry best practices related to the plastics industry > Participate in standards development for conduit and underground task groups for conduit Rocky Mountain Electrical League (RMEL) > Share current event topics relevant to the utility industry Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) > Cable Standards Committee International > ISO TC22 SC3 WG4 USAG Automotive Electrical Cables Committee Technical Subcommittee on Specialized > CEC Task group on Application of Rule 4-006 Wiring Systems – C231(ICCM06) UL > FUS Council > Standards Technical Panels (STP) > Chair, 3072 Standard Group Utility Purchasing Management Group > Supplier Advisory Board Member (UPMG) > Share best supply channel practices pertaining to the utility industry Utility Supply Management Association > Supplier Advisory Board Member (USMA) > Share best supply channel practices pertaining to the utility industry Wire Association International (WAI) > Board of Directors > Executive Committee Member > Vice Chair of the Membership Committee > Member of the Education Committee > Member of the Membership Committee > Previous WAI President, WAI First Vice President, Finance Committee Chairman Western Mining Electrical Association > Member (WMEA) 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 102-5 ▾ As a family-owned company, our shareholders consider potential reputational risk for themselves and their families. Southwire’s leadership team is committed to maintaining the highest level of ﬁnancial and business integrity. Strong corporate governance ensures accountability and good management practices across the organization. Clear communication up and down the organization supports Southwire’s robust governance structure. Southwire works to align our governance structure with the regulations typically imposed on publicly owned companies, incorporating a majority of independent directors on the board and requiring ﬁnancial accountability. We strive to implement this model while continuing to beneﬁt from the ﬂexibility, conﬁdentiality and long-term investment perspective that comes with private ownership. Our board therefore includes 10 members: three are shareholders, one represents top management and six—a majority—serve as independent directors elected to the board by the company’s shareholders. While Southwire is a family-owned company, we take pride in our independent leadership. GOVERNANCE MAP 102-18 ▾ BOARD COMMITTEES Independent HR Committee To maintain the highest quality human resources policy, practices and initiatives throughout Southwire, the company has a human resources (HR) committee comprised of at least three members elected by the board of directors. The committee, which meets at least four times annually, oversees the succession and development plans for executive and senior leadership, reviews the compensation philosophy, policies, practices and beneﬁts for executives and employees to conﬁrm they remain equitable, competitive and consistent with the Company’s philosophy. Another key aspect of the committee’s responsibilities includes managing the culture and engagement policies that affect the whole company to ensure that Southwire is a respected employer of choice and an industry leader. Our Human Resources Committee Charter is available for further review. Independent Sustainability Committee As a progressive private company, the Southwire board’s independent sustainability committee has existed for more than a decade. This committee regularly reviews our sustainability practices and provides guidance as needed. The committee oversees broad areas of decision making affecting the company’s overall sustainability including environmental affairs, customer and employee health and safety, new and innovative technologies, sustainable goal setting and adequate resource dedication to sustainability related initiatives. More information on the committee’s responsibilities can be found in our Sustainability Committee Charter. Independent Audit Committee The Southwire Company Audit Committee meets regularly to help the board provide oversight of the quality and integrity of the company’s ﬁnancial statements, reporting practices and accounting policies. The committee also provides counsel to the board and management on matters, events, polices and decisions having a material ﬁnancial impact on the company and shareholders. The policies the committee enacts for the board ensure regulatory compliance of reporting practices and accounting. To achieve high quality policies and reports, an open dialogue between the committee and management allows sufﬁcient insight and information to provide advice and counsel to the management and board. To learn more, please view our Audit Committee Charter. MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Risk Oversight Committee Our Risk Oversight Committee, with three executive sponsors, brings together 14 individuals from different functions across the company to look at risk from various perspectives. The committee meets quarterly, and information ﬂows both up to and down from the board. Southwire forms task forces to address the greatest identiﬁed risks, such as cybersecurity, resource scarcity or product liability, including third-party loss. Sustainability Committee 102-20 ▾ Supporting our board’s independent sustainability committee, Southwire’s sustainability steering committee is led by our chief executive ofﬁcer and comprised of Southwire’s executive leadership team members—chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer, general counsel and executive vice presidents of human resources and business development as well as presidents of our International, Power Systems & Solutions and Construction Systems & Solutions business groups. Other members include the senior vice president of sustainability, EHS & quality. This team meets quarterly, setting the overall strategy for managing the company’s economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities while also monitoring the progress and alignment of the various sub-committees and groups working in this area. Southwire’s strong internal sustainability structure and culture of accountability cascade throughout our company via tactical committees and groups. Southwire’s environmental leadership committee focuses on the company’s environmental issues such as management of its legacy remediation liability and environmental concerns around potential acquisitions, while the EHS steering committee sets Southwire’s environmental, health and safety strategy. COMMUNICATING WITH THE BOARD Working teams meet regularly and report their progress through regular updates from the senior vice president of sustainability to the board. Southwire’s senior vice president of sustainability, EHS & quality provides quarterly updates to the board’s sustainability committee and our full board of directors regarding initiatives. The sustainability steering committee and the environmental leadership committee provide layers of executive input to inform our sustainability efforts and environmental issues. AUDITS External audits can ensure business accountability. Southwire has a goal to assure the accuracy and integrity of ﬁnancial, environmental and safety management systems by completing annual third-party ﬁnancial audits every year and environmental, health and safety audits every two years. An external auditor reviews Southwire’s ﬁnancial statements to provide an accurate, unbiased report of the company’s ﬁnancial condition, helping to ensure integrity in our ﬁscal reporting. Because Southwire is privately owned, our ﬁnancial statements are not publicly available. However, the board scrutinizes the company’s ﬁnancial performance carefully, with a close eye on proﬁtability, strategy and business ethics. Read about Southwire’s approach to maintaining strong ﬁnancial performance here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 2021 GOALS Our 2021 goals deepen our sustainability efforts and strengthen our management by driving us toward higher standards of excellence. In 2016, after undertaking a benchmark of best-in-class and aspirational goals across our own industry and others, Southwire leadership developed a new bold goal and supporting metrics for each of our sustainability tenets. Further, we demonstrate alignment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals to show how our strategic priorities support the collective efforts toward global progress. This sustainability report includes 2016 data as the baseline for these metrics, against which we will continue to track and report progress for the next four years. 2021 Growing Green Goals Our goal to improve our operational eco-efﬁciency aligns with SDG 12 to “ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.” Speciﬁcally, our efforts to send zero waste to landﬁll support Target 12.5: “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.” Our goals to improve energy and water intensity support Target 12.2: “By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efﬁcient use of natural resources.” Learn how Southwire is responsibly managing operational waste, energy, air emissions, water and wastewater. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE TOP DECILE DJSI (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Reduce energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 15% Energy: 1,041 kWh/ton Energy: 996 kWh/ton through conservation and the use of renewable energy by 2021 GHG: 0.37 MT CO2e/ton GHG: 0.36 MT CO2e/ton Achieve zero operational waste to landﬁll status at all locations by year74% 100%* end 2017 and maintain status with growth through 2021 Further reduce water intensity by 10% over 2016 baseline by 2021 213 gal/ton 222 gal/ton *Does not include sites acquired in 2016 (Sumner and UCI) and 2017 (DCN). 2021 Living Well Goals Southwire’s safety goal and targets align with SDG 3 to “ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages.” Read more about how Southwire contributes to employees’ good health and well-being here. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE BEST IN CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT SOUTHWIRE TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Achieve 10X increase in injury-free event (IFE) reporting by 2021 46.8 * Achieve 75% decrease in the total recordable injury rate by 2021 1.71 1.30 (24% decrease) Achieve Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) or equivalent 38% 36%** certiﬁcation at all sites by 2021 *New IFE reporting process in development and is targeted for completion at the end of 2018. IFE were not measured on an enterprise level in 2017. **In 2017, one additional site was certiﬁed; however, two VPP sites were closed. 2021 Giving Back Goals Southwire is widely known for our Giving Back culture and programs. We have long engaged with and supported all the communities in which we operate. We have a longer history of activity in and around Carrollton, Ga., where our operations began, and where we have an established electronic waste collection program. Our educational and environmental programs are helping to build sustainable cities and communities wherever Southwire operates. Read more about how Southwire innovates for sustainable cities here and our contributions to communities in need here. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ENABLE AND ENGAGE OUR WORKFORCE IN BUILDING MORE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Launch environmental outreach programs in 100% of the communities in which we operate 4% of communities 4% of communities 2021 Doing Right Goals Southwire’s Doing Right goal aligns with SDG 16 to “promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.” We have initiatives in place to help Southwire contribute to Target 16.5: “Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms,” and Target 16.6: “Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels.” By working toward these targets, Southwire will achieve external recognition as an ethical company. Read more about our programs for ethics, anti-corruption and transparency here. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ENSURE THE HIGHEST STANDARD OF ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES WITHIN ALL OUR OPERATIONS TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Achieve recognition on Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies list by No ranking Gap analysis completed, and action plans 2021 developed 2021 Building Worth Goals Southwire’s greatest contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals comes through SDG 9 to “Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation.” Development of innovative technologies and solutions is core to Southwire’s culture and differentiates us from others in the industry. Our customers in the electric utility, OEM, industrial and construction sectors create and maintain infrastructure in the U.S. and beyond. By achieving our goal to develop and commercialize four breakthrough solutions to customers’ sustainability challenges, Southwire will directly enable Target 9.4: “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retroﬁt industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efﬁciency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes.” Read more about our technology and innovations here. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE FOUR BREAKTHROUGH SOLUTIONS TO CUSTOMERS’ SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS 10% of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 8% 6% and amortization) in the funnel $1 billion of incremental revenue tied to these solutions (15% $0 Strategic plan developed identifying relevant vertical markets and of projected 2021 revenues) adjacent/transformational strategic initiatives *Strategic plan developed identifying relevant vertical markets and adjacent/transformational strategic initiatives. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-50, 102-52, 102-54 ▾ Southwire publishes sustainability reports annually; our current sustainability report covers calendar year 2017 for all information provided. As a private company, we proudly share our sustainability journey and progress in this report, which has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 102-49 ▾ In late 2017 and early 2018, Southwire completed our second materiality assessment. Through this process, we recategorized several topics and reorganized content covered in our previous sustainability reports. We also identiﬁed several new material topics—Water & Wastewater, Customer Health & Safety, and Financial Performance—which we cover for the ﬁrst time in this report. 102-56, 102-48 ▾ To demonstrate our commitment to the Global Reporting Initiative principles for deﬁning report quality, we had the operational eco-efﬁciency data for our environmental metrics (i.e., water use, waste disposal, and energy use) in this report externally assured for the ﬁrst time. Because of recommendations from the third-party veriﬁcation ﬁrm, we restated our 2016 data for these metrics. This 2016 data will serve as the baseline for our 2021 operational eco-efﬁciency sustainability targets. 102-51 ▾ We published our most recent report, covering calendar year 2016, in June 2017. Since launching our 2016 report, Southwire acquired DCN Cables of Youngsville, N.C., and has moved operations at the Southwire Dallas Customer Service Center in Arlington, Texas, to the company’s facility in Denton, Texas. Other than employee headcount, no other 2017 data is included for DCN. Southwire also announced the expansion of our distribution facilities in the West Georgia area. 102-55 ▾ Our GRI Content Index for this 2017 sustainability report is located here. Our UN Global Compact index can be found here. 102-53 ▾ If you have any questions or comments about this report, please contact Jeff Herrin, Senior Vice President, Sustainability, EHS & Quality at sustainability@southwire.com. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO LETTER Dear Friends, Colleagues and Neighbors, At Southwire, we work hard every day to discover, develop and distribute sustainable solutions that exceed the expectations of our stakeholders around the world. In doing so, our goal is simple: We want to go from good to great. We continue to build on our nearly seven decades of rich history by looking to the future—a future where needs will be met through high-end systems and solutions, and a future guided by the technologies, forces and trends shaping our industry. In that spirit, I am proud to present our 2017 Sustainability Report. Like the reports we’ve launched in the past, this assessment covers all areas of sustainability at Southwire and covers our most signiﬁcant impacts and opportunities. These ﬁndings detail our sustainability goals and strategies, which align with our ﬁve tenets—Growing Green, Living Well, Giving Back, Doing Right and Building Worth. As you may recall, we launched a revitalized set of goals in 2017, accompanied by a new, beautifully designed logo and refreshed priorities for the next ﬁve years. Introduced in last year’s report, we are pleased to report our ﬁrst year’s progress for these new goals. For the 2017 report, we also conducted an updated materiality assessment to guide our focus on the sustainability topics most signiﬁcant to our business and our stakeholders. The Materiality page details this process. You will see these topics expanded further as you review the report. As you begin to review the 2017 report, I’d like to share a few key highlights from the year: Safety I’ve reiterated many times that there is nothing more important at Southwire—no order, no job, no efﬁciency—than the people who work here. We continue to ﬁnd ways to remove variability from our processes, develop new ways to stay safer on the job, and this year, welcomed an additional facility to our list of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star sites. It has taken the commitment of each employee to reach the level of improvement we have seen, and it will continue to take all of us as we strive toward zero injuries at Southwire. Moving forward, this same theme will be tied to our quality metrics and efforts to put forth our very best when it comes to our products, solutions and services. UN Global Compact Supporting our commitment, we signed the UN Global Compact in July of 2017, becoming one of more than 12,000 signatories in 170 countries who are working to take actions that advance societal goals. To be a company that can sustain itself through many generations, it is important to align with these initiatives so that our communities around the world continue to prosper and thrive. Business Success Key business wins for 2017 include the grand opening of the Thorn Customer Solutions Center, the acquisition of DCN Cables, growth in our customer relationships, record-setting production in many of our facilities and much more. Guided by our ONE Southwire approach, we’ve developed a clear, structured ﬁve-year strategic plan that will help lead us toward continued growth in the future. Inclusivity Much consideration goes into the value of our culture and making Southwire a great place to work. We set forth many new initiatives over the past year, highlighted by the introduction of a formalized inclusivity program and the growth of our employee resource groups. We’ve also taken signiﬁcant steps in the realm of performance management and learning, and we are continuing to grow in these areas as we move ahead. Community And, as we think about our commitment to Giving Back, I continue to be amazed by the generosity of our people and our Project GIFT teams in the places we work, live and serve. In 2017, our 900+ Project GIFT volunteers participated in over 200 events, providing relief in the wake of ﬁve natural disasters, giving out more than 22,000 bags of school supplies and much more. We were also able to assist hundreds of employees through grants from the POWER Fund. Also in the spirit of community, we celebrated a decade of 12 for Life, the institution of our maintenance apprenticeship program and many other strides through our community partnerships and efforts to help develop the workforce of tomorrow. As I’ve said before, it is our priority that Southwire remains generationally sustainable for the next 100 years and beyond. I am incredibly proud to lead this great organization, made up of now more than 7,500 talented people across the globe that are working together to ensure we remain an industry and community leader for years to come. Sincerely, Rich Stinson 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 102-46 ▾ In 2017 and early 2018, Southwire conducted our second materiality assessment to identify, assess and prioritize the sustainability topics most signiﬁcant to our business and our stakeholders. This assessment followed Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 1. Identiﬁcation. Industry research and a benchmarking analysis of competitors, customers, suppliers, aspirational peers, company documents and third-party reports identiﬁed the universe of relevant topics. Through an impact mapping session with Southwire subject matter experts, we narrowed this list to 23 topics for prioritization—including eight topics not included in our 2014 materiality assessment. 2. Prioritization. Following the GRI principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, we interviewed 23 internal and external stakeholders, including senior Southwire leaders, shareholders, members of Southwire’s board of directors, customers, suppliers and representatives of communities/NGOs. The GRI Materiality Principle guided interview questions, which ascertained Southwire’s impact on the environment, society and economy; the greatest risks and opportunities for Southwire’s business; and inﬂuence on stakeholders’ decision-making. Through this process, two additional topics surfaced. We supplemented the interviews with 18 additional sources of information relevant to Southwire and our industry. MATERIALITY RESPONDENTS 16 14 5 12 10 8 9 6 2 4 2 5 4 4 2 3 1 2 2 2 0 1 1 ers rs rs me ers s ies ss s es lde cto rs GO ine ert ye Le pli nc xp ad ho s/N Em Dir e Cu Su tA us yE ire are sto p itie ge y/B plo of bil it uth Sh ard mm rnm us tr al w un en ina nti Bo Ind Po So Go Su te Co ve sta Interviews Sources Survey 3. Validation. Southwire’s executive leadership team reviewed the materiality assessment ﬁndings. After discussion of the process and results, the group conﬁrmed the material topics. We began the process of strategically integrating the ﬁndings into our business strategy by reﬁning—where necessary—the management approaches regarding the material topics and setting goals as well as associated key performance indicators (KPIs). MATERIAL TOPICS While all topics shown on the matrix below are important for Southwire to monitor and manage, this 2017 sustainability report communicates our management approach and progress on the 13 Tier 1 or “material” topics shown at the top right of the matrix. In keeping with our commitment to transparency, we also report on Operational Waste, which decreased to Tier 2 in our recent materiality assessment. We organized our sustainability topics in alignment with the ﬁve tenets of our corporate sustainability vision. 102-47 ▾ The table below provides an overview of how Southwire manages each topic, where impacts occur, and which stakeholders expressed the greatest interest in Southwire’s management and performance of each topic. Topics in bold font represent Southwire’s material topics, covered in depth in this report. Comm unitie s/NG Gove Os rnme nt Ag South Indus e ncies wire L eader try/B Share s usine holde Susta ss As Board rs inabil socia of Dir ector ity Ex tions Custo mers s Poten perts tial E Suppliers m BOUNDARY TOPIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH (WHERE IMPACTS OCCUR) HIGHLY INTERESTED STAKEHOLDERS GROWING GREEN Reducing greenhouse gas Southwire – Manufacturing emissions, ﬁne particulate matter operations, sales ofﬁces Air Emissions External – Suppliers (metals, (increased from Tier 2) and other signiﬁcant air emissions compounds, chemicals/additives, VIEW TOPIC (NOx, SOx, etc.) from operations and manufactured products); logistics transportation (inbound and outbound) Southwire – Manufacturing Restoring and maintaining operations remediated sites and minimizing Biodiversity External – Suppliers (raw signiﬁcant ecosystem impacts of materials); customers (electric activities utilities) Southwire – Manufacturing operations, customer service Energy Reducing energy intensity and centers, sales ofﬁces, corporate increasing use of alternative and ofﬁces VIEW TOPIC renewable sources External – Suppliers (metals, compounds, chemicals/additives); customers (utilities) Southwire – Corporate (product Minimizing material use and design), manufacturing integrating sustainable attributes operations, customer service (e.g., recycled materials) into Materials centers products and packaging; minimizing External – Suppliers (metals, VIEW TOPIC or eliminating the use of materials compounds, packaging, with negative health impacts; and manufactured products); maximizing material reuse at end of customers (all); end users life (contractors, DIYers, consumers) Tracking and minimizing waste (e.g., Operational Waste (Decreased from Tier 1) solid, toxic/hazardous, electronic) Southwire – All locations and utilizing safe VIEW TOPIC disposal methods Controlling water usage in manufacturing facilities and ofﬁce spaces by monitoring total withdrawal by source and using Southwire – Manufacturing Water & Wastewater recycled or lower quality water (Increased from Tier 2) operations whenever possible; managing water External – Suppliers (metals, VIEW TOPIC quality by reducing the release of compounds, chemicals/additives) chemical and physical contaminants into bodies of water such as rivers, streams and lakes; and minimizing spills and releases LIVING WELL Engaging in fair labor practices and work conditions for all employees; providing communication Southwire – Manufacturing Employee & Labor Relations mechanisms related to employee operations (Waukegan), customer (New Topic) relations; and supporting service centers (Pleasant Prairie) employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining Providing employees with Employee Engagement & opportunities to advance their skills, Development experience and career through Southwire – All locations training, personal development VIEW TOPIC programs and plans, coaching and more Creating an environment among Southwire’s board and employee population where individuals from Inclusion diverse backgrounds (ethnic, Southwire – All locations VIEW TOPIC cultural, generational, economic, External – Board of Directors etc.) feel included and comfortable expressing varied thoughts and perspectives Attracting talent through Southwire’s sustainability program, competitive beneﬁts (i.e., Total Rewards) and Talent Attraction general outreach; and promoting a positive and uniﬁed culture by Southwire – All locations VIEW TOPIC encouraging open communication, collaboration and employee ownership of initiatives and social programs Providing a safe workplace for our employees and contractors through Workplace Safety & the elimination of hazards and the Employee Well-Being implementation of safety training, Southwire – All locations systems and equipment; making External – Contractors VIEW TOPIC resources available to promote the physical, emotional and ﬁnancial and well-being of employees GIVING BACK Leveraging Southwire’s resources Southwire – Corporate (Media and and expertise to create a positive Community Relations) Charitable Partnerships & societal impact through External – nonproﬁts and Donations partnerships and programs to educational institutions in the provide education, products and communities where Southwire services to those in need operates and sells our products Evaluating impacts and providing meaningful dialogue and Southwire – All locations Communities engagement, employment and External – Communities where (Decreased from Tier 1) prosperity in the communities where Southwire operates Southwire operates Fostering opportunities for Southwire employees to “give back” Southwire – All locations Employee Giving & through community involvement, External – communities where Volunteerism skills-based volunteerism and grant Southwire operates programs DOING RIGHT Southwire – Corporate (sourcing), Implementing policies and sales ofﬁces, international Anti-Competitive Behavior standards to prevent unfair locations (New Topic) competition External – Board of Directors, outsourced agencies Ensuring policies, communications and training are in place to promote ethical behavior (e.g., anticorruption, bribery, extortion, money laundering, fraud and tax evasion); Ethics, Anti-Corruption & operating an internal audit program; Transparency Southwire – All locations maintaining a whistleblower policy External – Suppliers, Customers VIEW TOPIC and other means to safely and anonymously report transgressions; and providing accurate and transparent reporting regarding company performance, challenges and opportunities for improvement Southwire – Corporate (sales, Accurately disclosing product marketing, legal); customer components and content that may service centers Marketing & Labeling produce negative environmental or External – Suppliers (New Topic) social impact; and providing (manufactured products); information on safe product use and customers (OEMs, retailers, EPCs, disposal transit); end users (DIYers, contractors, consumers) Thoughtfully participating in Southwire – Corporate Public Policy Practices discussions to shape policy and (government affairs, legal, (New Topic) ensuring third-party/trade spending marketing) aligns with Southwire’s values Ensuring a stable, low-cost materials supply; practicing ethical sourcing requiring current and prospective suppliers to adhere to strict guidelines regarding forced labor, child labor, sexual harassment, and workplace health and safety; Sustainable Supply Chain & factoring human rights, supplier Southwire – Corporate (Ssurcing) Procurement Practices diversity and location considerations External – Suppliers (all); logistics VIEW TOPIC into our supplier selection process; (inbound and outbound) evaluating supplier performance through surveys and on-site audits for environmental, social, governance and quality management systems; and adherence to all applicable import laws BUILDING WORTH Evaluating the ﬁnancial implications, Southwire – Corporate (product risks, and opportunities due to design, marketing, legal, quality, Climate Change climate change; and increasing sales), manufacturing operations (Increased from Tier 3) resilience to the effects of long-term External – Shareholders; suppliers and extreme weather events on (all); inbound logistics; customers Southwire and our customers (all) Listening to and observing our customers to fully understand their needs; developing a value Southwire – Sales, Marketing, proposition reﬂective of each Product Development, Customer customer group; providing Customer Experience Service exceptional customer service and (New Topic) External – Customers (all); end building long-term customer users (all); industry relationships; and educating associations/apprentices customers, contractors and end users on safe and effective use of Southwire products Focusing on business continuity Southwire – All locations Financial Performance planning, wise allocation of capital, (New topic) External – Shareholders; suppliers; resource and process efﬁciency, and communities where Southwire VIEW TOPIC delivery of superior products to drive operates strong long-term ﬁnancial results Affecting the economic well-being of communities throughout Southwire’s value chain (e.g., economic impacts External – Communities where Indirect Economic Impacts from the use of Southwire’s Southwire’s suppliers or (New Topic) products and services and jobs customers have presence supported in the supply or distribution chain) Paying special attention to product design, installation methods and use and integrating solutions to enhance Southwire – Corporate (product Product Quality & Safety (New Topic) customer and user productivity and design/R&D, communications), safety; providing product/service manufacturing operations VIEW TOPIC warranties; and proactively External – Customers; end users informing customers in the unlikely event of a product recall Allocating funds to research and Southwire – Corporate (product development, creation of new design, marketing, IT, legal, HR); technologies and eco-friendly Technology & Innovation manufacturing operations, products, investment into deﬁning customer service centers, sales VIEW TOPIC new areas for product growth, and ofﬁces improving access and sustainability External – customers (all); end of products and services in the users (all) industry 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS METRICS AT A GLANCE Employee Engagement Permanent Employees by Gender Diverse Candidates Recyclable Wooden & Steel Reels Returned Recyclable Reels Returned (Percentage of Total Wooden & Steel Reels Shipped) Spend on Diverse Suppliers (Millions of Dollars) Diverse Suppliers (Percentage of Supplier Base) Quality Related Credit & Return Dollars (Percent of Gross Revenue) External Non-Conforming Parts: Wire & Cable (Parts per Million Feet) Energy Consumption Within the Organization (GJ) Energy Intensity (kWh/ton) Gross Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2e) Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2e) GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & Scope 2) (metric tons of CO2e/ton) Signiﬁcant Air Emissions (Kilograms) Freight Spend with Smart Way Carriers Water Withdrawal by Source OSHA Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)—Employees OSHA Lost Work Day Rate (LWDR)—Employees Southwire Engineering Academy Southwire Center for Manufacturing Excellence and Skilled for Life Southwire Volunteerism Back-to-School Event Locations 12 for Life Graduates (cumulative total) Toys Collected 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROWING GREEN We will reduce our environmental footprint, even as we grow. We will sustain our business and the communities in which we work and the world in which we live. Southwire maintains a deep commitment to growing our business in an environmentally responsible manner. We recognize that our planet’s natural resources are ﬁnite and that our success depends on conscientious use of these resources. To this end, our core operations integrate environmental priorities, detailed in this report. Click the links below for Southwire’s management approach and performance in each topic. ENERGY & AIR EMISSIONS MATERIALS WATER & WASTEWATER OPERATIONAL WASTE In 2017, Southwire launched ﬁve new goals to enhance our sustainability performance. We are proud to begin reporting our progress against these goals in this 2017 Sustainability Report. Our Growing Green goal and metrics include: 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE TOP DECILE DJSI (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Reduce energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 15% Energy: 1,041 kWh/ton Energy: 996 kWh/ton through conservation and the use of renewable energy by 2021 GHG: 0.37 MT CO2e/ton GHG: 0.36 MT CO2e/ton Achieve zero operational waste to landﬁll status at all locations by year74% 100%* end 2017 and maintain status with growth through 2021 Further reduce water intensity by 10% over 2016 baseline by 2021 213 gal/ton 222 gal/ton *Does not include sites acquired in 2016 (Sumner and UCI) and 2017 (DCN). DJSI is considered the “gold standard” for corporate sustainability performance. Achieving top decile performance within the Electrical Components & Equipment sector will help us to outperform our current and future competitors. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROWING GREEN ENERGY & AIR EMISSIONS Reducing energy intensity, greenhouse gas emissions, ﬁne particulate matter and other signiﬁcant air emissions (NOx, SOx, etc.) from operations and transportation and increasing use of alternative and renewable energy sources WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ As energy prices become increasingly volatile and climate change more of a concern, reducing our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) makes good business sense. Southwire must simultaneously reduce energy and air emissions from operations while the business continues to grow. Southwire’s reported energy use covers manufacturing plants, warehousing operations and ofﬁces, except those included in the UCI (2017 data is included), Sumner and DCN acquisitions. As expected, Southwire’s most signiﬁcant contributors to energy consumption and air emissions are our larger, more complex manufacturing plants. 103-2 ▾ Southwire’s commitment to environmental stewardship includes a focus on both energy and emissions reduction and the use of alternative energy sources where feasible. Being responsible energy consumers matters to us and to our customers. We regularly receive customer inquiries about our GHG emissions as well as our energy usage, reduction goals and efﬁciency initiatives. We manage our energy and emissions footprint by setting goals and policies, conducting internal and external benchmarking and audits, creating specialized teams and leveraging partnerships to drive accountability and communicate best practices. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS Southwire launched a bold goal in 2017 with a corresponding new energy and GHG emissions reduction target, which builds upon the Growing Green efforts we started in 2007. The new GHG objective creates a more visible and meaningful commitment to addressing climate change. This is our ﬁrst year reporting progress toward our new goal, and Southwire does not use carbon offsets to achieve this target. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE TOP DECILE DJSI (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY IN THE ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS & EQUIPMENT SECTOR 2021 TARGET METRIC 2016 BASELINE 2017 DATA % CHANGE Reduce energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) Energy Intensity (kWh/ton) 1,041 996 4% Reduction emissions intensity by 15% through conservation and the use of renewable GHG Emissions Intensity (metric tons of CO2e/ton) 0.37 0.36 2% Reduction energy by 2021 POLICIES Southwire ﬁrst issued its Environmental Policy and Principles document in 1994, with a commitment to “maximize the energy efﬁciency of our existing operations and save energy to the greatest feasible extent.” Since then, we have updated the document as new issues arise. Now that Air Emissions is a material topic, Southwire will review and revise our current policies and principles accordingly. GOVERNANCE Management of our energy use and air emissions begins with our individual plants, with the support of our business groups and corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) staff. The plants report to our divisional leadership, who in turn report to our executive vice president of international and operational development. Our corporate EHS department manages our energy performance data, and our board receives a quarterly update on performance against our GHG and energy reduction targets. Business group, plant and environmental staff receive summarized company-wide and individual plant GHG and energy performance data on a periodic basis. Southwire’s energy reduction team consists of our senior EHS director, senior director of corporate infrastructure and three plant managers. This team evaluated several energy consulting ﬁrms, including three pilot projects, to identify a potential partner to aid in our energy assessments. Over time, this group aims to improve energy efﬁciency through a combination of capital investment and updated operational practices. ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy Audits Over a two-year period, we completed external energy audits at Southwire’s top 13 energy consuming facilities. From these audits, we are building a database of potential energy-savings opportunities that can be deployed throughout the organization. In addition, as we modernize our operations, modify equipment and upgrade our infrastructure, we seek to utilize the most energy-efﬁcient technology when possible. Presently, each manufacturing plant manages its energy consumption and air emissions on an individual basis, making it difﬁcult to achieve a standardized approach and quantify the impact of each facility’s separate actions. Our external energy assessments have identiﬁed speciﬁc energy-saving opportunities for our top energy-consuming facilities. Based on the audit ﬁndings, we encourage plants with more moderate energy footprints to implement these energy reduction techniques as applicable. Renewable Energy Southwire also has investigated the use of renewable energy applications. We now have a roof-top solar installation at our Avon Lake Plant in Ohio, and a ground-mounted vehicle charging station at our Villa Rica Plant in Georgia. Southwire also joined Solarize Carroll in 2017, a community-based solar photovoltaic group purchasing program designed to help homeowners, businesses and other organizations save on the cost of solar system installations by leveraging bulk purchasing power in Carroll County, Ga. 103-3 ▾ Energy Performance At Southwire, we track energy consumption and efﬁciency. Our facilities track electricity and gas for both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. To further evaluate our performance, we engaged a third party to verify our 2016 and 2017 operational eco-efﬁciency data. The third party recommended Southwire change our scope and calculation methods for some of this data, which caused us to restate our 2016 results, previously disclosed in our 2016 Sustainability Report. We referenced these changes in our general disclosure of 102-48: effect of restatements of information and reasons for them. 302-1 ▾ Energy Consumption Within the Organization (GJ) 5 Million 4,106,218* 4,081,206* 4 Million 2,215,643 2,097,103 3 Million 2 Million 442 491 1,983,661 1,890,084 1 Million 0 2016 2017 Total fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources Total energy consumption from renewable sources Total electricity consumption *Information obtained from utility bills, estimates used where data unavailable; Energy consumption calculated based on 1,025 Btu/cf natural gas (2013 average per US Energy Administration), 91,420 Btu/gal propane (Alternative Fuels Data Center, 2014), 1,054.2 Joules/Btu, 3.6 MJ/KWh. 302-3 ▾ Energy Intensity (kWh/ton**) 1200 1080 960 1,041 996 840 885 720 600 480 360 240 120 0 2016 2017 2021 Target **Includes electricity (purchased and on-site solar generation), natural gas, propane, and fuel oil. AIR EMISSIONS Southwire’s largest sources of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and combustion products (NOx, SOx, and CO) are our aluminum rod mill in Hawesville, Ky. and copper rod mill in Carrollton, Ga. By nature of the process, it takes a signiﬁcant amount of energy to melt cold metal and convert it into rod for use in our wire and cable manufacturing processes. 305-1 ▾ Gross Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2e)* 135000 121500 108000 113,671 94500 107,571 81000 67500 54000 40500 27000 13500 0 2016 2017 *Southwire uses AIC software to consolidate GHGs (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3) into CO2e. Global Warming Potential (GWP) values for natural gas, propane, etc. are based on the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, 2014 (AR5). All sites are under operational control. 305-2 ▾ Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2e)** 350000 315000 280000 304,625 291,512 245000 210000 175000 140000 105000 70000 35000 0 2016 2017 **AIC consolidates GHGs (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, and NF3) into CO2e. Factors in the system are either based on US EPA eGRID factors (electricity) or in-country equivalent or the best estimate for international sites. All sites are under operational control. 305-4 ▾ GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 & Scope 2) (metric tons of CO2e/ton)*** 0.5 0.4 0.37 0.36 0.3 0.31 0.2 0.1 0 2016 2017 2021 Target ***Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. Strategic Sourcing & Logistics In addition to managing our energy use, Southwire works to limit emissions from transportation. To the extent practicable, Southwire strategically sources raw materials closer to the appropriate manufacturing plant to limit distance traveled, and we use intermodal transport whenever possible. We encourage our carrier contractors to participate in the EPA’s Smart Way Program in alignment with our fuel efﬁciency expectations. This program creates a win-win-win outcome: our carriers save on fuel costs, our logistics expenditure declines and the environment beneﬁts from diminished carbon intensity. Carrier membership is dependent upon improvement from baseline statistics in various categories. Freight Spend with Smart Way Carriers 100% 90% 80% 80% 81% 70% 76% 73% 60% 64% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 305-7 ▾ Signiﬁcant Air Emissions (Kilograms)***** 750000 675000 723,700 727,500 600000 525000 450000 375000 300000 225000 **** **** 150000 191,500 195,900 75000 93,100 5,500 5,400 86,700 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Nitrogen Oxides Sulfur Oxides Carbon Monoxide Volatile organic (NOx) (SOx) (CO) compounds (VOC) ****Data not third-party assured. *****Emission factors are based on US EPA AP-42 emission factors, actual testing of the source, testing of a similar source, or best available emissions data. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROWING GREEN MATERIALS Minimizing material use and integrating sustainable attributes (e.g., recycled materials) into products and packaging; minimizing or eliminating the use of materials with negative health impacts; and maximizing material reuse at end of life WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ As a materials-intensive business, Southwire has a signiﬁcant environmental footprint. With a ﬁnite supply of natural resources, Southwire must work to minimize the amount of raw materials used to limit exposure to potential raw materials shortages and/or increasing prices of core inputs. Internally, Southwire manages this topic through product design, manufacturing operations and customer service centers. We also work with suppliers to integrate recycled material inputs and with customers and end users to maximize material reuse at the end of products’ useful lives. 103-2 ▾ Southwire takes pride in continually improving the value our products deliver to customers. We know that value is about delivering more; we design our products to be safer for users—both during installation and for the people who work and live in the ﬁnished buildings—better for our planet and more cost-effective for our customers. Further, Southwire works diligently to ensure our materials and products meet stringent regulatory requirements from Europe and California. Product responsibility drives much of Southwire’s innovation, and many of the innovations that we brought to market in 2017 align with our product responsibility objectives to: > Prioritize sustainable attributes, including recycled materials and minimizing content, in products and packaging; > Minimize or eliminate the use of materials with negative health impacts; and > Reuse materials at the end of a product’s useful life. GOVERNANCE Our executive leaders of research and development (R&D), sustainability, EHS and quality ensure that product responsibility continually progresses. They update our chief executive ofﬁcer every quarter on the status of our current goals. POLICIES Southwire has explicit policies covering materials management, including purchasing guidelines to limit the use of products that have environmental regulatory concerns. New Material Request Instructions detail what requestors must do to approve a new material, including submitting a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for review and approval by safety and environmental coordinators and by the Inventory Records Manager (IRM). If the material passes the approval process, the IRM will establish a stock number for the material in SAP. STREAMLINING PRODUCTS AND PACKAGING Southwire aims to minimize the amount of packaging our products require. Our SIMpull Solutions® require zero spools and no added lubricant, eliminating waste at the job site. We also eliminated rigid plastic clamshell packaging for our timers, garden lighting, automotive and hand-held lighting product categories, and we continue to look at other product categories for packaging reduction opportunities. MINIMIZING MATERIALS WITH NEGATIVE HEALTH IMPACTS Our customers are actively focused on their products’ chemical content and increasingly expect Southwire to minimize harmful chemicals used in our products. While most of Southwire’s business is in North America, we provide products to offshore customers and serve customers that sell to overseas markets; therefore, we monitor market trends and requirements globally. To maximize our potential customer base, reduce inventory and be true environmental stewards, we are working with our suppliers to eliminate chemicals of concern identiﬁed by the European Union’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation and Restriction of Hazardous Substances (ROHS) directive. We plan to develop insulating compound alternatives to better manage the content of our products in response to our customers’ perception of the end user effects. We continue to increase in-house formulation and compounding capability and invest in the necessary equipment needed to meet this goal. REUSING MATERIALS AT END OF LIFE The Southwire Tools & Assembled Products Business Unit participates in Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programs across North America. These programs seek to identify environmental costs and impacts that arise throughout a product’s life-cycle. Together with these programs, our Tools & Assembled Products Business unit developed products and packaging more compatibly designed for collection and recycling. The Product Care Association and call2recycle.org collaborate with us to help manage the life-cycles of retail tools, lighting, timers, packaging and lawn and garden products. Éco Entreprises Québec (EEQ), including other programs under the Canadian Stewardship Services Alliances (CSSA), helps us with the recovery and recycling of our packaging materials in Canada. To expand upon our EPR program experience, we plan to launch internal compliance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), a European end-of-life regulation. WEEE encourages the collection, treatment, recycling and recovery of electrical and electronic equipment waste. This falls in line with our longstanding tradition of going beyond regulatory requirements. The WEEE Directive will primarily inﬂuence our Tools & Assembled Products operations. 103-3 ▾ For utilities ordering materials with steel or wood reels, we established a return program that allows reels to be refurbished through a partnering vendor and shipped with new product. Through this program, customers have 12 months to return the reel for credit, creating an opportunity for shared ﬁnancial and environmental beneﬁts between Southwire and our customers. However, as freight costs have increased signiﬁcantly in the past few years, the economics of returning reels from long distances for recycling have led to fewer returned reels. Additionally, several customers on the industrial side requested new reels, limiting our ability to utilize recycled reels at our Starkville, Mississippi, facility. We are currently reviewing ways we can reengage these customers in this program. 301-3 ▾ Recyclable Wooden & Steel Reels Returned* *Includes units recycled through our reel supply partner Recyclable Reels Returned (Percentage of Total Wooden & Steel Reels Shipped)** **Includes shipments of both new and recycled reels Beyond reclaiming Southwire’s wooden and steel reels, we have an established electronics recycling program in Carrollton, where we partner with Keep Carroll Beautiful and invite local community members to drop off e-waste at periodic collection events. We plan to expand this program in 2018 and have selected Florence, Ala., and Bremen, Ind., as the pilot locations. To ensure the quality, integrity and transparency of our product responsibility, we committed to producing environmental product declarations (EPDs) for 25 products in key markets by year-end 2018. This effort is on hold as we review other potential environmental and/or health product declarations (HPDs) that may be more in line with customer needs. Our renewed focus may reduce the overall number of EPDs/HPDs and concentrate them in the United States Green Building Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) and Living Building Challenge Standard, Green Building Market sector. We will assess our product responsibility performance through consumer feedback and satisfaction, as well as sales results. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROWING GREEN WATER & WASTEWATER Controlling water usage in manufacturing facilities and ofﬁce spaces by monitoring total withdrawal by source and using recycled or lower quality water whenever possible; managing water quality by reducing the release of chemical and physical contaminants into bodies of water such as rivers, streams and lakes; and minimizing spills and releases WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ As supported by our recent materiality assessment, effective water management—both quantity and quality—is crucial for our manufacturing operations. Southwire uses water for our production activities. Water management is more critical in speciﬁc divisions and plants, such as the aluminum rod and copper rod mills, and is primarily used for contact and non-contact cooling. Given some Southwire locations’ proximity to creeks and rivers, storm runoff and wastewater discharges could impact nearby communities. Non-compliance with regulatory water quality requirements could have serious ﬁnancial and reputational consequences for Southwire. 103-2 ▾ Southwire’s water management approach ensures we have an adequate supply of water within certain quality parameters from sustainable withdrawal sources to manufacture our products. Additionally, Southwire must comply with regulatory requirements—direct discharge permits for wastewater discharged to surface waters, local sewer ordinances for wastewater discharged to the sewer and stormwater permits for rainwater runoff. GOVERNANCE While each Southwire site locally manages water use and wastewater discharge, ultimate accountability for our environmental performance rests with our executive vice president of international and operational development. In 2017, Southwire updated our performance management program so that, in 2018, incentive compensation for vice presidents and above will be tied to achieving certain performance metrics. Southwire’s senior vice president of sustainability, EHS & quality has compensation tied to our operational eco-efﬁciency targets (see below). POLICIES Our Environmental Policy and Principles guide Southwire’s responsible use of natural resources. While they historically did not explicitly mention water, we will revisit the policy in 2018 now that Water & Wastewater is a material topic. Locations having industrial activities exposed to stormwater contact, discharging wastewater to the sewer above certain thresholds, and/or are subject National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) requirements operate under state or local permits that specify appropriate compliance procedures. We also have facilities that are subject to surface water withdrawal permit requirements, groundwater protection obligations and/or stormwater no-exposure exemption certiﬁcation procedures. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Southwire operates four facilities with third-party veriﬁed environmental management systems – our Huntersville, N.C., Plant, Hawesville, Ky., Plant and Carrollton, Ga., Utility Products Plant have achieved ISO 14001 registration, and our Tecate Plant is certiﬁed under Mexico’s Clean Industry Program. We are currently developing ISO-like environmental management systems (EMS) at all our other manufacturing operations. As part of the EMS process, each site conducts an “aspects and impacts” analysis to identify critical activities at the site and how these operations may affect the environment. Sites that identify Water & Wastewater as signiﬁcant are required to develop a procedure, policy and/or plan to manage those aspects. Southwire is aiming to implement an EMS at all manufacturing sites by year-end 2021. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS 103-3 ▾ Southwire set an objective to eliminate all direct process water discharge from comingling with stormwater at our Carrollton wire mills. By successfully accomplishing this goal in 2017, we minimized impacts to surface water and eliminated this site’s need for an NPDES permit. As part of our goal to achieve top decile operational eco-efﬁciency performance on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Southwire set a target to further reduce water intensity by 10 percent over our 2016 baseline by 2021. We report our progress toward this goal for the ﬁrst time below. As indicated in the table, our performance declined by 4 percent due to operational and production factors. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE TOP DECILE DJSI (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY IN THE ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS & EQUIPMENT SECTOR WATER REDUCTION GOAL 2016 BASELINE 2017 2021 TARGET Further reduce water intensity by 10% over 2016 baseline by 2021 213 gal/ton 222 gal/ton 192 gal/ton WATER & WASTEWATER IMPACTS Southwire tracks the source of water used for our operations and works to minimize our impact in those areas. For municipal water sources, we obtain usage data from our utility bills. For rainwater and well water/groundwater use, we determine consumption volume based on internal meters where possible. However, this is not the case at our Building Wire Plant (BWP) and Utility Products Plant (UPP) in Carrollton, Ga. At these plants, we have a stormwater collection system with a number of lift stations that pump water to a four million gallon stormwater storage tank, which is the primary source of cooling water for UPP and BWP. Currently, we do not have an accurate way to measure consumption of this water, so we estimate based upon cooling tower loss (the rainwater feeds the cooling towers). We use a standard calculation methodology to determine evaporation rate [Evaporation Rate = Circulation Rate x Delta T / 1000]. Circulation rate is the recirculation pump’s rated capacity. Delta T is set at 5°F, a best estimate for the average temperature drop for our cooling towers over the course of a year. 303-1 ▾ Water Withdrawal by Source Municipal Rainwater Well Water/Groundwater We also track water discharge by quality and destination for the three Southwire sites that require permits. 306-1 ▾ 2017 TOTAL VOLUME OF 2017 TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER REUSED BY SOUTHWIRE PLANNED WATER UNPLANNED WATER TREATMENT ANOTHER SITE DESTINATION DISCHARGES (GALLONS) DISCHARGES (GALLONS) METHOD QUALITY OF WATER ORGANIZATION Copper Rod Buffalo 33,528,410 0 Chemical and All discharge water None Mill Creek physical quality met permit treatment requirements Kentucky Ohio River 21,939,263 0 Chemical and All discharge water None Plant physical quality met permit treatment requirements 2017 TOTAL VOLUME OF 2017 TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER REUSED BY SOUTHWIRE PLANNED WATER UNPLANNED WATER TREATMENT ANOTHER SITE DESTINATION DISCHARGES (GALLONS) DISCHARGES (GALLONS) METHOD QUALITY OF WATER ORGANIZATION Carrollton Buffalo 3,315,532 7,350 None All discharge water None Wire Mills Creek quality met permit requirements While Southwire does not maintain a central inventory, we identify the receiving stream in the Notice of Intent for permit coverage at our sites that require NPDES permits, which allow Southwire to discharge to a speciﬁc water body. 306-3 ▾ In Southwire’s history, there have been occasional incidents that have resulted in releases of process water, oils or other materials that triggered regulatory reporting requirements. These incidents are reported under Details of Regulatory Actions on our corporate website. EVALUATION MECHANISMS 103-3 ▾ Southwire evaluates its management approach with biennial third-party EHS audits that verify we are in compliance with regulatory requirements and our own internal policies, and any non-conformances are remedied as expeditiously as possible. To further evaluate our performance, we engaged a third party to verify our 2016 and 2017 operational eco-efﬁciency data. The third party recommended Southwire change our scope and calculation methods for some of this data. Consequently, we restated our 2016 results, which were previously disclosed in our 2016 Sustainability Report. We referenced these changes in our general disclosure of 102-48: effect of restatements of information and reasons for them. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GROWING GREEN OPERATIONAL WASTE Tracking and minimizing waste (e.g., solid, toxic/hazardous, electronic) and utilizing safe disposal methods WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Waste minimization is a focus area for Southwire’s customers—in particular, our OEM and utility customers expect the company to continue to aggressively reduce operational waste. At the end of 2017, Southwire successfully reached our ten-year goal of achieving zero landﬁll from normal operations (excluding waste from construction projects, remediation activities or other waste that requires landﬁlling, such as asbestoscontaining materials). Because Southwire has been actively focused on meeting a zero-landﬁll goal for a decade, the impact of our operational waste management efforts has lessened; as a result, our recent materiality assessment revealed that Operational Waste is no longer a “Tier 1” topic. However, Southwire will continue to look for opportunities to minimize all types of operational waste at our facilities globally. 103-2 ▾ Diverting hazardous and non-hazardous waste from landﬁlls is a foundational element of Southwire’s environmental stewardship commitment, driving us toward more efﬁcient and responsible production and minimizing the impact to our communities and around the globe. Our Growing Green strategy to reduce our environmental footprint, even as we grow, remains as important to our company as it was when we began our journey toward a more sustainable future. Our management approach utilizes goals, governance mechanisms and partnerships. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS & GOALS Southwire’s environmental practices include proactively managing operational waste. In 2007, we set an aggressive goal to send zero waste to landﬁll by the end of 2017. To achieve this goal, we actively identiﬁed our different waste streams at our manufacturing sites, warehousing facilities, corporate headquarters and central sales ofﬁces, segregating valuable recyclable materials and making simple changes where possible. After achieving a 94 percent reduction from our 2007 waste to landﬁll baseline, Southwire revised the goal in 2016 to reﬂect our intention to maintain zero landﬁll status at existing locations and work to attain zero landﬁll at new locations and facilities acquired in 2016 and beyond. In our 2017 Sustainability Report, we are pleased to report our progress toward this new goal. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE TOP DECILE DJSI (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) PERFORMANCE IN OPERATIONAL ECO-EFFICIENCY IN THE ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS & EQUIPMENT SECTOR 2021 TARGET METRIC 2016 BASELINE 2017 DATA 2017 TARGET Achieve zero operational waste to landﬁll status at all locations by yearPercent of Facilities with Zero 74% 100%* 100% end 2017 and maintain status with growth through 2021 Waste to Landﬁll Status *Does not include sites acquired in 2016 (Sumner and UCI) and 2017 (DCN). POLICIES Southwire’s Environmental Policy and Principles demonstrates our continued dedication to minimize waste through prevention efforts to avoid potential negative impact on our community. We internalize the cost of waste management, assigning the full cost to appropriate products. Further, two of our 10 Environmental Principles pertain to the management of waste. GOVERNANCE Our facilities and division leaders are responsible for developing new strategies to minimize operational waste, while our environmental team manages all data related to our waste streams. Sites use teams, such as a Growing Green team, a Zero Landﬁll team, Environmental team or an Operational Perfection at Southwire (OPS) team to actively look for opportunities to reduce waste at their facilities. In addition, Southwire’s national waste management partner helps us to better assess risks associated with operational waste management and suggests alternate solutions for waste streams. This arrangement helps us operate more efﬁciently: rather than each facility evaluating waste outlet options and managing the cost of waste, we utilize a central data system. Finally, our partner helps us more accurately track monthly waste generation at our operating facilities. They provide data and progress updates for all our North American sites, as well as weekly feedback on any speciﬁc issues that arise. MATERIALS MINIMIZATION Within our extended value chain, we evaluate packaging entering our facilities and work with suppliers to minimize those materials. By minimizing waste before raw materials arrive on site, the volume of items that need to be recycled or repurposed is reduced. Among our own products, we reduce packaging and other product-related waste material as well. For example, our SIMpull Solutions® allow our products to be installed without the need for spools, rags or added lubricant, eliminating waste at customer job sites. Additionally, we instituted take-back programs such as a reel return program for wood or steel reels that gives credit for returned material. Read more about our efforts to minimize materials in our products and packaging. 306-2 ▾ Waste Type 2016 Total (Tons) 2017 Hazardous 2017 Non-Hazardous 2017 Total (Tons) Reuse Unavailable* 0 Unavailable* Unavailable* Recycling 22,849.0 0 21,908.07 21,908.07 Composting 0 0 0 0 Recovery (including energy recovery) 14,252.0 106.67 13,731.07 13,837.73 Incineration (mass burn) 24.1 77.36 0 77.36 Deep well injection 0 0 0 0 Landﬁll** 1,841.0 1.13 1,009.51 1,010.64 On-site storage 0 0 0 0 Other—Treatment 9,841.9 153.60 9,950.49 10,104.09 Other—Miscellaneous waste streams 594.5 2.13 172.69 174.82 Total 49,403 341 46,772 47,113 *Southwire does not track the amount of operational waste reused. **Includes waste from soil remediation and construction debris not considered under “operational waste.” Southwire tracks waste management (recycle, treatment, waste-to-energy, etc.) through documentation on the shipping papers (manifest, bill of lading, etc.). When our waste management partner receives the invoice from the outlet, they document each shipment in a spreadsheet by selecting a management method from a dropdown list. This classiﬁcation spreadsheet is uploaded to our system monthly. 103-3 ▾ In 2017, Southwire focused on advancing the remaining non-zero landﬁll sites to zero landﬁll, which we successfully accomplished. In 2018, we will work with sites acquired in 2016 (Sumner and UCI) and 2017 (DCN) to reduce their operational waste and achieve zero landﬁll in a timely manner. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING WELL We will preserve and enhance the lives of our employees by building a workplace that is supportive, meaningful and engaging. Safety and health are top priorities, and we will always treat each other with dignity and respect. At Southwire, we believe that strong, sustainable companies stem from thriving individuals. We encourage our employees to challenge themselves in their professional and personal development, and we seek to provide opportunities and resources to enable their growth. Southwire’s enduring strength comes from our people. We care for the Southwire family and, in return, they care about and enable Southwire’s lasting success. We identiﬁed four material topics related to Living Well; click on the link for each topic to read about Southwire’s management approach and 2017 performance. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT INCLUSION TALENT ATTRACTION WORKPLACE SAFETY & EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING In 2017, Southwire launched ﬁve new goals to enhance our sustainability performance. We are proud to begin reporting our progress against these goals in this 2017 Sustainability Report. Our Living Well goal and metrics include: 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE BEST IN CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT SOUTHWIRE TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 PROGRESS Achieve 10X increase in injury-free event (IFE) reporting by 2021 46.8 * Achieve 75% decrease in the total recordable injury rate by 2021 1.71 1.30 (24% decrease) Achieve Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) or equivalent 38% 36%** certiﬁcation at all sites by 2021 *New IFE reporting process is in development and targeted for completion at the end of 2018. IFE were not measured on an enterprise level in 2017. **In 2017, one additional site was certiﬁed; however, two VPP sites were closed. Southwire’s “continuum to best in class” represents a documented progression across a continuum of four cultural states: Reactive, Proactive, Systems-Based and Best in Class. As each operation progresses across the continuum, the targets will need to be met. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING WELL WORKPLACE SAFETY & EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING Providing a safe workplace for our employees and contractors through the elimination of hazards and the implementation of safety training, systems and equipment; making resources available to promote the physical, emotional and ﬁnancial well-being of employees WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Our greatest asset is the Southwire family, and we can proudly say that multiple generations work for us. Our heritage as a family-owned company inspires us to treat our employees like family and contribute to their overall physical and emotional well-being. Healthy workers are essential to maintaining our competitive advantage and an attractive culture. Southwire’s employees differentiate us from the competition by ensuring we consistently deliver the best quality product to our customers in a timely manner. An analogous relationship exists between employee well-being and engagement—and employee engagement and business results. Gallup’s research shows employees who report high well-being: > Miss 41 percent less work due to poor health; > Are 36 percent more likely to report a full recovery after an illness, injury, or hardship; > Are more than twice as likely to say they always adapt well to change; and > Are 81 percent less likely to seek out a new employer in the next year. When our employees are safe, healthy and engaged, Southwire performs best. 103-2 ▾ Southwire manages safety and health as a matter of principle—the well-being of employees and contractors matters most. Effectively managing workplace safety and health risks and encouraging employees and contractors to take responsibility for their well-being—and that of their coworkers—improves working conditions which, in turn, protects our workers’ quality of life. We use a wide range of initiatives, governance mechanisms, policies, systems and training to continually improve our safety and health performance, always with the goal of zero injuries in mind. WORKPLACE SAFETY Southwire’s Continuum to Best in Class Safety is core to our culture, and we established a goal to achieve best in class safety performance at Southwire (see progress below). To achieve excellence, we established an environmental, health and safety (EHS) continuum to help our leaders advance the organization’s safety culture and performance—from reactive to proactive, then to systems-based, and to the ultimate goal of being world-class. Recognizing that each Southwire location is at a different place on the continuum, this strategy offers a “meet them where they are” approach to safety planning and execution. The continuum plays a key role in EHS planning processes, serving as a tool for identifying which locations need the most support and guidance. Clearly describing excellence and accountability in each area enables leaders across the organization to continue to enhance safety performance. The following areas are outlined in the continuum: > Leadership commitment; > Responsibility and accountability; > Organization and structure; > Communication and training; > Incident management; > Hazard identiﬁcation and controls; > Work practices and behavior; and > Measurement and monitoring. Southwire utilizes numerous business and EHS strategy and execution tools to drive EHS performance and accountability, and we work with several consulting ﬁrms to provide expertise in areas of need. These tools and partnerships provide a proven methodology to place a heightened focus on the critical activities and behaviors needed to reduce injuries. Each facility has its own performance targets and lead measures based on injury history and risk in areas such as ergonomics, machine guarding and near miss reporting. Sites may also use the continuum as a guide to build a safety culture and establish better systems. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL & TARGETS 103-3 ▾ In 2016, we refreshed our workplace safety goal and developed three new targets for the next ﬁve years. This report is our ﬁrst time sharing our progress toward these goals. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE BEST IN CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT SOUTHWIRE TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Achieve 10X increase in injury-free event (IFE) reporting by 2021 46.8 * Achieve 75% decrease in the total recordable injury rate by 2021 1.71 1.30 (24% decrease) Achieve Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) or equivalent 38% 36%** certiﬁcation at all sites by 2021 *New IFE reporting process is in development and targeted for completion at the end of 2018. IFE were not measured on an enterprise level in 2017. **In 2017, one additional site was certiﬁed; however, two VPP sites were closed. Governance We connect employee well-being with leadership at the highest level. Reﬂecting our emphasis on governance, we hold leaders to the highest level of accountability for workplace safety and health. Responsibility starts with the Sustainability Committee of our board and our chief executive ofﬁcer and cascades down to Southwire’s executive leadership team. Additionally, operations leadership and location managers participate in weekly web conferences to report their performance on workplace safety and health metrics, review safety incidents and present best practices. Our operations EHS steering committee convenes regularly to set strategies and review progress on implemented action plans at all Southwire facilities with the support and guidance of our safety teams. For more on our Southwire’s governance structure, click here. At our manufacturing plants and distribution facilities, our employees actively participate in health and safety committees and teams, including emergency preparedness, ergonomics, job safety analysis, hazard recognition, incident investigation, sustainability, environmental, behaviorbased safety, lockout/tagout, machine guarding, ﬁrst responders and steering committees. Policies & Compliance Southwire sets the standards for operational safety at our sites through policies, procedures and guidance documents. We integrated our EHS policies with our corporate management systems, developing approximately 50 standardized EHS policies and program templates and creating a set of minimum expectations for the locations to meet regulatory requirements and Southwire standards. In 2017, we rolled out a portion of these standards to sites each quarter, with the objective to have all standards implemented at all warehouse and manufacturing locations by the end of the year. In 2018, we will begin auditing sites against these standards and scoring them on performance. This more comprehensive, standardized system will support the company’s ONE Southwire philosophy, eliminate variability and facilitate the integration of new facilities and acquisitions. Certiﬁcation of Safety Management Systems Safety management systems provide Southwire a foundation to achieve and sustain success in workplace safety and health. Southwire committed to implementing and certifying a safety management system at each of our locations by 2021. As of the end of 2017, 36 percent of Southwire sites met this goal. Within our U.S. operations, Southwire is working to certify all manufacturing and warehouse operations within the OSHA Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), which consists of management commitment, employee involvement, hazard prevention and control and safety training. Operations outside the United States or those that primarily serve international customers will certify against the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Speciﬁcation (OHSAS) 18001 (soon to be ISO 45001) or an in-country equivalent standard, such as our Tecate, Mexico, facility, which is certiﬁed under Mexico’s Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social Empresa Segura program. Training With Southwire’s strategic learning focus on increasing organizational capability in human performance error management techniques, a team of plant health and safety professionals created a Southwire-speciﬁc training curriculum. In 2017, we leveraged the lessons learned from a pilot program at our Carrollton, Ga., Building Wire Plant and deployed human performance principles at our Starkville, Mississippi, location. The training for plant managers and supervisors focused on learning to recognize error-prone situations, which increase the risk of safety incidents and quality errors. The team also provides coaching for supervisors and managers on how to mitigate these situations when error precursors are identiﬁed. Collaboration with Unions 403-4 ▾ Southwire operates two union-represented facilities; Section 17 of the collective bargaining agreement covers safety and health. The provisions of the agreement stipulate that the company will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of our employees, such as requiring an employee from each shift to be trained in ﬁrst aid response. The company will also furnish all personal protective equipment required by state and federal law and provide employees with a safety shoe allowance. The contract stipulates that Southwire management will meet with the union safety committee monthly to correct any safety violations. In addition, the agreement outlines that Southwire and the union mutually support participation in OSHA VPP and actively participate in all safety programs connected to VPP implementation. Contractor Safety Initiatives Southwire holds on-site contractors to the same standards as employees. We use our pre-qualiﬁcation program to evaluate their safety performance before they arrive. To pre-qualify, contractors must achieve an overall grade of either B or better for the following requirements: > Experience modiﬁer; > Written safety program; > Safety questionnaire; > Evaluation reports; > Drug and alcohol screening and background checks; and > Training documentation. Southwire tailors these requirements to the contractors’ type of work. After pre-qualiﬁcation, we host contractor safety orientations to help teach our internal environmental, health and safety requirements. We also use an electronic reporting system for contractor incident investigations and inspections. Data Monitoring and Reporting We track absenteeism rates and injury types for internal purposes to determine where we need to focus our mitigation efforts (ergonomics, machine guarding, etc.). We also track occupational illnesses in our EHS data management system and they are included in our OSHA Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR). Our corporate EHS department monitors this data, and we have found no discernable trend in occupational illness. Should any trend in occupational illness arise, we will manage it through our existing risk mitigation processes. 403-2 ▾ OSHA Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)–Employees* 2.0 1.8 1.80 1.6 1.71 1.4 1.2 1.36 1.30 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.66 0.4 0.54 0.2 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total United States International OSHA Lost Work Day Rate (LWDR)–Employees* 0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.36 0.30 0.29 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.19 0.18 0.16 0.10 0.05 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Total United States International *Number of incidents per 200,000 hours worked. TRIR includes all “OSHA Recordable Injuries”—ﬁrst aid is not included, fatalities are included. LWDR days are calculated as work days, beginning with the ﬁrst day the employee was to work next. Work-Related Fatalities–Employees 2016 2017 UNITED UNITED TOTAL MALE FEMALE STATES INT’L TOTAL MALE FEMALE STATES INT’L Work-Related 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING Southwire is moving outside of the traditional wellness model to an integrated total “Well-Being” approach. Positively inﬂuencing the physical, emotional and ﬁnancial well-being of employees and contractors requires a comprehensive approach and focus on the “Employee Experience.” Southwire’s holistic view covers a broad range of beneﬁts—Southwire Total Rewards—as well as on-site support to encourage employees to make healthy lifestyle choices. Southwire Total Rewards Southwire provides a broad and connected approach that promotes employee well-being. Southwire Total Rewards offers an extensive range of rewards to support diverse family needs and structures, extending into our inclusivity strategy of providing choices. To better connect Southwire families to these rewards, we created a comprehensive offering that connects actions to beneﬁts for employees. For example, rather than simply offering medical beneﬁts, Southwire encourages “Focusing on my Health.” Instead of paying for time off, Southwire promotes “Living my Life.” This approach focuses on the “Employee Experience” for each Total Reward category. In 2017, Southwire continued our journey toward ONE Southwire for Total Rewards. This included adding paid parental leave, vacation buy-up for salaried employees and short-term disability beneﬁt expansion for hourly employees. Southwire offers: > Up to four weeks’ vacation (calendar year); > Vacation buy-up plan allows salaried employees to buy up to ﬁve days of additional vacation; > 11 total holidays comprised of set and ﬂoating holidays; > Bereavement Leave (maximum of four days in some cases); > 26 weeks of short-term disability beneﬁts (extended from 12 weeks) for hourly employees; > Three days of paid parental leave for mothers and fathers for the birth or adoption of a child (beneﬁt is expanding to two weeks in 2018); and > Flexible work schedule policy for maternity transition (salaried employees). In 2017, we began measuring our overall participation rate in Total Rewards choices as an indicator of our ability to meet employees’ diverse and changing needs. We achieved our target of reaching over 90 percent participation in the Total Rewards choice. On-Site Support Research shows the importance of making health and wellness easy for employees by creating a health-oriented environment. To encourage employee and contractor health, Southwire maintains a tobacco-free policy. All Southwire locations prohibit smoking and other use of tobacco on Southwire property. Southwire also gives employees the opportunity to make healthy choices through: > Medical Facilities. In the Carrollton, Ga. area, home to approximately 40 percent of our workforce, we offer an on-site medical center and pharmacy that has operated for more than 20 years. Our services are comprehensive and cost-effective. > Nutrition Programs. Southwire presents nutritious options in our on-site cafeterias in Carrollton and vending machines at most locations. We list healthful cafeteria options at a reduced price to encourage their consumption; track healthy purchases to better understand and accommodate employee preferences; and offer payroll deduction at vending locations to improve access. We set a goal to provide healthy choice options at100 percent of our locations by 2018. In 2017, 80 percent of Southwire locations had access to healthy choice options, up from 70 percent in 2016. > Exercise Programs. We have on-site ﬁtness centers and subsidize ﬁtness club memberships where on-site centers are not available. In addition to exercise equipment, our newly updated ﬁtness center in Carrollton also coordinates group ﬁtness and education classes, team sports and company athletic leagues. Intramurals include volleyball, softball, basketball, ﬂag football and more. We track employee participation to better understand the effectiveness of our efforts to engage employees in physical ﬁtness. Our facilities’ employee utilization rate for 2017 was 34 percent, with some variation by season. This utilization rate does not include the 634 retirees, spouses, and dependents that also joined us in 2017. > Activation Events. These events are one of many new opportunities introduced this year to “meet the employee where they are” through a personalized experience. Our goal is to provide a personal one-on-one experience to create awareness and commitment to overall well-being. We will continue to build our well-being strategy in 2018. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING WELL TALENT ATTRACTION Attracting talent through Southwire’s sustainability program, competitive beneﬁts (i.e., Total Rewards) and general outreach; and promoting a positive and uniﬁed culture by encouraging open communication, collaboration and employee ownership of initiatives and social programs WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Experts estimate that the United States may soon have a personnel deﬁcit of 20 million. With facilities in small towns across the United States and internationally, Southwire must attract employees both to the manufacturing ﬁeld and to all of Southwire’s locations while competing for talent with other industries that may be perceived as more innovative and appealing. 103-2 ▾ EDUCATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS Southwire aims to advance and improve educational opportunities and outcomes by working with various state and local educational institutions to enhance the pool of talented candidates for manufacturing and business positions. Southwire Engineering Academy Southwire aspires to increase the number of students pursuing degrees in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). The Southwire Engineering Academy (SWEA), a partnership between Southwire and Carrollton High School, focuses on STEM subjects and provides hands-on experience for students to work with our teams on value-added problem-solving projects, data analysis, value stream mapping and more. In 2017, 17 Southwire mentors and coaches provided 5,189 training hours to students in this program. We plan to expand the SWEA program to other regional Southwire locations in North America by the end of 2020. Participants (cumulative total) Graduates (cumulative total) Southwire Center for Manufacturing Excellence and Skilled for Life The Southwire Center for Manufacturing Excellence at West Georgia Technical College imparts manufacturing and maintenance skills to students and serves as the inspiration for Southwire’s Skilled for Life program in our Machinery Services Group (MSG). Through the Skilled for Life program, students work for MSG and gain invaluable industry experience. The Southwire Center for Manufacturing Excellence also helps some participants attain their GED to work for our company. Southwire Center for Manufacturing Excellence Participants Maintenance Certiﬁcations ▲ Skilled for Life Participants Southwire Sustainable Business Honors Program The Southwire Sustainable Business Honors Program, a partnership with the Richards College of Business at the University of West Georgia, seeks to boost the number of candidates with sustainability backgrounds for high-level executive positions. The academic portion of the program combines business and sustainability learning. In just four years, participants can obtain bachelor’s and master’s degrees in business administration, along with a certiﬁcate of sustainability. Additionally, to provide hands-on experience, Southwire pairs participants with product managers and division presidents. Southwire’s contribution includes up to 40 percent of the Southwire program management’s time (during the heart of the semester) and approximately $1.1 million to the partnership. Two students, from the ﬁrst cohort of three students, completed the program—one in 2016 and the second in 2017. The second cohort will graduate three students in 2018. 12 for Life® Another educational recruitment program is Southwire’s 12 for Life® program, which provides kids at risk of dropping out of high school with jobs inside a modiﬁed Southwire manufacturing environment while supporting them in earning their diploma. The program increases students’ familiarity with a work environment while affording Southwire opportunities to train and develop potential employees with limited on-the-job training after graduation. To learn more about this program, visit our Giving Back page. TOTAL REWARDS To attract and retain talent, we provide a competitive offering of employee beneﬁts. Southwire Total Rewards is a comprehensive offering that connects actions to beneﬁts for employees. For example, rather than simply offering medical beneﬁts, Southwire encourages “Focusing on my Health.” Instead of paying for time off, Southwire promotes “Living my Life.” This approach focuses on the “Employee Experience” for each Total Reward category. In 2017, Southwire continued our journey toward “ONE Southwire” for Total Rewards. This included adding paid parental leave, vacation buy-up for salaried employees and short-term disability beneﬁt expansion for hourly employees. Southwire offers: > Up to four weeks’ vacation (calendar year); > Vacation buy-up plan allows salaried employees to buy up to ﬁve days of additional vacation; > 11 total holidays comprised of set and ﬂoating holidays; > Bereavement Leave (maximum of four days in some cases); > 26 weeks of short-term disability beneﬁts (extended from 12 weeks) for hourly employees; > Three days of paid parental leave for mothers and fathers for the birth or adoption of a child (beneﬁt is expanding to two weeks in 2018); and > Flexible work schedule policy for maternity transition (salaried employees). TALENT ACQUISITION & RETENTION Southwire’s current recruiting process seeks to strengthen our talent acquisition and track the status of recruits through weekly reporting. We process professional openings in a consistent, structured manner, supported by a recruiting and applicant tracking system that follows applications and key metrics such as: > Time to hire; > Candidate diversity; > Total cost of recruitment for open positions; > External offers accepted versus rejected; and > The number of positions ﬁlled internally versus externally. We also track turnover rates and conduct exit interviews to determine the reasons employees leave and the consequent cost of employee turnover for the organization. 401-1 ▾ 2016 2017 New Employee Hires Total 1,570 1,101 Rate 23.0% 15.6% Employee Turnover Total 950 1,044 Rate 13.9% 14.8% 103-3 ▾ In 2017, our Talent Acquisition team focused on candidate experience, recruiting processes and technology standardization across the organization. For production recruitment, we shifted our hiring practices from quarterly recruitment cycles to using a requisition-based recruiting and pipeline building approach. This change in practice allowed us to put the applicant experience ﬁrst and focus on targeting the right candidates based on company needs. Technology Platforms By leveraging technology solutions that maximize our recruiting and onboarding initiatives, we were able to make data-driven talent decisions and build efﬁciencies into our recruiting processes. Our Talent Acquisition platforms also provided us with the ability to extend our reach through targeted social media campaigns, job board advertising and branded building outreach campaigns. Consumer-Centric Experience Southwire also shifted our recruiting approach to provide a personalized consumer-centric experience. These experiences placed special focus on branded touch points from applicant to offer and real-time updates on candidate status. At many facilities, we hosted creative hiring events and showcases meant to build the Southwire brand and engage potential future hires. Robust and branded New Employee Onboarding experiences also evolved to immerse new employees into the Southwire culture on day one. Inclusive Recruiting With an ever-changing socioeconomic demographic, Southwire made inclusive recruiting initiatives a priority. Training opportunities for our recruiters focused on bias screening and prevention, manager relationship building tools, negotiation techniques and other useful interviewing techniques. Through strategic partnerships, we extended our talent reach and recruitment marketing efforts to capture more applicants who are non-traditional students, women, minorities, military veterans and those who have alternate abilities. College Recruiting Southwire continued to grow our college recruiting and college relations programs, extending our partnerships with historically black colleges and universities, women’s colleges and technical colleges. We hosted our inaugural one-day Southwire University Experience in which 80 STEM and business students participated. Our Talent Acquisition team continued its participation in the Georgia Association of College and Employers (GACE). Additionally, college-recruiting activities continued at Georgia Tech, Kennesaw State University, North Carolina A&T State University, Auburn University, Purdue University, the University of West Georgia, Mercer University, Mississippi State University, the University of Georgia, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Clemson University, Georgia State University, the University of Alabama and the University of Mississippi. Partnerships with Georgia Tech’s Ofﬁce of Minority Educational Development (OMED), Auburn University’s 100 Women Strong and the University of West Georgia (where we sponsor the Southwire Sustainable Business Honors Program) continue to strengthen Southwire’s branding and community relations in a mutually beneﬁcial manner. For example, some Southwire Sustainable Business Honors Program students intern at Southwire, providing us with an emerging talent pipeline. Student Opportunities Southwire enhanced and continued to grow the Engineering Co-op program, the internship program and part time student program. Our Corporate Accounting and Finance department also continued the Finance Rotational Program to recruit entry-level graduating students. Lastly, our Human Resources department expanded its rotational program to build its pool of potential Human Resources Managers. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING WELL EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT Providing employees with opportunities to advance their skills, experience and career through training, personal development programs and plans, coaching and more WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Engaging employees at all our locations creates a win-win situation for Southwire: employees feel connection to and meaning in their work, which drives our ﬁnancial bottom line through increased productivity and initiative. For Southwire to retain employees and develop leaders to continue our prominent role in the market, we must leverage technology, give employees experiences they would not receive elsewhere and help employees connect to our culture. 103-2 ▾ ONE Southwire means we will act as a uniﬁed company by sharing our values, culture, commitment and processes. As we continue our ONE Southwire journey, we will focus on our strategic initiative to Build Organizational Capability. We will do this by strengthening the organization for growth, investing in our talent and engaging with our employees. Southwire’s approach to employee engagement intertwines with talent development. By offering unique professional development opportunities, employees enhance their skills, increase their comfort taking risks and heighten levels of engagement. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT As Baby Boomers leave the workforce, both Generation X and Millennials will need to take leadership positions—Millennials at a younger age than previous generations of leaders. In the past, leaders spent time learning on the job; in the future, employees will need to learn more quickly before taking leadership roles. The Coaching Guide is a tool that acts as a catalyst to the performance management process by helping employees better understand their personal strengths and gaps through a competency model. The process focuses on leadership skills and attributes unique to Southwire’s culture—and articulates the speciﬁc implications these leadership traits have for fostering our culture and driving high performance. We also developed a performance guide for managers that illuminates how certain behaviors, competencies and creating a “line of sight” for employees to connect to Southwire’s vision and strategy contribute to our company’s success. As part of the rollout in 2017, Southwire completed training across the organization for all executive, senior leadership, directors and site leader career bands who participated in performance management. We are rolling out performance management to employees in the manager career band in 2018, followed by technical and individual contributors and supervisors in 2019. (See disclosure 404-3 below.) Our updated performance management model includes tracking objectives and performance coaching conversations in SuccessFactors, an application that “turns purpose into performance by connecting people to company purpose.” 404-3 ▾ EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATING IN PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 2016 2017 2018 TARGET 2019 TARGET By Employee Category Executives 100% 100% 100% 100% Senior Leaders 100% 100% 100% 100% Site Leaders/ Directors 100% 100% 100% 100% Managers 0% 0% 100% 100% Individual/Technical Contributors and 0% 0% 0% 100% Supervisors ONE Southwire means we will act as a uniﬁed company by sharing our values, culture, commitment and processes. As we continue our ONE Southwire journey, we will focus on our strategic initiative to Build Organizational Capability. We will do this by strengthening the organization for growth, investing in our talent and engaging with our employees. LEADERSHIP ASSESSMENTS & DEVELOPMENT In 2017, we completed leadership assessments that included personalized growth plans for the executive leadership team. Reaching beyond our executive team, the Southwire Leadership Academy develops leadership traits and enhances succession management planning through a competency-based approach. Southwire aspires to graduate 98 senior leaders by the end of Q2 2019. To date, the program has 73 graduates employed at Southwire. To assess and build the emotional intelligence of Southwire’s future leaders, our Leadership Academy includes RocheMartin’s Emotional Capital Assessment. To build these key competencies, the week-long academy includes group exercises to increase participants’ awareness and acceptance. After the event, Southwire provides one-on-one coaching to participants to help them learn their emotional intelligence strengths and opportunities for development as they grow in their leadership competencies. Taking place approximately six months after the week-long Southwire Leadership Academy, the Alumni Experience is designed to immerse Southwire’s future leaders in a “Day in the Life of the CEO,” where attendees gain an understanding of what it means to lead an organization with the size and complexity of Southwire. The program emphasizes Southwire’s distinguishing characteristics as an organization: driving for results, creating a caring culture and investing in the communities in which it operates. The Alumni Experience encapsulates building these traits as fundamental to the success of the organization’s leadership. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT: PEOPLE MANAGERS & FRONT-LINE LEADERS In 2018, Southwire is launching two fundamental leadership development programs to support our initiative of Building Organizational Capability. People Manager and Front-Line Leadership Training are key components to our human capital strategy. Over the next two years, both people managers and front-line leaders will be trained and expected to master the competencies that have been identiﬁed as essential for those roles moving forward. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE CATEGORY COMPANYWIDE TRAINING LENGTH Front-line Leaders 370 One seven-hour session People Managers 260 Two 6 ½-hour sessions Both groups are scheduled to complete classes by the end of October 2018. As we continue to grow, so does our commitment to developing our talent. SELF-DIRECTED LEARNING: DEGREED Southwire offers a series of professional skills development courses through our web-based learning management system (LMS), which enables us to better track, trend and analyze utilization. Degreed is Southwire’s self-driven learning platform that allows employees to access learning content through a seamless interface and enriched employee experience. Degreed is the successor to iAm University and is now Southwire’s one-stop shop for learning—anywhere, anytime. Through Degreed, all Southwire employees will have the opportunity to: > Complete assigned internal and external content/courses; > Leverage over 3.5 million high-quality, low-cost/no-cost learning assessments; > Create individual development plans and set goals; and > Access metrics/analytics to track learning, including academic, professional and informal. 103-3 ▾ EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT To identify areas of strength and opportunities to improve engagement, Southwire partnered with a third party to conduct an employee engagement survey every 18 months prior to 2017 and conducted “pulse checks” at six-month intervals between surveys. We provided this anonymous, online survey to all full-time Southwire employees. Based on the survey results, the company’s leaders created goals and plans to sustain success in areas of high achievement and to develop stronger engagement in those categories identiﬁed for improvement. In response to the 2016 survey, we focused on key areas of technology, process improvements and information sharing to help translate our high engagement to better business results during 2017. Southwire’s goal was an employee engagement score of 75 percent favorable or higher, which indicates high employee engagement according to our survey creator. We also carefully monitored the number of voluntary survey responses we receive to offer insight into the robustness of our engagement. Our target participation rate was 90 percent. See below for our scores. 100% 90% 80% 89% 89% 85% Target 70% 76% 75% 71% 71% 73% 60% 65% 65% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% December 2014 June 2015 Pulse December 2015 2016 March 2017 Engagement Check Pulse Check Engagement Pulse Check Survey Survey Participation Rate Engagement Score Our Pulse Checks revealed a pattern in employee feedback, indicating that six months was not enough time for implemented changes to take effect. We therefore started the process of revamping our approach to Pulse Checks, which we began implementing in the ﬁrst quarter of 2017. In December 2017, we did not complete our regular Pulse Check; instead, we opted to send a letter to Southwire leaders with an update on how the top concerns expressed in the 2016 Engagement Survey were being addressed. These key improvement areas included Communication, Training and Development and Tools for Success. One way we are enhancing communication is through Town Halls hosted by our CEO that are livestreamed to provide employees an opportunity to discuss ideas and areas for improvement they see within the company. After giving time for the improvements to be implemented by leadership, we will conduct an iAm Survey in 2018 that will help set our priorities for the next two years. We are currently looking at new options to measure employee engagement—one that reﬂects the health of our culture every day. The instrument selected will be similar to our Voice of the Customer tool that we utilize consistently to stay in contact with and focus on our customers. How engaged our employees are at work is critical to our success and we want to stay in tune with the feelings, challenges and accomplishments of our workforce. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LIVING WELL INCLUSION Creating an environment among Southwire’s board and employee population where individuals from diverse backgrounds (ethnic, cultural, generational, economic, etc.) feel included and comfortable expressing varied thoughts and perspectives WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Promoting a culture of inclusivity for diverse individuals—across our employee population and on our board of directors—beneﬁts both our business and our employees. McKinsey found that companies in the top quartile for gender diversity are 15 percent more likely to have higher ﬁnancial returns than less diverse companies, while companies in the top quartile for racial and ethnic diversity are 35 percent more likely to outperform national industry medians. Further, Southwire, like other companies across the country, is planning for major demographic and social changes over the coming years. We hope to attract and retain the top talent in our industry by promoting a culture of inclusion that values varied thoughts and perspectives. As an employer searching for top talent, and as a responsible supplier, Southwire maintains a strong commitment to ensuring our workforce continues to reﬂect our complex and evolving world. 103-2 ▾ Diversity extends beyond physical characteristics to include diversity of thought and perspective, which promotes a more innovative and creative environment. At Southwire, we believe an inclusive culture enables talent to ﬂourish and encourages our employees to reach their highest potential. We believe that, if we strive for inclusion, diversity will naturally follow. Weaving employees into our community, regardless of their background, demonstrates to all potential candidates that they have a home at Southwire. Simply stated, Southwire wants employees to feel empowered, see diversity and experience inclusivity. Our Inclusivity Mission: We will foster an inclusive environment that recognizes the value and talent of diverse perspectives, regardless of gender and ethnicity, while at the same time advancing leaders throughout our organization who can unleash sustainable business growth. Southwire focuses on three elements to create an inclusive culture: development, connection and awareness. Avenues for our employees to connect, develop and become aware of other perspectives and learn how people’s various backgrounds and experiences bring value to teams and performance include: > Involvement in Southwire’s Project GIFT® activities, which connect employees with each other and our local communities; > Participation in a mentorship program; > Contributing to a Sounding Board, which connects employees with executive management in a very open dialogue about Southwire’s strengths and opportunities for improvement; and > Attending employee resource group functions (see below). GOVERNANCE Southwire’s senior vice president of inclusivity and talent management leads the company’s inclusion efforts. In 2017, we expanded the outreach of our diversity and inclusivity strategy by introducing two new employee resource groups (ERGs) composed of employees from various business areas. We now have six groups building objectives to create awareness and a more inclusive workplace for women, people of color, veterans, LGBT and a multi-generational workforce in both manufacturing and corporate environments. The ERGs each have an executive sponsor. To further our inclusion efforts, our Inclusivity Council—comprised of our chief executive ofﬁcer, his direct reports and champions from each ERG—meets quarterly. The Inclusivity Council allows members of the employee resource groups to provide input directly to the Executive Leadership Team at the quarterly meetings. In 2017, Southwire revised our inclusion goals, setting new diversity and inclusivity goals for executive vice presidents, senior vice presidents and vice presidents. Performance on these goals will directly affect incentive compensation in 2018. POLICIES & COMMITMENTS As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Southwire fully supports Principle 6, which states: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Southwire’s Commitment to Equal Employment Opportunity, last updated in September 2017, is outlined in our Employee Handbook. Additional non-discrimination measures are covered by Southwire’s AntiRetaliation policy, which prohibits retaliation for any protected activity, and Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination policy, which protects employees or applicants who inquire about, discuss or disclose their own pay or the pay of another employee or applicant. To further encourage an inclusive workplace for our employees, Southwire has an Anti-Harassment policy and provides disability accommodations, religious accommodations and paid time for nursing mothers. For details on these policies, refer to the Employee Handbook (effective January 2018) under Related Resources. Southwire is also opening a Commuter Hub in Atlanta to provide a more ﬂexible working arrangement for many of our salaried employees. To further accommodate our employees, we will expand our paid parental leave to two weeks for eligible full-time employees in 2018. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS To further our inclusivity mission of fostering an inclusive environment that recognizes the value and talent of diverse perspectives, regardless of gender and ethnicity, while at the same time advancing leaders throughout our organization who can unleash sustainable business growth, Southwire actively promotes six employee resource groups. In 2017, we introduced groups to increase connections within our veteran and LGBT communities. Southwire also facilitates and encourages all of these groups through its FUSE intranet site. > Inspires employees to create an environment that embraces inclusivity with an emphasis on women. > Provides an avenue to encourage networking, embrace collaboration and empower current and future leaders. > Fosters a community of inclusivity, diversity and empowerment by valuing all people of color. > Serves as a vital resource to promote awareness, cultural differences and the importance of diversity, fostering an environment that encourages investment in the development and engagement of the entire spectrum of Southwire’s people. > Inspires employees to create an environment that embraces inclusivity with an emphasis on millennials. > Provides an avenue to encourage networking, embrace collaboration and empower current and future leaders to master the essences of Southwire. > Builds organizational capability by ensuring the workforce is diverse in all levels of leadership throughout manufacturing facilities to achieve business results. > Helps to instill a culture of acceptance of all people and develop systems that are more than just words on paper, but inclusion in action. Together Everyone Achieves More. > Enriches the lives of Southwire employees by creating deeper relationships with fellow employees, providing opportunities to serve through veteran outreach and awareness events and by engaging in network and career growth opportunities. > Advocates for a work environment that respects, welcomes and supports people of all sexual orientations and gender identities and enables them to bring their whole selves to work, allowing them to perform to their full potential. INCLUSIVITY TRAINING Southwire is building our organizational capacity in numerous ways. We are providing across-the-board training for leaders to make Southwire a more inclusive and engaged place to work. In 2017, we conducted an in-person development workshop for directors and above on leading inclusively, with a focus on the importance of microinequities. Southwire provides executive workshops focused on leading inclusively, inperson development learning days for directors and senior leaders, and training for our managers and front-line leaders on leadership competencies. Also, we have a new self-driven learning platform where employees can access assigned tasks or develop themselves in areas they would like to learn or improve. DATA MONITORING & REPORTING 103-3 ▾ To objectively determine the inclusivity of Southwire’s culture, we track a variety of metrics. Our quarterly Human Capital Dashboard measures average years of service, percentage of female employees, average age, percentage of minorities, biometric grades and turnover of high potential employees. We report diversity measurements along with national benchmarks quarterly to Southwire’s board of directors and senior leadership. We share our performance on some of these metrics below. 405-1 ▾ EMPLOYEES Permanent Employees by Gender* 100% 21% 22% 20% 19% 90% 80% 70% 60% 79% 78% 80% 81% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 Female Male *Information on employees through SAP SuccessFactors excludes employee data for Mexico, Honduras, China, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Diverse Candidates 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 30% 30% 20% 23.5% 26% 10% 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our employee engagement survey, which measures the Southwire employee experience, enables us to track inclusion. For example, we ascertain whether there are differences in how various demographics respond to the questions and whether the experience aligns with Southwire’s values. Based on employee feedback, we are pursuing a different way to measure engagement that provides a more real-time perspective. Read more on our Employee Engagement & Development page. GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Southwire provides numerous channels for employees to raise concerns or submit grievances. When employees deal openly and directly with each other and their supervisors, communications are clearer, and the work environment and work attitudes are more positive. Therefore, through our Open-Door Policy, if employees have concerns about working conditions or the business, we strongly encourage employees to voice their concerns to their supervisor. However, employees may also voice their concerns to any manager at their location, their site manager and/or human resources, all of whom have an Open-Door policy. The company also has a robust complaint reporting and investigations procedures. Under these procedures, an employee subjected to any conduct that they believe violates Southwire’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, Anti-Harassment Policy, Workplace Violence Policy or AntiRetaliation Policy, must promptly speak or write to a Human Resources representative. Likewise, any other conduct that an employee believes may violate the company’s Standards of Business Ethics and Conduct Policy should be reported to the employee’s supervisor, facility manager, or Legal Department. Additionally, Southwire employees may use Just Ask, a line of communication to submit questions or concerns related to diversity or inclusion practices through an online or hard copy form, email or phone call. The submission goes to our corporate communications team, which directs the question to the appropriate person to respond, typically within one to two days. The questions/concerns and responses are shared with leadership on quarterly basis. Employees can also submit emails to the champions of each ERG through Southwire’s FUSE intranet site. For more than 15 years, Southwire also has used a peer review process, outlined in the new Employee Handbook, for concerns regarding hourly employees at all non-unionized locations. The peer review group is comprised of the employee’s peers and management. Our Waukegan and Pleasant Prairie sites, which are unionized, have their own process. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GIVING BACK Our neighbors depend on us, just as we depend on them, so we are committed to improving the quality of life in the communities in which we work. This goes beyond providing jobs and paying taxes; it means supporting those in need with time, talent and ﬁnancial resources. CREATING SHARED VALUE Southwire focuses on creating shared value—enhancing our competitiveness while improving the economic and social conditions in the communities where we operate. Through Giving Back opportunities, Southwire seeks to positively affect the communities where we operate; to give time and talent above and beyond ﬁnancial contributions; and to beneﬁt our customers’ communities where we can. In doing so, we also build goodwill. Southwire engages with and supports our local communities in a variety of ways. We strategically focus our community efforts on supporting educational opportunities, through which Southwire enhances employment prospects for community residents while identifying a future talent pool for our company. 12 FOR LIFE® Prior to 2007, the opening year of our signature 12 for Life® program, Carroll County’s high school graduation rate hovered at 64 percent, meaning one of three students starting the ﬁrst grade that year would not go on to graduate from high school. Since Southwire’s employment opportunities require candidates with either a diploma or GED, Southwire devised strategies to reverse this trend in collaboration with Carroll County schools. This partnership spawned our award-winning 12 for Life® program. This program serves the community by providing opportunity, education and employment for at-risk youth, emphasizing that education opens doors to success. The 12 for Life® program combines traditional classroom instruction with jobs inside a modiﬁed Southwire manufacturing environment. Students earn wages for their work and, most importantly, learn skills they will need after graduation. We are pleased to report that the graduation rate in Carroll County was 85.7 percent in 2017. Since the program’s inception, our partnership expanded to include the Florence City Schools in Alabama, and other companies have replicated the 12 for Life® program model. For example, Textron Specialized Vehicles Inc. collaborated with the Richmond County School System on the Reaching Potential Through Manufacturing (RPM) program. The state of Georgia and the White House also adopted 12 for Life® as a model for increasing graduation rates. To learn more visit www.12forlife.com. 12 for Life Graduates (cumulative total) 2500 2250 2000 2,000 2,020 1750 1500 1,614 1250 1000 1,195 750 851 892 500 250 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Target 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL & TARGETS We see additional strategic opportunity for Southwire and our employees in developing a signature environmental program. Therefore, in 2016, we set a new 2021 goal to engage with our communities on environmental issues. This 2017 sustainability report provides our initial update on our progress toward this goal. Today, limited community involvement exists in the areas of environmental stewardship and awareness. Southwire is currently working to develop a signature program, with supporting strategy and timeline, to accomplish the following: engage employees at work and within the community; target areas of community impact; and integrate environmental stewardship into our interactions with the community. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ENABLE AND ENGAGE OUR WORKFORCE IN BUILDING MORE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS Launch environmental outreach programs in 100% of the communities in which we operate 4% of communities 4% of communities PROJECT GIFT® (GIVING INSPIRATION FOR TOMORROW) Southwire’s employee volunteer program, Project GIFT®, celebrated its twelfth anniversary in October 2017. This program, a registered 501(c) (3) nonproﬁt, serves as the umbrella program for many of Southwire’s charitableand service-related initiatives, such as disaster relief, Toys for Tots and Back to School. In 2017, Southwire had 24 Giving Back coordinators who volunteer to lead and organize events across our locations in addition to their full-time role. These passionate coordinators make it possible for Southwire employees to engage in Project GIFT®. Employees become “Blackshirts”—named for the coveted shirts they earn—by volunteering in two or more community service events per year. Southwire aims to increase volunteerism in the communities where we operate by achieving 50 percent improvement in Project GIFT® Blackshirt participation across Southwire by year-end 2018. We use internal channels as well as social media to connect volunteers and update those interested in Southwire’s giving efforts. We exceeded our 2018 target, with 962 Project GIFT® Blackshirts volunteering 11,992 hours across our communities in 2017. Southwire Volunteerism 1000 900 800 962 Number of Volunteers 700 878 Number of Hours 600 645 500 400 492 451 300 200 100 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Baseline) Number of Volunteers Number of Volunteer Hours DISASTER RELIEF Southwire provides tremendous aid when it comes to Disaster Relief and reviving our communities across the country, including ﬁve natural disasters in 2017—Adel Tornadoes (Georgia), Hurricane Harvey (Texas), Hurricane Irma (Florida), Hurricane Maria (Puerto Rico) and the California Wildﬁres (Northern California). A total of 14 different Giving Back Communities assisted in the relief effort through hosting community or facility collections to gather much-needed relief supplies that were distributed in some of the hardest hit areas. With 412 volunteers working 1,451 hours of relief service, Southwire ﬁlled 28 ﬁfty-three-foot tractor-trailers with relief items, including nonperishable food, hygiene items, cleaning suppliers, paper goods, baby and pet items, bottled water and more. To learn more, watch Southwire’s video. BACK TO SCHOOL We reached our goal of hosting Back to School events in all 24 of Southwire’s identiﬁed communities in North America a year earlier than planned. Together, we distributed more than 22,000 bags of school supplies for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. Additionally, some locations provided free eye and allergy screenings. Some community members traveled almost 50 miles to participate in our programs. Back-to-School Event Locations 100% Target 100% 100% 100% 90% 80% 70% 71% 60% 50% 56% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOYS FOR TOTS To brighten the holidays, Southwire collects toys each year for local Toys for Tots chapters. Through the program, we collected 5,610 toys in 2017 and donated them to three different communities in Georgia, Texas, and Alabama. Project GIFT® volunteers now stage a two-day marathon drive open to the community, with a toy collection goal for each year of 5,000. Last year, with the help of our sponsors including Southwire, Associated Credit Union, Metro West Realty, Georgia Power, R&R Enterprises Inc., West Georgia Technical College, Times Georgian, Megabytes Digital, Gradick Communications and the University of West Georgia Foundation, Southwire and members of the community exceeded our goal by collecting more than 5,000 toys. Toys Collected 6000 5400 Target 5,610 4800 5,159 5,083 5,000 4200 3600 3000 2400 1800 1200 600 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DOING RIGHT We foster a culture guided by ethical values. We will not forget to live up to those values, even when it might be difﬁcult. And, if we make mistakes, we will be transparent and responsive. To ensure Southwire’s ﬁnancial health and longevity, we foster our commitment to ethical business practices. Doing Right underpins every aspect of our company. Southwire upholds our obligation to operate responsibly while maintaining our excellent reputation with our customers, suppliers, regulators and the communities that we serve. Through our culture, we expect our employees to live this approach daily. We report on our management approach and progress for these two Doing Right topics; click the links below for details. ETHICS, ANTICORRUPTION & TRANSPARENCY SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT PRACTICES In 2017, we launched ﬁve new sustainability goals. Southwire reports our progress toward these goals for the ﬁrst time in this report. Our Doing Right goal and 2021 target are: 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ENSURE THE HIGHEST STANDARD OF ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES WITHIN ALL OUR OPERATIONS TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 PROGRESS Achieve recognition on Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies list by No ranking Gap analysis completed, and action plans 2021 developed Ethisphere provides an independently vetted, objective measurement of corporate social responsibility and business ethics. Benchmarking against the World’s Most Ethical Companies will inspire and inform advancement in Southwire’s business practices. Read how Southwire is working toward this target on our Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency page. 102-12▾ Southwire signed the UN Global Compact in 2017 to strengthen our commitment to a more sustainable future for our company. This initiative is designed to align strategies and drive operational awareness for companies around universal sustainability topics on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and takes actions that advance societal goals. By becoming a signatory, Southwire joined more than 12,000 participants including governments, NGOs, companies, institutions and association in the world’s leading voluntary corporate citizenship initiative. This gives Southwire the opportunity to share our vision as we support collective endeavors toward global progress. To learn more about our commitment to the Global Compact, click here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DOING RIGHT ETHICS, ANTI-CORRUPTION & TRANSPARENCY Ensuring policies, communications and training are in place to promote ethical behavior (e.g., anticorruption, bribery, extortion, money laundering, fraud and tax evasion); operating an internal audit program; maintaining a whistleblower policy and other means to safely and anonymously report transgressions; and providing accurate and transparent reporting regarding company performance, challenges and opportunities for improvement WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Ethics, anti-corruption and transparency are the foundation of our strong, sustainable company. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Southwire fully supports Principle 10—Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Further, customers compare suppliers according to their own standards or compliance requirements. By operating in an ethical, transparent manner in all our operations globally, we earn our license to operate and minimize risk to our company’s reputation. We expect all our business partners to operate according to our ethical standards. 103-2 ▾ Southwire monitors and mitigates risks—both within our business and beyond our operations—by providing robust ethics training to employees, engaging suppliers and adhering to and creating policies to support standards. Our leadership espouses the highest levels of integrity, and employees follow their example. In July 2017, Southwire became a UNGC signatory, providing the company with additional access to best practices and industry experts for ethics, as well as strengthening our commitment to ethical business practices. Read about Southwire’s governance structure and practices. Through our ethics, anti-corruption and transparency, we are strengthening our business while Doing Right. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL & TARGET In 2017, we launched a new goal related to ethics and transparency to ensure the highest standard of ethical business practices within all our operations by achieving recognition on Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies list by 2021. Southwire ﬁnds it important to have an independently vetted, objective measurement of corporate responsibility and business ethics. Benchmarking against the World’s Most Ethical Companies will inspire and inform advancement in our business practices. In this 2017 Sustainability Report, we provide our ﬁrst progress report on this goal. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS ACHIEVE BEST IN CLASS SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT SOUTHWIRE 2021 TARGET 2017 PROGRESS Achieve recognition on Ethisphere’s World’s Completed benchmarking survey with Ethisphere Most Ethical Companies list by 2021 Communicated status of report to management and convened a team of experts to prioritize strategic initiative and action plans to address areas of opportunity and process improvements STANDARDS OF CONDUCT 102-16 ▾ We demonstrate our commitment to ethical business practices by publishing and providing all employees with an uncompromising ethics statement. Our chief executive ofﬁcer introduces Southwire’s code of ethics through a 10-minute video during new hire orientation. The Standards of Business Ethics and Conduct outline Southwire’s mission, business philosophy, values and standards. We continually review our Standards, with a plan to provide an updated version in 2018. TRAINING Ethics Training At Southwire, we strive to go beyond compliance requirements. Salaried and hourly employees receive annual ethics training to remain familiar with our ethical code and compliance topics, such as bribery and anti-trust. During our biennial ethics refresher meeting, we share examples of practices that technically comply with the law but do not live up to our values or the spirit of the law. We emphasize that these scenarios conﬂict with our culture and can undermine our stakeholders’ positive view of Southwire. As Southwire continues to grow through acquisitions, ensuring aligned codes of business ethics with the acquired companies will help Southwire maintain customer and supplier relationships and the company’s brand and reputation. In 2017, we adopted a policy to train all new employees who join the company in connection with an acquisition on our policies including anti-corruption and ethics. Anti-Corruption Training We ﬁrmly reject any corrupt business activity and take measures to ensure our business activities advance internationally without ethics incidents. Southwire provides anti-corruption training to executives and other salaried employees based outside the U.S. (particularly beyond North America). Further, we require mandatory training for all employees who travel abroad for business purposes to prepare them for possible encounters with corrupt activities. We conduct training in our employees’ native language to ensure clarity. This training includes safety protocols which, combined with our travel policies and procedures, allows us to track the locations of our employees as they travel and to swiftly extract an employee in the case of an in-country emergency. REPORTING ETHICS CONCERNS 102-17 ▾ 103-3 ▾ Southwire completed implementation of an online Code of Ethics training and conducted an employee survey for all salaried employees. All individuals are asked to indicate if they are aware of any ethics violations. Employees and stakeholders may report any ethics concerns to supervisors or our legal department via hotline or email. In the U.S., these reports can remain anonymous. Southwire thoroughly investigates all indications of ethics violations. For a company of our size, historically we have had few incidents, violations or litigation. HOLDING SUPPLIERS ACCOUNTABLE To demonstrate our commitment to ethical business along our supply chain, Southwire enforces our conﬂict minerals and human trafﬁcking policies, both of which are publicly available on our corporate website. Additional detail about our supplier policies and programs can be found here. “I’ve never worked with a company with higher ethics and integrity.”Southwire Supplier, 2017 TRANSPARENCY Southwire believes in providing accurate and transparent reporting regarding company performance, challenges and opportunities for improvement. By continuing to communicate via our annual sustainability report and other channels, Southwire will further build support and respect for the company. For greater transparency, we engage our stakeholders in a variety of ways. In the infrequent case of a spill or other release to the environment, Southwire notiﬁes the appropriate regulatory authorities and informs leadership via text and email as soon as possible, as well as its board of directors at regular board meetings. In the case of a high-visibility event, we will inform the public via local press releases. 307-1 ▾ 2017 Regulatory Actions MONETARY DATE LOCATION INCIDENT ACTIONS TAKEN VALUE March Denton, Letter of Non-Compliance from the City of The plant is investigating the cause of the violation and will take $0 2017 Texas Denton for copper discharges to the sanitary the necessary steps to eliminate the potential for future sewer in excess of their permit limit. exceedances. MONETARY DATE LOCATION INCIDENT ACTIONS TAKEN VALUE September Carrollton, Notice of Violation by the Georgia 1. The monitoring system has been replaced with redundant $0 2017 Ga. Environmental Protection Division related to backups to prevent a recurrence of this deviation. two air permit deviations: 2. The electrical issue has corrected, and new procedures have been implemented to prevent excessive engine run time in the 1. A temperature monitoring system was out future. of service for 5.75% of the operating time during the reporting period, which exceeded the 5% acceptable threshold. 2. An electrical failure triggered the startup of an emergency generator, and the unit could operate in excess of the 100-hour annual limit. Impact to the environment was minimal in both cases. October Houston, Notice of Violation by the Harris County Remediation of the affected areas was conducted immediately, $0 2017 Texas Pollution Services department related to a and a plumber was contracted to address the broken clean out sanitary sewer discharge event. caps. Weekly inspections were initiated to ensure no discharges have occurred or are occurring. We are pleased to report that Southwire paid no ﬁnes for non-compliance in 2017. For more information on other regulatory actions in 2017, click here. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DOING RIGHT SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN & PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Ensuring a stable, low-cost materials supply; practicing ethical sourcing requiring current and prospective suppliers to adhere to strict guidelines regarding forced labor, child labor, sexual harassment, and workplace health and safety; factoring human rights, supplier diversity and location considerations into our supplier selection process; evaluating supplier performance through surveys and on-site audits for environmental, social, governance and quality management systems; and adherence to all applicable import laws WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Focusing on sustainable supply chain management aligns with our ethical values and business goals. Additionally, customers look favorably upon companies with supply chains that are transparent, well managed and without ethical incidents. Southwire’s approach to responsible procurement practices and supply chain management focuses on our Tier 1 suppliers. By maintaining a sustainable supply chain and procurement practices, we ensure longevity for our company. 102-9 ▾ As one of North America’s largest wire and cable producers, extensive vertical integration of our supply chain limits complexity and helps us guarantee a stable and steady source of inputs for our operations. Additionally, this enables Southwire to apply our sustainable business practices directly to processes that might otherwise fall outside our sphere of immediate inﬂuence. Southwire relies on three main groups for a strong, adaptable supply chain: raw materials providers, logistics and contractors. The primary raw materials we source include metals, such as copper and aluminum, and a wide array of compounds, chemical additives and ﬁllers used to insulate, jacket and construct our wire and cable products. Southwire sources most of these materials from suppliers that mine or manufacture basic feedstocks (e.g., copper cathodes or PVC resin) for Southwire’s downstream conversion into raw materials such as copper rod and PVC compounds. 103-2 ▾ Mitigating our negative impacts and maximizing our positive impacts extends beyond Southwire’s direct operations. We collaborate and share sustainable business best practices with our key suppliers—large suppliers with whom we have longstanding relationships and/or supply important raw materials—so that every input to Southwire products is made with similar values to those on which we built our family-owned business. GOVERNANCE Southwire’s executive vice president of distribution, sourcing and manufacturing strategy oversees our supply chain sustainability. Southwire also evaluates our Strategic Sourcing Department on the sustainability of our supply chain. We set goals, expanded the reach of current and future audits and are driving sourcing behaviors based on performance expectations. STRATEGIC SOURCING & PROCUREMENT Logistics are the most complex and extensive aspect of Southwire’s supply chain. Effectively managing this complexity drives down costs for our customers and reduces our environmental impact. To the extent practicable, we strategically source raw materials closer to the appropriate manufacturing plant to limit distance traveled, and we use intermodal transport whenever possible. The Energy & Air Emissions section provides details about our carrier contractors’ participation in the EPA’s Smart Way Program. We select our suppliers based on their reputation and demonstrated quality, service, innovative technology, price and diversity considerations. To demonstrate our commitment to responsible procurement practices, Southwire’s Global Supplier Sustainability Manual section 11.2 outlines our expectations regarding suppliers’ business conduct. All suppliers in Southwire’s Supplier Sustainability Program return the authorized document to Southwire. In addition, we are drafting a human rights clause that will be inserted into every contract in 2018. Supplier Diversity We consider supplier diversity an important aspect of a sustainable supply chain. Operating under Southwire’s Strategic Sourcing Department, our Supplier Diversity program ensures that Southwire identiﬁes: > Qualiﬁed small businesses and those owned and operated by minorities, females or veterans in our strategic sourcing and procurement processes; and > Opportunities to foster the development and advancement of diverse businesses, when and where practicable. Southwire is an active corporate member of the Georgia Minority Supplier Development Council (GMSDC) and the Greater Women’s Business Council (GWBC), which is the regional afﬁliate of the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). Our afﬁliation with these diverse business groups allows us an opportunity to network and benchmark best practices of organizations in the southeast region. Southwire also provides a direct connection for any of our qualiﬁed suppliers interested in obtaining minority certiﬁcations. In 2017, Southwire exhibited at two business expos in Atlanta, Ga. and Houston, Texas. We attended national diversity conferences sponsored by WBENC, the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) and the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC). We will continue to support and attend similar events in 2018 to identify additional quality suppliers for our internal database. Strategic Sourcing makes concerted efforts to include diverse suppliers in new bids and has contacted existing suppliers to determine whether they qualify as minority owned. Through these efforts, Southwire added 109 new small or diverse businesses to the list of approved suppliers. For example, Carl Owen Construction LLC., a certiﬁed woman-owned organization, provided the lowest total cost and was awarded the opportunity to complete a major renovation within Southwire’s corporate headquarters. Additionally, one of our long-term suppliers, Davis Wire, obtained certiﬁcation from WBENC in 2017. Southwire did more business with Small and Minority owned organizations in 2017 than in the previous ﬁve years since standardizing the use of SAP. With this increase in spend, not only did Southwire meet our 2017 target, we surpassed our original target of $150M for 2018. Spend on Diverse Suppliers (Millions of Dollars) GOAL Diverse Suppliers (Percentage of Supplier Base) GOAL Some of our larger customers, particularly utilities, have their own supplier diversity goals. To help them attain those goals, we commit to collaborating with diverse businesses and continually assess our progress. We report our expenditures monthly or quarterly to our top utility customers. In addition, Southwire is developing a Supplier Diversity webpage that will include quarterly spend results and highlight our diverse business partners. SUPPLIER RELATIONS Southwire recognizes the critical role suppliers play in our ability to deliver reliable value to customers. To ensure our operations proceed without disruption, we work to uphold our preferred status with our suppliers by maintaining steady demand. We collaborate extensively with the suppliers of our most signiﬁcant inputs—copper and aluminum—to identify potential risks and opportunities. For example, we participate in the Copper Club, hold a series of meetings with the American Copper Council, attend the Center for Copper and Mining Studies (CESCO) annual conference and meet with metals suppliers throughout the year. SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Along with our supplier relations initiatives, we actively manage our Supplier Sustainability Program, which expanded to include 31 critical— high-volume and critical component—suppliers. Through this program, we: > Distribute Southwire’s Global Supplier Sustainability Manual; > Request participants submit environmental, social and governance information annually; > Ensure all participants complete an annual sustainability survey; and > Conduct an on-site audit of participants’ environmental, social, governance and quality management systems Through 2017, Southwire has audited 75 percent of the suppliers in our expanded Sustainability Program. Global Supplier Sustainability Manual Southwire’s Global Supplier Sustainability Manual details our expectations with respect to quality, environmental, social and governance practices in our supply chain. Since the program’s inception, we have distributed the manual to 100 percent of suppliers in the Supplier Sustainability Program. Companies acknowledge they have read the manual prior to or concurrent with Southwire’s on-site audits. Supplier Sustainability Survey In 2017, Southwire became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. To demonstrate our commitment to Principles 1 through 6, which support human rights and labor standards, Southwire began the process of updating our supplier sustainability survey to verify no use of forced or child labor or other human rights or labor violations within our supply chain. 103-3 ▾ 102-10 ▾ On-Site Audits Southwire developed a phased approach to our Supplier Sustainability Program audits. After successfully accomplishing our goal to conduct on-site audits and put in place performance monitoring for critical suppliers in Phase I, Southwire increased our reach to an additional 23 suppliers as a part of Phase II. We are on track to meet our goal to complete Phase II audits by the end of calendar year 2018. The suppliers covered in Phase I and II of this program account for a total of 80 percent of Southwire’s raw material spend (excluding metals). PHASE I PHASE II METRIC 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TARGET Supplier Sustainability Program audits completed – Phase I Suppliers 20% 65% 100% Goal Goal Complete Complete Supplier Sustainability Program audits completed – Phase II Suppliers N/A N/A N/A 50% 100% 308-2 ▾ 414-2 ▾ The suppliers in our Supplier Sustainability Program are large, multinational corporations with established supply chain programs. Through our audits of these suppliers, Southwire has not uncovered negative environmental or social impacts. METALS SUPPLIERS Southwire’s metal suppliers belong to the International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM). The ten principles of the ICMM align with Southwire’s Global Supplier Sustainability Manual. The ICMM encourages dialogue between its stakeholders—governments, international organizations, local communities and others in the supply chain—to ensure adherence to various environmental and social regulations. Additionally, the same suppliers follow the principles of the UN Global Compact, which establish a culture of integrity and help guide the companies to uphold basic responsibilities to people and the environment. Southwire identiﬁed one domestic aluminum supplier that is not a member ICMM; that supplier is included in our list of sustainability audits for completion in Q4 2018. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES As a UN Global Compact Signatory, Southwire’s human trafﬁcking and conﬂict mineral policies align with our focus on supply chain sustainability. These policies and our Supplier Sustainability Survey, which we are updating in 2018 to explicitly address labor and human rights considerations, demonstrate to our stakeholders that we actively address these pressing social issues, and we associate with organizations that share our concerns. Southwire requires all suppliers to complete a self-assessment outlining whether their materials comply with laws associated with the aforementioned social concerns. Legal experts review these assessments to ensure compliance. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING WORTH Our success depends on our customers’ success. We will build worth for our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders by achieving the lowest cost, highest quality and best service in our industry. To do this, we must lead our core markets with superior products, grow steadily, spend wisely, keep debt low and protect our investments. Southwire is growing our business in a strong, sustainable manner. We deliver unparalleled innovative products and services, a practice that enables our company to ﬂourish. We seek to reach our greatest potential by continually evolving to match our customers’ needs and goals. Southwire’s effort to grow responsibly creates shared value by beneﬁtting all our stakeholders. To continue our legacy of Building Worth, Southwire focuses on the following material topics, each detailed in this report; click the links for more information: PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2017, Southwire launched ﬁve new sustainability goals; we share our progress for the ﬁrst time in this report. Our Building Worth goal and metrics are: 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE FOUR BREAKTHROUGH SOLUTIONS TO CUSTOMERS’ SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 PROGRESS 10% of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 8% 6% and amortization) in the funnel $1 billion of incremental revenue tied to these solutions (15% $0 Strategic plan developed identifying relevant vertical markets and of projected 2021 revenues) adjacent/transformational strategic initiatives Our success is ultimately driven by how well we solve our customers’ needs. Sustainability is a major issue, for companies and individuals, as we work within the constraints of the planet’s limited natural resources. And, as part of the broader supply of materials to buildings and energy infrastructure, Southwire must focus on how our customers use our products and how we can jointly beneﬁt society. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING WORTH PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY Paying special attention to product design, installation methods and use and integrating solutions to enhance customer and user productivity and safety; proactively informing customers in the unlikely event of a product recall WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Southwire’s products are foundational to modern infrastructure and intended to last for decades exposed to the elements or hidden behind walls. Our products are in hospitals, transportation systems, the power grid and other high-reliability industries, meaning people’s lives depend on Southwire’s product quality and safety. Our products enhance safety and minimize ergonomic hazards, enabling customers and end users to do more work with less effort. Southwire must continue to produce dependable, best-in-class products on which customers and end users may safely rely, minimizing the risk of a product or solution recall or warranty claims that could present a major ﬁnancial liability for Southwire. Product Quality & Safety extends from our supply chain through to end users. From product design and speciﬁcation of the materials we purchase, to the people and equipment we use to manufacture high-quality products, to the training we provide on the safe installation of our products, Southwire directly impacts our product quality and safety. 103-2 ▾ Southwire cares deeply about our customers and end users—keeping them safe is the right thing to do. Beyond protecting customer safety, ensuring our products perform—that they are safe, ﬁt for purpose and durable—safeguards Southwire’s ﬁnancial success. GOVERNANCE While Product Quality & Safety is the responsibility of all employees, Southwire has a strong governance structure to ensure our products maintain high standards of safety and quality. During the manufacturing process, our production employees conduct product quality tests, which their supervisors review for accuracy. Quality inspectors—Southwire’s lab technicians—perform certiﬁed tests for compliance by taking samples and certifying performance; this information is stored in a database for traceability and, in some cases, when requested, reported to customers. Third party auditors conduct spot checks on ﬁnished products to ensure they meet listing requirements. Directors are responsible for product quality of speciﬁc product lines, supported by plant managers and supervisors, inspectors and Southwire’s global quality leader, who is focused on enterprise-wide quality. Southwire’s vice president, quality reports to our senior vice president, sustainability, environment, health, safety and quality, who reports to Southwire’s executive vice president/president, international & operations development. Southwire’s chief executive ofﬁcer has ultimate accountability for product quality and safety. In the Construction Systems & Solutions Group (CSS), Southwire’s director of contractor solutions professionals ensures all policies are enforced. Our senior vice president, contractor solutions leads the combined efforts of ﬁeld service, training, and the data center vertical market. Southwire’s executive vice president, Construction Systems & Solutions Group is accountable for the quality and safety of all CSS products. POLICIES Southwire strictly adheres to test plans, which determine the frequency of quality tests, both in the manufacturing process and for ﬁnished products. We updated our Quality Policy in the third quarter of 2017, expanding the scope to be enterprise-wide rather than focused only on product and service quality. See Related Resources for this current version of our Quality Policy. In addition, upon forming our Contractor Solutions group in January 2017, Southwire created a policy for all Contractor Solutions personnel to have OSHA 10 certiﬁcation and all necessary personal protective equipment before they can go to a job site. QUALITY SYSTEMS Southwire is working to upgrade the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certiﬁcations for our wire and cable manufacturing facilities from ISO 9001:2008 to ISO 9001:2015. With this new standard, we are focused on identifying and prioritizing risks to Southwire and our stakeholders and addressing those risks through our management system. Southwire’s Corporate Headquarters, the Carrollton Building Wire Plant, and York Customer Service Center all passed their Stage 1 assessments in 2017. During 2018, 15 facilities, including headquarters, will complete their Stage 2 audits and achieve full certiﬁcation. In 2017, Southwire began developing an enterprise-wide quality system that will engage stakeholders across our entire company, from the supply chain to manufacturing functions and service providers. This system uses ISO, our metrics, and our new SAP capability to drive factbased decision-making and allow Southwire to quickly identify and address issues that need to be improved. CONTRACTOR SOLUTIONS Common injuries sustained during the installation of wire and cable at job sites include back strain and cuts. Southwire designs our products to minimize the potential for these injuries. Our solutions simplify contractors’ lives by minimizing job site hazards, redistributing labor hours to get to the next job faster and increasing proﬁts. For example, Maxis Jax™ Reel Stands and SIMpull Solutions® minimize or eliminate the need to lift reels in preparation for installation. Southwire’s Tools & Equipment business is focused on contractor safety, with wire cutters and crimpers designed to remove knives from the job site. Beyond product design, Southwire’s Contractor Solutions personnel travel to job sites and industry associations to increase awareness and train contractors on the safe use of our products. In 2017, Southwire trained more than 2,000 apprentices through sessions at the Electrical Training Alliance (ETA) (previously called NJATC) and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA). Additionally, Southwire’s state-of-the-art Thorn Customer Solutions Center showcases our Contractor Solutions product portfolio and provides education and hands-on training for contractors, channel associates, and industry training partners. At more than 18,000 square feet, the Thorn Customer Solutions Center includes classrooms, demonstration job site environments and conference rooms. We trained more than 1,000 contractors at the Thorn Center in 2017, far exceeding our target to train as many as 150 contractors by the end of 2017. As a result, Southwire increased our 2018 goal to train an additional 1,000 contractors at the Thorn Center plus 2,000 more through the ETA. SAFETY CAMPAIGNS In March 2017, Southwire launched a campaign to address contractors’ safety concerns. Each month, a blog article highlighted how to “make the impossible possible.” This campaign received more than a million views on social media, indicating the demand for safer installation solutions. EVALUATION MECHANISMS 103-3 ▾ To track our Product Quality & Safety performance, we measure the number of returns as a percentage of total revenue. We also track nonconformance per million feet of product and have stated improvement goals; starting in 2018, these improvement goals will be tracked and integrated into the strategy deployment of the entire operations team. In the unlikely event of a recall, Southwire publishes details about the speciﬁc products affected and reasons for the recall. 416-2 ▾ Southwire is pleased to report that, in 2017, we had zero incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a ﬁne, penalty or warning. Quality Related Credit & Return Dollars (Percent of Gross Revenue) 1.0% 0.9% 0.99% 0.97% 0.8% 0.87% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% 0.4% 0.3% 0.2% 0.1% 0% 2016 2017 2018 Target External Non-Conforming Parts: Wire & Cable (Parts per Million Feet) 400 320 330 297 240 160 80 Not Tracked 0 2016 2017 2018 Target 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING WORTH TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION Allocating funds to research and development, creation of new technologies and eco-friendly products, investment into deﬁning new areas for product growth, and improving access and sustainability of products and services in the industry WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Technology and innovation are critical to maintain Southwire’s market leadership and attract a talented workforce. Our success is ultimately driven by how well we solve our customers’ needs. Sustainability is a major issue both for companies and individuals as we work within the constraints of the planet’s limited natural resources. And, as part of the broader supply of materials to buildings and energy infrastructure, we must focus on how our customers and contractors use our products and how we can jointly beneﬁt society. Our approach to technology and innovation spans corporate functions (product design, marketing, IT, legal and HR), manufacturing operations, customer service centers and sales ofﬁces. 103-2 ▾ Our investment in and response to innovation opportunities differentiates us among our industry peers. Southwire is proud of the advancements we pursue each year to transform our research and experience into products and solutions on the leading edge of sustainability, safety, satisfaction and efﬁciency. We stay abreast of evolving industry standards and requirements and innovate in advance of pending changes. We also listen to and observe our customers and product end users to identify innovation opportunities. Through extensive ﬁrsthand research, Southwire takes a comprehensive approach to understanding our customers’ needs and behaviors. Innovation differentiates Southwire in the marketplace, and we include environmental considerations into our product development approach. We closely examine the entire product life-cycle, paying special attention to the product’s design, installation methods and use. We strive to make the customer experience seamless, so we integrate our solutions as much as possible—thereby enhancing customer productivity and ensuring the highest standards of user safety. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Our strength in Technology and Innovation stems from our dedication to Research and Development (R&D). Southwire has a rich history of cultivating new ideas and creating customer solutions, which remains integral to our culture. The Southwire Cofer Technology Center houses our world-class R&D team, which communicates with each business unit to learn what solutions to pursue to solve our customers’ most pressing problems. Our business groups communicate the desired solutions based on insights gained from observing and experiencing customers’ use of our products. Southwire’s innovation is a successful interweaving of the product managers’ understanding of customers’ needs and R&D’s mastering the science necessary to implement a product design that satisﬁes those needs. After a performance evaluation by the respective division president, a Speciﬁcations Committee formally manages the approval and launch of product innovations, ensuring the product can be manufactured and its performance consistency maintained. Staffed by Manufacturing, Marketing and R&D, the team manages the long-term integrity of any product innovation as it moves from development to full-scale production. 103-3 ▾ 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL & TARGETS To emphasize our commitment to R&D focused on our customers’ needs, Southwire launched an aggressive new Technology and Innovation goal in 2017 with corresponding targets. We are pleased to begin reporting our progress toward our goal in this 2017 Sustainability Report. 2021 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE FOUR BREAKTHROUGH SOLUTIONS TO CUSTOMERS’ SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES TARGET 2016 BASELINE 2017 STATUS 2021 TARGET 10% of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) in the funnel 8% 6% 10% $1 billion of incremental revenue tied to these solutions (15% of projected 2021 revenues) $0 $0 $1 billion CUSTOMER-FOCUSED INNOVATION Our innovations address speciﬁc customer needs, which vary by segment. Southwire’s organizational structure supports product innovations relevant for each customer type. Power Systems & Solutions Group Southwire’s Power Systems & Solutions (PSS) Group is composed of the Energy business unit, the Industrial business unit and the OEM business unit. The PSS Group is dedicated to working with customers to provide innovative products, solutions and services that not only meet, but exceed, our customer’s expectations, with a foundation in R&D and engineering expertise unparalleled in the industry. Collectively, the PSS Group introduced numerous innovative solutions in 2017: > Max Storm™ Overhead Conductors. This product is speciﬁcally designed for withstanding heavy ice and extreme wind loads, which cause extreme strain on transmission lines resulting in increased sag and tension. Max Storm™ Overhead Conductors accumulate less ice buildup reducing sag and weight on transmission towers. > Southwire Speed Service. Launched as an Industrial ordering program, this service allows dedicated account specialists to work with customers and meet their needs for a premium and/or expedited product. Customers requiring unique construction situations are now able to ﬁnd a timely solution. > HVAC cable offering. We enhanced this product line with connectors and hand tools speciﬁcally designed with mini-split installations in mind. An HVAC point-of-purchase display features straight and 90-degree connectors along with rotary cutters and replacement blades. > Electric Vehicle charging. To service the electric vehicle (EV) market, Southwire developed a liquid-cooled charging cable for Level 3 EV charging. Construction Systems & Solutions Group Southwire’s Construction Systems & Solutions (CSS) Group is composed of the Electrical business unit and the Tools & Assembled Products business unit. These business units comprise the following business segments: electrical wire and cable for Electrical Distributors, Contractors, DIYers and Retail Outlets and Tools & Assembled Products—which also includes Contractor Equipment. The CSS Group is focused on creating innovative products that help end users of our products and services save time, increase efﬁciency and, most importantly, increase safety on the job site. In 2017, we developed and launched several innovative, award-winning products: > Releasable Cable Ties. Southwire’s patented line of heavy duty releasable cable ties, an industry-ﬁrst, offer a faster, more versatile and less expensive way to bundle, secure and support cables. They are ideal for low voltage, as well as general electrical applications. > MC-PCS Duo™ Power & Control/Signal Cable. This product offering expanded to include several UL-listed variations to meet our customers’ needs. Contractors favored the original product because the efﬁcient design reduced labor and installation costs for use in energy efﬁcient LED lighting by combining power conductors and zero to10 volt dimming control conductors into one cable. As we continued to grow the product line, we added steel armored MC-PCS cables to complement our aluminum armored MC-PCS cable offering. Additionally, we introduced MCAP® Metal Clad All Purpose MC-PCS Duo™ cable and MC-PCS HCF Duo™. These cables simplify the ground make-up and termination process by using the armor as a component of the ground path. With its redundant and robust armor ground path, MC-PCS HCF Duo™ Cable is ideal for use in patient care areas of hospitals, nursing homes, dental ofﬁces, outpatient, and other healthcare facilities. For applications requiring use of raceways and ﬁxture whips, we launched FMC-PCS Duo™ Fixture Whip Assemblies. These UL Listed cable assemblies ship in pre-cut lengths with ﬁttings already installed and help to reduce installation and material costs. > LED Lighting. Southwire Tools & Equipment made a large investment in the LED Lighting category, proven by our additions of the LED Low Bay Light and LED String Lights. These LED lights, which last longer than halogen lights, have had overwhelming success in the Wholesale channel and continue to be requested in the ﬁeld. Southwire Tools & Equipment plans to continue innovation in this space by adding additional products to this category in 2018. > LED Low Bay Light. A 78W ﬁxture that delivers 8,200 lumens, this light consumes less power and lasts longer than halogen light sources. The LED Light features a frosted lens to reduce glare and improve the beam angle. > LED String Light. This LED solution applies to any job site application. Available in both 50-footand 100-foot. lengths, the lights feature LEDs on the top and bottom of the modules, offering full job site coverage, as well as offer energy savings due to the larger area each module illuminates. > Southwire’s Made in America Hand Tools. This product line demonstrates our commitment to manufacture additional products in the United States. This line received overwhelming success and positive feedback from the industry as many electricians and contractors continue looking for an American-made product solution. Manufacturing within America is also helping to create a sustainable workforce for future products. Another notable product includes the SIMpull™ Flange. Although the SIMpull™ Flange launched in 2016, it won the Electrical Construction & Maintenance magazine’s Product of the Year 2017 Award. It is designed to be a time saving, ﬁeld-installable solution that removes the need to handle heavy jack stands and enables one person to safely turn a wooden reel up to 34 inches and 2,000 pounds on a ﬂat level ﬂoor. Each ﬂange rotates independently and allows free movement of loaded wooden reels. The SIMpull™ Flange is reusable in the ﬁeld and can be installed on multiple reels throughout the job site. SCR Technologies SCR Technologies designs, manufactures, commissions and supports continuous cast copper and aluminum rod systems around the world with installations in 36 countries. It expanded into adjacent markets by developing new technologies such as aluminum ultrasonic degassing (Ultra-D™) and ultrasonic grain reﬁning (Ultra-G™) systems. The world leader in continuous cast copper rod markets, SCR system sizes range from seven to 54 metric tons per hour. SCR also holds the number two market position in aluminum, with system sizes ranging from two-and-a-half to 15 metric tons per hour. Its ultrasonic technology can be used in adjacent aluminum markets such as direct chill (DC), die casting (DC) and strip casting. Through continued system automation focusing on improved safety, operating cost, reliability, quality of product produced and environmental impact, SCR is poised to remain a major player in the non-ferrous metals processing markets. EVALUATING OUR PERFORMANCE In addition to our bold 2021 goal, Southwire measures our success through the number of patents and innovation awards our products win each year. METRICS 2015 2016 2017 Active patents 387 457 Over 480 (U.S. & International) Patents acquired during 20 Over 20 Over 20 year Innovation Awards > SIMpull™Reel system. Grand Prize > MC-PCS Duo™ Cable. Product of the Year > SIMpull™ Flange. Product of the Winner, 2015/16 MAX Awards, 2016, Electrical Construction & Year 2017, Electrical which honor the biggest innovations Maintenance magazine Construction & Maintenance in the state of Georgia across all > Tappan™ Fire Alarm Cable in a magazine. 2017 Pro Tool industries Innovation Award. SIMpull® CoilPAK™Wire Payoff. 2016 NECA > SIMpull™Reel system. Product of Showstopper > 7165SW LED String Lights. 2017 the Year, Electrical Construction & NECA Showstopper > TechnicianPro™ Bluetooth CAT IV Maintenance magazine > CT50 Heavy Duty Cable Tie. Multimeter. 2016 NECA Showstopper > MC-PCS Duo™ Cable. 2015 NECA 2017 Pro Tool Innovation Award. > ACLHS Adjustable Can Light Hole Saw. Showstopper Award > ESP-1 Professional DataComm 2016 Pro Tool Innovation Award. > EZ-In™ Mini-split Cable. Innovation Snips. 2017 Pro Tool Innovation > CT90 Heavy Duty Cable Tie. Award at the 2015 Air-Conditioning, Award. Heating and Refrigeration (AHR) > FTSP45-75NCT 75’ SIMpull™ Non> S1018SOL Solid & Stranded Wire Exposition Conductive Fish Tape. 2016 Pro Tool Stripper. 2017 Pro Tool Innovation Award. > EZ-In™ Mini-split Cable. Ranked #2 Innovation Award. by Contracting Business (Dec. > MPSCP 8” Linesman Multi-Tool Plier. > CCP9DE 9” Hi-Leverage Cable 2015), Favorite Products of 2015 > 40150N Advanced Dual Range NCV 12Cutters. 2017 Pro Tool > MaintenancePRO™ Data Logging 1000V & 100-1000V AC. 2016 Pro Tool Innovation Award. Digital Multimeter. Showstopper Innovation Award. > 40040S Pro Continuity Tester award at 2015 NECA show for our > 40150N Advanced Dual Range NCV 12with Remote. 2017 Pro Tool 1519 1000V & 100-1000V AC. Tools In Action Innovation Award. Award > 16040T Compact Bluetooth Cat III Multimeter. 2017 Pro Tool Innovation Award. COMMUNICATING OUR INNOVATIONS We share our advances through the Southwire network, newsletters, digital or industry trade press releases, our internal email, advertisements, universities and trade shows. We also share them with our industry partners, such as the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA). 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING WORTH FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Focusing on business continuity planning, wise allocation of capital, resource and process efﬁciency, and delivery of superior products to drive strong long-term ﬁnancial results WHY MANAGING IT MATTERS 103-1 ▾ Southwire’s ability to make a positive impact for our key stakeholders depends on our ﬁnancial success. Strong ﬁnancial performance enables Southwire to pay our employees, suppliers, creditors and shareholders—plus signiﬁcant federal, state and local taxes, which strengthen our communities. Further, stable ﬁnancial performance makes it easier to attract motivated employees who want to grow with the company. 103-2 ▾ We understand strong ﬁnancial performance is a prerequisite to obtaining and maintaining lines of credit from our suppliers and lenders, and Southwire models our ﬁnancial management approach on public companies’ best practices. We develop a business plan each year and track performance against that plan. Toward the end of the ﬁrst quarter, we conduct a gap analysis, develop a forecast and determine how to get back to plan, if needed. Southwire obtains third-party ﬁnancial audits and links payment of incentive compensation (see Financial Incentives, below) to the auditor’s clean opinion statement. GOVERNANCE & TRANSPARENCY Southwire’s ﬁnance group—responsible for tracking the ﬁnancial performance of our business groups (Construction Systems & Solutions Group, Power Systems & Solutions Group and International Group)—reports to our chief ﬁnancial ofﬁcer. The ﬁnance group adheres to strict deadlines and the goal is to close our books in a timely manner for monthly reporting. Our executive leadership team and senior leaders of our business groups review our ﬁnancial reports monthly in an all-day meeting. This process includes review of variances to Plan, action steps to get back on Plan when needed and a full year forecast discussion. We share our quarterly reports with Southwire’s board of directors. Southwire communicates our ﬁnancial performance with other stakeholders in a variety of ways. > Shareholders. Each quarter, we send shareholders a letter with ﬁnancial performance highlights; we provide detailed ﬁnancial results on an annual basis. > Employees. Our chief executive ofﬁcer provides a summary of our ﬁnancial performance at quarterly town hall meetings, which are livebroadcast and recorded for Southwire employees. In most quarters, we also update bonus-eligible employees how we are doing compared to Plan. > Creditors. Southwire holds a quarterly earnings call with our lender base. Prior to the call, we prepare and send a package of materials to this group. We also complete forms, validate compliance metrics and communicate to formal lenders through monthly, quarterly and/or annual reporting. > Strategic Suppliers. Our ﬁnancial health also affects our suppliers, so we provide them with assurances that Southwire is proﬁtable. For example, our current ratio—Southwire’s current assets over current liabilities—is greater than one, demonstrating our ability to pay both shortand long-term obligations. FINANCIAL INCENTIVES Some measures of our ﬁnancial performance affect our entire workforce, which receives a ﬁnancial reward based on achievement of speciﬁed ﬁnancial results. Additionally, most of Southwire’s incentive programs, affecting one-third of our salaried workforce, revolve around our ﬁnancial performance—both from an income statement and a balance sheet perspective. 103-3 ▾ BENCHMARKING As part of our internal reporting, Southwire tracks our ﬁnancial performance relative to our public competitors in North America and globally. We review this comparison at a senior leadership level and include this evaluation in our board reporting. EXTERNAL EVALUATION 201-1 ▾ As a privately held company, Southwire maintains the conﬁdentiality of our ﬁnancial performance for competitive reasons. The ultimate litmus test of ﬁnancial performance is a set of audited ﬁnancial statements with a clean opinion, so Southwire engages a large, international third-party auditor to review our annual ﬁnancials. The banks that loan Southwire money also conduct limited audits. A consortium of banks, insurance companies and pension funds invest in Southwire through debt instruments. To provide a level of conﬁdence for these investors, we share our ﬁnancial performance and strategy with rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s (S&P), which provide rating analysis for Southwire. Two recent reports from S&P are available under Related Resources. These reports are reprinted with permission of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of S&P Global Inc, copyright 2017, all rights reserved. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Southwire Speed™ Service Southwire continues to excel in innovation with the launch of Southwire Speed Service. This new program is an Industrial ordering process in which a dedicated specialist negotiates with customers to meet their needs for a premium and/or expedited product. The products currently included in the program are industrial tray cable, medium voltage, AIA and ARMOR-X® Cable. If your project has a unique construction situation or an essential deadline, look no further than Southwire Speed Solutions. To learn more about Southwire Speed Service, please email SWspeed@southwire.com. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Max Storm™ Overhead Conductor Southwire continues its leadership in innovative customer solutions with the launch of Max Storm overhead conductors. Southwire’s Max Storm™ overhead conductors are utilities’ answer to extreme weather conditions. At half the size of the same capacity ACSR conductors, Max Storm™ overhead conductors accumulate less ice buildup, resulting in less sag and less weight on transmission towers. The higher aluminum packing factor reduces the sail area which results in less wind load on transmission lines. Made with high-temperature-tolerant ZTAL aluminum zirconium alloy, an ultra-high strength (UHS) steel core, and mischmetal alloy coating, these cables can withstand higher stringing tensions, extreme heat, and provide the best available corrosion protection. The UHS steel core and strong aluminum alloy result in minimum elongation during extreme load events. This allows for reduced electrical clearances and greater safety margins. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Flexible Aluminum Down Tower Cable for Wind Market Segment Southwire is excited to introduce a more ﬂexible aluminum cable solution for US wind tower manufacturers this spring – ﬂexible aluminum down tower cable. The OEM business unit wrote its ﬁrst large order with Nordex for this product and even hosted the Nordex team at the Douglas Plant the week of March 27th so that they could evaluate the process ﬁrst-hand. Key attributes include: > EPR/CPE AL RHH construction allows a lower cost alternative to copper cables inside the length of the towers > Product has been tested at the Cofer Center and is shown to be oil resistant for many of the oils in a wind turbine > Construction allows enough ﬂexibility to run cables from the top of the tower to the bottom and 90 degrees into the tower access box, thus eliminating the need for a 90-degree junction box and an additional copper transition cable Southwire will continue to pursue opportunities for this product line within current markets and others as well. Developing this cable for Nordex has been about a 2-year approval process and proved to truly be a collaborative effort between the customer, engineering, manufacturing and sales. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES First of Its Kind Southwire received an order for a 115kV cable with 5000kcmil segmental copper conductor that has enameled strands in the design. This marked the ﬁrst order for Southwire with this unique conductor design. The enameled strands in the conductor increase the ampacity over that of a traditional conductor design by reducing the physical property known as skin effect, which occurs in all large cable conductors. Southwire drew the individual strands then sent to a third party to apply the enamel coating on the strands. Once production began, the enameled strands were combined with copper strands to make up the segments which eventually run on the drum twister to complete the conductor. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Building Wire Plant Hosts Fourth Annual Food Drive The Building Wire Plant (BWP) in Carrollton, Ga., hosted its fourth annual food drive to beneﬁt elderly communities in and around Carroll County. The BWP Living Well team hosted the drive, collecting more than 150 boxes of food. After raising $300 in monetary donations, the team went shopping. According to Tonya Stephens, machine operator and co-leader of the team, BWP employees are always willing to go the extra mile to help those in need. “We separated employees into 20 teams of ﬁve to make it a little more fun,” said Stephens. “The team that donated the most got a prize. The employees at BWP are always willing to give to others, and it makes me proud that I get to work at a company where I get to give back to my community.” On November 16, the Living Well team accompanied by Skye Entrekin, human resources manager; Ashley Bennett, HR specialist; and Casey Long, plant manager, delivered their collections to senior living communities and centers in Franklin, Ga., and Carrollton, Ga. According to Stephens, without the support of Wanda Smith, maintenance coordinator and co-leader of the Living Well team, the HR team and the plant manager, the Living Well team would not be able to make an impact in the community. “When you have a plant manager and an HR presence whose hearts are in the same place as yours, it makes giving back to the community a lot easier,” said Stephens. “They support us 100 percent. It was Casey and Skye’s ﬁrst year, so they didn’t know anything about our food drive. They wanted to experience delivering it, and they were overwhelmed with the response we received.” The Living Well team hopes to continue their efforts next year with another food drive. “We can’t save the world, but we can put a dent in its problems,” said Stephens. “We hope to continue our Giving Back efforts next year.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES El Paso Plant Employees Give Back to Veterans Employees at Southwire’s El Paso Plant recently participated in two local events to celebrate and support military veterans– both in the community and at the facility. For the ﬁrst event, employees attended an annual charity car show at Western Technical College, a school from which Southwire frequently recruits maintenance technicians and operators. All ﬁve members of the Social Committee attended the event, along with Rick Hernandez, plant manager, and Maria Champlin, human resources manager. Jesus Luevanos, regional sales manager, entered his 1957 Chevy and 1939 Chevy coupe into the show, and Peter Hernandez, maintenance supervisor, took his Ford Galaxy and won Best in Show. In addition to bringing members of the community together for a fun and entertaining event, the organizers of the car show also selected a nonproﬁt organization for attendees to learn about and support. “The car show always supports a good cause,” said Champlin. “This year, everyone contributed to The Mission Continues, which helps veteran adjust to civilian life after serving. They do a lot of counseling and job re-training, and they can even help provide housing options.” Southwire used its booth for recruiting, distributing information about the company and helping attendees– some of whom were veterans themselves– know where to apply for available jobs. “For veterans coming back to El Paso, we want to thank them for their service,” said Champlin. “We really take it to heart. We have a lot of veterans at our facility, and a lot of other employees are married to veterans. We want them to know that Southwire is not just a source of income for someone. It’s a company that cares for the community, gets involved and helps people out.” The plant followed up this event with an onsite Veterans Day celebration in November to honor employees who had served in the military. “Nelda Patino, our ofﬁce assistant, and our Social Committee were really integral in making the event so successful,” said Champlin. “We had two local high school ROTC teams come and participate with us. We had Canutillo High School sing the National Anthem and do the Color Guard. Chapin High School brought its exhibition teams. We also had a guest speaker, who was a veteran, deliver a special message to our veterans.” One interesting and awe-inspiring facet of the event was the presence of America’s White Table. Also known as the Missing Man Table, this display features many symbolic items and seeks to memorialize fallen, missing or imprisoned military service members. One of the sergeants who was in attendance delivered a narration to the guests that explained the symbolism of each item. “During this time, you could’ve heard a pin drop,” said Champlin. “Everyone was taken aback because of everything that was included on the table and the signiﬁcance of each piece.” Champlin, who enjoyed seeing employees and their loved ones sharing pictures on their phones, hopes that the event allowed attendees to reﬂect and remember that Veterans Day is about much more than a day off or a free meal. “We hosted the celebration because we want to recognize our people here,” said Champlin. “We are really proud of them. They fought to give us the freedom to be here, to live freely and enjoy our great nation. We wanted to give them the honor that they deserve and may not often receive. If nothing else, we want to make sure they know that they’re appreciated at this facility.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Southwire Kentucky Plant Celebrates VPP Star Status In celebration of its achievement as a Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Star Site through the Kentucky Safety and Health Program (OSH), the Southwire Kentucky Plant in Hawesville held a ﬂag raising ceremony on Wednesday, May 17. According to OSH’s website, the VPP promotes effective worksite-based safety and health. The purpose of the VPP is to emphasize the importance of, encourage the improvement of and recognize excellence in employerprovided, employee-participative, generally site-speciﬁc occupational safety and health programs. In the process, these work sites serve as models for effective safety and health programs in their industries. “We are very proud of this accomplishment, as we are one of only 12 manufacturing sites that hold this certiﬁcation in the state of Kentucky,” said Brian Blair, plant manager. “It has been an eight-year journey for us, and during this time we have had extensive interaction with representatives from OSH, helping us to achieve this goal.” Throughout its journey to VPP, employees at Southwire’s Kentucky Plant worked diligently to understand and identify areas for improvement. Major focuses for these improvements included upgrades or additions to machine guarding, safety equipment and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and the implementation of new workplace practices. Employee engagement was also integral to this achievement through the development of ergonomics teams, hazard identiﬁcation teams and Behavior Based Safety (BBS) teams. “Our desire during this whole process has been to keep our people safe while at work,” said Blair. “We want to build habits that keep all of our employees from injury – whether at work or at home.” As part of the celebration, facility employees, company leadership, OSH executives and state and local ofﬁcials gathered to share a meal at the facility’s River’s Edge park. Congratulatory speeches were presented by Ryan Goad, safety manager, Brian Black, OSH partnership administrator, Ervin Dimeny, Kentucky’s commissioner of workplace standards and Rebecca Cranford, Southwire’s Senior Vice President of manufacturing. Guests were also offered the opportunity to participate in plant tours to see the safety improvements that have been made as part of the VPP certiﬁcation process. “Safety is the rising tide that raises all ships,” said Black. “You all are leading as the example for safety in the commonwealth of Kentucky, and we are thankful to have you as part of our VPP family.” For more information on the VPP, please visit labor.ky.gov. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Karen Bazela Presents to UWG Business Students On Oct. 26, Karen Bazela, Vice President of Sales, spoke to business students at the University of West Georgia’s (UWG) Richards College of Business (RCOB) located in Carrollton, Ga. According to Bazela, one of the RCOB professors, Simone Lee, reached out to Mandy Baeumel, senior director of employee development, looking for a guest speaker. Baeumel contacted Bazela, who prepared a presentation on the retail channel for the class. “I wanted to keep it high-level and not get too far into the weeds,” said Bazela. “I really wanted to help them understand how Southwire views the retail market from a vendor perspective. One of the common misconceptions that I was able to address is that, if we sell to The Home Depot, we sell to every single store. Instead, we sell to The Home Depot in Atlanta, which manages the other stores all throughout North America. My overall goal was to help them understand what’s most important to us and how we manage the business.” Throughout her presentation, Bazela provided a brief overview of Southwire’s products, plants and customer service centers, allowing students who may not be from the West Georgia area to learn more about the company. She also highlighted many important parts of the organization’s retail business, including the process of introducing new products, pricing, promotions and the use of planograms. For Bazela, the experience brought her back to her alma mater and inside a familiar classroom. Serving as a guest speaker also reminded her of a similar encounter from her own time as a student. “It was neat to go back to that building and into the same classroom that I took one of my ﬁnal classes in as a senior,” said Bazela. “It was Strategic Management. It was really hard, and I still remember it to this day. When I was in that class, Lee Richards came and spoke, and at the end of his presentation, I went up to him and asked how I could work for Southwire. He advised me to apply in Personnel and look into getting an internship. The next day, that’s exactly what I did. The stars aligned, and within a week, I was a Southwire employee.” Bazela, who began her career at Southwire as an intern in Human Resources, manages all the retail business except for Lowe’s and The Home Depot. In her position, she oversees three sales channels – hardware, e-commerce and mass merchant – and views her career with the company as a series of opportunities. “Southwire has presented me with opportunity after opportunity because of my hard work,” said Bazela. “I told the students that they need to take advantage of every opportunity that is given to them, continue to learn, never get comfortable and always challenge themselves. Hard work is a big key to success, but you also can’t think that you’re above something or too good to complete a certain task. If it helps the customer and improves the company, you should be willing to do it.” Feedback from the presentation was positive, and the students remained inquisitive throughout, asking questions about Southwire, Bazela’s current role and how to succeed in their own future endeavors. This, Bazela believes, is the true value of these encounters: the chance to inspire and encourage the next generation of business leaders. “These students are our future,” said Bazela. “Just like I had that one, tiny conversation with Lee Richards, here I am doing the same thing with this class of students – and it’s already turned into a chance for another person to start at Southwire. One of the students followed up with me and is actually starting as an intern on my team. Who knows what her future holds, and who knows the potential of the other students? They may join the Southwire team one day, but even if they work in other careers with other companies, they know Southwire. They know that it’s more than a big building by Target. They could run other companies in the future and choose to do business with Southwire because of that one interaction. You never really know the connection that people will make or the impact you can have.” 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Lafayette Celebrates Manufacturing Week During the ﬁrst week of October, Southwire’s Lafayette Plant participated in the Greater Lafayette Commerce’s (GLC) Manufacturing Week as a part of Manufacturing Month, which is observed in October. This event brought together more than 750 area high school students and educators who partner with area manufacturers with the goal of immersing the future workforce in today’s manufacturing environments. “This is an excellent way for Southwire to expose our future workforce to the new technologies used in manufacturing and to help them better understand the career opportunities that exist in today’s manufacturing world,” said Dave Metz, plant manager. Members of the plant’s management team led multiple tours and hosted informational sessions to help students and educators have a better perception of manufacturing. During this week-long event, Tom Murtaugh, local Tippecanoe County Commissioner, joined students and educators for a tour of the Lafayette Plant. According to the commissioner, the tour was an opportunity to learn more about Southwire’s products and development. “It was great to tour Southwire during GLC’s Manufacturing Week,” said Murtaugh. “It was fascinating to observe the manufacturing of a variety of types and sizes of wire that will be utilized across the globe. I also appreciated the opportunity to discuss challenges and growth potential with the leadership team.” Southwire also participated in manufacturing month by hosting a Women in Manufacturing event at the Energy Center in Villa Rica, Ga., and holding tours of the Thorn Customer Solutions Center in Carrollton for visitors from the Georgia Manufacturing Alliance. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Southwire Celebrates Women in Construction The National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) celebrates the women who work in the industry. The NAWIC is a network which started in Fort Worth, Texas in 1953 and has since been building awareness for women working in the construction industry. From March 4-10, 2017, Women in Construction Week focused on the women who work in the construction trades within the United States. According to OSHA, the number of women employed in the construction industry rose by 81.3 percent from 1985 to 2007. However, the 2008 recession hit all workers in the construction industry hard. As a result, over 300,000 women left the industry by 2010 to pursue other work. Table I: Number of Women Workers in Construction, Selected Years, 1985–2010 (All types of employment) Source: OSHA As of 2014, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that women represented 8.9 percent of the 9,813,000 people working in the construction industry in the United States. Alternatively, women in construction represented about 1.2 percent of the entire U.S. workforce in 2013. Table II: Percentage of Women Workers, by Industry in 2010 (All types of employment) Source: OSHA Southwire has developed several initiatives which help develop the future and continued success of women in construction. Most recently, the Thorn Customer Solutions Center offers the Southwire Solutions University. It is an institute which provides all interested subcontractors a facility to get hands-on training on how with SIMpull Solutions® products in different types of job sites. To learn how to enroll, please contact the Contractor Solutions team by clicking here. Southwire has also created a Maintenance Apprenticeship Program, which welcomed its ﬁrst class in January 2017. The two-year program is a joint effort with local technical education institutions to blend industry standards with formal education to train apprentices, speciﬁcally senior millwrights and senior electronic technicians. The inaugural class is made up of 20 percent females. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES FUSE Inclusivity Initiative Launches In the ﬁrst quarter 2017 Town Hall event, Kelley Park, Senior Vice President of talent management and inclusivity, introduced FUSE, Southwire’s inclusivity initiative. The launch highlighted the four Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) – Women’s Network, NEXTgen, Spectrum and TEAM. Each group is committed to empowering employees to feel valued and work to improve diversity throughout the organization. Park is working to continue expanding the initiative with two new ERGs later in 2017: an LGBT group called ALLiED and OFFiCIUM, a group to serve military veterans. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES New Southwire Tracking System Improves Materials Management for Utilities SAMM (Southwire Automated Materials Management) tracking devices are attached to steel reels and report their location through a satellite network. The devices are beneﬁcial to the customer and Southwire because they allow real-time tracking of costly and critical material. Click here to watch a video about this tracking system. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Power Rangers: Greenbelt Cleanups Across the PSS Group, employees dedicated their lunch hour to cleaning and maintaining Southwire’s section of the Greenbelt. This section expands from the back of the corporate parking lot, to Strickland Road near the Southwire lakes. During this time, employees picked up trash and cleared the trail of any debris. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOUTHWIRE HIGHLIGHTS STORIES Southwire Becomes Signatory to United Nations Global Compact Strengthening its commitment to sustainability, Southwire formally announced that it became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, an initiative for companies to align strategies and drive operational awareness around universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and take actions that advance societal goals. The UN Global Compact is the world’s leading voluntary corporate citizenship initiative, with more than 13,000 signatories in 170 countries. According to the organization, participants pursue a leadership and engagement approach that incorporates all business functions and integrates sustainability into corporate strategy, operations and culture. “At Southwire, we want to be a company that is sustainable for generations,” said Rich Stinson, Southwire President and CEO. “To do so, we must align with the universal initiatives that ensure our communities around the world continue to prosper and thrive.” For Southwire, participating in the Compact was a step forward in an ongoing journey to discover, develop and distribute strong and sustainable solutions that exceed the expectations of the company’s stakeholders across the globe. “Through our partnership with the UN Global Compact, we have the opportunity to share Southwire’s vision as we support collective endeavors toward global progress,” said Jeff Herrin, Southwire’s Senior Vice President of Sustainability, EHS and Quality. “Becoming a signatory of the Compact allows us to form partnerships with those who share a similar vision. We continue to ﬁnd new ways to expand our strong commitment to a sustainable company and a sustainable world.” Further building upon the company’s commitment, Southwire recently launched its third sustainability report, written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines Core option. This interactive, online update on the progress of Southwire’s commitments features the company’s management approach, goals and advancement in its most material, or signiﬁcant, sustainability topics. The report highlights examples of how Southwire has strengthened its focus in these key areas. “As we’ve taken meaningful steps to fulﬁll our goals for the future of our business and our world, our accomplishments have only been possible through the relentless efforts of our Southwire people,” said Stinson. “I am extremely proud to lead this great team as we prepare for the next generation of industry-leading success.” Full access to Southwire’s 2016 sustainability report is available at southwiresustainability.com. Additional information on the UN Global Compact can be found at unglobalcompact.org. A leader in technology and innovation, Southwire Company, LLC is one of North America’s largest wire and cable producers. Southwire and its subsidiaries manufacture building wire and cable, metal-clad cable, portable and electronic cord products, OEM wire products and engineered products. In addition, Southwire supplies assembled products, contractor equipment and hand tools. For more on Southwire’s products, its community involvement and its vision of sustainability, visit southwiresustainability.com. 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX The disclosures for our 2017 Sustainability Report are listed below. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION LOCATION Organizational Proﬁle 102-1 Name of the organization Southwire Company, LLC About Our Company 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Markets & Products 102-3 Location of headquarters About Our Company 102-4 Location of operations About Our Company 102-5 Ownership and legal form Governance 102-6 Markets served Markets & Products 102-7 Scale of the organization About Our Company; To maintain the conﬁdentiality afforded a private company, Southwire chooses not to publicly report total capitalization. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our People 102-9 Supply chain Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and its supply chain About Our Company Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Southwire does not address the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives Doing Right 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder Engagement Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the CEO Letter organization about relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental Governance and social topics Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our People 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Practices 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements As a private company, Southwire does not disclose publicly our ﬁnancial statements, nor the entities within our operational control. 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic Boundaries Materiality 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point for questions about the report About This Report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report 102-55 GRI content index About This Report 102-56 External assurance About This Report TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES REPORT LOCATION GRI DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION OR DIRECT ANSWER OMISSIONS Economic Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Financial Performance Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Financial Performance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Financial Performance 201-1 Direct economic value Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Performance Conﬁdentiality constraints generated and distributed for 201-1: Direct economic value generated, economic value distributed and economic value retained. Southwire is a privately held company that is not subject to SEC ﬁnancial statements ﬁling and disclosure requirements. Financial information relating to the creditworthiness of the company is available through publicly available reports published by independent, nationally recognized ratings agencies. Additional information may be provided, upon request, on a conﬁdential basis. Environmental Topics Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Materials Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Materials 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materials 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Materials Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy & Air Emissions Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Energy & Air Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy & Air Emissions 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy & Air Emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Energy & Air Emissions Water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Wastewater Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Wastewater 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Wastewater 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water & Wastewater Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy & Air Emissions Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Energy & Air Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy & Air Emissions 1.2 Whether offsets were used Offsets were not used to meet GHG emissions targets 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy & Air Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy & Air Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Energy & Air Emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) and other Energy & Air Emissions Information unavailable signiﬁcant air emissions for 305-7: Persistent organic pollutants (POP), Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) and Particulate matter (PM) are only tracked at a limited number of locations (those required by permit). Efﬂuents & Waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water & Wastewater; Approach 2016 Operational Waste 103-2 The management approach and its components Water & Wastewater; Operational Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water & Wastewater; Operational Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water & Wastewater 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Operational Waste 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills Water & Wastewater Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Approach Transparency 103-2 The management approach and its components Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Ethics, Anti-Corruption & Transparency Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sustainable Supply Chain & Approach 2016 Procurement Practices 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Sustainable Supply Chain & actions taken Procurement Practices Social Topics Employment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Attraction Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Talent Attraction 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Talent Attraction 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Talent Attraction Conﬁdentiality constraints for 401-1: Hires and turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workplace Safety & Employee Approach 2016 Well-Being 103-2 The management approach and its components Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workplace Safety & Employee Well-Being 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Workplace Safety & Employee Conﬁdentiality constraints lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related Well-Being for 403-2: Types of injury fatalities and absentee rates for employees. Information unavailable for 403-2: Work hours by gender and occupational disease rates for employees not tracked; types and rates of injury for contractors not tracked. No plans to obtain this data at this time. 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Workplace Safety & Employee with trade unions Well-Being Training and Education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Employee Engagement & Approach 2016 Development 103-2 The management approach and its components Employee Engagement & Development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Employee Engagement & Development 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Employee Engagement & Information unavailable and career development reviews Development for 404-3: Southwire is currently rolling out a new performance management system and has not focused on tracking participation by gender. Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Inclusion Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Inclusion 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Inclusion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Inclusion Conﬁdentiality constraints for 405-1: Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies; Percentage of employees per age group and other indicators of diversity Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sustainable Supply Chain & Approach 2016 Procurement Practices 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainable Supply Chain & Procurement Practices 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions Sustainable Supply Chain & taken Procurement Practices Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Product Quality & Safety Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Product Quality & Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Product Quality & Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Product Quality & Safety safety impacts of products and services 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT UNGC INDEX In July 2017, Southwire became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, demonstrating our commitment to supporting the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Further, we commit to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of our company. UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT LINKS SPECIFIC SECTIONS Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Southwire Highlights / Stories > Southwire Becomes Signatory to proclaimed human rights. United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Supply Chain & > Strategic Sourcing & Procurement Procurement Practices > Supplier Sustainability Program > Human Rights Policies 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human Sustainable Supply Chain & > Strategic Sourcing & Procurement rights abuses. Procurement Practices > Supplier Sustainability Program > Human Rights Policies Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Materiality > Material Topics recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Workplace Safety & Employee > Collaboration with Unions Well-Being 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Sustainable Supply Chain & > Supplier Sustainability Program compulsory labour. Procurement Practices > Human Rights Policies 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Sustainable Supply Chain & > Supplier Sustainability Program Procurement Practices > Human Rights Policies 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Inclusion > Policies & Commitments employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Growing Green challenges. Energy & Air Emissions > Policies Water & Wastewater Operational Waste UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT LINKS SPECIFIC SECTIONS 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Sustainability Goals > 2021 Growing Green Goals environmental responsibility. Energy & Air Emissions > Energy Management > Strategic Sourcing & Logistics Materials > Streamlining Products & Packaging > Minimizing Materials with Negative Health Impacts > Reusing Materials at End of Life Water & Wastewater > Environmental Management Systems Operational Waste > Materials Minimization 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Sustainability Goals > 2021 Building Worth Goals environmentally friendly technologies. Technology & Innovation > Research & Development > Customer-Focused Innovation Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Sustainability Goals > 2021 Doing Right Goals extortion and bribery. Ethics, Anti-Corruption & > 2021 Sustainability Goal & Target Transparency > Standards of Conduct > Training
