Transforming Tomorrow Sustainability Report 2016 About this Report This year’s theme, “Transforming Tomorrow,” shows how AECOM’s greatest opportunity to shape the future is by managing our clients’ complex economic, social and natural investments and assets. We design, build, finance and operate critical infrastructure and deliver international development programs that unlock opportunities, protect the environment and improve lives. Our commitment to sustainability drives innovation, reduces risk and provides attractive project lifecycle returns on investment. On the cover Opened in 2016, the Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, California, United States, is the world’s first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum-certified indoor sports arena. We provided a combination of services to deliver a 100 percent solar-powered structure made of 36 percent recycled materials that plays host to more than 200 events a year at net-zero energy. 2 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE How to Find Your Way Through the Report Our Sustainability Report 2016 includes a navigation system that makes it easier to go back and forth between its sections. At the top of each page you will find a navigation 4 Sustainability and Corporate 8 Solutions + Knowledge panel, which you can use to jump to a Responsibility at AECOM 9 Our Work and the Sustainable specific section. The panel contains three 5 A Message From Our CEO Development Goals (SDGs) icons for further navigation options: 6 Environmental Sustainability (ES) 7 Corporate Responsibility (CR) Go forward/back Contents page Start page 27 Community 31 Environment 28 Opening Doors 32 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 29 Creating Opportunity 33 Geography-level Efforts 30 Protecting Tomorrow From the Contents page, you can also jump to any of the report’s sections or specific sub-sections by using the table of contents. Simply click on any section or sub-section found below. 34 Workplace 38 Marketspace 35 Safety, Health and Environment 39 Economic Performance 36 Diversity + Inclusion 40 Corporate Governance 37 Work-Life Balance + Career Growth 41 Ethics + Compliance 42 Sustainable Procurement 43 Supplier Diversity 3 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility at AECOM 5 A Message From Our CEO 6 Environmental Sustainability (ES) 7 Corporate Responsibility (CR) We recognize the responsibility to make our operations sustainable. Corporate Responsibility is an extension of our purpose: Built to deliver a better world. 4 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE A Message From Our CEO I’m delighted to introduce AECOM’s fifth 2016 highlights annual Sustainability Report, “Transforming −− Named one of Fortune magazine’s Tomorrow.” A sustainable world depends “World’s Most Admired Companies” on physical and social infrastructure that for the second consecutive year advances economic opportunity, protects our environment and improves people’s lives. −− Ranked #1 in Engineering News Record’s “Top Sustainable solutions and innovation are at 100 Design Firms” for the 7th consecutive the core of what we do, and how we operate. year; #2 in the Green Building’s category 2016 marked the first anniversary of the United −− Ranked #2 in Architectural Record’s Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Top 300 Architectural Firms adopted by countries to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all as part −− Awarded “Company of the Year” in of a new sustainable development agenda. Construction at the 2016 Dive Awards, in We are proud to showcase 17 projects, one part for our carbon reduction efforts for each of the SDGs, in which our solutions −− Recognized as “Highly Commended” in the and knowledge are helping a client take Consultancy of the Year Category at the 2016 action to make the world a better place. BusinessGreen Leaders Awards in the U.K. The report also serves as an opportunity Through innovative processes and our to introduce Blueprint for a Better World, integrated approach to projects, partnerships AECOM’s Corporate Responsibility platform. and our operations, AECOM aims to build a Our charitable work taking place around the better world. world is vital in extending our sustainability commitments. Blueprint for a Better World is a reflection of our core values and priorities. Regards, As a global company, AECOM recognizes our responsibility to make our operations sustainable. This report highlights our progress over the past year, including our Mike Burke efforts to focus on practices that reduce Chairman and CEO energy consumption and waste. 5 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Environmental Sustainability (ES) Doing more with less We partner with leading organizations to build a more sustainable planet: Infrastructure impacts the environment where it is built. At AECOM, we take this seriously −− Since 2012, AECOM has partnered with and are committed to being responsible CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) stewards of the environments where we to analyze climate change data for over work and live, and of the future we imagine. 500 cities and report on the ways urban centers are tackling these challenges Our commitment to sustainability goes beyond meeting client requirements and complying −− AECOM has organized and supported with environmental rules and regulations at the UrbanSOS student competition in the local, state/provincial and national levels. partnership with the Rockefeller Foundation’s We seek to innovate and deliver solutions that 100 Resilient Cities program and the Van are resilient to a dynamic and unpredictable Alen Institute to engage future generations in world, reduce pollution, are environmentally solving significant sustainability challenges sustainable and conserve resources. through technology and innovative thinking In partnership with our clients, we are: −− With 100 Resilient Cities we collaborate with mayors and chief resilience officers −− Advancing green building systems in 16 global cities to assess baseline that harness 100 percent of their strategies and improve resilience energy from renewable sources and seamlessly blend different experiences As a global company, we recognize our with the natural environment expansive footprint and focus on practices that reduce energy consumption and −− Designing energy-efficient transportation waste. We’ve implemented a sustainability hubs that can withstand a myriad data management system to better track of environmental conditions with and analyze data to enable continuous a minimal carbon footprint improvement. We’ve launched initiatives to −− Developing cutting-edge tools to evaluate decrease energy, consolidated our physical and generate energy conservation footprint by nearly 10 percent year-overmeasures that strengthen communities’ year and committed to significantly reducing future resilience and capabilities our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. NASA Ames Research Center, Mofett Field, California, United States. 6 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Corporate Responsibility (CR) Setting a new bar for CR Blueprint for a Better World identifies three strategic pillars that support this mission: Our CR platform, Blueprint for a Better World, is inspired by our employees. Through charitable Opening Doors: We deliver access to safe contributions and volunteering, they make a and secure infrastructure so those who need it positive and tangible impact in communities most have a place to call home and resources to around the world. thrive. At the heart of Blueprint for a Better World is our Creating Opportunity: We help develop the CR mission: To deliver access to safe and secure next generation of the world’s problem solvers infrastructure to those that need it most, to and ensure future leaders reflect the diversity of create opportunity for the leaders of tomorrow the world we live in. and to protect our planet so that, together, we can realize our dream of a better world. Protecting Tomorrow: We leverage our Blueprint for a Better World, AECOM’s CR platform, captures our unique CR mission. expertise to lessen our impact on the planet to help communities prepare for the future. Learn more about our CR work from examples provided in the report’s Community section. 7 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Solutions + Knowledge As a global, fully integrated infrastructure firm, we connect the knowledge and experience to provide solutions to the world’s most complex challenges. Click an icon below to explore 8 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Our Work and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) AECOM’s solutions look beyond our projects to the communities they serve. Our holistic approach uses current best practices and innovations to meet both immediate and emerging challenges. The United Nations’ 17 SDGs define global sustainable development priorities and aspirations for 2030 and seek to mobilize global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. The SDGs call for worldwide action among governments, business and civil society to end poverty and create a life of dignity and opportunity for all, within the boundaries of the planet. We support the SDGs through our work on clients’ projects. As a global, fully integrated infrastructure firm, AECOM connects the knowledge and experience to provide solutions to the world’s most complex challenges. This section offers case studies on projects that reflect each of the SDGs and our involvement in them — whether it is enhancing opportunities for the disenfranchised, facilitating economic equality or promoting responsible resource use and consumption. Yambuk Wind Farm, Portland, Victoria, Australia. 9 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Supporting the Growth of Business Opportunities Strengthening Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development (SEED), Egypt In recent years, Egypt SEED fosters collaboration between has experienced a universities, business associations, financial number of economic institutions, government and entrepreneurs. challenges, including It also focuses on disadvantaged areas and currency devaluations, populations such as women and youth. fuel subsidy cuts and increases in The project’s central goal is to create foreign exchange an environment in which MSMEs and earnings. To address entrepreneurs can continue to create these issues, foreign economic opportunities for themselves. aid agencies have stepped in to offer economic development assistance. AECOM is assisting as an implementing partner in USAID’s SEED project, which aims to support the growth and development of entrepreneurs and micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Through SEED, we provide sustainable technical assistance, capacity building and training to relevant stakeholders and counterparts. Taher Usri, right, winner of the USAID SEED business plan competition. 10 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Introducing Techniques that Yield More and Better Livestock Livestock for Growth (L4G), Mali Herding is a traditional She is excited about the advantages of business for people making and using multi-nutritional lick in the Bankass and blocks, treating straw and hay to increase Koro districts in nutritive value and growing hyacinth Mali. Access for bean to achieve impressive increases in women, often seen production — all part of our training regime. as outcasts, is limited and they often Before our involvement, there was little to struggle to produce no nutritional advice for women herders and sell sheep. to improve their livestock. The sheep were Through the USAID Mali L4G program, underfed and suffered during the “lean season” we reached out to some of the most of no rain that runs from November through disenfranchised women in the area to help July each year. Ewes would only produce one them with livestock fattening techniques that lamb per year. Since our involvement, four have resulted in extremely positive outcomes of her ewes have had twin births, something in an unrelentingly harsh environment. she has never experienced before. These livestock fattening techniques quickly improved the physical condition of the sheep, permitting them to produce more and demand greater compensation. Our training has helped Dougnon Harérata Maiga, who lives in Pel Maoude village of the Koro district, double the size of her flocks in just a year, and she is excited to train other women in the techniques. Dougnon Harérata Maiga uses livestock feeding and fattening techniques learned through the L4G program. 11 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Strengthening Critical Healthcare Service Capacity Haiti Health Infrastructure Program (HHIP), Haiti Following the One of the most significant contributions to devastating the HHIP scheme is the reconstruction of the earthquake in 2010 National University General Hospital (L’Hôpital and Hurricane Universitaire d’État d’Haïti). The 5,850-squareMatthew in 2016, meter (19,192-square-foot) complex in Portthe USAID HHIP was au-Prince has modern teaching facilities, a created to repair, school of nursing and a lab technician school. renovate and equip The National Campus for Health Sciences (Le the Haitian Ministry Campus des Sciences de la Santé), which offers of Health’s damaged clinical training, is adjacent to the complex. medical facilities. The program also constructs facilities in Haiti to strengthen local health Renovated medical facilities and new hospitals referral networks and provide access to health and health centers are giving Haitian citizens care through sanitary and safe facilities. access to the basic health services they need to maintain a standard of living. In addition, With support from USAID, AECOM is providing design and construction of new medical supply planning, design and construction management warehouses in the west, north and south services that will enable the Haitian Ministry of departments are supporting improved supply Health to deliver critical health care services. chains, leading to better care across the country. Rendering of a pediatric clinic in Cap Haitian, Haiti that will provide important health care to local citizens. 12 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Reinvigorating Education Kidal Youth Summer School, Mali The Malian Ministry The program attracted 808 students — 410 boys of Education aims to and 398 girls — from grades one to nine who reopen 62 schools completed standard curriculum courses and that had been closed transitioned to a new grade the following year. since 2012 due to the conflict crisis, a result The funding helped provide school uniforms, of a coup that had led school manuals, a t-shirt for each student to militants occupying and a small honorarium for the 40 teachers parts of northern recruited to participate in the program. Mali. To prepare It helped reinvigorate school life after years for the new academic year, a special oneof interruption. According to the director, it month summer school program was created built excitement for the upcoming school for youth in the Kidal region of the country. year and despite a chronic shortage of This special program was created thanks to teachers, students remained devoted and support from USAID’s two-year Mali Peace hardworking throughout the month. Initiative, also known by its French acronym, ACCORD (Programme d’Appui à la Cohésion Communautaire et les Opportunités de Réconciliation et de Développement). AECOM managed grants under ACCORD, which awarded an in-kind grant to the Kidal Teaching Academy, the Malian government body responsible for school management in the Kidal region. Kidal Youth summer school program participants with their supplies and uniforms. 13 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Engaging Women to Boost Confidence in Government Stability in Key Areas (SIKA)-East, Afghanistan To promote stability Women leaders from District Development in conflict-affected Assemblies’ communication committees areas of Afghanistan, achieved significant and sustainable the SIKA-East gender empowerment. These leaders program sought demonstrated resourcefulness, creativity and to increase citizen leadership to raise awareness of women’s confidence in districtpriorities, connect with the government level government. to obtain services and increased the The program overall voice of women in rural areas. supported efforts to improve governance and effective Women were highly represented during service delivery by promoting participation meetings with line department officials. in governance processes. This included Communications committee meetings created providing women with a platform to connect public outreach plans and other mechanisms with district leaders and local authorities. to share information and advocate for local priorities. In total, over 9,000 women attended AECOM supported SIKA-East by working with 1,377 meetings across all 30 SIKA-East districts, provincial and district officials to develop tools laying the groundwork for future government-led and processes to sustain responsive and engagement with female community leaders. accountable governance. Events were held to encourage women to participate and engage in defining district challenges and priorities with local decision makers. The program examined how women influence traditionally maledominated decision-making in Afghanistan and encouraged diverse perspectives. Afghan women’s advocacy group overseeing a community project facilitated by SIKA-East. 14 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Expanding Access to Water Extension of Sawah Raja Water Treatment Plant (WTP), Malaysia The Sawah Raja To ensure success of the project, AECOM WTP produced studied and investigated the site, assessed and approximately appraised the existing WTP and water supply 13.2 million gallons network, and provided detailed design and site per day (MGD) of supervision. treated water for residents of Rembau Drawing on world-class water treatment in southeastern experience and expertise, our solution Malaysia. However, considered the existing site constraints, this was insufficient treatment processes and equipment and to meet demand and Rembau still relied on ensured that the plant operation and water additional water to be supplied from the supply to Rembau was not disrupted. Gemencheh WTP, located over 12 miles (20 The expansion of Sawah Raja WTP from 13.2 kilometers) away. MGD to 26.4 MGD reduces supply dependency As a result, plant owners Pengurusan Aset Air on Gemencheh WTP while also improving the Berhad and Syarikat Air Negeri Sembilan asked security of the water supply to Rembau. AECOM to expand the existing water treatment capability at Sawah Raja WTP. Construction site of the Sawah Raja WTP’s extension project. 15 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Engineering and Designing a Solar Facility in a Complex Environment Mount Tom Solar Farm, United States With its coal fired In addition, AECOM performed energy model power plant out of performance estimates using a mix of different operation, ENGIE solar PV modules and equipment. The final North America design scenario yielded 7,286 megawatt hours turned to AECOM to annually of solar energy production, enough engineer and design electricity to power 1,800 homes for a year. a 5.8 megawatt photovoltaic (PV) solar Based on the calculated energy production, the facility adjacent the AECOM-designed PV system will reduce over site in the Mount Tom 3,000 metric tons of greenhouse gases annually. area of Holyoke, Massachusetts, United States. Flood risk and snow fall complicated the challenge. A portion of the site is within the 100 year FEMA floodplain along the banks of the Connecticut River. All critical electrical equipment had to be elevated six feet off the ground on steel platforms set on pilings. To account for snow, the solar modules required an optimal tilt angle to shed snow and ensure maximum energy production. Angled solar panels to shed snow and allow for maximum energy production. 16 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Building an Economy on Local Livelihoods Pacific Horticultural and Agricultural Market Access (PHAMA), Various Locations Agriculture is central AECOM manages PHAMA on behalf to the livelihoods of of the Australian government and many people living oversees activities including: in the South Pacific. Historically, the region −− Conducting technical studies to has been economically understand market access issues disadvantaged, with −− Facilitating industry coordination limited development and planning opportunities, and is increasingly −− Promoting public-private partnerships vulnerable to issues of climate change, to overcome issues population growth and a competitive international trade environment. −− Developing systems and procedures to improve compliance and The PHAMA program is an initiative of the quality in export pathways Australian Government, co-funded by the New Zealand government, to support development PHAMA is opening and protecting market opportunities and economic growth in the South opportunities and increasing exports for Pacific. PHAMA helps Pacific Island countries producers from Pacific Island countries. This is develop and better manage exports including contributing to economic growth and improved fish and forestry products. Countries assisted by rural livelihoods in these predominantly the program include Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Vanuatu, agricultural and resource-based economies. Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea. Women preparing agricultural goods for export to Australia. 17 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Helping Cities Become Resilient 100 Resilient Cities (100RC), Various Locations Cities are looking The 100RC resilience method identifies for ways to prepare interdependencies between major components for the growing of a city: people and organizations, places and number of physical, infrastructure, and the economy, networks and social and economic knowledge. This harnesses connections to help challenges that cities cope and recover after sudden events threaten their growth like fires, earthquakes and floods, referred and development. to as “shocks” by 100RC, which make cities 100RC — Pioneered vulnerable. It also addresses long-term trends, by the Rockefeller referred to as “stresses,” such as unemployment Foundation — is dedicated to helping cities and widespread crime which undermine cities’ around the world respond to these challenges, systems and increase their vulnerability. and AECOM is providing the strategic planning services to make it happen. In 2016, AECOM helped Bangkok (Thailand), Berkeley (United States), Christchurch (New As a strategic advisor, thought partner and Zealand), Medellín (Colombia), Melbourne project manager for the cities participating (Australia), Mexico City (Mexico), Oakland (United in 100RC, AECOM helps facilitate diverse States), Rotterdam (Netherlands) and San stakeholder engagement workshops to better Francisco (United States) publish their resilience understand perceptions, needs and risks. We strategies. We also worked with Wellington (New carry out technical analyses in key priority Zealand) to publish its resilience strategy in areas, help to identify a list of potential actions March 2017. We will help at least an additional and assist in developing the final strategy. seven cities publish their strategies in 2017. 100RC roundtable discussion. 18 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Enhancing Democratic Capacity Strongim Pipol Strongim Nesen (SPSN), Papua New Guinea Papua New Guinea’s AECOM managed the delivery of SPSN To help communities confront the challenges (PNG) vision for by organizing capacity-increasing of being more inclusive, government officials 2050 is to become a activities in five key areas: were provided training to enhance their “wide, fair and happy capacity to work with communities. This society.” For PNG’s −− Increasing the practice and “increased capacity” comes in the form of leaders, that means promotion of democratic governance systems, skills, knowledge and networks. a society in which through key partnerships citizens are enabled SPSN improved access to services for −− Facilitating communities working together poor communities by providing training and to participate, there to address identified priorities programs to enable them to engage with is fair and equitable distribution of benefits and vulnerable government more effectively from education, −− Supporting initiatives that communities are represented and protected. healthcare, gender equality, disability, HIV and improve local governance SPSN, a program AECOM is implementing AIDs outreach, to disaster risk reduction. in PNG, is helping the country realize −− Improving collaboration of men and women this 2050 societal transformation. to promote democratic governance Translated to mean “Empower People, −− Strengthening human capital for the Strengthen the Nation,” SPSN is a six-year practice of democratic governance partnership between the governments of PNG and Australia. The project aims to The program has benefited more than 1 million enable civil society to work with the state people from 87 of the country’s 89 districts and and other interest groups to better meet has touched all 22 provinces in PNG. More than the needs and priorities of men, women and US$53 million has been invested in activities children in communities across PNG. that strengthen community participation, including civic awareness, gender equality, education, disability and combating HIV/AIDS. Man voting in Papua New Guinea. 19 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Identifying New Approaches to Low-Carbon Communities Cooperative Research Centres for Low-Carbon Living (CRCLCL), Australia The CRCLCL is an As a founding member, AECOM conducted Australian-based research to examine how to adapt existing seven-year academic power and water infrastructure into more and industry flexible, resilient and sustainable networks. partnership to upgrade The work sought to identify the opportunities the technological and challenges with using public-private capabilities of partnerships to make existing infrastructure industrial sectors more energy and resource efficient. The across the globe. research focused on building in the Broadway CRC aims to cut neighborhood in inner-city Sydney, but Australia’s residential and commercial carbon highlighted methods that could be applied to emissions by an extra 10 mega tons of enable such improvements in any urban area. carbon dioxide equivalent per year by 2020 in addition to government commitments. This research informed a toolkit, policy directive and transition manual to help future To achieve this, CRC focuses on collaborative teams create low-carbon infrastructure. innovation by bringing stakeholders from planning, engineering and policy organizations together to develop technological and policy tools, facilitating the development of low-carbon products and services to reduce emissions. University of Technology Sydney’s Faculty of Engineering and IT Building, part of the CRCLCL retrofit project. 20 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Developing a Routemap for a Circular Economy Highways England, United Kingdom A circular economy To mitigate ethical or environmental infractions aims to generate no in the supply chain, our team: waste by keeping materials for as long −− Created detailed supply chain maps as possible and −− Outlined principles for responsible reusing, recovering sourcing in supply chains and repurposing materials as often −− Created a set of questions for suppliers as possible. When Highways England (HE) −− Conducted risk assessments for asked AECOM to develop a circular economy complicated regions and material chains routemap and supply chain risk framework, our team needed to examine the details. That meant We submitted these tools to HE for both taking a close look at HE’s current processes protective personal equipment and electronics, and suppliers — one example is personal including cameras and other technology. protection equipment. Our work to address HE’s circular economy HE’s safety boots are made in Germany, but routemap focused on moving the existing HE the materials can come from regions where business model to a closed materials loop, which labor and environmental practices undermine ensures that resources are used for as long as international laws and purchasing requirements. possible and reused at the end of a product lifecycle. The recommendations also included repurposing and upcycling where feasible. As a result of our work, HE now has a responsible sourcing management system and a new circular economy routemap that includes the actions required to create a robust framework. Highways England is the government-owned company responsible for maintaining and improving England’s major roads. 21 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Building Awareness to Drive Climate Change Preparedness Urban Sustainability Directors Network (USDN) Climate Change Preparedness Toolkit, United States AECOM partnered There are two “tracks” within the toolkit. The first with the USDN to is an interactive exercise-based track, while the create a climate second is an innovative game-based track. Both change preparedness facilitate group discussion and learning about training toolkit to help evaluating climate hazards, climate vulnerability local governments and risk assessments and considering a range accelerate their of appropriate adaptation options. progress in climate adaptation. AECOM Embedding awareness, knowledge and the is providing toolkit to disperse the information throughout training to equip government staff with the teams and communities will result in more knowledge and resources to bring climate effective planning and better understanding of change preparedness and resilience risks. into their cities’ planning, engineering, We prepared the training materials in operations and maintenance activities. collaboration with advisory cities, incorporated The focus of the training is on climate-driven input from city pilot sessions and delivered a changes to coastal, riverine urban flood zones train-the-trainer workshop for USDN members and their impact on municipal infrastructure, at the 2016 Annual Meeting. service delivery and supply chains. The We are proud to be working with government toolkit includes real-world examples and employees in high-risk flooding areas to help customizable training materials such as improve their knowledge base and awareness of presentation slides, case studies and exercises. the risks posed to their communities. Participants identifying risks at USDN workshop. 22 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Promoting Sustainable Development of Fishery Sector Diversification Économique (DIVECO2), Algeria AECOM is providing Other technical assistance is centered technical assistance on commercialization and distribution of to DIVECO2, a fisheries and aquaculture products. This program to support includes communication of sustainable the sustainable production through community engagement development of the and promoting sustainable products. fishery sector in Algeria, with a focus on To improve aquaculture production, AECOM marine and continental provided equipment and special assistance aquaculture. to introduce standards for water recycling and purifying techniques. We are now The greatest challenge facing this program is planning related trainings for members of introducing sustainable fishing methods that DIVECO2 and the Ministry of Agriculture, are more compatible with species preservation Fishing and Rural Development. from current entrenched tactics that promote indiscriminate capture, such as trawling fishing. Such practices are challenged by teaching local communities to use alternative fishing methods that are less intensive, such as pelagic longlining and jar lines for octopus fishing. Information and communication session regarding the progress of the DIVECO2 project. 23 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Imagining a Sustainable Eco-Corridor Envisioning a Better Nanjing, China Eco-corridors are The primary focus of our involvement was to important links protect, restore and promote sustainable use between natural of terrestrial ecosystems, while sustainably habitats for wildlife managing forests, combating desertification to travel through. and halting biodiversity loss. An added AECOM was selected bonus of the scheme was an enhanced as the conceptual quality of life for residents and tourists masterplanner through green spaces in urban areas. for the Dachang Eco-Corridor, We will aim to improve the ecological value one of six in Nanjing, China. in the second stage of the project through a series of water and landscape habitats to Our masterplans for eco-corridors considered make a multi-functional green corridor. This both natural and human needs. We provided will not only provide biodiversity habitats water system design, ecological restoration for local species, but also protect the and brownfield remediation services to provide surrounding community from contamination an environmental buffer for the neighboring and provide them with local green space. residential areas. The Dachang ecological corridor is in the center of the biggest industrial area of Nanjing which poses a number of contamination threats to consider. To solve these problems we established a series of strategies to recover and enhance the ecological function. The first stage includes all control elements for field management: water system management, green corridor control and recovery of existing building lots into green space. One important facet was the creation of a pollution protection buffer zone and ecological structure to secure the local environment. Nanjing Eco-Corridor Masterplan which shows the connection of ecosystems and proximity of urban areas and green spaces. 24 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Mitigating Conflict and Promoting Peace Viable Support to Transition and Stability (VISTAS), South Sudan USAID’s Office of Misunderstandings and unbalanced information Transition and Conflict can derail peace building efforts. VISTAS Mitigation’s VISTAS launched a nationwide dissemination of the program, implemented Peace Agreement, signed by the government by AECOM, is a conflict and rebels, in local languages and facilitated mitigation and political workshops with local community members so transition mechanism. they could understand the implications of each provision and formulate informed opinions. VISTAS’ goal is to prevent the further Additionally, two newly constructed radio spread of communal violence and rising stations and large-scale distribution of windtensions in critical areas of South Sudan up radios increased the reach of reliable where local level conflict could have national information to over 50,000 new listeners. implications. VISTAS raises awareness of how trauma can To this end, VISTAS has four objectives: perpetuate violence through an initiative called Morning Star to promote peaceful co-existence. 1. To increase space and tools to manage AECOM helped train a network of resource conflict and tensions facilitators to implement the Morning Star program across different communities in both 2. To build cross-line interdependency to rural and urban settings. promote peaceful coexistence Our work in South Sudan will not finish until 2018, 3. To promote a more informed community but the social and physical infrastructure that 4. To engage communities in trauma awareness we have put in place throughout the region will to lay the foundation for healing and go a long way in assisting South Sudan’s nation reconciliation building process. Recipients of wind-up radios from the VISTAS project to promote the reach of reliable news and information across South Sudan. 25 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Helping Governments Prepare for Climate Change Adapt Asia-Pacific, Various Locations The Asia Pacific region The program has trained more than 139 is highly vulnerable to government officials in climate change finance impacts from climate and adaptation issues, delivering over 4,000 change and variability. hours of training. An estimated 107,000 people Many countries have benefited from facilitated climate change in the region are adaptation proposals and the institutional experiencing frequent capacity of six Asia Pacific government and intense flooding, institutes has been improved to better respond droughts and storm to the needs of the region. events among other impacts of climate change. This is especially threatening to low-lying and coastal areas which have seen economic progress over the last 50 years. Through USAID’s Adapt Asia-Pacific project, we are assisting governments of 27 target countries to access pools of climate change. The project promotes sustainable development through multi-stakeholder partnerships that share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources to address the negative impacts of climate change funding in developing countries in the region. Adapt Asia-Pacific helps government institutes identify solutions to protect rural communities and children who are are among the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. 26 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Community 28 Opening Doors 29 Creating Opportunity 30 Protecting Tomorrow Blueprint for a Better World, AECOM’s Corporate Responsibility platform, is a reflection of our core values and priorities. 27 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Opening Doors Through Blueprint for Better World’s first Professional quality, pillar, Opening Doors, we deliver access community delivery to safe and secure infrastructure so those who need it most have a place to call home Engineers Without Borders (EWB) helps and resources to thrive. We look to build create a more stable and prosperous world on what was achieved in 2016 in this area by addressing people’s basic needs — with future work next year and beyond. providing necessities such as clean water, power, sanitation and education. We partner Water, water, everywhere with EWB to help to advance its mission and Water For People is a non-profit organization contributed more than US$92,000 in 2016. that brings together local entrepreneurs, civil AECOM provided pro-bono design society, governments and communities to services in Melbourne, Australia, to CERES establish creative, collaborative solutions Community Environment Park — a selfthat allow people to build and maintain their Water system installed at the Escuela Oficial Rural Mixta funded, non-profit organization focused on Choacamán III, in the Santa Cruz del Quiche municipality, own reliable and safe water systems. In 2016, community-based learning and action as Guatemala. we raised more than US$150,000 for Water part of our partnership with EWB Australia. For People via employee giving programs and over US$750,000 since 2009. Building a better world Since 2007, AECOM volunteers have traveled with Caminul Felix to Ordea, Romania, to build new homes, as well as improve existing ones, for orphans and their caretakers. The new homes are sold for material cost and without profit. The project is the legacy of an AECOM employee inspired to help the community after traveling in the area for work. The June 2016 expedition included 16 employees from the U.S., U.K. and Romania. A return trip is planned. AECOM volunteers with Caminul Felix in Ordea, Romania. 28 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Creating Opportunity With Creating Opportunity, the second pillar A gift of STEM education of our Blueprint for a Better World, we help develop the next generation of the world’s To help ensure that high school students are problem solvers and ensure future leaders prepared for life after graduation and future reflect the diversity of the world we live in. Our demands of the the modern workplace, commitment to increasing our activity in this we’re helping Aiken County Public Schools in area will continue to grow in future years. South Carolina, United States, implement a program of accelerated learning initiatives. A legacy of outreach We provided US$300,000 sponsorship to help The “AECOM Millennium Project” is a U.K. create two science, technology, engineering and registered charity focused on the relief of mathematics academies in local high schools. poverty, hardship and distress among children in developing countries throughout the world. At Employing the people who serve least 95 percent of the nonprofit’s proceeds go Students receiving food and drink provided through directly to helping children. AECOM is one of the top companies in the Mozambique school emergency relief funding. world hiring veterans; more than 10,000 are In 16 years the charity has supported 36 currently employed. We are committed to projects in 23 countries, having a real impact on helping those who are currently serving as children’s lives. In 2016, we provided: well as those who have returned to civilian life. Our employees dedicate their time and talent −− US$25,000 for the Engineers For Overseas to many community organizations, regional Development work in Uganda or national groups supporting veterans. −− US$6,900 for school emergency relief work in Semper Fi Fund, Wounded Warrior Program Mozambique and American Corporate Partners are just a few of the organizations we support. −− US$4,200 final installment of library construction in India (total spend was US$25,000) AECOM representatives presenting funding for STEM academies to South Aiken High School officials. 29 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Protecting Tomorrow Through Protecting Tomorrow, the third pillar Harvesting rainwater of our Blueprint for a Better World, we leverage our expertise to lessen our impact on the planet AECOM’s Manila, Philippines, office developed to help communities prepare for the future. We the Million Barrels project. Employees planned, look to build on what was achieved in 2016 in this designed and installed a rainwater harvesting area with future work next year and beyond. and filtration system to collect water for irrigation and sanitation. The system was piloted Solar power for the poorest Tanza, a district of Novotas in Manila. Pollinate Energy is a social enterprise based Glasgow Canal coalition in Australia and India that aims to bring lifechanging technologies such as solar lanterns, AECOM is helping to turn the Glasgow Canal into cookstoves, solar fans and water filters to a surface water storage system and re-thinking families living in impoverished communities the way canals contribute to water management. in India. In 2016, we again sponsored six By using meteorological forecasts and sensors Pollinate Energy’s AECOM participants with solar lanterns. employees from our Australia and New Zealand for real-time operational management we are operations to travel to India. This year’s creating a reliable water network to benefit team assisted with Pollinate Energy’s team the communities, equipping the canals to be in Lucknow, the fourth city in India where the prepared for a resilient tomorrow. organization has expanded its work. Scottish Canals, Glasgow City Council and Scottish Water are the key stakeholders from the Metropolitan Glasgow Strategic Drainage Partnership. The Million Barrels project to collect rainwater in Manila, Philippines. 30 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Environment 32 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 33 Geography-level Efforts We are committed to being responsible stewards of the environments where we work and live, and of the future we imagine. 31 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reducing our carbon footprint 2016 highlights We aim to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) −− FY16 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were −− Our Oil & Gas construction operations added emissions resulting from our operations. As 13.29 metric tons of CO2e1/$US million, 20 new excavators, which use 15-20 percent a large, multinational, professional services compared to 18.29 in the previous year2 less fuel than existing models firm, our sources of GHG emissions are highly varied in form. In an effort to prevent pollution, −− Five office consolidations in the United States −− We strengthened our GHG monitoring with conserve resources and lead in environmental resulted in a 332,000 square-foot reduction FigBytes, a leading reporting software sustainability, a key commitment in AECOM’s in floor space and related Scope 2 emissions tool, to improve the data collection and Safety, Health and Environment Policy, we processing demands involved in measuring regularly measure and report on the progress to our emissions lower our GHG emissions. Major sources that we measure include direct 2016 GHG emissions reductions emissions from fleet vehicles and heavy Scope 1 and 2 (metric tons CO2e) equipment (fuel consumption) and indirect 196,581 emissions from facilities (purchased electricity 178,728 or other sources of energy), also referred to as Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions respectively, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 137,546 We also monitor our total annual mileage from business air and ground travel (Scope 3). AECOM is striving to meet its target of a 20-percent reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2020. This target is set on 2015 52,616 operations as its baseline, normalized by revenue. To advance progress toward this goal, our current work is focused on our major sources with initiatives to consolidate our real estate footprint and upgrade to more fuelVehicles and Heavy Equipment Facilities efficient vehicles and heavy equipment. (Scope 1 emissions) (Scope 2 emissions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 2015 baseline revised by 7,500 metric tons due to previously unreported project-level data. 2 2016 reductions primarily the result of AECOM’s divestment of Oil & Gas fleet assets in North America. 32 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Geography-level Efforts News from Asia Pacific AECOM’s sustainability program combines Our Australia and New Zealand operations both a “top-down” and “bottom-up” approach run GO!, a green office program. A new, fiveto making our operations sustainable. year strategic plan for GO! was launched in 2016. It aims to demonstrate sustainable Our Asian operations have monitored business practices in five priority areas: and reported their environmental impacts travel, energy, water, procurement and across 22 regional offices for the past seven recycling. These areas form the basis for years. They track electricity consumption, both ANZand region-level action plans. The paper purchased and flight mileage. work contributes to AECOM’s compliance in ANZ with ISO 14001, the operations’ The measurements are published annually Environmental Management System standard. in AECOM’s Asia Sustainability Report. The report also includes the results of an annual employee survey to gauge both how employees and clients view sustainability as a priority and how they perceive AECOM’s own level of commitment to sustainability. This feedback is then used to provide recommendations to guide future initiatives to improve our sustainability performance. 33 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Workplace 35 Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) 36 Diversity + Inclusion 37 Work-Life Balance + Career Growth We aim to make our offices and projects sites safe, comfortable and representative of the communities we work in and serve. 34 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) Delivering a safer world 2016 highlights At AECOM, we make safety part of everything −− AECOM employees made over 345,000 we do. Safety for Life, our SH&E program, sets observations through online reporting an expectation for each employee, contractor systems and other sources and business partner to take personal responsibility for the safety of their colleagues −− Our global recordable incident rate and others associated with our work. in 2016 was one-tenth of the current U.S. construction industry average Our employees are critical to reducing the frequency and severity of incidents. Safety −− Our global lost work day incident rate in for Life empowers employees to stop unsafe 2016 was 22 times lower than the current work at any of our locations and requires U.S. construction industry average them to make safety observations and report near misses. Executives and senior −− In the United States, six AECOM locations management lead by example in our safety earned Voluntary Protection Program efforts. Each year we set minimum targets Star status, a designation of exceptional for senior management observations that safety performance from the US include visits to project sites where they can Department of Labor’s Occupational assess performance, recognize excellence and Safety and Health Administration report back on issues they have identified. −− AECOM’s latest Safety Report provides more information on these achievements and others 35 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Diversity + Inclusion Encourage diversity and Our employees’ participation in Employee 2016 highlights build inclusion Resource Groups is essential to promoting a greater sense of inclusiveness at AECOM. −− The number of women leaders The power to create innovative solutions is By connecting employees with shared increased by nearly 30 percent, an connected to our ability to attract, develop interests and life experiences, the groups accomplishment that demonstrates our and manage diverse teams. We want to grow help members grow and learn, network, commitment to increasing our women diversity in our workforce and create a company support their peers through coaching and in leadership over the coming years culture that embraces inclusiveness. mentoring and raise awareness in others. −− Our Australian operations achieved Diversity expresses itself in many different Our online global employee resource group, a 50:50 gender split among ways — including age, race, color, national WomenExcel, is over 2,400 members strong undergraduate hires in 2016 origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and focuses on celebrating and enriching and expression, marital status, religious −− Our top employer awards and women’s development through active creed, disability, medical condition, genetic recognition include: dialogue, engagement and collaboration. information, military and veteran status and • Top 50 Employers (Minority any other legally protected category. Our mCircles (mentoring circles) program Engineer Magazine) is a grassroots program built to promote We aim to foster an environment that is free diversity and inclusion through group • Corporate Equality Index on from discrimination and harassment and mentoring. There are over 20 mCircles LGBT workplace equality (Human provides equal opportunities in all areas of throughout the company, which are made Rights Campaign Foundation) employment, including recruitment, hiring, up of eight to ten employees representing training and promotion. We want to ensure entry levelto senior-level positions. • Most Outstanding Company in Gender all employment practices are objective Diversity Award (Engineers Australia) and free from bias, based solely on work Among others, additional groups within and Veteran Friendly Employer of criteria, individual merit and meet the broader our organization include: LGBT+ Allies, the Year (American Veterans) goals and objectives of the company. AEMOMS (AECOM mothers), Global Young Professionals Forum and Hispanics@AECOM. 36 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Work-Life Balance + Career Growth Being balanced and successful Achieving a healthy work-life balance is 2016 highlights one of many ways we help employees We encourage and assist employees to −− Our Australia and New Zealand operations lead more fulfilling lives. We also support achieve a work-life balance that is right for launched “Flexibility Works,” which offers them on their career paths at AECOM. them, no matter their age or stage in life. Our employees flexible hours of work, two employees are supported by a range of policies Professional development opportunities weeks purchased additional annual and benefits, which help ensure they have and career advancement are powerful leave and other flexible work options time and energy for their personal priorities. catalysts in driving job satisfaction for our employees. To support their success, −− We introduced a new family care To help employees pursue a healthy work-life service benefit to eligible employees we provide them tools and resources balance, we develop progressive workplace in North America. Care.com helps so they can reach their full potential. programs and practices that cater to their employees find caregivers for their needs. In North America, we offer Wellness Recognizing the ability to build and manage a whole family, including their children, at AECOM, a year-round wellness initiative successful career as a powerful catalyst that parents/grandparents and/or pets for our benefits eligible U.S. employees and drives job satisfaction for our employees we their spouses and domestic partners. Across provide them with the tools and resources −− We launched a program across our the company, we also provide access to needed to reach their full potential. Europe, Middle East, India and Africa competitive and affordable benefits, including operations to train managers to have healthcare, life and disability coverages, Our Performance + Rewards program provides better conversations about mental health voluntary benefits, including family and employees with competitive compensation and with their teams, and reduce the stigma parental leaves, along with paid time off. rewards. They can work and live abroad, building associated with discussions about it their experience and professional networks, with To help manage mental health issues such as our Global Mobility Program. AECOM University, −− Our new office opened in London, work-related stress and challenging life-events, an online learning platform, offers over 10,000 England, providing shared desks and we provide employees free, 24/7 counseling unique professional development courses. drop-in space to support an agile resources. Through this confidential service, Our Development Hub allows employees to working environment for teams employees also have access to work-life take ownership of their advancement with the services, such as financial guidance, legal support and guidance of their managers. support, child and elder care referrals. 37 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Marketspace 39 Economic Performance 40 Corporate Governance 41 Ethics + Compliance 42 Sustainable Procurement 43 Supplier Diversity In pursuing growth, we are committed to conducting our business in an ethically sound and sustainable way. 38 AECOM SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Economic Performance Pursuing growth 2016 highlights We want to be the single point of service −− We delivered on our commitment to return for the entire lifecycle of our clients’ the Americas design business to positive projects. We have set a course to become the growth in the second half of the year leading integrated infrastructure firm with the ability to design, build, finance and operate −− Building Construction experienced its infrastructure assets around the world. In second consecutive year of double2016, our performance demonstrated that digit growth and 15 percent growth our diverse business model is resilient, in contracted backlog in the year strong and positioned for growth. −− Our Management Services group Our portfolio of truly iconic project wins entered the year with US$25 billion speaks to our leading role in driving innovation, in bids awaiting client decisions improving communities and shaping skylines. −− We delivered strong free cash flow Highlights include AECOM’s selection to to drive a substantial US$1.2 billion build the expansive new NFL stadium in in debt reduction since closing the Los Angeles, our framework agreement URS transaction two years ago with Shell to deliver enabling infrastructure work across major global projects, our work on transformative transportation projects like Hyperloop and our selection to build New York City’s newest skyscraper — the US$1 billion One Vanderbilt tower. We also continued to successfully diversify our business into attractive new markets, with more than US$2 billion in key power, energy and industrial wins in the year and the expansion of our Construction Services and Management Services businesses into new global markets. These accomplishments provided significant momentum and allowed us to close fiscal year 2016 with an approximately US$43 billion backlog and a robust project pipeline. 39 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Corporate Governance A foundation of trust and integrity Executive Team 2016 2015 2014 Board of Directors* 2016 2015 2014 We are guided by our core values and corporate policies and practices that ensure the company Number of executive Number of board is managed in our shareholders’ best interests. 9 10 11 10 13 12 officers members In addition, we are committed to upholding sound principles of corporate governance Percentage of Percentage of and to meeting the requirements of various executive officers 22% 20% 0% independent 80% 77% 67% regulatory institutions, including the governing that are women directors laws of the markets in which we operate. Percentage of AECOM’s Board of Directors is comprised of directors that are 20% 15% 8% industry leaders and experts who are highly women respected for their accomplishments as well as their values. Our company leadership represents some of *As of fiscal years ended September 30th, respectively. the best executives in our industry. Many have built their careers at AECOM, reflecting our company’s career development opportunities, and have significantly contributed to our business and organizational growth. 40 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Ethics + Compliance Acting ethically with integrity 2016 highlights We take pride in how our people −− AECOM’s Modern Slavery Act Statement was operate ethically and with integrity while signed by Chairman and CEO Mike Burke and delivering excellence to our clients. approved by AECOM’s Board of Directors, reaffirming our commitment to human rights Our actions are guided by the AECOM Code of Conduct which establishes our −− Our sixth annual Ethics Week launched an professional, ethical, financial and social internal video competition to encourage values. The Code informs our actions and AECOM employees to share how they helps us make the right decisions when safeguard our people, our work and our conducting our business worldwide. world by acting ethically with integrity Everyone at AECOM, as well as those working on our behalf, knows the expectations and requirements spelled out in our code. Our annual ethics training program reinforces these expectations and requirements of all employees and provides guidance on international anti-corruption laws and conventions. A workplace that prioritizes ethical behavior is fundamental to one of our core values, Safeguard. We foster a culture of ethics by celebrating AECOM’s Ethics Week, a global event held annually that recognizes the importance of ethics and integrity to our operations. Employees are encouraged to participate in enterprisewide as well as location-based activities that promote our values-based culture. 41 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Sustainable Procurement Better supply chain management Working in collaboration with our suppliers and operations teams, AECOM strives to transform We expect that goods and services related our supply based on our sustainability values. to our business are procured and delivered If a supplier does not align with or is unable to with full consideration of local legislation and meet our commitment and expectations, we environmental, social, ethical and economic actively work with them to develop improvement issues throughout the whole purchasing and plans. We reduce the need for new goods, product lifecycle. procure goods and services from sustainable Our commitment to sustainable procurement sources and reuse or recycle as far as practically drives us to work with our diverse network of possible. suppliers to make a positive impact across our broad range of global markets. By building 2016 highlights long-term collaborative partnerships, we seek −− AECOM developed its Sustainable to use AECOM’s strategic position to support, Procurement Policy to align and update the encourage and influence our suppliers to existing practices and policies of its global extend the impact of AECOM’s sustainable operations procurement actions throughout their own supply chains. −− Our Infrastructure & Environment team in the U.K. was named a Rated Supplier on the We consider the sustainable impacts of our Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply procurement decisions, including but not Sustainability Index for a second year in a row limited to, complying with all international and local laws, employment laws, safety and quality standards. To assess our suppliers’ sustainability performance, we communicate our requirements and evaluate their ability to deliver goods and services in a sustainable manner. 42 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Supplier Diversity AECOM increased its share of work awarded to small and minority 2016 businesses to 59.9 percent of its total Federal and Public Utility projects subcontracts in 2016, as measured in $US. 2015 2014 Working and growing together US$245,000,000 We believe that small and diverse businesses bring innovation and expertise that can US$196,000,000 strengthen the services we deliver our clients. This commitment is reflected in our Supplier Diversity Commitment Statement, signed by Chairman and CEO Mike Burke. US$147,000,000 AECOM’s supplier diversity program engages small and diverse businesses to support our US$98,000,000 work across all markets. Our suppliers include womenand minority-owned businesses, companies run by service-disabled veterans US$49,000,000 and small businesses from rural and urban communities participating in the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program. Supplier diversity is a critical US$0 component in delivering projects for the federal Women Minority Veteran Disabled HUBZone HUBCU/MI Veteran and public utility contracts in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, among other countries. Partnerships in the U.S. 2016 highlights To continuously seek out new partners, we have −− 59.9 percent of AECOM’s subcontracted −− AECOM was a winner of multiple business instituted a comprehensive outreach program work for U.S. federal and public utility diversity awards and recognition in 2016. to identify new diverse firms to support our contract awards went to small and diverse For more information on these awards and work. Engagement activities include hosting and businesses past ones, visit our Small Business/Supplier attending industry-led conferences, workshops Diversity webpage and events where small and diverse firms can −− In Australia, as part of our Reconciliation market their products and services to us. We Action Plan, we recommitted to embedding also participate in mentor-protégé programs Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander to help small and diverse businesses build procurement initiatives to increase supplier strategic partnerships with larger firms, develop diversity their technical capabilities and share knowledge. 43 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE GRI Disclosures This report contains Standard Disclosures General Standard Specific Standard from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Disclosures Page number/resource Disclosures Page number/resource Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. References Strategy and Analysis Category: Economic to where information related to the Standard Disclosures in the table provided. G4-1 5 G4-EC1 39, 46 Organizational Profile G4-EC9 43 The GRI G4 sustainability reporting G4-3 4 Category: Environmental framework informs the process by which the AECOM Sustainability Program G4-4 46 G4-EN3 32 team identifies and prioritizes what we G4-6 46 G4-EN5 32 include in the sustainability report. G4-7 10-k G4-EN15 32 AECOM will continue to improve our G4-9 39, 46, aecom.com G4-EN16 32 alignment in future reports. AECOM is also G4-13 5, 39, 43 G4-EN18 32 a signatory of the United Nations Global G4-15 41, 44 G4-EN30 32 Compact, and this report represents our 2016 Communication on Progress. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Category: Social G4-17 10-k G4-LA6 aecom.com This report has been audited by an independent team of internal reviewers G4-18 45 G4-LA10 37 to check that the information and facts G4-19 45 presented in it reflect our performance. G4-23 45 Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 42, 43, 44, 45 G4-27 44, 45 Report Profile G4-28 46 G4-29 aecom.com G4-30 2 G4-31 46 G4-32 44 G4-33 44, 45 Governance G4-34 40, aecom.com Ethics and Integrity G4-56 7, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 44 SOLUTIONS + ES&CR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKETSPACE KNOWLEDGE Disclaimers Scope of report Forward-looking information This report covers data and activities for the This report contains forward-looking statements past several years to provide a clearer picture of relating to the manner in which we intend to our performance. This report covers our owned conduct our activities based on our current or operated businesses and does not address plans and expectations. These statements are the performance of our suppliers, contractors not promises of our future conduct or policy or partners unless otherwise noted. We have and are subject to a variety of uncertainties prepared the information and case studies and other factors, many of which are beyond solely to provide a general overview of our our control. Therefore, the actual conduct sustainability activities and this report should of our activities, including the development, not be used by anyone making an investment implementation or continuation of any program, decisions. In addition, the information in this policy or initiative discussed in this report, may report is summarized and is not a complete differ materially in the future. The statements description of all of our activities; therefore, we of intention in this report speak only as of the have made qualitative judgments as to certain date of this report and we do not undertake to information to include that could be determined publicly update any statements in this report. to be inaccurate or incomplete. We did not As used in this report, the term “AECOM” and employ any third party firm to audit this report. such terms as “the company,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may refer to one or more of AECOM’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate entities, each of which manages its own affairs. 45 About AECOM AECOM is built to deliver a better world. We design, build, finance and operate infrastructure assets for governments, businesses and organizations in more than 150 countries. As a fully integrated firm, we connect knowledge and experience across our global network of experts to help clients solve their most complex challenges. From high-performance buildings and infrastructure, to resilient communities and environments, to stable and secure nations, our work is transformative, differentiated and vital. A Fortune 500 firm, AECOM had revenue of approximately US$17.4 billion during fiscal year 2016. See how we deliver what others can only imagine at aecom.com and @AECOM. aecom.com
