OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2017  Powering. Reliable. Future. 02 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ABOUT THE REPORT The report entitled “Our Responsibility 2017” is aimed Responsibility 2017” was available for the implementation at analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations of the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service. The correct position(NGOs), customers and suppliers, policymakers and ing of the “materiality disclosures” (GRI 102-40 to GRI 102-49) government agencies, as well as our employees and the was confirmed by the GRI. The report also serves as our people living in the regions where we do business. It progress report for the Global Compact of the United Nations describes the most important social, environmental and and provides information on the Sustainable Development economic challenges facing our core business, the conflictGoals (SDG) we make a contribution to, see page 89. ing aims that can arise, and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we have developed in response. Dates The period under review is fiscal 2017, which began on From the business year 2017, companies in Germany geared 1 January and ended on 31 December. The data provided to the capital market must publish in accordance with the in this report relate to all affiliated companies of the RWE amendment to the German Commercial Code (HGB) dated Group which are included in the consolidated financial 18 April 2017 (CSR Directive Implementation Act) a nonstatements. Any deviations from this are clearly stated. financial declaration in the combined review of operations or The financial and market data were taken from the Annual a separate non-financial group report (NfR) in a different Report 2017 of the RWE Group. We present financial data document. RWE AG is meeting this obligation with sections denominated in the relevant national currency or have of this report marked in blue. These sections were subject converted these based on the average annual values for to a limited assurance engagement performed by account2017 (1 US dollar = € 0.88, 1 UK pound sterling = € 1.14, ancy firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschafts­ 100 Czech crowns = € 3.8, 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32, prüfungsgesellschaft. The audit was implemented taking 1 Polish zloty = € 0.24). The commercial rounding of certain into account compliance with the requirements of the figures can result in the sum of the rounded figures or perGerman Commercial Code (HGB). centages deviating from the rounded totals in some cases. This report is published electronically in pdf format. The For reference professional services firm PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH This report is published in German and English. The Execuperformed an engagement audit on the disclosures indicated tive Board of RWE AG has approved the report for publicawith and provided a limited assurance relating to complition. The editorial deadline was on 26.03.2018. This report ance of the disclosures with the requirements of the Global continues our policy of annual reporting. The next report Reporting Initiative (GRI). The limited assurance engage­ment will be published in the spring of 2019. When for reasons of was carried out in accordance with the auditing principles simplicity and readability the terms “employees”, “shareof the International Standard on Assurance Engagements holders”, etc. are used to designate persons in this docu(ISAE) 3000 (revised), see page 84 for Assurance Report. mentation, this naturally refers to all genders throughout. The CR Report includes an overview of all the important RWE Archive CR Reports indicators, see page 86. Forward-looking statements Approach This report contains forward-looking statements regarding The CR Report of RWE AG is published as a GRI Report the future development of the RWE Group and its companies and conforms with the GRI Standards (2016) of the Global as well as economic and political developments. These stateReporting Initiative in a selection based on a Materiality ments are assessments that we have made based on inforAnalysis of the topics relevant for our business. In addition, mation available at the time this report was drawn up. In the we also report on the materiality of corresponding in-depth event that the underlying assumptions do not materialise or topics based on the GRI requirements for the electricity additional developments arise, actual performance may industry, which were formerly applicable as the G4 Electric deviate from the performance expected at present. We are Utilities Sector Disclosures, and no longer form part of the therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever GRI Standards. The report was prepared in conformity with for the accuracy of these statements. the GRI Standards in the “core option”. This report “Our 03 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CONTENT 02 About the Report 05 Foreword 06 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 07 Organisational Profile 18 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 07 GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 19 GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 07 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services setting purpose, values, and strategies 07 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 19 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 07 GRI 102-4 Location of operations environmental, and social impacts 07 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 19 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 08 GRI 102-6 Markets served processes 09 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 19 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 10 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other and social topics workers 19 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 10 GRI 102-9 Supply chain sustainability reporting 10 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 20 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration and its supply chain 11 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 21 Stakeholder Engagement 11 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 21 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 21 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 21 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 Strategy 21 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 22 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 24 Approach to Reporting 15 Ethics and Integrity 24 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 15 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and financial statements norms of behaviour 24 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and 15 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns topic Boundaries about ethics 24 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 27 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 16 Corporate Governance 27 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 16 GRI 102-18 Governance structure 27 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 16 GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 27 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 17 GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 27 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle economic, environmental, and social topics 27 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 17 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, regarding the report environmental, and social topics 28 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 17 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance with the GRI Standards body and its committees 28 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 18 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 28 GRI 102-56 External assurance 18 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 04 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix 29 MATERIAL TOPICS 83 APPENDIX 30 Economic Topics 84 Assurance Report 30 GRI 201 Economic Performance 34 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 86 Key Sustainability Indicators 36 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 86 Economic Performance Indicators 39 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 87 Environmental Performance Indicators 41 Availability and Reliability 88 Social Performance Indicators 43 Energy Efficient Products and Services 44 Research and Development 89 Progress Report on the Global Compact 2017 45 Shutdown and Decommissioning of Power Plants and Reinstatement of Opencast Mines 91 Contact and Imprint 48 Environmental Topics 48 GRI 302 Energy 50 GRI 303 Water 52 GRI 304 Biodiversity 55 GRI 305 Emissions 61 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 63 GRI 307 Compliance (Environmental) 65 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 66 Social Topics 66 GRI 401 Employment 67 GRI 402 Labour/Management Relations 68 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 71 GRI 404 Training and Education 72 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 75 GRI 413 Local Communities 78 GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 79 GRI 415 Public Policy 80 GRI 417 Marketing and Labelling 81 GRI 419 Compliance (Socioeconomic) 05 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix FOREWORD Dear Readers, The modern industrial and service society is becoming power plant portfolio over the past 20 years and enhancing electric. And a reliable energy supply is getting even more the efficiency of our plants. Furthermore, we have driven important for the interaction between the increasingly forward the expansion of renewable energy, made nature electrified areas of our society. In order to generate the conservation and renaturing lignite opencast mines and power to drive this society, power plants which safeguard grid expansion a top priority, and offered our employees the energy supply will continue to be necessary over the long workplaces with enhanced safety that eliminate hazard to term while the expansion of renewable energy continues to the greatest possible extent. This is a hallmark of RWE. proceed at a rapid pace. For the first time, a number of sections in this year’s At the same time, our society is becoming increasingly Sustainability Report have been marked as being our nonlow carbon. German economic growth has become more financial group report. It is a new departure that seeks to uncoupled from the output of greenhouse gas emissions. further increase the transparency and quality of reporting on Over recent years, the emissions from power generation non-financial aspects. This is in line with the European CSR have steadily declined and they will continue to fall with Directive, the German Implementation Act and our own claim. the shutdown of additional conventional power plants in the foreseeable future. As in previous years, this report simultaneously provides our progress report to the UN Global Compact. By signing Our society is undergoing a process of change. And only the Global Compact, we declared our commitment to utilities that also change will continue to exist. This trans­ actively promoting human rights, decent working conditions formation is taking place at RWE. Our Group represents and environmental protection within our sphere of influence, security and reliability in energy supply with the unambi­ and taking decisive action against corruption and bribery. guous goal of POWERING. RELIABLE. FUTURE. This goes This report presents the measures and instruments we take hand in hand with long-term climate protection. We have in order to achieve these objectives. therefore defined an ambitious goal for reducing our CO2 emissions by the year 2030 – a reduction of 40% to 50% The fact is that we continue to place great emphasis on proin comparison with 2015. viding evidence-based and transparent information for our stakeholders – in particular policymakers, investors, customers, This will enable us to fulfil our own aspiration towards local authorities and the general public. This report gives an responsible business conduct as a corporate citizen. RWE insight into what we are doing and our future plans. takes its responsibility for the environment, employees and society seriously. We have been continuously modernising our And we will be delighted if this leads to ongoing dialogue. Yours, Rolf Martin Schmitz 06 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix  GRI Content Index GRI 101 Foundation GRI 102 General Disclosures GENERAL DISCLOSURES 07 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE In addition to the information provided below, more information is also available in the section 1.1. STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE in the combined review of operations of the RWE Annual Report 2017, page 18. GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation RWE Aktiengesellschaft GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services RWE AG and its operational segments Lignite & Nuclear, The know-how relating to the extraction and refinement of European Power and Energy Trading are indispensable for lignite, electricity generation from gas, coal, nuclear energy streamlining the entire energy system and for security of and renewable sources, energy trading, distribution and supply in Europe. supply of electricity and gas, and the development and provision of innovative energy management solutions demonWe manage our majority shareholding innogy SE with its strates that the RWE Group is operating at all levels of the three divisions Renewable Energies, Grid & Infrastructure supply chain in the energy industry. and Retail as a fully-consolidated financial investment, see GRI 102-6, page 8. For information on the products and services of innogy, see the innogy Sustainability Report GRI 102-2, page 10. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Essen, Germany GRI 102-4 Location of operations RWE is an international group which including its subsidiary QQ Germany company innogy is represented at business locations in QQ Netherlands, Belgium 24 countries. QQ United Kingdom QQ Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe The key business operations are distributed across the (Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, following countries and regions. Slovakia, Turkey) QQ Western and Southern Europe (Spain and Italy) GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form At the end of 2017, an estimated 86% of the total of year: 35%). RWE AG’s single largest shareholders are RW 614.7 million RWE shares (including 39 million non-voting Holding, in which municipalities have pooled their shares, preferred shares) were held by institutional investors, and KEB Holding, which is backed by the City of Dortmund, and 14% were held by individuals (including employees). Instituthe US asset management company BlackRock. Based on tional investors from Germany owned 29% of RWE (previous their latest voting right notifications, the three companies year: 27%). In other countries on the European continent, each held about 5% of the voting rights. At the end of 2016, this investor group held 14% (previous year: 20%) of RWE’s a large portion of the RWE shares held by municipalities was subscribed capital. In North America, the United Kingdom still pooled in RWEB GmbH, which accounted for 14% of the and Ireland, it accounted for a combined 40% (previous voting rights. However, this pooling was reversed last year. 08 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The free float of our common shares considered by Deutsche deduc­ted. Stakes held by asset management companies Börse in terms of index weighting was 89% at year-end. like BlackRock are classified by Deutsche Börse as free float Only the shares held by RW Holding and KEB Holding were as long as they do not exceed 25% of the capital stock. GRI 102-6 Markets served We report on our business model and our markets in the to produce electricity and heat and marketing the electricity review of operations of the Annual Report for the year 2017, generated by RWE power plants. One objective is to limit see the combined review of operations, section 1.1 STRATEGY price risks. On top of that, the segment generates added AND STRUCTURE. value by the commercial optimisation of our power plant dispatch. The resulting earnings are reported under the Lignite & Nuclear Lignite & Nuclear and European Power segments. RWE This is where we report our German electricity generation Supply & Trading GmbH also markets its expertise to major from lignite and nuclear energy as well as lignite mining in European customers outside of the RWE Group, offering the Rhineland. These activities are overseen by RWE Power services ranging from traditional energy supply contracts AG. This segment also includes our 50.9% stake which we and comprehensive energy management solutions to comare about to sell in the Hungarian company Mátra, which plex risk management concepts. produces lignite and generates electricity from this energy source. It also comprises our interests in the Dutch nuclear innogy power plant operator EPZ (30%) and in Germany-based Our subsidiary innogy SE is responsible for business involvURANIT (50%), which holds a 33% interest in the uranium ing renewable energy, distribution networks and retail. enrichment specialist Urenco. Its strategy is designed to spur structural change in the energy sector. European Power Our electricity generation from gas, hard coal and biomass Renewables: innogy SE plans, builds and operates facilities is subsumed under this segment. Here, the geographic focus for the generation of electricity from renewable sources. is on Germany, the United Kingdom and the Benelux region. In terms of generating capacity, the company’s strongest The segment also contains our 70% stake in the Denizli presence is currently in Germany and the United Kingdom, gas-fired power plant in Turkey, some hydroelectric power followed by Spain, the Netherlands and Poland. In terms of plants in Germany and Luxembourg and RWE Technology energy sources, the focus is on onshore and offshore wind, International GmbH, which specialises in project manageas well as hydroelectric power. ment and engineering services. All of these activities are overseen by RWE Generation SE. Grid & Infrastructure: Networks are the backbone of the energy transition, and their operators can generally earn Energy Trading stable returns. innogy SE manages electricity distribution This segment encompasses the multi-faceted activities of grids in Germany, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. Moreover, RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, which acts as the commercial it is active in the gas distribution grid business in Germany, centre for the RWE Group. Its core business, energy trading, the Czech Republic and Croatia. forms the economic link between the elements of our value chain, the regional markets and the various energy commodRetail: At the end of last year, innogy SE supplied 15.9 million ities. RWE Supply & Trading GmbH concentrates on trading customers with electricity and around 6.6 million with gas in in electricity, natural gas, coal, oil, CO2 certificates and bioeleven European markets. Our subsidiary is one of the largest mass. It increasingly conducts these activities outside of suppliers of electricity and gas in Germany, the Netherlands Europe, for example in New York, Singapore and Mumbai. and the United Kingdom. It has a leading position in at least The company is also responsible for sourcing the fuel needed one of these products in several other European markets. 09 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Company size Unit 2017 2016 Workforce FTE 59,547 58,652 Headcount1 63,545 62,598 Total number of business locations2 Countries 24 24 Externa revenue (with natural-gas/electricity tax) € billion 44.6 45.8 Equity € billion 12.0 8.0 Net debt € billion 20.2 22.7 Lignite produced (opencast Rhenish mining area) million mt 91.3 90.5 External electricity sales volume 3 billion kWh 261.1 264.6 External gas sales volume billion kWh 254.1 265.1 1 Employees and apprentices 2 Number of countries in which fully consolidated companies and joint operations of the RWE Group have their registered office. 3 For data on electricity generation see Key Sustainability Indicators, page 86. Number of residential, industrial, and innogy Sustainability Report, GRI 102-7, page 15. commercial customers The size of the customer base in our Energy Trading segOur subsidiary innogy SE is able to build on a broad customer ment is significantly less. However, even today it generates base in all its markets. In 2017, the residential and commercial around 14% of electricity and around 11% of gas sales, see customer segment essentially included a total of 15.9 million RWE Annual Report 2017, page 44. electricity customers and 6.6 million gas customers, see the Residential and Industrial and External electricity sales volume commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total in billion kWh 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lignite & Nuclear 0.2 0.2 12.0 12.5 12.2 12.7 European Power 2.2 2.4 5.2 5.0 7.4 7.4 Energy Trading 35.6 30.3 35.6¹ 39.3¹ innogy SE 50.4 52.3 70.7 73.5 84.8 79.3 205.9 205.1 RWE Group2 50.6 52.6 108.5 106.2 102.0 96.8 261.1 264.6 1 Including volume effects arising from the sales of self-generated electricity on the wholesale market. If these sales volumes are greater than the purchases sourced from third-party utilities for retail purposes, the difference in sales is taken into account. In the business year 2017, this was not the case. By contrast there was a positive balance of 9.0 billion kWh in 2016. 2 Including lower volumes recorded under “Other consolidation”. Residential and Industrial and External gas sales volume commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total in billion kWh 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Energy Trading – 26.8 24.7 0.7 0.3 27.5 25.0 innogy SE 100.6 102.9 67.6 83.1 58.4 54.1 226.6 240.1 RWE Group 100.6 102.9 94.4 107.8 59.1 54.4 254.1 265.1 Further information on the company is also available in the Key Sustainability Indicators, page 86. 10 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Headcount of employees 2017 2016 Women Men Total Women Men Total Germany 8,585 29,991 38,576 8,343 29,686 38,029 United Kingdom 3,659 5,098 8,757 3,570 5,011 8,581 Netherlands/Belgium 1,050 2,337 3,387 1,057 2,356 3,413 Central Eastern/South Eastern Europe 4,258 8,360 12,618 4,042 8,340 12,382 Other countries 44 163 207 43 150 193 RWE Group 17,596 45,949 63,545 17,055 45,543 62,598 Part-time employees 5,193 4,841 Full-time employees 58,352 57,757 Permanent contract 59,805 59,121 Fixed-term contract 3,740 3,477 RWE only contracts a small proportion of employees from subcontractors to carry out operational functions on a permanent basis. We contract them for service and service packages, and for construction and assembly work. GRI 102-9 Supply chain Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of When purchasing goods, services and plant components hard coal, gas and biomass, as well as trading in combustion for our business operations, RWE is in direct contact with fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised products service providers and suppliers. In 2017, the procurement with defined quality attributes on international wholesale volume of the RWE Group without innogy SE was approximarkets. These markets are the most important source of mately € 1.9 billion. In order to meet the differing requireprocurement. The procurement volume of combustion fuels ments relating to procurement, we have adjusted our (hard coal, natural gas and biomass) was around € 6.8 billion processes and ensure compliance with our sustainability in 2017. requirements in the supply chain, see GRI 204, page 36. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain See GRI 102-6, page 8 for material organisational changes. 11 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Identifying, assessing and managing risks at the earliest The Internal Auditing ensures compliance with the RWE Code possible stage are the functions of the Controlling & Risk of Conduct in the course of the audits carried out. The Management Department at RWE AG. This includes our principles of the Code of Conduct are included in the audit Group-wide reporting and controlling processes. It also encom­ criteria. The Chief Compliance Officer reports on this matter passes our guidelines on handling risks, and risk analysis regularly to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit within the scope of strategic, planning and controlling proCommittee of the Supervisory Board. cesses. The activities of the Risk Committee and Internal Auditing are also fundamental tenets of this work alongside For more information on risk management see the reporting on the basis of the Act on Control and Transparency RWE Annual Report 2017, page 74. of Enterprise (KonTraG). We invest regularly in environmental protection. We have divided our expenses by areas of activity. Environmental protection expenses in € million 2017 2016 Air pollution control 203 217 Nature conservation and protection of the landscape 59 164 Water protection 134 176 Waste disposal 253 317 Noise abatement 9 7 Polluted sites, soil contamination 1 2 Climate protection 988 1,060 Total 1,647 1,944 GRI 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact and SDG Bettercoal Initiative Since January 2004, the RWE Group has been a member of the Cooperating with other energy companies is absolutely „Global Compact“ (GC) set up by former General Secretary essential in order to be in a position to exert more pressure of the United Nations Kofi Annan. By signing up to the ten and achieve sustainable production and transport condiprinciples underlying the Global Compact, RWE made a comtions in the supply chain for hard coal. In 2012, we joined mitment to human rights and labour standards, promoting forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the environmental protection in its business operations, and Bettercoal Initiative. By the end of 2017, 13 of the big preventing corruption. We present the contribution we have European energy companies were already members of made to global implementation of the principles of the Bettercoal. The Dutch ports also joined the initiative as associGlobal Compact in an annual Progress Report. We also present ate members. Bettercoal audits hard-coal production sites our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) throughout the world and makes the results for assessment adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 in the of its suppliers available to its members, see Appendix to this report on page 89. GRI 204, page 37. 12 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-13 Membership of associations We are an active member of a large number of different QQ Energy UK committees and specialist associations as part of our social, QQ Eurogas environmental and business responsibility. The following QQ German-Russian Forum (Deutsch-Russisches Forum e. V.) memberships are important for RWE AG (in alphabetical order): QQ IEA Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme QQ IETA (International Emissions Trading Association) QQ Bettercoal Ltd. QQ If.E Innovation Forum for the Energy Transition of IG BCE QQ BDEW German Association of Energy and Water Industries (Innovationsforum Energiewende lf.E der IG BCE) (Bundesverband der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e. V.) QQ Promotion Group for German Industry QQ DEBRIV – Federal Lignite Association (Förderkreis der Deutschen Industrie e. V.) (Bundesverband Braunkohle) QQ Sustainable Biomass Program QQ DICO – German Institute for Compliance QQ VdV – Association of the German Integrated Economy (Deutsches Institut für Compliance e. V.) (Verband der Deutschen Verbundwirtschaft e. V.) QQ DIIR – German Institute for Internal Auditing QQ VRB – Association of Raw Materials and Mining (Deutsches Institut für Interne Revision e. V.) (Vereinigung Rohstoffe und Bergbau e. V). QQ econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of the QQ World Energy Council, Weltenergierat German Economy (Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e. V.) For memberships of innogy see QQ EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders GRI 102-13 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 18. QQ Energy Netherlands (Energie Nederland) 13 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See Foreword, page 5. GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities A few years ago, the European Union already launched An analysis of material topics for the RWE Group is carried new legislation with the focus on reporting non-financial out in preparation for drawing up the CR Report each year. aspects of a company and their impacts, risks and oppor­ This includes a survey of selected stakeholders. The particutunities. On 15 November 2013, this regulation came into larly relevant individual topics were identified in the analysis force and was then transferred into German law. The as encompassing the aspects of environmental concerns, CSR Directive Implementation Act came into force on employee concerns, social concerns, protecting human rights, 19 April 2017 and is relevant for the first time in relation to anti-corruption and combatting bribery. innogy prepared a reporting for the year 2017. separate materiality analysis on the basis of the specific business model. The core of the new legislation is the obligation for large companies geared to the capital market to draw up and First and foremost, key sustainability impacts were identipublish a non-financial declaration in the Management fied as the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) associated with Report or a separate non-financial group report in a different conventional power generation that guarantees a secure document. The intention of this is to reporting information energy supply. These currently frame the debate in the public apart from the financial indicators more clearly about the domain and shape the direction of government policy. Other business model and the associated opportunities and risks. aspects of sustainability impacts are protection of our plants – The aim is to publish information that is necessary to undersafe technical operation and protection against cyber-attacks. stand the business performance, business results, position Another focus is on occupational health and safety. This and impacts of the activity of the company on the environrelates to our own employees and for employees of subconment and society. RWE has therefore decided to use tractors commissioned by us. A great deal of attention is individual blue sections of the CR Report as modules for focused on the area of compliance, and the sustainability the separate non-financial group report and to publish requirements in the supply chain, in particular in the case of them in the CR Report. The CR Report of RWE AG is pubhard coal. lished as a GRI Report and conforms with the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in a selection based The sections Emissions (greenhouse gas emissions) and on the Materiality Analysis of the topics relevant for our busiCompliance (environment) therefore constitute the contriness. In the non-financial report, we have also used the GRI bution to environmental concerns, part of the section on Standards as a frame­work for the materiality analysis and the Occupational Health and Safety encompass the aspect of concepts. In addition, we also report on the materiality Employee concerns, the section on Procurement deals with of corresponding in-depth topics based on the GRI requirea number of areas including the aspect of protecting human ments for the electricity industry, which were formerly applirights. Anti-corruption and combatting bribery is addressed cable as the G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures, and no in the section of the same name. Social concerns such as longer form part of the GRI Standards dialogue with our local stakeholders or information about relocation and recultivation in the Rhine-Ruhr region are a We have already provided information in the past about the constituent element of our CR Report but they are less relevant content in relation to the aspects now required under statutory in the perception of stakeholders. We have therefore not legislation. The selection of the sections for the non-financial included this section in the non-financial group report. group report was carried out in conjunction with the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, and reflects assess­ments Each year, an analysis of the material topics for the RWE of stakeholders presented in this section as a whole. Group without innogy SE is carried out in preparation for drawing up the CR Report, see GRI 102-47, page 24, including a survey of selected stakeholders. The following particularly relevant individual topics were identified in the 14 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix analysis of the aspects of environmental concerns, employee new Federal Government and the new Dutch Government, concerns, social concerns, protection of human rights, antiand Brexit. corruption and combatting bribery. Climate protection and the security of our plants were attributed the highest imporOther aspects of sustainability impacts in this area are protance overall: tection of our plants – safe technical operation and protection against cyber-attacks – decommissioning of nuclear QQ Environment power plants, and high-quality recultivation and reinstate– CO2 emissions at power plants, contribution to achieving ment of opencast mines that are no longer used. In 2017, political climate goals, innovative products and services, the Act on Responsibility for Nuclear Disposal ratified by NOx and mercury emissions, interventions in the landthe Federal Government came into force. scape and nature, efficiency of power plants and systems QQ Work Another focus is on occupational health and safety. This – Occupational accidents, healthcare promotion and relates to our own employees and to employees of sub­ overcoming stress contractors commissioned by us. Alongside the issue of QQ Society occupational accidents, it also covers basic healthcare –P  rotection of infrastructure against cyber-attacks, promotion in the company. Furthermore, a great deal of transparency in political communication, safety and attention is focused on the area of compliance, and the protection of nuclear power plants, new storage sustainability requirements in the supply chain, in particular technologies, dialogue with critics, regional partnerin the case of hard coal and biomass. ships and cooperative ventures QQ Human rights The business model and alignment of the RWE Group with–O  rigin of imported hard coal out innogy SE also present a range of diverse opportunities. QQ Anti-corruption We are confident that conventional power generation will – Implementation and monitoring of the continue to be the partner of the energy transition in Europe RWE Code of Conduct for many years to come. Our power plant portfolio places us in a good position to support this. We will deploy our power The topic areas identified in this analysis determine the plant portfolio even more flexibly and provide the urgently definition of the focus in this report. needed backup capacities for the expansion of renewable energy. We will develop storage facilities as a key module for Key sustainability impacts from the RWE Group without the energy transition and evaluate the expansion of our storinnogy SE primarily result from the greenhouse gas emissions age portfolio on a regular basis. We will also develop new associated with conventional power generation to guarantee business activities with our know-how in generation and a secure energy supply. These currently frame the debate in trading business. the public domain and shape the direction of government policy. In future, these emissions will be reduced continuWe require the acceptance of the society in order to be ously. Important factors driving this process include further successful over the long term – starting with government, expansion of renewable energy, the reformed European continuing through associations and employees, and includemissions trading system and the implementation of our ing environmental and consumer organisations. With this plan to reduce CO2 emissions, for example by transferring end in mind, we are continuously engaging in discussion in older lignite-fired units to legally-mandated security standby, the public domain and monitoring the positions of our stakesee further information about this under Shutdown and holders in relation to all issues of sustainability. This is carDecommissioning of Power Plants, page 46. Our nitrogen ried out through focused communication with colleagues oxide and mercury emissions will also decline. Opportunities from the relevant specialist departments and the companies and risks result from a number of factors including the rollin the various countries where we operate. The key task is to out of the German Climate Protection Plan 2050 expected in integrate the fundamental concepts of Corporate Responsi2018, implementation of the coalition agreements of the bility in all our business processes and generate value added from them for the RWE Group. 15 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour At RWE we are well aware of our role in the community and with contractual partners and is intended to give a unified of our responsibility towards customers and business partfoundation for the contractual relationship. ners, as well as shareholders and employees. We therefore have clearly defined principles which form the framework for Responsible management and supervision of the company our corporate and community engagement. The focus of rank among the cornerstones for long-term success. Our our actions is on the common values of trust, passion and benchmark is provided by the German Corporate Governance performance. They ensure a unified, overarching identity. Code in the relevant latest version. We fully comply with the These values are supplemented by the RWE Code of Conduct recommendations of the code – and this strengthens the and the principles for good conduct defined in the Code. trust placed in us by our investors, customers, employees The Code also establishes the benchmark for collaboration and the general public. GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Every single employee is encouraged to be proactive in This contact is available for employees and also accepts bringing any issues relating to our Code of Conduct and information from third parties outside the company, for compliance with the code to the attention of their super­ example suppliers or other business partners. Notifications visor and/or the responsible compliance officer. The same relating to any potential breaches are recorded by the Comapplies to any indications relating to breaches of the Code pliance Department. Each case is reviewed by the Group of Conduct. Compliance officers are appointed for all divisions function responsible, and any remedial measures necessary and Group companies, and they are always available as are initiated in the context of a systematic follow-up process. points of contact for such matters. They in particular receive information about issues relating to prevention of corruption. Our external ombudsperson has so far recorded all notifi­ Contact details for compliance officers are available on the cations and complaints relating to negative environmental, Intranet. social and human-rights impacts, and relating to working practices. Assessments cannot currently be provided. In Notifications of any breaches of the Code of Conduct can 2017, various options were reviewed for an expanded be forwarded to supervisors or compliance officers through reporting system. These included the goal of providing a range of different channels. It is also possible to contact informative assessments. an independent external ombudsperson by phone or email. 16 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure The governance of RWE AG as a German joint-stock company Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Strategy listed on the stock exchange is primarily determined by the Committee. In addition, there is also a special committee Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) and also by the regu“Newco IPO Committee”. This was established at the end of lations of the German Corporate Governance Code in its 2015 and was granted powers of decision-making on details latest current version. of the initial public offering for innogy SE. Decision-making powers were also delegated to the special committee relating Pursuant to the statutory regulations, RWE is subject to the to a potential sale of shares in innogy SE by RWE up to a “dual governance system”. This is characterised by a strict level of 51%. The committees prepare topics and resolutions separation of personnel between the Executive Board as a in advance of meetings of the Supervisory Board. They management body and the Supervisory Board as a monitoring sometimes also have decision-making powers delegated to body. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board work them by the Supervisory Board. The chairs of the committees closely together in pursuing the interests of the company. regularly inform the Supervisory Board about the work of the committees, Additional detailed information on the concrete The Executive Board manages the company with the objecwork of the Supervisory Board and its committees is provided tive of generating sustainable value added under its own in the latest Supervisory Board Report in the RWE Annual responsibility. The principle of overall responsibility applies Report 2017, page 8 ff. to their work, and this means that the members of the Executive Board bear joint responsibility for the entire executive A revised version of the German Corporate Governance Code management. They develop the corporate strategy and ensure came into force on 24 April 2017. RWE has already essenimplementation in consultation with the Supervisory Board. tially met the additional requirements. Nevertheless, we took the changes to the Code as an opportunity to introduce The Supervisory Board advises the Executive Board on mana­ a provision into our Rules of Procedure relating to communiging the company and monitors its activity. It appoints and cation by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board with investors. dismisses members of the Executive Board, passes resoluFurthermore, we refined the competency profile for memtions on the compensation system for the members of the bers of the Supervisory Board establishing that at least six Executive Board and defines individual compensation packshareholder representatives have to be independent. More ages for each member. The Supervisory Board is involved in detailed information on this can be found in our latest all decisions that are fundamentally important for RWE. Corporate Governance Report, which has been published on the Internet at www.rwe.com/corporate-governance. The RWE Supervisory Board currently has five permanent committees and the Executive Committee: the Mediation For information on the governance structure of innogy see Committee pursuant to Article 27 Section 3 Co-determinaGRI 102-18 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 21. tion Act (MitbestG), the Personnel Affairs Committee, the GRI 102-19 Delegating authority Powers of attorney are granted by the Executive Board in empowered to take decisions independently within their the form of authorised officers and general agents to the sphere of responsibility, so long as a higher level of authority individual departmental and section managers who are has not reserved the right to approve certain decisions. 17 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board has adopted a portfolio distribution Acquisitions, Tax. The Group Executive Board reports to which gives specified members of the Executive Board the Supervisory Board of the company as the highest responsibility for various topics. The current portfolio distrigovernance body. bution provides for the following powers of responsibility over economic, environmental and social topics: The ChairThe Group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate man of the Executive Board deals with the group-level Responsibility is coordinated by the Group Corporate Responresponsibilities Corporate Business Development, Corporate sibility Department within the Group Communication & Transformation, Group Communications & Energy Policy, Energy Policy Department. The Head of the Group CommuGroup Strategy, Human Resources, Internal Audit & Complinication & Energy Policy Department reports directly to the ance, Legal. Since 1 May 2017, the Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer. In 2017, representatives of the RWE has also held the role of Labour Director. The responsibilities AG and the key operating companies came together several of the Chief Financial Officer include Accounting, Business times in relation to specific themes in order to swap experiServices, Controlling & Risk Management, Finance & Credit ences and to agree activities jointly. Risk, Investor Relations, Portfolio Management, Mergers & GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Each shareholder has the right to submit a countermotion The publication of the business results is accompanied by an with substantiation against the proposals put forward by investors’ and analysts’ teleconference. In 2017, a Capital the Executive Board and/or the Supervisory Board on a Market Day was also held in London. Additionally, managers specific agenda item at the Annual General Meeting. Sharetake part in Group roadshows and participate in conferences. holders whose shares taken together make up one twentieth In accordance with the recommendations of the German Corof the entire share capital or a proportionate amount of porate Governance Code, the Chairman of the Supervisory € 500,000 can demand that items are placed on the agenda Board is regularly available to investors for discussions about and announced. matters specifically relating to the Supervisory Board. GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees The Supervisory Board is a non-executive supervisory body. A presentation of the Executive Board and the Supervisory It consists of 20 members, ten of which are elected by the Board is provided in the description of the governance bodAnnual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of the ies in the RWE Annual Report 2017, page 185 ff. German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Ten of the It provides an overview of the number of other important members are elected by the employees pursuant to the positions or obligations held by the individual persons and Co-determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) dated 4 May the type of the obligations. 1976 (MitbestG). In accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act, the period of office for current members of the In order to ensure a fit and proper composition of the SuperSupervisory Board continues until the end of the Annual visory Board, the Supervisory Board resolved to draw up a General Meeting which passes a resolution on the discharge competence profile. As envisaged in the German Stock Corfor the actions of the Supervisory Board for the fourth busiporation Act and in the German Corporate Governance ness year after the commencement of the period of office. Code, the aim is to make appointments to the Supervisory The periodic new elections for the Supervisory Board are Board so as to ensure provision of expert monitoring and therefore planned for 2021. At the moment, the Supervisory consultation. The objective is for at least one member of the Board of RWE AG includes six women, of which three were Supervisory Board to be able to provide expertise for each elected by the employees. RWE AG therefore complies with aspect of the activity of the Supervisory Board. This means the statutory gender quota of 30%. that the necessary knowledge and experience is reflected by the Supervisory Board as a whole. Furthermore, the Supervi18 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix sory Board intends to ensure that it includes members with need to be willing to engage in a learning curve to acquire international experience who come from outside Germany or the necessary knowledge and skills. The needs profile also who have spent a considerable number of years working in includes special areas of expertise and qualifications that other countries. Members of the Supervisory Board are are important for the business activities. This may include expected to be familiar with the business areas of the RWE e.g. experience from an international activity or manageGroup, the market landscape, the needs of customers and ment functions in politics and business, know-how in areas the strategic direction of the company. They should possess of the energy sector, employee co-determination, accountall the skills and know-how necessary for their activity as a ing or auditing, and expertise in the public sector. member of the Supervisory Board including assessment of reports provided by the Executive Board, weighing up busiYou will find more information in the ness decisions and evaluating the documents associated RWE Annual Report 2017, page 8 f., with the annual financial statements. Alternatively, they and on our Webpage. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Dr Werner Brandt is not simultaneously a member of the Executive Board. He has also not been a member of the Executive Board of RWE AG in the past. GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body As defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory clusion, the amendment and the termination of contracts of Board, the Nomination Committee convenes as necessary employment with the members of the Executive Board. This and proposes suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board work does not include the decisions reserved for the Superas its nominations for election by the Annual General Meetvisory Board pursuant to Article 87 Section 1 and Section 2 ing. When the committee selects the nomination proposals, Sentence 1 and Sentence 2 Stock Corporation Act (AktG), it takes into account the international operations of the although the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the company, potential conflicts of interest, and diversity. There groundwork for such decisions. Furthermore, the committee is also a competence and needs profile for members of the regularly gives advice on long-term succession planning for Supervisory Board which is intended to ensure a heterogethe Executive Board. In this context, the committee takes neous composition of the Supervisory Board, see account of planning for the management of the company GRI 102-22, page 17. and also considers the need for diversity. For purposes of making appointments to the Executive Board, the SuperviAs is also defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board has adopted a requirements profile for members sory Board, the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the of the Executive Board in accordance with the recommendagroundwork for decisions on personnel by the Supervisory tions of the German Corporate Governance Code. This also Board. The committee makes decisions on behalf of the takes account of the requirements for diversity relating to Supervisory Board in a number of areas, including the conthis governance body. GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest Transparency is a core element of good corporate governance. sented in the Supervisory Board of innogy SE. In the business It is absolutely indispensable in cases where transactions year 2017, there were no decisions requiring the passing of concluded by the Executive Board may lead to conflicts of a resolution which led to actual conflicts of interest. The interest. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board also members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board addressed the issue of double mandates in the Group. This did not therefore register any conflicts of interest. Furthercan arise if a member of the Executive Board of RWE AG and more, no contracts were concluded between members of members of the Supervisory Board of RWE AG are also reprethe Supervisory Board and RWE AG. 19 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The memberships in other governance bodies held by bodies in the RWE Annual Report 2017, page 185 ff. members of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are RWE AG has no controlling shareholder. Transactions with disclosed transparently in the presentation of governance related parties are included in financial reporting. GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategies We have created long-term incentives for sustainable corpofor the Executive Board has been linked to CR indicators, see rate governance in which part of the variable compensation GRI 102-36, page 20. GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts See GRI 102-31, page 19. GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The Executive Board of RWE AG holds the principal responsireports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board bility for our risk management system. The board monitors of RWE AG on the risk position of the Group. and manages the overall risk of the Group. The responsibility for applying and developing the risk management system is The Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the quality at the level below the Executive Board with the Controlling and the functional capability of the risk management system. & Risk Management of RWE AG. This department regularly GRI 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics The Executive Board of RWE AG is informed immediately if services firm in accordance with IDW Audit Standard 980. there are any significant changes to the risk situation. The The efficacy audit was successfully completed at year-end management and supervisory bodies are informed about the 2013/2014. The Chief Compliance Officer reports at regular risk situation as part of quarterly reporting. intervals to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on compliance-relevant The entrepreneurial actions of RWE are defined by integrity issues. This includes in principle all the topic areas of the and compliance with the law. The RWE Code of Conduct sets Code of Conduct and provides consolidated information out the targets and principles for this and forms the basis about this. Every manager with disciplinary responsibility for the corporate culture. The Compliance Management additionally needs to submit an annual report on implementaSystem focuses in particular on the identification of potential tion of the Code of Conduct in his/her area of responsibility. structural risks of corruption. The Compliance Management In 2018, a further review of the Compliance Management System for anti-corruption was audited by a professional System is planned by a professional services firm. GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The section of the report marked in blue writing presents the Super­visory Board of RWE AG. The remaining section the implementation of the non-financial group report of the report was checked and approved by the Executive required under statutory regulations. It was audited by Board of RWE AG. 20 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration The performance of individual Executive Board members is Further details on the compensation policy and criteria for considered by multiplying the company bonus by a perforthe Executive Board, including disclosures on components of mance factor. It may vary between 0.8 and 1.2. The value the compensation package, are included in the compensaachieved depends on the following criteria, each of which tion report in the RWE Annual Report 2017, page 63 ff. is weighted by one-third: (1) achievement of the individual This takes account of all statutory regulations and follows targets, (2) collective performance of the Executive Board, all the recommendations of the German Corporate Governand (3) performance in corporate responsibility (CR) and ance Code. employee motivation. Success in CR depends on the achievement of environmental and social goals and is documented in our sustainability reporting. 21 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our company regularly engages in communication in differWe also seek contact with players who are otherwise ent ways with customers, academics, politicians, representinvolved in issues relating to the energy industry, as well as atives of environmental organisations, local government the corporate activities of RWE and its impacts on society agencies, neighbours around our locations and other citizens. as a whole. GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 99.8% of the employees of the RWE Group work in Europe Our business partners are required to acknowledge the and are represented by the European Works Council. The Code of Conduct and therefore to accept the principles of RWE and the innogy Social Charters cover 100% of our the United Nations Global Compact, which include the right employees. to collective bargaining. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations we holders have of RWE are nuanced and defined by their have relationships with and engage in dialogue with. We attitude to energy issues and the extent to which those also regard individuals and entities who seek communication stakeholders are affected by energy, climate and other topics with us, or who are interested in our company, as stakerelevant for the company. The different countries show a holders. There is no prior selection process. In order to identify varying basic attitude to topics associated with these topics. the various aspirations and take account of them in our corpoTheir views are informed by a number of factors including rate policy, we are in continuous dialogue with our stakethe individual national background. holders and open to their concerns. Expectations that stakeGRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable follow our projects and activities with a great deal of interest, ideas for the orientation of our corporate activities. Since perhaps because they are looking for positive effects to give the energy world is going through a process of change, it upside impact on the local economy. Alternatively, they may is particularly important for us to discuss expectations and be anxious about negative effects on their own lives and projections about the future of energy supply with external their surrounding environment. We meet these expectations stakeholders. At the same time, this dialogue provides us with a transparent information policy, an honest exchange with the opportunity to reflect and convey our company of views and an interest in constructive proposals. At national decisions and underlying motivation more effectively. level, we engage in discussions with our stakeholders in particular on the following issues: our contribution to the energy The dialogue takes place at different levels. We engage transition and climate change, the future of the generation in discussions about company activities at local level with mix and the energy market, sustainability in international neighbouring residents and citizen’s initiatives. These consupply relationships and a responsible approach to our versations might relate to, for example, construction meascustomers and the environment. ures and approval proceedings. Local residents frequently 22 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised In 2017 as in the previous year, the dominant issue in the the event series “Lake | Countryside | City – Scope for context of the dialogue with stakeholders continued to be Opportunities in the Rhenish mining area” was continued the contributions that the energy industry can make to this year, focusing on the topic “Living Locations of the achieving the national and international climate change Future – Resource-efficient living in a rural area”. targets, and the role that conventional power generation is able to play in the energy transition, and particularly with The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) respect to security of supply. We engaged in an intensive Niederaußem, which RWE set up at the power plant there, dialogue at all levels on this issue with a large number of continued to receive a positive reception. The forum offers representatives from the political sphere, business, unions neighbours, associations and other local stakeholders the and the general public, for example on reform of the Euroopportunity to engage in discussion with RWE about issues pean Emissions Trading Scheme or on the future design of related to power generation and power plants with particular the European electricity market. For information on the reference to the Niederaußem site. In 2017, the forum met organisation of the content see GRI 305, page 55 and twice. The agenda focused on the topic of structural change GRI 415, page 79. in the region, perspectives on the use of CO2 as a material, as well as security of supply and the expansion of renewable One example of dialogue was local and regional forums. energy in the RWE Group. Interaction in the Rhineland lignite mining area took place at the level of local authorities and at meetings of elected Following a break in 2017, we intend to resume the energy politicians. Alongside issues relating to the energy transition conversation with local stakeholders in 2018 in the context and climate protection, key topics were security of supply, of our Inden opencast mine and extend this forum to other job security and perspectives for the future at the locations. parts of the Rhenish mining area. Topics relating to long-term reinstatement were discussed at specialist conferences such as the Specialist Conference In 2017, we additionally held regular power plant discussions on Biodiversity in Recultivation and the water management at our nuclear power locations. The events are used to inform conference dealing with lakes at opencast sites. politicians and the media about operations at the location. We also rolled out a Transparency Initiative at all three locaAnother area of increasing involvement was the innovation tions. The objective of this is to create even more transparregion in the Rhenish mining area, which supports the ency in the future for providing information to various structural change in this area. A representative of regional special-interest groups about licensing procedures RWE Power AG is a Member of the Supervisory Board of the currently under way. Openness in relation to planning for Innovationsregion Rheinisches Revier GmbH. Furthermore, decommissioning and the process involved is also part of RWE participates in a large number of different projects and this approach. initiatives in the areas of opencast mining to shape the region, for example the development company Indeland GmbH. In We continue to hold regular events at national and European 2017, we continued the support commitments in favour of level, for example our RWE Talks. These are also held jointly the Indeland development company until the end of the with innogy SE. In 2017, they took place in Berlin and in year 2021. In December, we established the Special Purpose Brussels. Members of the Executive Board and Managing Association Zweckverband Tagebaufolge(n)landschaft Directors reported in this forum on the latest developments Garzweiler which will promote the structural change regionally. in the energy industry and held discussions with a wide range of different special-interest groups. The discussion An important part of the structural change in the region is topics included the new integrated regulations of the EU for also resource-efficient building. RWE is playing a proactive the entire value chain of the energy industry and the posirole in organising this. In accordance with these activities, tion of the parties in the year of the election. 23 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Over the course of 2017, representatives of RWE in the Innovation. Furthermore, we held local stakeholder meetUnited Kingdom engaged in a dialogue on a variety of issues ings at our power plant locations in Geertruidenberg and relating to energy and environmental policy with the regu­ Eemshaven. We also organised a meeting with the new latory authorities and politicians. As in 2016, one of the topics intake of elected parliamentarians in order to explain our centred on national implementation of the EU Directive on efforts in the area of sustainability in the hard-coal supply Industrial Emissions and the associated reference document chain and present the work carried out by Bettercoal. which came into force in the middle of 2017. This elucidates the best available technology for combustion plants (LCP BREF). For information on the stakeholder dialogues of innogy SE Discussions were also held with the Federal Ministry for see GRI 102-43 and GRI 102-44 in the innogy Sustain­ Economic Affairs, Energy and Industrial Strategy and with ability Report, page 26 ff. representatives from academia on a variety of topics including BREXIT, its shape and the potential impacts on the energy Results of surveys on customer satisfaction industry. A great deal of attention in these discussions was We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in also devoted to topics such as the development of the British new products and to recommend our company to other capacity market and the future regulation of CO2. Furtherpeople. Our stated objective is to be accepted by them as more, we participated in the government consultation on a service provider and supplier, and also as a partner who the exit from generation of electricity from hard coal by the can work with them to create individual solutions. Our usual year 2025. high level of product quality, fast and streamlined processes, and competitive prices continue to remain our top priorities RWE was also in regular contact with a large number of in this relationship. regional and national stakeholders in the Netherlands. These included parliamentarians, politicians, NGOs and An energy dialogue held every year is directed towards academics. In particular, we contributed to the discussion retaining loyalty. This has provided us with a great deal of about the ongoing climate protection policy to achieve the constructive feedback from our customers. Alongside our climate goals for 2030 and 2050. In this context, we particicommodity solutions, we have received a lot of praise for pated in preparing the groundwork for the new national our energy market analyses and the accounting systems, climate and energy agreement, which the new government and we have also been able to bring improvement proposals coalition has launched and which is scheduled to be comand new ideas to the table. We evaluate these and put them pleted by the end of 2018. In addition, RWE – together with into practice. Our energy dialogue is an excellent platform the chemicals industry and other industrial sectors – is in order to exchange views with energy experts on the involved in the development of a bio-based economy in the energy market and on the framework of energy policy. The Netherlands. RWE is also part of the Zambezi Consortium Energy Talks launched last year for the Benelux countries alongside Avantium, the national forestry authority, AkzoNobel have provided the corresponding counterpart. The next and ChemEurope. The aim is to develop bio-based plastics scheduled meeting for 2018 is planned in Antwerp. Communiand use the by-products as efficiently as possible. If the cation with our customers relates to the new strategy of transition to a bio-based economy is to be structured successRWE Supply & Trading GmbH, innovative areas like Blockchain fully, companies and organisations need to form new value and the “Green Power Purchase Agreements” through to chains and develop new forms of cooperation. To this end, market analyses. RWE is organising a series of events known as “Energy Fields” to which we invite selected players from the bio­ innogy SE also regularly measures customer loyalty and economy. Three events held in the year 2017 concentrated customer satisfaction. For more information on this see on various aspects of the bio-based economy: Business Case GRI 102-43 and GRI 102-44 in the innogy Sustainability Biorefinery, the Role of the Consumer, and Startup and Report, page 26 ff. 24 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix APPROACH TO REPORTING GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See list in the RWE Annual Report 2017 on pages 153 ff. GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our management of Corporate Responsibility and reportconcerns, protection of human rights, and anti-corruption ing take into account the relevant issues that we have deterand bribery. Prior to disseminating the questionnaire, we mined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach laid the groundwork and allocated a total of 16 topics to corresponds to the current GRI Standards of the Global these aspects that we had identified from the familiar set Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this report. of expectations relating to our company that we were aware of and from the GRI Standards and the CR Report from the So as to determine the material topics for sustainable corpoprevious year, see GRI 102-47, page 24. Our considerarate governance at RWE, we have focused on the topics that tions included their individual importance for our business, are particularly relevant for our external and internal stakeour stakeholders and the associated impacts. Additional holders. Our approach initially involved talking to 15 represub-topics were also allocated to all the topics so as to sentatives of civic organisations and institutions within the achieve maximally comprehensive coverage of all the relevant framework of the materiality analysis. They came from issues. These could be supplemented by our internal and organisations in Germany, the United Kingdom and the external stakeholders. A distinction was also drawn between Netherlands. These stakeholder groups represent the topics topics where the biggest potential change was in the comand expectations that our group is confronted with. Twelve pany itself and topics that primarily affected our supply internal stakeholders were also consulted from those departchain or our business relationships. ments at RWE which are likely to make a tangible contribution to our sustainability management. The individual interviews to survey the assessment of our shareholders were carried out by CR process owners in the We used a standardised questionnaire to survey these RWE companies. Feedback we received from our stakeholders stakeholders and collect information about aspects relating focused on the medium to long-term perspectives of RWE. to environmental concerns, employees’ concerns, social GRI 102-47 List of material topics The topics below present the results of our Materiality Analysis chain and therefore take place outside our company. Nevercarried out in 2017. We draw a distinction in the presentation theless, we are indirectly associated with these stages and of the analysis between the value-chain phases in which we are able to exert an influence on them within the individthe key impacts of the topic are generated. RWE is not ually defined framework. We can also directly manage the responsible for process steps and their impacts which impacts that are caused within our company. involve upstream and downstream activities in our value 25 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Overview of the material topics and where their impacts are caused: Consumption phase/ Upstream value downstream value Material topics Corresponding GRI topics generation phase RWE generation phase Environmental concerns Biodiversity Quality of recultivation GRI 304 – Biodiversity Interventions in the landscape GRI 304 – Biodiversity and nature GRI 304 – Biodiversity Origin of the biomass used in GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental power plants Assessment Climate protection CO2 emissions in power plants GRI 305 – Emissions GRI 417 – Marketing and Labelling Contribution to achieving GRI 201 – Economic Performance political climate goals GRI 305 – Emissions Emissions (apart from greenhouse gases) NOX emissions from power plants GRI 305 – Emissions Mercury emissions from power GRI 305 – Emissions plants Energy Efficiency Efficiency of power plants and GRI 302 – Energy systems Innovative products and services Energy efficient products and services, research and development, GRI 302 – Energy Water Water consumption in power plants GRI 303 – Water and opencast mines Lowering of the groundwater table GRI 303 – Water by opencast mining Waste Nuclear energy intermediate GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste storage and repository Decommissioning of nuclear GRI 306 – Effluents and Waste, power plants shutdowns and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of mining locations Environmental Management Safe operation of power plants and GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance opencast mines Environmental protection targets GRI 307 – Environmental Compliance Employee concerns Occupational Health and Safety Occupational accidents GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety Healthcare promotion and GRI 403 – Occupational Health overcoming stress and Safety Labour Relations Job cuts and reorganisation GRI 401 – Employment GRI 402 – Labour/Management Relations GRI 404 – Training and Education 26 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Consumption phase/ Upstream value downstream value Material topics Corresponding GRI topics generation phase RWE generation phase Diversity Avoidance of discrimination GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promotion of diversity GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity Social concerns Catastrophe/Emergency Planning Security and protection of Catastrophe/Emergency planning nuclear power plants and response Protection of infrastructure Catastrophe/Emergency planning against cyber-attacks and response Availability and Reliability Making the power plant portfolio Availability and reliability more flexible New storage technologies Availability and reliability Regional Relationships Regional partnerships and GRI 203 – Indirect Economic Impacts cooperations GRI 413 – Local communities Dialogue with critics GRI 102-44 – Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Relationships with Politics Transparency in political GRI 415 – Public Policy communication Respect for human rights Supplier Selection and Assessment General respect for human rights GRI 204 – Procurement in the supply chain GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment Origin of imported hard coal GRI 204 – Procurement Anti-corruption and combatting bribery Anti-corruption, combatting bribery and granting and accepting advantages Implementation and monitoring GRI 205 – Anti-corruption of the Code of Conduct Code of Conduct in international GRI 205 – Anti-corruption projects 27 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-48 Restatements of information The business segments will now be shown separately in for RWE without innogy SE. For more information see this report. Disclosures in parts of this report are only made GRI 102-6, page 8. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting No material changes, see GRI 102-47, page 24. GRI 102-50 Reporting period Business year 2017: 1 January 2017 – 31 December 2017 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2017 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report RWE Aktiengesellschaft Dr Jens Wiggershaus Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility 45128 Essen Phone +49 201 12-15593 E-mail responsibility@rwe.com 28 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards “in accordance” – Core option. GRI 102-55 GRI content index This report also presented the GRI Content Index. This report tricity industry which were formerly valid as the “G4 Electric was prepared on the basis of our established reporting and Utilities Sector Disclosure” but are no longer part of the our findings from the dialogue with stakeholders. We preGRI Standards. The values were not available to us with the pared the report in accordance with the GRI Standards (2016) necessary differentiation for a number of the disclosures in order to facilitate a comparison of our services with derived from the GRI. We have provided a justification in those of other companies. We also report on far-reaching each case and used disclosures which came closest to the material topics based on the GRI requirements for the elecrequirements. GRI 102-56 External assurance The disclosures marked with were subject to a limited the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) assurance engagement performed by accountancy firm 3000 (Revised). For the Independent Practitioner’s Assurance PriceWaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ Engagement Report see page 84. gesellschaft. The audit was implemented taking into account 29 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix MATERIAL TOPICS 30 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ECONOMIC TOPICS GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges was therefore adjusted. It is based on three pillars: Our market environment and the demands of society at optimi­sation of the power plant business, utilisation of large are changing with the transition of energy systems the potential of the core business, and securing the energy in Europe. In Germany, the development of the electricity supply for the energy transition. The unambiguous target market is largely dependent on the expansion and rising of POWERING.RELIABLE. FUTURE. indicates that as a supplier feed-ins of renewable energy. These reduce the utilisation of reliable energy provision, we offer secure and affordable of conventional power plants, in particular of gas-fired power energy for economies, companies and most importantly plants but increasingly also coal-fired power plants. Renewapeople. ble energy and the development of prices for hard coal and gas together with the general economic development are In 2016, RWE created the platform for a new corporate exerting a significant influence on the wholesale prices that structure with the initial public offering for innogy SE. The electricity producers are able to achieve in the market. Our new corporate structure has enabled RWE to strengthen its revenues are determined by the utilisation and the wholefinancial position and this will improve our performance and sale prices without us being able to exert any direct influmake us more competitive. RWE will continue to optimise its ence on these parameters. The result is that the developown power plant portfolio in a consolidating market. We are ments described exert a strong impact on our earnings also going to make use of options for the additional conderived from electricity generation. At the same time, the struction of de-centralised generation plants such as power trend towards increasing electrification will cause an impact plants for customers. However, the focus is also on other on our business over the medium to long term. The growing generation, and in particular storage and flexibility solutions requirement for electricity emanating from additional appliwhich open up new opportunities for making profits especations for electricity, for example in the sectors of traffic cially in regulated business and are intended to provide and heat, will counteract falling consumption resulting from opportunities for increasing the use of electricity. Furtherincreasingly efficient use of power. more, RWE Technology International GmbH (RWE TI) is expanding the offering of independent services as a project Existing business models and processes in the energy management and engineering company to RWE in the areas industry are increasingly losing their profitability and are of mining, thermal power plants, renewable energy and no longer fit for purpose. They need to be modified by new infrastructure. ideas and in some cases even replaced, see Research and Development, page 44. The art of mastering the transition quickly is now a key competitive advantage. RWE is supporting the required Our intention is to strengthen our competitive position and and necessary internal processes of change with various convince our customers over the long term with innovative, Change Management Programmes. These are coordinated attractive and affordable products, efficiency enhancements and driven forward by the Corporate Transformation Departin our power plants and adjustments of our power plant ment, which reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. portfolio. Our central focus here is on anchoring the transformation The speed of the transition is continually accelerating. The project within the organisation. Achieving this successfully markets we are operating in demand that we undergo a conentails analysing the aspects of strategy, structure and cultinual process of transformation and development in order ture. However, our overriding aim is to treat the people who to be successful. If we are to meet these requirements in the are implementing the transformation and the organisation future, it is important to confront the challenges over the long as a social system. The success of transformation projects term with creative, motivated and competent employees. stands or falls with the willingness of the employees to support and contribute to the process. Supporting and estabOrganisation and management lishing structural and cultural transformations empowers us RWE has adopted a number of measures so that we are to make an important contribution to implementing the able to remain competitive as one of the biggest European strategy of our company. energy utilities operating in the market. Our strategy 31 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement the decision-making processes. At the same time, we In 2017, we shut down further power plants or transferred are ensuring more efficient cooperation within the them to legally-mandated security standby in order to adapt entire Group. our power plant portfolio to the market conditions, see QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP) is used to roll Shutdown of Power Plants, page 45. The NEO improveout Group-wide projects and a uniform understanding of ment programme already initiated in previous years has change and leadership. resulted in additional efficiency savings and cost reductions QQ “OHI” (Organisational Health Index) measures the DNA with conventional generation. In order to implement more of our organisation and provides insights into the efficient work processes and shorter decision-making path“health” of our company. ways in lignite mining, the Alpha Project launched in 2016 QQ Peer Group@RWE is an “exercise area” for executive and involving reorganisation of opencast mining will be employees that allows them to develop management driven forward. expertise through joined-up peer-to-peer consultation and advice based on case studies. This creates an inforAlongside the overarching restructuring of the Group and our mal, strong and convincing network throughout RWE. R&D activities, the motivator of innovations is also driving forward new conceptual and operational approaches within the A large proportion of the value added generated by us flows organisation of RWE. In 2017, measures supporting cultural back into the regions where we are operating, for example change included continuation of the following projects: in the form of tax, deductions or salaries. We thereby make a contribution to regional development. Our value added QQ The programme New Way of Working (NWoW) represents statement provides a transparent presentation of how profa new mindset and approach to carrying out work, see its are distributed, see GRI 201-1, page 31. We also make GRI 401, page 66. The project is enabling us to donations and promote sponsorship activities in the regions strengthen the orientation of our employees on perforand promote volunteering employee engagement through mance and customers, and involve them more closely in Companius, see GRI 203-2, page 35. ­GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Distribution of value added by the RWE Group in € million Total 2017 Total 2016 Total 13,899 5,329 to employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions) 4,704 4,777 to the government (taxes and deductions)1 2,892 1,920 to lenders 3,066 4,111 to other shareholders 415 226 Net income 1,900 -5,710 Dividend payment to shareholders2 922 5 1 Only the taxes paid are included, not tax expense. 2 Dividend proposal of RWE AG for the business year 2017 subject to the adoption of the resolution by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2018. Regional engagement by the RWE Group in € million Total 2017 Total 2016 Donations 2.2 2.2 Sponsorship 3.9 13.1 Volunteering 1.4 1.8 32 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Once again, climate protection was one of the key political member states, see GRI 305, page 55. At the same time, issues in 2017 and it is also crucial for RWE. Key factors in we are addressing the enormous challenges that these our business are the ongoing expansion of renewable objectives present in terms of competitiveness, innovative energy and increasing requirements for our fossil-fuel power power and financial strength. plants. Alongside reduced profits and necessary modifications in our power plant portfolio, we perceive entrepreneurial In mid-2017, the recommendations made by the Financial opportunities for us in the area of climate protection, and Stability Board of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial we intend to exploit them. Our conventional power plant Disclosures (TCFD) deployed by the G20 published recomportfolio will guarantee security for the electricity supply mendations for the type and scope of future reporting on with advanced and flexible power plants that compensate climate risks, particularly those resulting from the emission for the fluctuating feed-in of renewable energy. Our subsidiof greenhouse gases. Today, these recommendations are ary innogy SE will continue to increase power generation already reflected in reporting standards and ratings we parfrom renewable sources and develop and expand the techticipate in. In future, the issue will be about cross-sector nology for the grid infrastructure. innogy SE offers its resiimplementation of the recommendation in reports. RWE is dential and commercial, industrial and corporate customers contributing to this process. innovative products and services that enable them to benefit from the opportunities presented by the new energy Financial implications of the risk or opportunity before world and use energy more efficiently. As a result, they can action is taken generate and market energy themselves. Offers for electroWe have already carried out a large range of measures to make mobility are intended to support climate protection in the our processes even more efficient, our organisation even more transport sector and drive forward electrification. innogy SE effective and our corporate culture more performance-oriented is also making photovoltaics and the expansion of fibreoptic and flexible, see GRI 201, page 30. Financial risks associnetworks a top priority. Alongside corresponding services, ated, for example, with general climate protection policy our trading subsidiary RWE Supply & Trading GmbH offers and emissions trading in particular are reflected in our risk appropriate services for major industrial customers. In addimanagement. We reduce these risks in the case of emissions tion to pure energy supplies, the company also makes spetrading by concluding appropriate hedging transactions. cialist commercial service offerings, such as optimisation When a specified amount of electricity is sold on the futures and enhanced flexibility for portfolios and plants. RWE market, the risk is hedged by purchasing appropriate Generation SE together with RWE Technology International amounts of combustion fuels and the necessary emissions GmbH constructs highly efficient plants for combined heat certificates. and power at international locations and operates them to provide energy supplies for customers. Apart from the The Executive Board engages with the financial risks and services outlined above, RWE Supply & Trading GmbH also opportunities associated with climate change in the control markets the electricity produced at these power plants. processes. This also includes the review of other risk mitigation options, for example through portfolio adjustments. Impacts associated with the risk or opportunity However, the quantified results are not disclosed for comWe support ambitious political goals for climate protection, petitive reasons. for expanding renewable energy and for improvement of energy efficiency at European level and at the level of the 33 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government RWE does not receive any financial grants or subsidies from We also receive agricultural subsidies from the EU for the the government for its operating business. Furthermore, we use of agricultural operational areas. These subsidies are for finance all capital expenditure from our own resources. On the interim agricultural use in the course of reinstating former other hand, we receive financial assistance from government opencast mining sites and they last for a limited period of agencies for projects in research and development (R&D) time. In 2017, these amounted to around € 331,000. activities. The EU Transparency Register is one of the sources providing information on R&D projects with EU subsidies. The state does not hold any shares in RWE. 34 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Promotion of education on energy and As an economic player, RWE exerts a significant influence on engineering issues the economy and society. We want to become a much more “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to genercredible partner for the energy transition and our aim is to ate enthusiasm among young people for energy and technoenhance trust in our company both within our regional and logical issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future local environment, and in society as a whole. RWE makes with them in this context. “3MalE – Education with Energy” an important contribution to the regional economy through bundles the education packages of all RWE and innogy comthe secure supply of electricity and gas at all times. The propanies in Germany. The initiative is intended to help young vision of jobs and allocation of orders to local companies people research, discover and experience energy. For figures constitute additional contributions. We promote social on 3MalE see GRI 413-1, page 76. developments through initiatives in social, environmental and cultural spheres, with support for volunteering engageinnogy Foundation for Energy and Community playing ment by RWE employees and through financial assistance. a role as a corporate citizen Since 1 September 2016, the RWE Foundation has been The energy transition is associated with shifts in energy operating in a new form as the innogy Foundation for generation that will lead to the shutdown of plants. We are Energy and Community (innogy Stiftung für Energie und participating in shaping the structural change so that the Gesellschaft gGmbH). The innogy Foundation supports transformation can be organised in such a way as to be maxprojects, collaborations and campaigns that focus on the imally smooth-running for the affected regions, our employenergy transition in the regional context, digitalisation and ees and for us. education. The foundation regularly provides information transparently in its annual reports about projects, successes Organisation, management and and finance. performance measurement Allocation of resources in compliance with rules Supporting structural change in areas with We want to use the resources available to us effectively and in opencast mining conformity with our compliance objectives. We have defined A contribution to a broad spectrum of jobs and training rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline on Donaplaces in other companies can be made in the area of tions and Sponsorship which applies throughout the Group. opencast mining by the development of building land and Promotional gifts and resources that are relevant according industrial zones. Research institutions and leisure amenities to our guidelines are documented in each case in a register. can also be expanded. These developments will contribute These include gifts and resources provided to holders of pubto safeguarding the future in the region over the long term. lic office, donations and sponsorship measures, and consulOur objective is to remain a dependable partner for local tancy and intermediary contracts for the RWE Group without people and communities after opencast mining comes to innogy SE and for innogy SE. For information on donations an end. We are therefore collaborating with the region to and sponsorship see GRI 201-1, page 31. shape the structural change by supporting initiatives which drive forward economic and structural development. These Promotion of volunteering engagement by our include the Innovation-Region Rhenish Mining Area (Innovaemployees tionsregion Rheinisches Revier, IRR) and joint ventures See GRI 203-2, page 35. between local authorities, such as the Indeland Development Company and the Terra Nova Special-purpose Association. Our contribution ranges from providing specialist and financial assistance, through cooperation on master plans and individual projects, to research into sectors of the future. 35 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix For example, RWE is involved in projects to safeguard the and Industrial Zone Langerwehe in Indeland” initially coverWeisweiler energy and industrial site and its immediate ing an area of 9 hectares (ha) and the agreement with the surroundings. These measures include expansion of the Nörvenich community about developing a business park “IGP Eschweiler” industrial zone, the development of the covering an area of 36 ha. “Grachtweg” joint local-authority industrial zone and participation in the master planning of the neighbouring local An important part of structural change in the region is authorities spearheaded by the IRR for downstream industrial resource-efficient construction. RWE is playing a proactive use of the land used for the Weisweiler lignite-fired power role in structuring this. In 2017, RWE joined together with plant after the Inden opencast mine is no longer viable. development company Indeland to drive forward the Factor X Project. A number of pioneering projects for resourceTogether with municipalities and administrative districts, efficient buildings are currently being realised in Indeland RWE has already made available several million m2 of with the construction zones “Seeviertel” (Lake Quarter) in industrial land in the mining area over recent years. FollowInden and “Neue Höfe Dürwiß” (New Courtyards Dürwiß) in ing subsequent capital expenditure, new jobs have been the town of Eschweiler, as well as the Factor 4 Sample House created here. In 2017, RWE was continuing these projects since 2017. The Factor 4 House is the first property in Gerand reached several agreements with a number of the local many to reduce its consumption of resources over the entire authorities in the mining district. Examples include the life cycle of a house by the Factor 4 or 75 percent – from agreement with the community of Langerwehe and the the extraction of resources to demolition and disposal. Indeland development company to open up a “Business GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported As an operator of energy infrastructures, we help to amelioin the regions where innogy has operations with residential rate fuel poverty in the countries where we are operating – customers. For more information on this see GRI 203-1 in particularly where the government and civil society do not the innogy Sustainability Report, page 37. provide enough support. We carry out appropriate activities GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts We promote volunteering by our employees and implement RWE Aktiv vor Ort – Active on Site projects). The amount our social responsibility under the umbrella of the Groupcontributed to these projects totalled some € 1.4 million wide Corporate Volunteering Programme known as Compaduring the period under review. nius (including RWE “Aktiv-vor-Ort” – Active on Site). Targeted formats help us allocate employees to a volunteering role For information on promoting education and on Companius appropriate for them. In 2017, more than 1,450 employees projects in the area of providing aid for refugees see throughout the Group dedicated their time to providing GRI 413-1, page 75. assistance on more than 930 Companius projects (including 36 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Together with our products, we are part of additional comWe source a substantial proportion of goods, plant compoplex supply chains. Our customers also demand correspondnents and services from business partners who like us are ing standards in their supplier relationships and pass them based in the European Union and who operate within the on to us. This process gradually develops sustainable supply robust framework that is in place in the EU. However, we are chains which are supported by sector-specific or sector-overunable to definitively exclude potentially negative impacts arching assessments by third-party providers. Successful in relation to environmental, employee and social concerns, participation in assessments like this has meanwhile become human rights or prevention of corruption in the upstream a prerequisite for obtaining orders in an array of different value chain. sectors. A key factor relates to compliance with our regulations on We have implemented management and controlling systems occupation health and safety especially when we commisto meet these challenges. They ensure maximum compliance sion third parties to carry out aspects of the maintenance with statutory legislation and safeguard the standards that work on our plants or to handle hazardous substances. we expect from our suppliers. Nevertheless, the challenges we have described mean we are ultimately unable to fully Care also needs to be exercised when procuring fuels and guarantee that all the potential negative impacts can be derivatives in trading markets. When anonymous transaccompletely excluded by our efforts. We are therefore continutions are carried out on trading markets, issues such as ously working on improvements and cooperating with money laundering or financing terrorism need to be excluded. other companies and organisations in order to address the The conditions for extraction of the hard coal imported for challenges. our power plants are a top priority alongside their impacts on the local population. The sustainability of the biomass Organisation and management we use is also a concern. At the end of November 2016, the Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all European Commission published a proposal for introducing contractual relationships new Europe-wide criteria for biomass within the framework The production of goods and the provision of services in of the Clean Energy Package. our supply chains should take place under comparable conditions to those prevailing in our own company. We expect National and international standards are becoming increaspartners in a business relationship with RWE to accept the ingly concrete in relation to the expectations for sustainable principles of our Code of Conduct as a basis for cooperation. supply chain management. The risk of human rights violaThis is implemented by incorporating the principles for tions in globalised supply chains tends to be low for compabehaviour included in the RWE Code of Conduct into the nies which essentially have their business operations in contractual relationships. Our principles for behaviour countries with a reliable statutory and regulatory framework. address issues including human rights, labour standards, National action plans are in place internationally for busithe environment, anti-corruption, and money laundering. ness and human rights or such plans are being prepared. The aim is to implement the UN Guiding Principles on BusiThe procurement conditions are managed centrally by Group ness and Human Rights supported by the United Nations. In Procurement. innogy has its own procurement department December 2016, an appropriate action plan was adopted by which operates in accordance with comparable standards. the Federal Cabinet and it is currently being implemented. Group Procurement is assigned organisationally to RWE The Modern Slavery Act in the United Kingdom requires us Power AG and reports to its Chief Financial Officer. The to do every possible to prevent modern slavery occurring. platform for procurement activities is provided by our Group 37 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Procurement Guideline. This defines uniform principles appliwe have also had access to the information garnered in the cable throughout the Group for carrying out procurement. Bettercoal Initiative for the procurement of hard coal. The compliance rules and principles have to be applied and maintained for all procurement transactions alongside the Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain RWE Code of Conduct. We review business relationships In view of the fact that direct supplier relationships are with business partners if it becomes known in the public generally lacking, collaborations with other energy compadomain that they have breached the principles of the UN nies are absolutely essential. These allow us to exert more Global Compact. We then take appropriate measures that pressure in order to meet the requirements for sustainable we consider necessary and put them into action. For examproduction and transport conditions. In 2012, we therefore ple, when deploying employees from subcontractors it is joined forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to important to observe the aspects of labour law pertaining launch the Bettercoal Initiative. Bettercoal developed a globin the individual country of deployment. A risk assessment ally recognised standard for production of hard coal and for specific product groups is used as a basis for the regulauses it as a basis for audits. The aim of Bettercoal is to bring tions to be observed by suppliers and they are explicitly about improvements in all the important production counagreed in separate contractual clauses. tries through cooperation with maximally all local producers. A further objective is to leverage coal production environSupplier management is a key building block within the mental and social standards at acceptable standards strategic procurement process for Group-wide procurement. throughout the world. One of the objectives of supplier management is to safeguard and improve the supplier service and to identify and Procurement of certified biomass manage supplier risks. If there are any problems in relation Alongside fossil energy sources, RWE will again be refocusto the business relationship we involve our suppliers and ing on biomass as a combustion fuel in future. One such fuel work together with them to generate improvements. For relates to wood pellets for use in dedicated biomass power example, we have implemented an escalation process for plants. RWE also uses biomass for co-firing plants as a subincidents in the area of occupational safety in order to stitute fuel for hard coal. Environmental and socially ethical develop suppliers. Suppliers can also be quarantined if there extraction and production methods also have to be guaranis a repeat and depending on the severity of the incident. teed in this area in order to establish biomass as a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels. Appropriate rules and regulaReview of trading partners on the wholesale markets tions are enshrined in the relevant national legislation and Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of these must be complied with. In the Netherlands, these hard coal, gas and biomass, as well as trading in combusrequirements have been defined in law since January 2018. tion fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised prodUniform rules and regulations may follow throughout the EU ucts with defined quality attributes on international wholein future. sale markets. These markets are the most important source of procurement. Raw materials traded in these markets often Certificates guarantee compliance with sustainability change ownership several times after they have been first aspects along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets offered for sale by the producers. Generally, it is only possiimported by us. We use the new industrial standard of the ble for us to identify the immediate upstream owner, while Sustainable Biomass Programme (SBP) and the existing the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not Green Gold Label (GGL) for all wood pellets procured or known. There are therefore only direct supplier relationships traded. We are also Chain-of-Custody certified and pass on to a limited extent between RWE and the producers. This certificates that are provided by the Forest Stewardship means we are only able to exert indirect influence on the Council (FSC) and by the Programme for the Endorsement production conditions. of Forest Certification (PEFC). Before we enter into any business relationships in the wholeA large proportion of the solid biomass used by RWE sale market, we review all potential trading partners. The Generation in future will be wood pellets. These are primarily review takes place in a standardised and multistage process. sourced by RWE Supply & Trading GmbH from international We use international databases and information systems in sources. The remaining quantity may be local biomass order to see whether there is any potential misconduct. All from the Netherlands. our trading partners are checked in this way. Since 2014, 38 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement Hard coal by supply countries Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all Proportion in % 2017 2016 contractual relations Germany 16.2 19.0 More than 6,000 suppliers are registered in our supplier United Kingdom 5.5 15.7 portfolio for the procurement in the framework of business Colombia 8.6 16.8 and plant operation. Some 260 of these suppliers are strategiPoland 0.4 0.8 cally relevant. We use an initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a self-assessment to gather information on Russia 44.2 31.0 matters including environmental protection, occupational South Africa 7.5 3.9 safety and compliance. We are in regular and close communiUSA 13.8 11.2 cation with strategically relevant suppliers. Other 3.8 1.6 Our Code of Conduct and hence the principles of the UN Global Compact are explicit constituent elements of individcountries are currently Colombia, South Africa and Russia. ual contracts in direct business relationships. The objective appears to be attainable for Colombia in 2018. All the business partners accredited for our trade were Representatives of RWE additionally meet up with representreviewed for compliance with our Code of Conduct before atives of coal producers independently of concrete supply engaging in business relationships. In line with the Code, relationships and critical civil society in order to identify the individual trading processes are based on standard conadditional initiatives for generating positive development. tracts usual in the market. For example, at the initiative of the Dutch government, a delegation from South Africa visited the RWE opencast minDuring the year under review, Group Procurement purchased ing facility in the Rhineland mining region in November. goods, services and plant components with a volume of A Colombian delegation met energy utilities and representaaround € 1.9 billion (2016: € 2.0 billion). In 2017, the protives of civil society in Germany and the Netherlands. Regucurement volume for fuels was some € 6.8 billion (2016: lar discussions and reporting were continued in the Nether€ 7.6 billion). We regularly monitor the proportion of the lands on imported hard coal. Talks between business and purchase volume in which the requirements of our Code of the local community also took place in response to individual Conduct are a constituent element of the contractual relastudies in Germany. tionship. During the year under review, the corresponding level of coverage was 100%. Procurement of certified biomass RWE has collaborated with other energy utilities, pellet Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain suppliers and certification organisations in working out a Bettercoal uses a central database to provide its member practical test initiated by the Dutch Sustainability Protocol companies with information about coal producers who have for Biomass. The latest version of the test protocol was taken part in the Bettercoal improvement process. A binding published in the middle of 2017. improvement process follows a self-assessment and an audit. This process focuses on the potentials for improveIn 2017, all the biomass traded by our trading house RWE ment that have been identified. Implementation is tracked Supply & Trading GmbH was provided with Sustainable Biothrough repeat audits. The names of the producers which mass Programme certificates or comparable certificates such stated their readiness to participate in the Bettercoal as GGL, FSC or PEFC. The pellets are certified in accordance improvement process are regularly published on the Betterwith differing standards, but in each case they are produced coal website. The Bettercoal database holds information in compliance with at least one standard. from the key potential supply countries for Europe. Declarations on the UK Modern Slavery Act Bettercoal pursues a country-based approach with the objecOur Group companies RWE Supply & Trading GmbH and RWE tive of including the overwhelming majority of producers in Generation SE also operate in the United Kingdom. They the improvement process in the individual countries. Focus therefore regularly publish a Declaration of Compliance on their national Internet pages. 39 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers In order to promote competition, all capital expenditure they are commissioned. In 2017, the proportion of local projects and procurement procedures are offered in tender suppliers in the order volume was approximately 27.5%. documents with appropriately neutral formulations and The value in use analysis undergone by our suppliers focuses placed internationally in the market. If local suppliers are particularly on criteria of sustainability and occupational competitive due to their local proximity or for other reasons, safety, and energy efficiency and environmental standards. GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Organisation and management Compliance with the law and legislation is a duty and is Prevention of corruption is a particularly important topic part of the corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches of the for the Compliance Management System. We want to avoid law mean that the company can suffer major and severe corruption completely in all our processes. Our prevention reputational damage as well as causing serious disadvantages strategy relies on raising the awareness of our employees for communities, countries and companies. The topic of and managers within the company. anti-corruption is a top priority for us in this context. This is because apart from the risk of reputational impairments for Management of the Compliance Management System to prethe company, corruption can restrict economic growth, comvent corruption at RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power promise equal opportunities and contribute to an increase in AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH is carried out by the poverty. RWE therefore bases all its activities and business Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG. The compliance officdecisions on established internal rules for compliance. The ers inside and outside Germany ensure uniform implemencompany does not tolerate any corruption or other breaches tation of compliance principles for prevention of corruption of the regulations. Compliance requirements are also facat RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE tored in when making decisions about entering into business Supply & Trading. innogy SE also has a Compliance Managerelationships with suppliers or business partners and in the ment System and has its own Chief Compliance Officer. allocation of donations and sponsorship. The RWE Code of Conduct forms the platform for our interThe energy industry is a sector defined by regulatory pretation of compliance. The Code prohibits any form of cordecisions, continuous change and projects with high order ruption and is binding on all our employees. The Code of volumes. This also impacts to a greater or lesser extent on Conduct is given concrete form by other Group guidelines. the value chain of RWE. The risks of corruption described Organisational regulations such as the double-checking above can therefore not be excluded in our supply chain. (four eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisation RWE AG has therefore implemented comprehensive systems concept and licensing regulations provide support for comfor avoidance of corruption within the framework of Com­ pliance with the guidelines. The appropriateness of the pliance Management in order to ensure the best possible underlying internal controlling system is regularly reviewed compliance with statutory legislation. At this point, we will by the Internal Audit Department. describe the organisation and measures of RWE Compliance Management without innogy. innogy has its own comparaThe Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG regularly reports to ble in-house system and reports on this system in the the Executive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG on innogy Sustainability Report. issues relevant to compliance. 40 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement The CEO writes personally to each manager with a request sessions, publications on the Intranet and notices support to report on the implementation of the Code of Conduct compliance awareness among employees. in their area of responsibility. This management survey is carried out once a year in order to create transparency in The feedback rate for the management survey provides an relation to compliance with the Code of Conduct and provide indicator for compliance awareness at RWE (without innogy). an overview of compliance awareness at RWE. CommunicaWe strive to generate a feedback rate of 100% and this was tion measures during the course of the year such as training achieved last year. GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption The identification and assessment of compliance risks takes In 2017, implementation of an update/expansion of the place in a two-stage process. This process was launched in risk scenarios was commenced at RWE for the sphere of 2012 with the central determination of the risk profiles for corruption and the areas of foreign trade/export control and the Group companies. A second step focused on working out money laundering. This exercise is scheduled for completion detailed corruption risk scenarios. These were discussed and in 2018. Similar measures are also planned at innogy for 2018. developed within the framework of risk workshops in the individual Group companies. The compliance officers carried We do not explicitly report on the established risks, since out this detailed analysis across the Group and in 2016 the these values are subject to specific confidentiality conresults generated from the Group perspective were aggrestraints. They are confidential as it is business-relevant gated centrally before the spin-off of innogy was completed. information. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Internal media within the Group inform our employees about the relevant activity. The Executive Board is also integrated behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and in this training concept. Following the restructuring of the also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. Our Group, we aligned the training concept for the RWE compaemployees also receive compliance training each year on a nies with even greater risk focus. This programme will be web-based training programme with a changing focus topic. rolled out at RWE in 2018. Participation in the web-based training programme is obligatory for all employees. Employees without any PC access We do not explicitly report data broken down into employee receive instruction from their supervisors. In addition, the category since these values are subject to specific confidenemployees also take part in attendance training sessions tiality constraints. They are confidential as it is business-releorganised by the Compliance Department. These are calivant information. brated according to the risk of corruption associated with 41 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges and water available – one of the most flexible and most Secure supply with electricity at all times is one of the most powerful power plant portfolios in Europe. If – despite all important enablers for the smooth-running operation of our efforts – a blackout should occur in the electricity grid or our economy. Power plants make a key contribution to this. in parts of this grid, we also have power generating capaciConventional power plants powered by uranium, gas, hard ties that are in a position to support reinstatement of the coal or lignite are indispensable even with further expansion grid system without the need for any external supply of elecof renewable energy. This is because the main growth of tricity – for example in the rhenish lignite area, where power renewable energy will take place through wind and photoplants can be supplied directly from opencast mines with voltaics, but these energy sources are not always available. fuels, or with power plants that are able to start using their Conventional power plants are necessary to provide comown energy supply. pensation when their feed-ins fluctuate due to weather conditions or time of day. The expansion and integration of Reserves are available if capacity bottlenecks occur in renewable energy and decentralised generating units into Germany. One of them is the legally-mandated security the over­all system is placing increasing demands on the standby in Germany to which RWE will contribute a total of performance of conventional power plants and the distribufive lignite-fired units with an output of around 1,500 MW. tion grids. The Act on Electricity and Gas Supply provides a binding The long-term development of the requirement for convendefinition of how a balancing responsible party has to tional generation and secure power-plant output depends ensure short-term compensation between supply and on a number of factors including demand-response developdemand. If there is an imbalance within a balancing zone ment, expansion of renewable energy, and expansion of that can no longer be compensated by the balancing, it may grids, storage facilities and load management. be necessary to make use of control energy. The responsible transmission grid operator tenders for the provision of Our power plants supply electricity and heat to meet the balancing energy. RWE offers all types of balance outputs demand of consumers. At the same time, they help to comfrom its power plant portfolio and by this contributes to a pensate for the fluctuations in the system and provide the stable electricity supply. physical equilibrium at all times between feed-in and consumption necessary for a stable electricity supply. Alongside stable feed-in of an adequate amount of gener­ ating capacity, a powerful electricity grid is necessary to Organisation and management guarantee security of supply. The integration of renewable RWE strives to provide high availability for its power plants energy requires expansion of the transmission grid in a particularly at times when their output is urgently required. north-south direction, as well as newly dimensioned distribuThe availability is controlled by the responsible divisions. tion grids and more dynamic load control in order to inteThe executive boards of RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG grate decentralised renewable generating units. The aim of and RWE AG are regularly informed about the availabilities our subsidiary innogy is to continue keeping grid outage and planned and unplanned shutdowns. times at a low level in spite of increased technical requirements. The number of minutes per year and customer Our aim is to contribute to ensuring that the volatile feed-in (SAIDI Index) for which grid outages occur serves as a key from solar and wind power plants can be smoothly inteperformance indicator in the area of security of supply, see grated in the energy system. We have a broadly-based genAvailability and Reliability in the innogy Sustain­ability erating portfolio from gas, hard coal, lignite, nuclear energy Report, page 41. 42 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement the two topping-gas turbines of the Weisweiler power plant In 2017, RWE was once again able to rely on a broadly-based (VGT) and continue operating them for the time being. generation portfolio. This provided a robust mainstay in the Reactivation of these generating units provides additional German electricity system for covering electricity demand and output of 355 MW (Gersteinwerk G) and two times 190 MW provision of secure generating capacity. Our thermal power (VGT Weisweiler) and hence makes a contribution to security plants made an important contribution to compensating for of supply. The high electricity prices on the spot market has the fluctuating feed-in from wind and photovoltaic systems meant that it proved possible to deploy all three units again by provision of the necessary system services. for the first time at the end of 2017. For example, the entire capacity of Rhenish lignite-fired In 2017, RWE realised a battery storage project with lithiumpower plants can be reduced to less than half its value ion technology at the Herdecke site. The battery storage (to around 4,300 MW) or, by the same token, fired up to full with three times 2,600 kVA is initially being used for the capacity within the space of half an hour. This means that provision of primary balancing energy. RWE participated in our lignite-fired power plants are now comparable with the Quirinus research project aimed at integrating renewable combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power plants operated energy into the existing distribution grid. The objective is to with natural gas. In special situations, the capacity of the secure coordinated feed-in of renewable energy into the dislignite-fired power plants in the Rhineland mining area can tribution grid level supported by “Demand Side Managebe reduced to 20 percent of the nominal value. It is therement” of large consumers. fore obvious that lignite is able to provide the necessary capacity to meet requirements of time and need. For information on our capacities and our generation see also RWE Annual Report 2017, page 42. RWE also On 1 October 2017, we transferred units P & Q of the lignitepublishes comprehensive and timely data online about fired power plant Frimmersdorf to legally-mandated securitiy electricity generation in its power plant portfolio at standby. This reserve now comprises more than 1 GW of www.rwetransparent.com and at power-plant output to which RWE contributes more than half. www.eex-transparency.com. Owing to improved market conditions, a decision was taken For information on grid stability and the System Average in November to bring back into service the still operational Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) see the innogy steam section of the power-plant unit Gersteinwerk G and Sustainability Report, page 41. 43 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3)  Challenges tion. It offers our industrial customers and distributors priceThe reduction of existing obstacles and the exploitation of signal supported load management. This means that a time additional potential for efficiency and flexibility on the shift in consumption loads to more favourable market-price demand side in the energy market is a topic that is the phases enables costs for sourcing electricity to be reduced. subject of increasingly intensive debate at European and The model is ideal in particular for companies using equipnational level. It is becoming the success factor in the ment and systems with flexible time and power capability in energy transition. The intelligent networking of consumers their production processes where the requirement for electo achieve this aim is gaining increasing importance in this tricity can be shifted within a day or a week. debate. The need for flexibility on the demand side increases with the rising volatility of generation in the market. This is Our Flex2Market Model – another example – is ideal for particularly the case in the context of expanding renewable companies which have production flexibilities or emergency energy. These flexibilities need to be intelligently networked power units such as those that are gaining greater imporand controlled. A prerequisite for this is identifying contance in computer centres, and which would like to make sumers in the market who are prepared to adjust their conoptimum use of these opportunities. For this purpose, we sumption behaviour. In order to achieve this control, they control and market these flexibilities on the Intra-Day Market need to structure their energy consumption accordingly, for or as standard energy in the secondary and minute reserve example by proactively switching off, throttling back or market. RWE Supply & Trading GmbH also offers an elecswitching on their production machines. We are able to give tronic trading platform and automatic trading mechanisms. our customers technical support for this control. The approThese are intended for industrial customers and distributors priate demand for electricity is taken out of the market in who want to procure part of their energy requirement on the bottleneck situations or as necessary made available to the exchange with precise requirements for the day or hour. market in the form of an additional generation offering. Furthermore, as a service for our customers, RWE Supply & When prices are high on the balancing energy market, it may Trading GmbH takes over direct marketing of power generabe worthwhile for our customers to market their flexibilities. tion from renewable energy that are subsidised under the We therefore help to optimise the electricity costs and perRenewable Energies Act (EEG). formance requirement of the customer. The market for flexibility is a key subject area for RWE. There is potential for innogy SE also offers its customers energy-efficient products growth here, particularly with industrial customers. and services. For these see GRI 302 in the innogy Sustainability Report, page 49. Furthermore, innogy SE offers Organisation, management and performance products to help retail and commercial customers make measurement energy savings as well as service packages for the manageMarketing of flexibilities ment of photovoltaic systems and wind turbines. For more RWE Supply & Trading GmbH has a broad product range information on this see GRI 302-5 in the innogy Sustainwhich can leverage potential flexibilities with industrial and ability Report, page 51. commercial customers in the context of the energy transi44 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Increasing flexibility and efficiency at RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the conventional plants Group is able to contribute to shaping the energy system of In order to further increase the flexibility of our power the future. We want to be involved in shaping the transforplants, we are running a number of research projects to test mation to a more climate-friendly electricity supply. Our new materials and procedures for identification and foreobjective is also to assist in continuing to meet the need for casting of material behaviours under changing loads. This energy reliably, without any outages and at affordable will enable us to facilitate even more frequent and faster prices. The only effective approach to realising our ambition load changes, more frequent and faster start-ups and shutis generating a continuous stream of innovations that address downs, and a lower minimum load than today. the challenges of our core business and are directed towards achieving the best possible solutions for the energy system Furthermore, we see emission reduction and protection of the future. If there is a lack of innovative capability, there of resources as an ongoing challenge directed towards makis a risk that it may no longer be possible to secure the profing our plants even more climate friendly. Examples of this itability of the company to the same extent in the future. are approaches for efficiency enhancement and advanced development of flue-gas desulphurisation, development of Organisation, management and performance measures for reducing mercury and nitrogen oxide emismeasurement sions, and the advancement of techniques for capture and Continuous research and development use of CO2. At our Innovation Centre in Niederaußem, we We are working in different research and development are piloting one of the most efficient CO2 scrubbers in the programmes, primarily on technology and plant concepts world and cooperating with numerous national and inter­ that are directed towards advanced and sustainable applicanational partners in the development of opportunities for tion. Here we draw on the competences of our employees using CO2. For example, over the next three years we will be and on the expertise offered by our partners at universities, setting up a pilot system in Niederaußem within the frameresearch institutions and industry. A top priority in this area work of the EU project ALIGN-CCUS for manufacturing less is also promoting the ideas of our employees to achieve carbon-intensive fuels from CO2 and hydrogen generated by this ambition. Our research and development projects are electrolysis. Other pilot plants are intended to manufacture engaged in a wide range of research fields and we are conbasic chemicals for the chemicals industry from the same tinually registering new patents. In 2017, 550 employees starting materials in the projects OCEAN and LOTER.CO2M. worked full-time or part-time on more than 320 R&D projects and filed applications for patents on 76 inventions. Facilitating use of lignite as a material RWE also invests in a Group-wide network of experts who The utilisation capacity of the lignite-fired power plants will analyse existing fields of technology on a continuous basis, decrease over the medium term as renewable energy expand. and identify and evaluate new developments. This offers the opportunity of using lignite, Germany’s most abundant domestic natural resource by volume, for the Details on research and development at innogy SE in the production of energy sources or basic chemicals. Lignite is innogy Sustainability Report, page 45. ideal for so-called material use because it contains carbon and hydrogen. This means it can be used for the production of basic materials for the manufacture of plastics, paints, adhesives, fuels and numerous other chemical products. 45 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix SHUTDOWN AND DECOMMISSIONING OF POWER PLANTS AND REINSTATEMENT OF OPENCAST MINES GRI 103 Management Approach (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3)  Challenges The follow-on costs of phasing out lignite mining in the By 31 December 2022, the last nuclear power plants will Rhineland lignite mining area and securing these sites by have been shut down in Germany. In addition, instruments RWE Power AG was the subject of continual public discushave been introduced and measures have been adopted to sion and this debate was at times acrimonious. The main meet CO2 targets at national level, for details see GRI 305, focus was on the issue of whether the measures for the page 55. These will impact on our thermal, non-nuclear necessary reinstatement of use were completely recorded power plant portfolio. The parties in the new Dutch Governby RWE and whether the quantities and costs are being ment have also stated in their coalition contract that generacorrectly calculated. tion of electricity from hard coal should come to an end in the Netherlands by 2030. However, the implementation has Organisation and management not yet been defined. The United Kingdom has also defined Power plants can be shut down on the one hand for ecoan exit from hard-coal power generation by 2025 but the nomic or technical reasons. Preparations for decisions tool has not yet been agreed here either. The decision on on shutdown are managed by the generation divisions. legally-mandated security standby has already been taken On the other hand, power plants are shut down as a result in Germany. By October 2019, 2.7 GW of lignite-fired power of statutory or other regulations. Whatever the reason, the plants in Germany will be transferred to this reserve. Each relevant country-specific regulations are taken into account of these units will be finally shut down four years later, see and the process is supported by the responsible supervisory Availability and Reliability, page 41. Furthermore, a authorities. decline in the amount of electricity generated from coal was announced in the Climate Protection Plan 2050. However, Hence, the intended shutdown of a power plant in Germany this statement was given without the trajectory so far must be notified to the responsible regulatory authority, the being an­chored in any concrete measures and no dates Federal Network Agency and the transmission grid operator were specified. responsible for the system with a lead time of at least one year. The system relevance of the notification must be In its coalition agreement, the new German Federal Governreviewed by the grid operator and approved by the Federal ment has stated that a “Growth, Structural Change and Network Agency. Whether the affected power plant is to be Employment” Commission should be set up. This commisshut down permanently or only temporarily, for example sion will be tasked with drawing up an action programme during the summer months, is not relevant. by the end of 2018 including additional climate protection measures geared to the emission reduction targets for 2020 After the last unit at a power plant location has been shut and 2030, and a plan for phased reduction and ending of down, RWE aims to achieve a subsequent use for the land generating electricity from coal in Germany. In 2019, the used at the site. We work together with the local community coalition partners want to pass a law that guarantees attainaffected in advance of the final decommissioning of a power ment of the climate protection targets. plant to develop a concept for follow-on use of the land previously occupied by the power plant. The decommissioning Whether a power plant can be operated profitably in this is carried out to meet the requirements of the follow-on use environment primarily depends on developments in the elecin accordance with the relevant applicable country-specific tricity and fuel markets. Falling electricity margins caused by standards. The costs of the decommissioning are borne decreasing electricity prices or increasing fuel and CO2 prices entirely by RWE. Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear will exert a negative impact and this may lead to decisions power plants, recultivation of opencast sites and the water to shut down plants. management measures are established in accordance with our statutory obligations. This is coordinated by the approAppropriate levels of provision are being set aside for the priate specialist department of the finance division. shutdown and decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the recultivation of opencast mining sites and measures for the water management. 46 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Nuclear energy As part of the introduction of legally-mandated security The remaining lifetime of the German nuclear power standby in Germany, the transfer of eight lignite-fired units plants is defined in the Nuclear Power Act (Atomgesetz, AtG). to this reserve was contractually agreed. This relates to the The age of the RWE nuclear power plants means that they RWE power-plant units Frimmersdorf P & Q (transferred on will be decommissioned gradually by year-end 2022. The 1 October 2017), Niederaußem E & F (1 October 2018) and individual power plants impacted are Gundremmingen Unit B Neurath C (1 October 2019). After each power plant has (as at 31 December 2017), Gundremmingen Unit C (as at spent four years in the reserve, these units will be finally 31 December 2021) and the Emsland nuclear power plant shut down. The power plants on security standby are no (as at 31 December 2022). longer permitted to operate actively in the market. However, they are reserved for the scenario that electricity proIn 2017, new legislation was introduced in Germany regulatduction including all regular security measures (such as ing responsibility for disposal of nuclear waste. After payredispatch, control energy, interruptible loads, grid reserve ment of a sum amounting to a total of € 24.1 billion by the and capacity reserve) are unable to meet the demand. operators of nuclear power plants into a state-managed disposal fund, the state will take responsibility for processing The provisions in lignite mining to enable reinstatement of and financing of intermediate storage and a final repository use for the land occupied for production are a rolling system for radioactive waste. The companies will continue to be in key areas. Recultivation projects and measures relating responsible for shutdown and decommissioning the power to the water management are largely already carried out plants and the proper packaging of radioactive waste. RWE while operations continue so that provisions are constantly is forming provisions to meet these obligations. They are being used for this purpose. At the same time, new provivery conservative on an international comparison and take sions are formed each year to take account of the ongoing into account a high level of precaution against the risks of decommissioning. The tasks being adopted from lignite cost increases. Additions to the provisions are made while extraction cover a timeframe that extends significantly the plants are being operated. The provisions encompass beyond the discontinuation of lignite mining itself. However, the costs of all stages after operations have finished includthey are without question finite. ing shutdown, disposal of the fuel rods and disposal of the radioactive waste from operation through to final decommisExisting contracts and licensing documents are used to sioning. Companies are required to provide transparency on determine the expected costs underlying the provisions. costs. The details are defined in the Act on Transparency of Comprehensive empirical values from the past are also availCosts relating to Shutdown and Decommissioning of Nuclear able. At the planning stage of the mining operations, the Power plants and Packaging of Radioactive Wastes. The responsible regional state authorities are also already intenappropriateness of the level of the nuclear energy provisions sively involved. The issues being addressed include those was also confirmed by Warth & Klein Grant Thornton in a relating to geology and the water management. The mining stress test expert report commissioned by the Federal Minisauthorities have a rolling programme of iterative reviews try for Economic Affairs and Energy in October 2015. On the in accordance with statutory regulations in order to assess basis of previous experience, the costs for the post-operawhether there is a need to provide financial security in tional phase and decommissioning of a nuclear power addition to the provisions available. station fluctuate between € 500 million and approximately € 1 billion. The final figure depends on the size, age and Measures and performance measurement number of operating hours at the plants. Nuclear energy On 30 March 2017, the licences pursuant to Article 7 Lignite Section 3 of the Atomic Energy Act (Atomgesetz) governing RWE has developed a concrete timetable in context to shutdown and decommissioning of units A and B of the the requirements defined for us in relation to reducing CO2 Biblis nuclear power plant were granted by the responsible specifically with regard to lignite. This timetable takes licensing authority, the Hesse Ministry for Environment, account of a step-wise reduction in emissions in-line with Climate Protection, Agriculture and Consumer Protection a long-term and socially acceptable structural change. This (HMUKLV). Work was started on 1 June 2017. In an estimated timetable envisages a reduction in CO2 emissions of 15% 15 years, it will have proceeded such that the remaining by 2020, 40-50% by approximately 2030 and 100% by the sections of the buildings will no longer come under the middle of the century. scope of the Atomic Energy Act. In parallel, construction of 47 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix a temporary storage facility was commenced at the Biblis Hard coal site for storage of low and intermediate radioactive waste The two units A & B of the coal-fired power plant Voerde until final storage in a federal repository. This is scheduled were shut down in March 2017. Preparatory works for for completion by 2018 and will then be operated by the decommissioning have commenced and in October RWE German state’s own intermediate storage company BGZ purchased the land and buildings at the power plant site Gesellschaft für Zwischenlagerung mbH from 2020. from STEAG. RWE is talking to the town of Voerde about future options for making use of the land. We have also submitted an initial application for dismantling parts of the plant for the Gundremmingen B reactor and we Lignite expect approval in the first quarter of 2018. The MülheimOn 1 October 2017, the first two units were transferred to Kärlich nuclear plant was already taken out of operation in legally-mandated security standby with Frimmersdorf P & Q. 1988. The decommissioning work is now at an advanced This means that the two units no longer participate in the stage and demolition of the cooling tower is scheduled for electricity market and are only available if called up by the commencement in spring 2018. At the beginning of 2018, grid operator for bottleneck situations. The last two units at Germany’s first trial operation of a demolition robot will be the Frimmersdorf site will then be finally shut down on 30 carried out on the cooling-tower shell. September 2021 after the 4-year standby period as reserve. Against this background, a planning consultation has Dismantling the large components is particularly important already been launched there. This involves the surrounding in the timetable for decommissioning nuclear power plants. local authorities and the Rhine District of Neuss. The consulOrders were therefore issued for dismantling the steam tation is addressing the future opportunities for usage of generators and steam converters to specialist industrial the areas. Ultimately, it will involve developing sustainable companies for the sites at Mülheim-Kärlich, Lingen (KWL) and structurally effective post-utilisation facilities for the and Biblis. Plans and regulatory licences are now under power-plant location. way and dismantling is commencing in 2018. In order to promote an objective discussion about the We continuously update stakeholders at all the sites about follow-on costs for lignite mining in the Rhineland lignite the individual steps of the ongoing procedure following mining area, RWE commissioned an audit by an independon from the information initiative “KW Biblis transparent” ent expert to assess the completeness and appropriateness commenced at the beginning of 2015. of the mining-related provisions set aside on 31 December 2016 for lignite activities in the Rhineland lignite mining The reallocation of responsibility for disposal of nuclear area. RWE handed over the three expert reports prepared facilities adopted by the Federal Government involved the by the auditor to the Arnsberg district council as the respontransfer of responsibilities for intermediate storage and a sible supervisory authority in June 2017. The council made final repository for radioactive waste to the state, utilisation the reports public in September 2017. The experts come of provisions held by the nuclear energy companies and setto the conclusion that the methods used by RWE Power in ting up a new fund to finance the disposal of nuclear matedetermining the provisions are valid, the quantity estimates rial. The fund was established with a total of € 24.1 billion. and prices have been defined realistically and the miningOn 1 July 2017, RWE paid in its share of € 6.8 billion. This related provisions reported on 31 December 2016 are comwas made up of a baseline amount including interest and a plete and appropriate. The mining-related provisions are risk supplement amounting to some 35.5%. reported in the RWE Annual Report 2017 on page 56. 48 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS GRI 302 ENERGY GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Group-wide coverage with energy-efficiency audits or Energy is a valuable resource. Inefficient energy consumpmanagement systems tion leads to unnecessary burdens for the climate, environWe already implemented the Energy Efficiency Directive ment and communities throughout the world. It results in throughout the Group by the required deadline in 2016 with unavoidable additional costs for the company. Complying energy audits or a certified energy management system. In with statutory legislation and licensing regulations therefore 2007, RWE Generation SE and RWE Power AG had already enables us to implement cost-efficient measures for environestablished an Environmental Management System in conmental protection and energy efficiency. They are based on formity with ISO 14001 with the aim of bringing about a a conscious and responsible approach to the environment sustainable improvement in energy efficiency and environand the use of energy in our office buildings, vehicle fleets, mental protection, and reducing the use and consumption opencast mining facilities, power plants and refinement of energy at the German operational facilities. In 2013, the operations. This is because the European climate protection Energy Management System was integrated in conformity targets can only be achieved with higher levels of energy with ISO 50001. The two systems have so far been successefficiency. As producers of electricity and heat, we are able fully recertified. This process was last carried out in 2016. to make a particular contribution to this by making our The level of coverage with certified Energy Management power plants more efficient. This allows us to reduce CO2 Systems amounted to 82% for the RWE Group in 2017. emissions per unit of electricity or heat produced. At the same time, we are reducing the consumption of resources, Increasing the efficiency of conventional power plants the fuel costs and the expenses involved in CO2 certificates. We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production For details see innogy Sustainability Report, Availability of electricity mainly by continuously modernising our conand Reliability, page 40. We supply innovative products ventional power plant portfolio. We are thereby keeping and services with a high level of efficiency so that our cusopen the option of building the new “BOAplus” (-BoAplus-) tomers can also adopt a responsible approach to energy. lignite-fired power plant at the Niederaußem site. This For details of innogy products see the innogy Sustainability would have an efficiency of more than 45% more than portReport GRI 302-5, page 51. folio plants with the same capacities overall and significantly lower efficiency. It would replace the same capacities of The European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) has been existing power plants with lower efficiency. As a result, the enshrined in national law within our key markets in the EU. CO2 emissions would be reduced by 3 million metric tons of This legislation requires all large companies to carry out an CO2 each year by comparison with the existing plants. In energy audit or to introduce an Energy Management System future, we will achieve more efficiency increases through a in conformity with ISO 50001 or an Environmental Managenumber of measures including by shutting down older plants, ment System in conformity with EMAS. see Shutdown and decommissioning of power plants and reinstatement of mining areas, page 45. In addition, there Organisation, management and performance is the option of further use of potential sourced from commeasurement bined heat and power in our plants and the use of heat Our energy management is part of the integrated managederived from electricity to cover own requirements. ment system, see GRI 307, page 63. Already since 2008, we have been monitoring the overall For information on the offerings to our customers see efficiency of energy use from our conventional plants. On Energy-efficient products and services, page 43. the consumer side of the plant, this includes the primary energy use for power generation and the purchase of electricity from outside sources for own use by the plants. 49 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The production side balances this with generated energy, the plants. Furthermore, analysis of the data yields valuaand steam and heat products for our customers. As a result, ble findings for research and development requirements. continuous monitoring using our advanced operating This continual improvement is being reviewed annually by manage­ment systems enables us to implement rapid counour external certifier in energy and environmental managetermeasures as necessary and maximally high utilisation of ment audits. the primary energy sources used in all operating statuses of GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Average generation efficiency of thermal power plants under review, while lower heat production and increased by fuel and region partial load operation exerted a negative impact. At 41.5% we kept the average efficiency of our power plants stable compared with 2016 (41.5%). Current market condiEnergy losses during distribution tions can exert a positive and negative influence here on the Distribution grids are operated by our subsidiary company mode of operation and hence the efficiency of the power innogy SE, see the innogy Sustainability Report, Availaplant portfolio. A renewed increase in the use of gas-fired bility and Reliability, page 40. power plants exerted a positive impact during the year Energy consumption within the organisation Unit 2017 2016 Primary energy consumption1 million GJ 1,362 1,478 Energy consumption of the sites TWh 9.4 8.2 Energy consumption of the grids TWh 7.7 8.6 1 Fossil fuels used, not including biomass. Efficiency of energy use of thermal power plants1 in % 2017 2016 Germany Lignite 36.9 36.6 Hard coal 38.3 38.1 Gas 61.7 62.7 Waste 46.2 44.0 United Kingdom Hard coal 39.7 37.0 Gas 55.6 55.9 Netherlands Hard coal 45.4 45.4 Gas 61.9 64.0 1 Power plants in Hungary and Turkey are not included. 50 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 303 WATER GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Minimising risks associated with water Water is essential for life and it is not available in unlimited The Executive Board has appointed specialist coordinators quantities. In regions with restricted or endangered water for a wide range of environmental topic areas in order supply – for example as a result of the effects of climate to provide specialist support for the local Environmental change – manufacturing companies are exposed to the risk Protection Officers and to coordinate their activities. They of production failures. Furthermore, their water consumpalso advise the divisional managers. In addition, these coortion may pose a risk to the supply situation for the environdinators cover the protection of rivers and surface waters. ment and indeed the local population. And wherever water A record is kept of the interfaces between RWE activities is available in abundance, the impacts of production may and water that exert or can exert an impact on rivers and impair the condition of water bodies and sources. This may surface waters. The type of impact on the water is also also exert negative impacts on the environment and society. determined. This relates primarily to water withdrawal or The water supply in Germany is one of the best in the world. discharge of water including the use of water in our power However, we believe that as an industrial operation with a plants. We monitor cooling water intensively as a precautionrequirement for water at our plants we have an obligation ary measure in order to identify significant populations of to take a responsible approach to water. Our operations legionella bacteria at an early stage and as necessary take affect water consumption and the use of water when it is countermeasures using approved biocides. We record the withdrawn from the rivers and surface waters. Naturally, impacts of environmental aspects for rivers, surface waters there are also impacts when we discharge wastewater into and groundwater on the basis of existing licences, limits and these waters. We comply with the statutory regulations for expert reports, and the operating results of the previous these activities. year. The relevance of the results is evaluated by the internal specialist departments and a group of experts taken from In areas subject to flooding, heavy rainfall and similar events government agencies, associations and specialists. Analysis can put smooth-running operation of our plants at risk. We of the environmental impacts in relation to the potential therefore take appropriate measures in order to minimise level of damage and frequency or probability of occurrence risks to security of supply and avoiding or minimising costs. facilitates transparent presentation of the evaluation. We assess measures already introduced for minimising risks Organisation, management and performance and avoiding accidents on this basis. If this action is not measurement adequate, other measures are developed and introduced. A top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts minimum impact on natural resources when we supFor example, the Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, ply our thermal power plants with cooling water. Keeping Nature and Consumer Protection of the state of North our opencast facilities dry by withdrawal of groundwater is Rhine-Westphalia manages the monitoring of compliance an operational necessity and therefore unavoidable. We with targets defined in the lignite plan for Garzweiler in attempt to make these interventions in a maximally environregard to the water management and the environment, mentally friendly way. and assessing the impacts of the Garzweiler opencast lignite mine. This includes for example conserving groundAnchoring environmental protection in business processes water resources, safeguarding the water supply and pre­ See GRI 307, page 63. serving the wetlands and surface waters. Group-wide coverage by environmental management See GRI 307, page 64. Compliance with licensing regulations See GRI 307, page 63. 51 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Protection of rivers and surface waters discharge. Furthermore, we avoid environmental impacts We want to contribute to preserving water as a habitat and owing to the use of methods such as recirculation into the to maintaining the biotopes dependent on it. Our objective power plants, intensification of usage for pumped water is to avoid negative consequences arising from our intervenfrom opencast mines, the use of collected rainwater and tions in surface waters and ecosystems or – where this is not the reuse of process water. viable – to minimise such impacts as far as possible. We mitigate unavoidable negative consequences to the maximum Protection against flooding extent feasible. We also provide the best possible protection All operating plants are protected against flooding in conagainst adverse impacts for aquatic habitats and other ecoformity with statutory regulations. Heavy rainfall in opencast systems linked with such habitats. This objective is assisted mines can be managed without major damage since water by discharging water into the groundwater and into rivers retention systems have been designed to cope with correand surface waters in a structured process. The statutory sponding levels of precipitation. limits defined by the authorities are complied with in GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal by source in million m³ 2017 2016 Water Cooling water consumption net1 259.3 264.5 Water consumption net 262.4 267.7 Water withdrawal Groundwater 603 623 Surface water 1,607 1,447 Seawater/brackish water 3,191 4,170 Drinking water 3.1 3.2 Other sources 33.3 31.0 Total water withdrawal 5,435 6,270 1 Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with sea cooling 52 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges and to deal with the form of intervention. A concrete survey The protection of species and the preservation of habitats of the species is carried out using specialist mapping in is one of the biggest global challenges of the present day. advance of each intervention or an evidence-based potential The negative impacts entailed by the extinction of species analysis is implemented. Concrete species protection meason humans and nature are immense. This rapid and radical ures are then derived from this data. At the same time, special loss of species by displacement and destruction of the habievaluation methods are used to carry out an ecological evaltats they require for existence is caused and accelerated not uation of the habitats before and after the intervention. This least by industrial companies. Our activities also result in work yields a mitigation claim based on landscape and envidirect and indirect interventions in ecosystems. Wherever ronmental parameters and functionally appropriate measfeasible, we therefore avoid or minimise these impacts. ures are developed. We also promote biodiversity in the This enables us to reduce the shortage of natural resources. course of reinstating opencast mines by designing and proAs far as possible, we take appropriate nature conservation moting special and diverse habitats and by maintaining measures to mitigate unavoidable or irreversible negative them. Likewise, we contribute to this by installing fish ladconsequences. This exerts impacts on our opencast mines, ders at our run-of-river power plants and use technical measthe maintenance of our transmission lines, and the construcures to protect the aquatic animal world at offshore wind tion and operation of plants for generating renewable energy. farms. These measures contribute to the preservation of At the same time, we also deploy strategic measures to prospecies in these habitats. When procuring our biomass, mote species, mainly within the framework of recultivation we ensure that it comes from sustainable sources, see activities. For more information on biodiversity in the diviGRI 204, page 36. sions of Renewable Energies and Grid & Infrastructure see innogy Sustainability Report, page 53. Reinstating habitats We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining by Organisation, management and performance recultivating the extraction sites. This approach enables us measurement to return rehabilitated areas of land to agriculture and other Protecting Biodiversity uses while also creating space for nature conservation where Compliance with regulations governing biodiversity is also we can strategically foster biological diversity. The objective a prerequisite for meeting the licensing regulations covering of recultivation is to reinstate the development potential of our business. The regulations governing biodiversity are the landscape while taking account of the typical conditions defined for our opencast mines in a number of sources of the surrounding environment. Development of Reforestaincluding the special operational plans for species protection is a key building block for creating agricultural land. tion approved by the mining authorities. We meet these regHowever, structuring new habitats for nature conservation ulations using internal controlling systems and exceed the and protecting species is an important element of recultivarequirements with more extensive measures. Since 2015, tion. RWE has established a reputation with its approach on RWE has had a Biodiversity Policy. This guideline establishes recultivation: A diverse landscape made up of forest, extenthe approach of RWE to the protection and promotion of sive lakes, ponds, wetland biotopes, meadows and flower biodiversity as the company carries out its business activistrips, as well as special biotopes exceptionally rich in speties. Biodiversity is also an area covered by environmental cies came into being at the former extraction sites in the management, see GRI 307, page 63. Our measures are Rhineland lignite mining areas. They offer new habitats to very diverse within this framework. We protect species numerous endangered animal and plant species. For infordiversity strategically if natural habitats are disturbed by mation on the effects of recultivation on local communities our activities. The same approach continues as we reinstate see GRI 413, page 75. substitute habitats or facilitate the repopulation of existing habitats. We also promote biodiversity by rehabilitating The quality of reinstatement of opencast mines is continumining sites to make them suitable for reuse. The specific ally being enhanced. A total area of more than 22,000 ha protection measures are designed individually to match the has been recultivated in the Rhineland mining area. Over requirements of the affected species and types of habitat, 8,000 ha of this has been returned to woodlands, forests 53 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix and green corridors, and more than 12,000 ha are being objective of the recultivation in the wake of lignite opencast used for agricultural purposes. Recultivation in the Rhinemining is to preserve areas of forest and to manage them land lignite mining area also encompasses highly diverse in accordance with a natural approach. and species-rich habitats. Special biotopes make a particularly important contribution here. They are deliberately Deforestation of the Hambach forest for the planned created on account of their extreme and rare site conditions development of the Hambach opencast mine is regrettably and they can be regarded as “hot spots” of species diversity. unavoidable. The corollary is recultivation defined primarily They include habitats with extremely low-nutrient, dry or by reforestation on the Sophienhöhe hill. This has already moist living conditions. As a result of many years of research been in existence for many decades after opencast mining into recultivation, more than 3,000 animal species and finished at the Hambach mine and around 1,500 ha of forest around 1,300 plant species have been identified over the have already been planted. Furthermore, a total of 1,500 entire recultivation process. Many of these recorded species hectares of species protection measures will also be impleare very rare and classified as “endangered” or “under mented outside the opencast mine for the species living in threat from extinction” according to the Red Lists in North the wood. Rhine-Westhphalia. As at many other locations, we also safeguard the habitat One example of our species protection measures is provided for plants and animals in the Inde water meadows, Lake by the region around the Hambach opencast mining area. Kasterer and in the Elsbach Valley by recultivation and we The flora and fauna habitat of Steinheide/Lörsfelder Busch/ have additionally transformed these areas into popular Dickbusch subject to special protection is located in the leisure amenities. Today, animal and plant species under immediate vicinity of the Hambach opencast mine. The threat have a new home there. GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Nature conservation areas are designated on the basis of cover an area of some 1,620 hectares. These are distributed the German Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG) over approximately 66 ha of nature conservation area, and they are the responsibility of various authorities. In the approximately 1,554 ha of landscape protection area and administrative district of Cologne, these areas are managed some 0.56 ha of protected landscape elements. The largest by the district government as a higher nature conservation contiguous land area is the recultivated Sophienhöhe Forest authority provided that the areas have not already been covering an area of 1,500 ha. This is located on the over­ designated as the responsibility of the regional districts burden dump of the Hambach opencast mine. or municipal city authorities. RWE Power AG and RWE Gen­ eration SE are owners or leaseholders of parcels of land Continuous updating for all our parcels of land would take throughout Germany. The actual number of these parcels a disproportionately high input of resources. Furthermore, of land and the number of designated conservation areas it is by no means certain that the digital data required from around our locations is undergoing continuous change. For the authorities for such an updating process would be suffiexample, conservation areas are currently located alongside ciently up to date to provide an accurate determination. the operating area of our Hambach opencast mine. They GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity The operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and could lead to negative impacts on the environment and bioplants for generating electricity from renewable energy and diversity. We are therefore committed to maintaining the for the production of lignite inevitably result in our impactpurity of air and water and to conserving natural eco­systems. ing on natural ecosystems. Harmful substances are released We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining during the generation of electricity and heat at our power activities by recultivating the extraction sites. For recultivaplants or the operation of our opencast mines, and they tion of opencast mining areas see GRI 304, page 52. 54 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The expansion of the grid and the building and operation of on biodiversity. For more information on this see innogy plants for generating renewable energy also exert impacts Sustainability Report GRI 304, page 53. Biodiversity of habitats protected or restored In 2016, five landscape protection areas located in the its use as a mining site. Alongside the quality of our recultiRhine-Erft district were designated under the legislation. vation, this diversity also contributed to the designation of They cover the recultivated areas of the former Bergheim, conservation areas. Fortuna and Frimmersdorf opencast mines. These areas were placed under protection in order to preserve, develop Ecological comparative analyses provide evidence that bioand reinstate the efficiency and function of the balance of coenoses in recultivation have at least an equivalent divernature, including protection of biotopes and habitats of sity of species to those in high-value reference habitats certain species of wild animals and plants. The evaluation located in other areas of North Rhine-Westphalia. The numcriteria included diversity, characteristic features and beauty, bers of species in recultivation are frequently above the as well as the special significance of the cultural history of numbers before opencast mining took place. This applies in the landscape and its particular significance as a recreational particular to mining districts in overwhelmingly agricultural amenity. This conservation success is also due to the quality areas. One reason for this large diversity of species is the of our recultivation. very diverse habitats and microstructures that are created in the course of agricultural and forestry recultivation, as well The new conservation zones cover an area of around as the comparatively low level of fertilisation at the new 3,398 ha. The age of the designated areas of opencast mine sites. The biodiversity footprint for recultivation shows that mean that we are not aware of any listings as conservation designing a new landscape also provides big opportunities zones originating from before the period of opencast mining to upgrade the ecological characteristics that extend far activities. The renaturalised post-mining landscape of today beyond the scope of “proper reinstatement of use”. is in fact structurally more diverse than was the case before 55 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 305 EMISSIONS GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges of at least 40% in its greenhouse gas emissions by as early Greenhouse gas emissions as 2020. The aim is to have a reduction in these emissions The electricity and heat generation from the power plant of at least 55% by 2030. The emission reduction in the UK portfolio of RWE is defined by a number of parameters envisages a fall of 34% by 2020 and 57% by 2030, in each including the use of the fuels lignite, hard coal, gas, uranium case by comparison with 1990. and biomass. The use of these fuels with the exception of uranium is connected with the emission of greenhouse Alongside the national target, sector-specific reduction gases. The objective is to reduce these emissions to achieve targets were also defined in the Climate Protection Plan a sustainable alignment of our business model and as a con2050 in Germany. This includes targets for the energy tribution to limiting the consequences of climate change. sector. Achievement of these targets presents particular Our corresponding corporate decisions in this area are challenges for electricity generation. This is because the significantly influenced and defined by the regulatory and exit from nuclear energy also has to be completed by the legislative framework. end of 2022. This decision was only taken after the national climate protection targets were defined. In December 2015, virtually all the countries in the world joined together in the Paris Climate Agreement (COP 21) to Other countries in which we operate have partly defined make a commitment to limiting the global rise in temperatheir own targets – Turkey, for example, has made a volunture to significantly below 2 degrees Celsius compared with tary commitment under the Paris Climate Agreement – or the pre-industrial level. The countries made national reduccountries restrict themselves to the use of EU ETS, for tion commitments to achieve this aim. The objective of the example Hungary. European Union is to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases by at least 40% by 2030 compared with the baseline Investors include the topic of climate protection in their year of 1990. The European Emissions Trading Scheme assessment of companies. In their procurement processes, (EU-ETS) provides the central controlling instrument for this our customers too are increasingly taking into account the purpose. The system defines an upper limit for emissions sustainability and carbon intensity of the electricity we genthat falls each year for individual sectors of the economy erate. NGOs and initiatives are continuously stepping up such as the energy industry and energy-intensive industries. their efforts to promote short-term shutdown of older coalThe tightening of the ETS necessary to achieve the reducfired power plants in order to achieve climate targets, both tion target for 2030 was virtually completed in 2017 and is against the background of greenhouse-gas and against that coming into force as a directive in the first half of 2018. The of other emissions. amount of CO2 certificates issued is scheduled to fall by 2.2% each year rather than 1.7% from 2021 to 2030. Other Central importance for innogy relates less to direct CO2 measures are supposed to contribute to reducing the current emissions and more to the upstream and downstream certificate surpluses in the market. In parallel with ETS value chain. reform, discussions about the proposals of the EU Commission to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target for Other emissions 2030 in the sectors outside emissions trading known as the Apart from the emission of greenhouse gases, the electricity Effort Sharing Decision will be continued. Overall, greenand heat generation from the power plant portfolio of RWE house gas emissions in the non-ETS sectors are projected to also causes other emissions into the air and water bodies. fall by 30% by 2030 compared with 2005. Compliance with limits defined under licensing regulations is necessary for sustainable alignment of our business model. The Netherlands wants to achieve a 49% reduction in their Our corporate decisions are therefore strongly defined by greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Details of this are to be the regulatory and legislative framework that undergoes defined in a new national climate and energy agreement by continuous development. the end of 2018. Germany would like to achieve a reduction 56 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In addition to CO2, emissions produced during electricity responsible EU authorities. Rights and obligations of the and heat production in conventional production units emitters are regulated in detail at the level of the member include sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and states so that additional corporate regulatory standards are dust. Dust and fine-dust emissions are also produced in the obsolete. The European Emissions Trading Directive is one course of operating our opencast mining facilities and these of the regulations applicable for this area at European level. can be a burden on the surrounding areas. These materials The relevant national regulations based on this directive are reduce the quality of the air breathed in and exert a deleteriapplicable in Germany, the Netherlands and the UK. ous effect on health. We use air purification measures to avoid risks in these areas. The CO2 data relevant for reporting are collected and calculated in the opencast mines and at the relevant powerNoise emissions are of key importance for innogy SE. For plant locations. They are then collected and processed in more information on this area see in the innogy Sustain­ the central departments for licences and environmental proability Report GRI 305, page 56 ff. tection. The Group Management is integrated in the course of reporting for the audit of the annual financial statements. Organisation and management RWE strives to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions proThe emissions generated by RWE are determined in operaduced in the course of electricity production in harmony tional terms by the use of our power plants in association with the existing and developing European and national with development in the energy markets. The prices for climate protection targets and in accordance with the definfuels and CO2 certificates determine the costs at which ing regulatory framework, the European Emissions Trading power plants are able to offer the electricity they produce Scheme and the legally-mandated security standby in on the wholesale market. When and which power plants Germany. In this connection, decisions on shutting down are used depends on the demand for electricity. More power plants should also be taken into account alongside expensive power plants are correspondingly only deployed the increased use of biomass in the Netherlands. when there is high demand in the electricity market and they emit correspondingly lower levels of greenhouse gases We have defined our target as reducing our CO2 emissions and other pollutants owing to the lower number of operatfrom electricity generation in Germany, the Netherlands ing hours. In 2017, the favourable fuel prices meant that and the UK by 40% to 50% by 2030 in comparison with lignite-fired power plants were used for the most operating 2015. This is equivalent to 55 – 65 million mt of CO2. In hours ahead of hard-coal and gas-fired power plants and concrete terms, we are looking to reduce CO2 emissions after nuclear power plants. The additional expansion of produced as a result of generating electricity from lignite. renewable energy, which have priority feed-in in Germany, By 2020, the emissions will fall by approximately 15% as a for example, means that the operational hours and the result of transferring power plants to security standby. Emisassociated emissions for all coal-fired power plants are sions will continue to fall up to 2030 owing to the decline continuously declining. in the number of operational hours in the wake of expanding renewable energy, efficiency enhancements, additional Climate protection and climate protection measures constimodernisation of our power plant portfolio and by discontute a key element of our corporate strategy. In this connectinuation of the Inden opencast mine and the associated tion, the coordination of decision-making and preparing the shutdown of the Weisweiler lignite-fired power plant. The groundwork for decisions are in the hands of Group Stratresultant fall of emissions be between 40% and 50%. By the egy, which integrates all the relevant divisions and reports middle of the century, generation of electricity from lignite to the Executive Board of RWE AG. will finally be discontinued and the associated emissions will cease entirely. We also use appropriate risk management to safeguard the financial risks that are associated with emissions trading. Our fossil-fuel power plants are subject to the European Risks are reduced by concluding appropriate hedging transEmissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS). Reporting on CO2 actions. We also sell most of the electricity generated by our emissions from these power plants is made to the national power plants in forward transactions and hedge the prices emissions trading offices and these in turn report to the for the fuels and emission allowances required. 57 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Establishing environmental protection in business Reduction of our own CO2 emissions processes We use CO2 emissions from plants subject to the European A responsible approach to natural resources and promoEmissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) as an indicator of the tion of the use of environmental technologies is one of greenhouse gas emissions. We report on emissions from our the principles governing conduct at RWE and this principle gas-fired power plant in Turkey together with the EU-ETS is enshrined in the RWE Code of Conduct. In 2017, the emissions in the total CO2 output for the RWE Group. provisions of the RWE Code of Conduct were applicable for the entire RWE Group without innogy SE. See also Due to the restriction on lignite mining to the lignite stocks GRI 307 Compliance (Environment), page 63. innogy SE available in the licensed opencast mines, the associated CO2 has its own identical Code of Conduct. emissions are limited to the operation of our lignite-fired power plants. The State Government of North Rhine-WestGroup-wide coverage for environmental management phalia took the key decision about future lignite mining at See GRI 307, page 64. the Garzweiler II opencast mine in July 2016 and reduced the lignite stocks of Garzweiler II licensed under planning Compliance with licensing regulations legislation by an estimated one third. See GRI 307, page 63. As far as RWE is concerned, emissions can be influenced Measures and performance measurement over the medium and long term by optimising the power Emissions over the medium and long term at RWE can be plant portfolio. This comprises modernisation and efficiency influenced by the ongoing development of the power plant enhancement for the existing power plants and the replaceportfolio. This relates to modernisation and efficiency ment or shutdown of existing power plants, just as much as enhancement for the existing power plants and the replacea change in fuel, for example hard coal to biomass in the ment or shutdown of existing power plants, just as much Netherlands. We carry out systematic reviews and adopt as a change in fuel, for example hard coal to biomass. the available options. In the past, we have significantly increased the efficiency of our power plants and expanded Reduction of financial risks the proportion of gas-fired generation. Financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected in our risk management. We reduce the risks by Since the beginning of April, work has been carried out concluding appropriate hedging transactions. Furthermore, to facilitate the use of 80% biomass in future as a fuel we sell most of the electricity from our power plants in forinstead of hard coal at our Dutch Amer 9 power plant. This ward transactions and hedge the prices for the fuels and will reduce the CO2 emissions from the power plant to the emission allowances required. level of a modern combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power plant. A decision was taken in June to co-incinerate up to Since the beginning of the third trading period of the Euro15% biomass at the Eemshaven power plant as a substitute pean Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) on 1 January 2013, fuel for hard coal. RWE is thereby making an important conoperators of plants subject to emissions trading requiretribution to the sustainability of the energy system in ments are only able to obtain an allocation of certificates the Netherlands. free of charge on application and if there are appropriate circumstances. These certificates are strictly regulated by The two lignite-fired units Frimmersdorf P & Q were transuniform allocation regulations across the EU and they are ferred to legally-mandates security standby on 1 October limited. We were allocated 1.6 million certificates free of 2017. In 2018 and 2019, a total of three additional units will charge for the 132.4 metric tons of CO2 emitted by RWE in follow. By 2020, this will enable us to achieve a reduction of EU countries in 2017. We purchased emission allowances around 15% in the emissions caused by generating electricamounting to 129.4 million metric tons or or used to a small ity compared with 2015 by 2020. As early as March 2017, amount certificates from international climate protection we permanently shut down operation of our two units A & B projects that were created under the Kyoto mechanisms of the Voerde coal-fired power plant. Clean Development Mechanism and Joint Implementation. 58 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Other options for taking action on reducing greenhouse technologies used today for flue-gas scrubbing already gas emissions are provided by carbon capture and use or remove up to 90% of this harmful substance when pure storage. Alongside affordability, a prerequisite for rolling coal is used for combustion. At the Coal Innovation Centre out projects involving carbon capture and storage (CCS) in the Rhineland lignite mining area, we are currently workwould be an appropriate legal framework and creation of ing on procedures for capturing mercury. One approach is acceptance for this technology in the public domain. Howto add furnace coke to the flue gas. In 2017, a pilot plant ever, the existing statutory framework conditions and the was set up for this purpose and commissioned at unit K of lack of acceptance mean that implementation of CCS prothe Niederaußem power plant. jects in Germany is currently not possible. Nevertheless, RWE is continuing to carry out research into the necessary Since the 1980s, we have been using flue-gas desulphurisatechnology. We are using our CO2 scrubber in the Coal Innotion systems to capture SO2 from the flue gas. This process vation Centre at the Niederaußem power plant to work on involves the SO2 being scrubbed out with the assistance of making CO2 separation for generating electricity from fossil a limestone solution. We have been continuously developing fuels more efficient than is the case for other industrial prothis and we are using the process on an industrial scale. cesses. innogy is driving forward climate-friendly electricity generation with the expansion of renewable energy. Reduction of air pollutants: dust and noise Legislation requires opencast mines to be structured and Reduction of other emissions operated so that harmful environmental impacts are avoided Primary and secondary emission reduction measures such if this is possible with the current level of technology. If envias firing technology, dust removal and desulphurisation ronmental impacts are unavoidable, they should be kept to a mean that emissions of mercury, sulphur dioxide (SO2), minimum using the latest technology available. We are able nitrogen oxides (NOX) and dust fall below the statutory to fully comply with these obligations. These environmental limits for these substances in our plants. Although some impacts connected with the operation of opencast mines are of the limits have been tightened, no incidents relating to primarily dust and noise pollution. We adopt suitable measprotection against air pollutants, events relevant for spills ures to reduce these emissions in a case by case approach or limit breaches occurred at our sites that would have led that takes into account the operational conditions and local to consequences under administrative law. circumstances. Noise emissions are reduced by the use of low-noise machinery, equipment and installations, encapsuAs the year progressed, additional capital expenditure lating drive units, establishing facilities behind protective was deployed in order to reduce NOx emissions from the ramparts and walls, and putting planting schemes in place Aberthaw power plant in the United Kingdom. The power across sound propagation pathways. We take a number of plant is now able to make use of a broader range of hardmeasures to reduce dust emissions (dust precipitation) coal qualities. Combined with capital expenditure in a lowincluding treatment of open surfaces to prevent the removal NOx burner technology in 2015, the NOX emissions will be of dust. The action here includes covering with materials reduced by half. The power plant will thereby meet the that will not be blown away, spraying large areas with water requirements of the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) and other methods of binding dust to the surface. Measures after the Transitional National Plan (TNP) runs out. were also developed that exert a targeted impact on the creation and dissemination of fine dust. These include cleaning In the course of our research activities we are working on facilities for the lignite conveyor belts and sprinklers on bunadvanced developments to reduce the emission of pollutker equipment and coal excavators. The individual methods ants that are released during the production of electricity are always carried out in consultation with the supervisory and generation of heat at our power plants. This is achieved authorities. Furthermore, operations monitoring stations at by installing modern burner technologies for NOX reduction opencast mines are available 24/7 for any citizens who may and optimised separation processes in our power plant porthave issues, so that short-term remedies can also be implefolio. One example of this is mercury, where the advanced mented if there is an incident of acute noise pollution. 59 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emissions balance Free allocation of Shortage of in million metric tons of CO2 CO2 Emissions CO2 certificates CO2 certificates 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lignite & Nuclear 88.5 88.6 0.7 0.8 87.8 87.8 European Power of which: 1 43.3 59.0 0.6 3.4 41.3 54.4 Germany 2 14.1 24.7 0.6 3.4 13.5 21.3 Netherlands/Belgium 13.8 14.0 13.8 14.0 United Kingdom 14.0 19.1 14.0 19.1 innogy 0.6 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 RWE Group 132.4 148.3 1.6 4.5 129.4 142.6 1 Including the CO2 emissions of our gas-fired power plant in Denizli, Turkey, which in 2017 amounted to 1.4 million metric tons (previous year: 1.2 million metric tons). Since Turkey does not participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need any emissions allowances for these quantities. 2 Including figures for generating capacities of plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2017, these power plants emitted 3.1 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 7.1 million metric tons). in million mt 2017 2016 CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS 132.4¹ 148.3 CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with GHG Protocol)2 135.6 154.0 1 Including figures for generating capacities of plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2017, these power plants emitted 3.1 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 7.1 million metric tons). 2 EU ETS quantities plus emissions from power plants which are not subject to EU ETS. GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in million mt 2017 2016 CO2 emissions Scope 2 1 1.0 1.3 1 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties outside the Group in our own grids. GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in million mt 2017 2016 CO2 emissions Scope 3 1 84.0 86.5 1 S cope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2: They are produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties outside the Group, the production and transmission of the fuels used and the consumption of gas that we have sold to our customers. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity in mt/MWh 2017 2016 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS 0.655 0.686 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 0.670 0.713 60 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See reduction of our in-house CO2 emissions in GRI 305, page 57. GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Negligible amounts of ozone-depleting substances, which core processes at RWE so that there is no separate recording primarily relate to chlorinated hydrocarbons, are used in process for them. GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Absolute emissions Unit 2017 2016 NOX emissions thousand mt 84.8 100.7 SO2 emissions thousand mt 39.0 38.9 Particulate matter emissions mt 2,564 2,680 Specific emissions in g/kWh 2017 2016 NOX emissions 0.40 0.47 SO2 emissions 0.18 0.18 Particulate matter emissions 0.01 0.01 61 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges decontamination measures so that it can be released by As an energy generator we do not simply consume raw the government authorities and then returned to the normal materials. A responsible approach to resources includes materials cycle. The remaining residue – only around 3% waste management. This enables us to comply with the of the total mass of a nuclear power plant – is destined for licensing regulations. Wastewater and waste are avoided disposal in a final repository for radioactive waste. This as far as possible. Unavoidable waste is disposed of in material primarily includes components near the core of accordance with the statutory regulations. We ensure that the reactor. Until the material has been consigned under all safety regulations are complied with and relevant pre­ statutory regulations to a final repository operated by the cautions are taken. government, these waste materials and spent fuel rods will in future be kept at an intermediate storage facility under Organisation, management and performance the responsibility of the German Federal Government. measurement Ensuring sustainable waste disposal Power plant residues are produced at our lignite-fired power Comprehensive waste management ensures that the waste plants in the form of ash and FGD gypsum. The ash is generated is transferred in accordance with the regulations largely eliminated in residue deposits of RWE Power AG for reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal. Measures are taken defined in accordance with approved plans. Most of the in order to meet these requirements, for example waste is gypsum produced from the flue-gas desulphurisation (FGD) collected separately in suitable containers as far as possible system is recovered. Ash and gypsum from the coal-fired and handed over to a specialist disposal company. power plants is mainly forwarded for material recovery. A small amount is disposed of. The requirements defined in waste legislation have to be taken into account for the disposal of the waste generated Avoid waste in the course of our operations. Owing to the varying comThe principle of avoidance, recovery and disposal provides position of waste and the resulting potential for hazard, the platform for our waste management. Our top priority is waste is classified into two categories: hazardous and nonavoidance of waste. This conserves resources and protects hazardous waste. We also distinguish between recovery and our employees and the environment. All organisational units disposal. Waste subsequently undergoes further appropriate are therefore continually reviewing the possibility of avoidtreatment. During the project phase, new-build and mainteance for the waste that is produced within their area of nance of plants, an internal system records and analyses responsibility. This already happens in the course of the the potential harm caused by waste disposal. Appropriate planning and procurement process. protective measures are also defined. Disposal information systems are used for organising disposal services. These We continuously reduce the quantity of waste as much as information systems guarantee compliance with all the possible. One of the ways we do this is by optimising our applicable statutory and contractual conditions in the plants. Nevertheless, a distinction is drawn for the waste disposal of the waste generated. actually incurred between reuse, recycling and other uses of waste, for example recovery of energy. Disposal is only We treat residual materials and waste from our nuclear permissible if recovery is not technically possible or is not power plants which occur while they are being operated commensurate with commercial requirements. as well as when the power plants are decommissioned. Treatment and disposal is carried out in accordance with Process wastewater the statutory regulations, see Shutdown and decommisOur internal wastewater treatment facilities and their regular sioning of power plants and reinstatement of opencast monitoring ensure the prevention of potential contaminants. mines, page 45. Only a small part of the entire mass of the We keep records in compliance with prescribed limits. This nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radioactive process enables us to avoid negative impacts for the natural materials when they are operational. The greatest proporenvironment and health. tion of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of 62 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination The pollutant concentrations for wastewater discharged monitoring systems and in the course of regular in-house from operational facilities are limited by the licensing and independent monitoring surveys carried out by governauthorities with specification of monitoring values. These ment agencies. The permissible monitoring values ensure values are defined in the relevant permits under water legisthat a good ecological status and a good environmental lation. Monitoring of these values is carried out by in-house potential can be achieved for the surface waters. GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Power plant residues from our coal-fired power plants desulphurisation of our coal-fired power plants generates dominate the generation of waste. They are reused in gypsum. Most of this gypsum is passed on for recovery. applications such as road and track construction. 100% of Other waste is also produced in the course of our operathe ash from the lignite-fired power plants is eliminated in tions. This waste is forwarded for reuse, recycling, recovery power-plant residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in or disposal. accordance with approved plans. The process of flue-gas Waste Unit 2017 2016 Ash thousand mt 7,746 8,201 Ash recovery thousand mt 1,299 1,567 Gypsum thousand mt 2,052 2,042 Gypsum recovery thousand mt 1,347 1,105 Radioactive operational waste from nuclear power plants mt 273.4 267.1 Spent fuel rods mt 274.2 267.3 GRI 306-3 Significant spills During the reporting period, no spills of harmful substances relevant for the environment were recorded in the regular internal survey for RWE. 63 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 307 COMPLIANCE (ENVIRONMENTAL) GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges We assess our environmental performance on a regular basis The operation of nuclear and conventional power plants and use these results to initiate systematic improvements. and plants for generating electricity from renewable energy and for the production of lignite inevitably result in our A process of continuous improvement and certification impacting on natural ecosystems and having effects on the enables us to identify and evaluate existing risks systematienvironment. Substances are released during the generation cally and roll out appropriate measures. Comprehensive of electricity and heat at our power plants or the operation statutory regulations are already in place for environmental of our opencast mines, and they could lead to negative protection in the countries where we are active. Our activiimpacts on the environment. In the regions where we are ties partly extend beyond the obligations arising from legisoperating, strict environmental legislation and licensing lation or licences for the operation of opencast mines and regulations define the framework for our operating activipower plants. ties. We have to ensure compliance with legislation and avoid the risk of serious negative impacts on ecosystems. An integrated management system was introduced for RWE Concrete environmental challenges in the fields of energy, Generation SE and RWE Power AG in order to manage our emissions, water, biodiversity, and waste and wastewater key activities with environmental relevance. Alongside comare presented under the individual topics. We describe pliance, this encompasses the areas of energy, water, biodichallenges in the supply chain under procurement. versity, emissions, and wastewater and waste. The structural requirements for the management of occupational health Organisation and management and safety, the environment and energy are largely similar. Alongside acting in accordance with the law, rules and We therefore deal with them together in an integrated manprocedures, the principles for good conduct defined in the agement system for reasons of synergy. Code of Conduct describe our aspiration for environmental protection as follows: We are committed to a responsible Establishing environmental protection in business approach to natural resources and promote the use of enviprocesses ronmentally friendly technologies. Since 2017, the proviIn the course of Group-wide environmental protection sions of the RWE Code of Conduct have been applicable management, the relevant emission data are surveyed and for the entire RWE Group without innogy. innogy has its calculated at the individual sites and then collected and own identical Code of Conduct. processed in a central department for licences and environmental protection. Integrated compliance reporting to the The Group Guideline on Environmental Management reguExecutive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG prolates the requirements for a Group-wide management sysvides the framework for the Chief Compliance Officer of tem based on ISO 14001 in order to meet this aspiration. RWE to report significant deviations in the context of The Chief Environmental Officer of RWE AG bears responsienvironmentally relevant events, see GRI 419, bility for this. The RWE companies appoint environmental page 81. process owners in the executive management and corresponding environmental management officers, and review, Measures and performance measurement assess and improve the appropriate environmental manageRegular audits in the uncertified companies safeguard ment systems. The environmental management officer of compliance with the requirement to set up an environmental RWE AG reports to the Executive Board and Supervisory management system. In this connection, we also strengthen Board of RWE AG on a quarterly basis. innogy has estabthe environmental awareness of our employees through lished its own equivalent Environmental Management System training courses and other information, and in direct and reports on this in the innogy Sustainability Report. dialogue. 64 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Group-wide coverage for environmental management to 99% in 2017. However, gaps at RWE AG and RWE Supply In its Group-wide guideline, RWE AG makes a commitment & Trading GmbH were identified in 2017 due to the organito ensure that all downstream operating companies estabsational restructuring. Defined measures are intended to lish an appropriate environmental management system that close these gaps in 2018. Our objective is to have a level of essentially corresponds to the requirements of the ISO 14001 coverage of 100%. 91% of the environmental management international standard. systems in the Group was externally certified. During the reporting year, no environmentally relevant incidents were The percentage coverage by our environmental manageidentified. The level of coverage for environmental management system serves as a key performance indicator. The ment at innogy is 85%. 43% of the environmental managelevel of coverage for environmental management amounted ment systems were externally certified. GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations During the reporting year, no significant monetary and non-monetary sanctions were reported for the environmental area in an internal survey. 65 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) For information on the general Management Approach on course of pre-qualification. Relevant criteria are also used in procurement see GRI 204, page 36. the tender process and benefit analysis to assess the offers of our suppliers. Depending on the tendered requirement, environmentally relevant criteria are interrogated from the suppliers in the GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a used by the purchasing department to establish the suitaconstituent element of contractual relationships. Additionbility of the supplier. In such cases, compliance with the ally, the suitability of suppliers is evaluated during the defined criteria can be reviewed in supplier appraisals and course of pre-qualification on the basis of the hazard potenused for future tender processes in the framework of the tial. A separate work instruction and a checklist are therefore internal appraisal system. GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken We can only report on the number of audited suppliers for out audits of all suppliers to ensure conformity with potential goods, services and plant components. The audits carried compliance risks. When procurement is carried out in the out in the context of Bettercoal can also be reported, see wholesale markets, an appraisal is not possible due to an GRI 204, page 37. An overview of the producers audited absence of direct supplier relationships. is provided on the Bettercoal website. We regularly carry 66 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix SOCIAL TOPICS GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT Challenges Establishment of new conceptual and working practices We are working together with our employees to master the Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of challenges of the energy transition. The growing business working within the RWE Group. The programme “New Way pressure being exerted on the RWE Group and the changes of Working” (NWoW) has been designed to achieve this. We occurring in the energy market have also made a cultural are defining new standards for our working practices and change necessary at our company. If we failed to take action promoting the skills of employees. A common working culhere, we would put our future performance at risk. The ture is also being developed in the three areas of Operating realignment of our company has not yet been completed. Excellence, Universal Process Management and Leadership It requires increased flexibility from our employees and and Alignment. Our intention is to use these and other opens up the possibility of new functions. We have theremeasures to enhance customer satisfaction and improve fore launched an array of different programmes so that the financial results. they are in a position to achieve the best possible outcome. We are joining forces with our employees to structure our The NWoW programme has meanwhile been expanded to working culture. This is intended to ensure that we remain ten operational projects in RWE Generation SE, RWE Power competitive and attractive. AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Currently 60 experts and 5,000 employees are working within the NWoW context. Organisation, management and performance Other projects are currently in the pipeline or are in the measurement implementation phase. Socially acceptable and responsible restructuring Our iSWITCH GmbH has already been established in the In addition to these ten projects, other initiatives are RWE Group. This platform promotes and supports many running in the area of Management & Alignment with the colleagues in relaunching their careers with an internal aim of expanding the skills of managers. If executive managGroup-wide job market. Secondments of employees from ers act as role models for the RWE management profile, they the iForce enable us to cover temporary personnel bottlealso lay the foundation stone for successful introduction of necks. This unit was established so that internal resources NWoW at the individual locations. could be used instead of external agency staff on a temporary basis. iSWITCH also offers targeted career development We measure the success of our NWoW projects particularly and helps staff to achieve further qualifications. It also by analysing leadership quality and employee and customer assists them in taking advantage of short-term (project) satisfaction. activities and accompanying staff on work experience in different segments (divisions) of the Group. The framework Defining objectives through the Code of Conduct and conditions are defined in collective bargaining agreements. RWE Social Charter The offer from iSWITCH is open to colleagues at RWE comOur Code of Conduct and the RWE Social Charter were panies and innogy SE. For more information see innogy jointly adopted by the European Works Council and the Sustain­ability Report, GRI 401, page 67. Executive Board in 2010. They define standards for the relationship with our employees and for the conduct Several tools are available to measure the success of the between the employees themselves. The RWE Code of internal job market including the number of internal and Conduct and the innogy code of Conduct apply to all our external applicants for each job. We also record the throughemployees. The Social Charter is valid for all employees put times within iSWITCH GmbH, alongside the financial of the RWE Group without innogy SE. result and utilisation of capacity. After a survey was carried out of the registered candidates and applicants, a large number of measures were implemented in relation to many aspects of the handling and management of applications in order to further improve the package on offer. 67 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Unit 2017 2016 Fluctuation rate % 8.8 10.1 External hirings FTE 3,630 3,062 We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data larly report on the age structure and the breakdown of on turnover and new appointments because the benefit is employees by gender. not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We reguGRI 402 LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges It states that the Executive Management and the Works We want to adopt a responsible approach to essential Council should cooperate together in an atmosphere of restructuring measures and implement a socially ethical trust. RWE has gone beyond these statutory regulations plan. We want to be perceived as an equal partner in order and in 2010 defined its commitment to open and trusting to avoid dissatisfaction among our employees and to councooperation in the RWE Social Charta adopted by the teract increased turnover. We are therefore continually in European Works Council and the Executive Board. This discussions with the employee representative bodies in the charter sets out opportunities for participation in processes Group and with the unions. In Germany, the Works Constiof change for employee and union representative bodies. tution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, BetrVG) covers the Apart from the Group Works Council and the European situation at RWE. We base our actions on this legislation. Works Council, there are other forms of employee representation across the Group, at company level and at operational Organisation, management and performance level. Specific interest groups, such as spokesperson commeasurement mittees, representative bodies for people with disabilities, Cooperation beyond the statutory regulations in an and youth and apprentice representations are also included. atmosphere of trust The framework of reorganising the RWE Group also encomThe Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz, passed the settlement of interests dated 13 May 2016. BetrVG) regulates the comprehensive information, consultation and co-determination rights of the Works Council. GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We comply with all information disclosure obligations and include employee representatives at an early stage. 68 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges work of the Workplace Safety Management System. Since As an industrial company, occupational safety and maintainthe employees of the Company Medical Centre are part ing health are particularly relevant among the topics that of the organisation of RWE Power AG and have contracts are of concern to our employees. Our employees and the of employment with this company, healthcare manageemployees of our partner companies often carry out their ment is part of the integrated management system of assignments at workplaces that are subject to special requireRWE Power AG. ments for occupational health and safety. In particular, these include activities in the area of opencast mining, in technical Organisation of Health & Safety areas at our power plants, and at transmission lines or wind The functions of occupational safety and Company Health turbines. These areas of application are subject to particular Management (CHM) are carried out by Health & Safety. accident risks and health hazards for our employees and the The Health & Safety Department (H&S) is situated at RWE employees of subcontractors. So as to protect them, we are Power AG and also operates on the basis of a Service Level committed to sustainable development of occupational Agreement for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply health and safety. & Trading GmbH. The department is also responsible for H&S reporting in the RWE Group and in this function reports Organisation and management regularly to the Executive Board of RWE AG. A regulated Our objective is for every employee to be healthy and to organisational structure ensures that the decentralised occuremain so. We are committed to using all the available pational safety departments throughout the company are opportunities to aid the recovery of sick employees as included in H&S reporting. innogy has its own H&S Departquickly as possible. This applies equally to occupational ment that operates on the basis of comparable standards. safety, in other words to the avoidance of accidents and Reporting here is in the innogy Sustainability Report. to the promotion of health. The structural and process organisation of Health & Safety Organisation of healthcare management is ensured through acknowledged management systems The functions of healthcare management are situated with including international standards and rules. Corresponding the Company Medical Centre and the Department of Health regulations will be defined in a guideline valid throughout the & Safety. The Company Medical Centre bundles the organiGroup that is currently at the draft stage. RWE has defined sation of all the medical and emergency medical resources the target of ensuring that all Group companies have certi­ alongside social counselling service. The services for the fiable management systems for occupational safety. CurRWE Group without innogy SE are provided on the basis of rently, certification has been conferred on the management service contracts. systems for occupational safety in 70% of the companies. The Health & Safety Department develops and initiates Continuous improvement of occupational safety health prevention packages in cooperation with the ComThe occupational safety management systems cover the pany Medical Centre in the context of Occupational Health relevant management and business functions including the Management. The personnel carrying out the management definition of targets, structures and processes, rules and function within the Company Medical Centre are separate tools relevant to occupational health and safety. The objecfrom the Chief Company Medical Officer. The Chief Comtive is to make the best possible contribution to achieving pany Medical Officer carries out the functions and respon­ the corporate goals. The corresponding processes related to sibilities in accordance with the relevant regulations. The Health and Safety are systematically analysed and continuChief Company Medical Officer is also responsible for addiously improved using the Plan Do Check Act cycle. The intetional functions, in particular the strategic alignment and grated approach is applied for relevant activities that extend management of the entire area. Detailed organisation of across management systems. These include management healthcare management has been defined within the framereviews, audits, analyses and event notifications. 69 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Measures and performance measurement Continuous improvement of health Continuous improvement of occupational safety Every year, the Company Medical Centre carries out a vacciThe measures described here relate to RWE without innogy. nation programme for all employees. This also includes indiinnogy carries out its own comparable measures under its vidual vaccination advice and drawing up a vaccination plan own responsibility. Since 2017, the uniform classification of as necessary. all events and accidents relating to RWE’s own employees have been carried out along an accident pyramid with the We apply a number of measures including the Work Ability intention of ensuring development and alignment with interIndex (WAI) in order to obtain a more extensive record of national Health & Safety (H&S) standards. In parallel, an employees’ performance and their ability to carry out their assessment of potential has been carried out using a risk work. This framework provides them with effective support. matrix. We want to use long-term establishment of a probaThe approach is based on our employees’ own assessments bilistic approach to assist our employees in achieving better and indicates the extent to which employees see themselves identification and assessment of safety risks. as being in a position to carry out their work at the present time and in the future. By the end of 2017, a total of some We focus specifically on investigating events and accidents 27,000 questionnaires had been completed by the surwith a high potential for risk. For this purpose, we deploy veyed employees. an independent, interdisciplinary analysis team in order to determine causes and derive suitable measures. In addition, In 2017, the “Development of Occupational Health and we also support the subcontractors working for us with Safety Culture” (DOHSC) project was successfully conanalysis and implementation of measures. cluded. One of the objectives of the project was to motivate employees to develop behaviour that fosters health and Our objective is to treat the employees of subcontractors safety, and move the culture further in the direction of a in the same way at all times as RWE’s own employees. We collaborative, team-oriented management style. Some therefore take account of the number of subcontractor 5,500 managers from RWE Group including innogy SE accidents in the LTIF rate. attended cultural development workshops directed towards this objective. At cross-divisional and non-hierarchical events, Over the course of the past ten years, RWE has established instruction was provided in the application of management and expanded a reliable system of Workplace Safety Sub­ tools relevant to health and safety. A Development of Occucontractor Management (WSSM). Apart from reducing the pational Health and Safety Culture tour was created in order accidents and work-related stresses for our subcontractors, to foster a team spirit between managers and employees. the focus is on joint development of an H&S culture. In order The tour empowers managers to discuss issues relating to to achieve this, we support our subcontractors from the occupational health and safety together with their team. tender stage to carrying out the work, as well as in the final The employees were informed and integrated through the phase of continuous improvement. In 2017, we carried out Intranet. In addition, a DOHSC app was offered to promote H&S workshops, highlighted specific safety performance health and physical activity and to provide a self-check for and intensified cooperation between the H&S experts at evaluating an employee’s own motivation. When the project RWE and subcontractors. was completed, the sustainability of the DOHSC cultural development was ensured by implementation of DOHSC In 2017, the Health & Safety Departments of RWE and aspects into Company Health Management and in personnel innogy also developed the “Safety Academy” game. This tools. involves small teams working together and answering questions interactively about Health and Safety. Situations from The aim of Company Health Management (CHM) is to preroutine work every day are also trained in action fields. sent our employees with a wide range of offers and needsbased measures to promote their health. Thematic focuses are made up of mental, physical and social health. The area of mental health offers a burgeoning area of action owing to the intensified concentration of work and increased psychological burdens. Against this background, offerings 70 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix related to stress competence, resilience and mindfulness the health-related absenteeism rate of the RWE Group are being expanded with the aim of promoting the skills of was 4.8%. our employees, mastering crises and providing them with an opportunity for personal development by drawing on their In selected areas, the health-protection indicators relevant own competences as a platform for development. to controlling were summarised in a basic indicators port­ folio. This portfolio provides the business with an overview Health indicator of the health scenario in the company. It is broken down into A key indicator of health in the workforce is the healthcause and effect indicators. The cause indicators such as related absenteeism rate. This reflects the periods of development of employee capacities, average age, increased absence due to sickness including absence as a result of performance rate and Work Ability Index, and other indicaaccidents and due to rest cures. It is calculated as a function tors present potential causes for the sickness rate. The effect of the scheduled working hours for all employees. In 2017, indicators show the actual periods of absence. GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities  The key performance indicator we use for occupational we succeeded in maintaining the number of occupational safety is the number of accidents with the loss of at least accidents at a uniformly good level and achieved an LTIF of one day of work for every one million hours worked (Lost 2.29 (2016: 2.1). The LTIF for RWE without innogy was 2.49 Time Incident Frequency, LTIF). Colleagues at subcontractors in 2017. We intend to reduce this level to 1.8 by 2018. are included in this indicator. In the reporting year 2017, Accidents and days of absence in 2017 by division Number of occupational accidents1 Number of commuting accidents2 RWE Generation SE und RWE Power AG3 123 40 RWE Supply & Trading GmbH 1 1 RWE AG (other) 0 0 innogy Grid & Infrastructure Division 175 111 innogy Renewable Energies Division 20 0 innogy Retail Division 30 9 innogy other (Gastro, interdisciplinary functions, etc.) 10 19 RWE Group 359 180 1 Including employees from subcontractors. 2 Only own employees. 3 up to 2017, integrated reporting was provided on the generation business. Reporting in accordance with this controlling model is carReporting on occupational diseases and the absentee rate is ried out on the basis of operational controlling of occupaalso not possible for the same reason. tional health and safety in the operating segments. We do not therefore report by regions but analogous to operational Unfortunately, we had to report a total of three fatal occuline controlling. The special hazard and stress requirements pational accidents in the business year 2017. At the beginare therefore taken account of within the segments and ning of January, the truck driver of a subcontractor was burinternational comparability is ensured. Data on the type of ied in loading operations during excavation of earth using a injuries, the injury rate, the absentee rate (Lost Day Rate, wheel-loader at an innogy construction site for a transformer LDR) and work-related fatalities are surveyed in anonymised station and he suffered fatal injuries. At the beginning of form for reasons associated with data protection regulaFebruary, an employee of a subcontractor was fatally injured tions. These data cannot therefore be reported by gender. at the RWE Visonta opencast mine operated by Mátra Kraft71 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix werk G.AG. when he stopped his bulldozer in the working injuries in a traffic accident during a business trip. Analysis range of a bucket wheel. The driver’s cab of the bucket teams were immediately deployed in all cases to clarify wheel was struck and destroyed. In mid-December, an the causes of the accidents and appropriate measures were employee of innogy in the Czech Republic received fatal derived. GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Activities of our employees and our subcontractor employees However, we believe that all hazards can be avoided by in the area of our power plants and opencast mining facilitaking preventive action and implementing appropriate proties, and in the case of innogy SE at transmission lines or tective and safety measures. We organise training sessions wind turbines, are frequently associated with particularly and workshops in our regions in order to focus attention on high requirements for occupational health and safety. Health and Safety. GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges assistance with making applications and other useful inforOur company is only as strong as the knowledge of our mation. We focus our on-site activities on selected universiemployees. Lack of training and education would lead to an ties and fairs in Germany and abroad, as well as offering impairment of the performance of the RWE Group. We will personal interviews and an intensive exchange of views. only be able to continue mastering the future challenges presented in the energy business by having professional and Women continue to be less inclined than men to take up dedicated employees and managers. Our aim is therefore to a technical career. We are therefore especially committed continue recruiting talented young people to work at RWE, to motivating young women to explore technical careers at promoting our employees, supporting them in their individual an early stage. One example is our engagement with the development, and furthering their careers on the basis of nationwide Girls’ Days, which have involved more than 400 their individual strengths. We believe that it is important to participants over many years. These events give school girls be perceived as an attractive employer. We continue to give an opportunity to find out about careers in technical and IT our employees advanced training so that they are always areas by attending workshops and work experience sessions. familiar with the latest technical developments. Promotion of training Organisation, management and performance The RWE Group has a long track record of vocational trainmeasurement ing. We focus primarily on the dual vocational training sysRecruitment of new employees tem in Germany. This involves theoretical instruction being We are an important economic factor in the regions where given at vocational colleges alongside on-the-job training in we have operations in the energy sector. So as to ensure the company. Overall, we offer training at more than 50 that we continue to reinforce this perception of an attractive locations for in excess of 30 apprenticeship vocations in employer in potential employees, we are proactive in engagcraft, engineering and commercial occupations, and other ing with them. We inform them about the activities and the areas where we enable young people to undergo a highopportunities for employment and a career at RWE. We use quality vocational training. We offer training that extends a range of different tools including our Career Portal to probeyond our own specific needs. We also offer twin-track vide information to schoolchildren, students, graduates and degree courses with practical, in-service training integrated prospective employees with career experience. The aim is to as part of the package. In addition to carrying out training help them make a start on the career ladder in the world of on its own behalf, RWE also supports external companies work at RWE or give them advice on changing jobs, and to with activities for collaborative training ventures, for examget in contact with them. The site also provides them with ple by making training capacities available in our training useful information about RWE as an employer, gives them workshops and by carrying out training for small companies. 72 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Every year, more than 600 young people start their training Career training and development in the RWE Group. This means that they are part of 2,215 We offer a range of training sessions and courses for develapprentices in the Group. 95% of these trainees work at oping personal skills and for strengthening personal com­ companies in Germany. If you compare the number of petences. Support is also provided for acquiring knowledge German apprentices with the full-time jobs in Germany, the and skills which lead to further personal development within apprentice ratio of the RWE Group was 6.0% in 2017. We the Group. We help managers to enable their employees to offered 41 places in our entry-level qualification “I can do take advantage of opportunities on a daily basis – opportuit!” („Ich pack’ das!“) in 2017. Here we help young people nities to try out new things, implement projects and collabowho have not yet found a training place and give them the rate with different people so that they can learn from each knowledge to enable them to achieve the necessary level other. We are committed to a culture of lifelong learning and for basic training. We have been providing this one-year proto facilitating the best possible development of the current gramme for the past 13 years and we have helped almost and future skills of our employees. We have defined our 1,200 participants. In 2017, we achieved a placement rate approach in our Advanced Training Guide. of 87% into basic training, jobs and advanced measures. This provides evidence of the high-quality engagement by our trainers in the company. GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Our employees have access to a broad spectrum of developoffers attendance training courses, web-based learning, ment opportunities. These range from basic IT skills and videos and much more. Certificates are issued for training project management, through specialist topics such as occucourses in specific areas. In 2017, more than 20,000 training pational safety and compliance, to management training sescourses were booked through the HR portal for RWE without sions and performance management. The HR portal of RWE innogy. GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges As a technological company, increasing the proportion of Deep-seated changes like demographic change, skills shortwomen in the company continues to be a challenge. Furtherages, migration, changes in values and the individualisation more, the demographic change is also an important issue of life concepts mean that our society is becoming more and for us. Society is getting older and this entails challenges in more diverse. Our objective is to use the diversity of our the world of work and for our company. workforce at RWE as an opportunity for cultural change, to recruit talents and to convince our employees about our Organisation, management and performance merits every day. An open and respectful culture appreciates measurement diversity and this is therefore advantageous for our company Establishment of diversity management in the and for our employees. organisation Our commitment to diversity in the company culture is We are a company operating on the international stage enshrined in our Social Charter. We make it clear in the where employees from different cultural backgrounds work charter that we reject any form of discrimination and we together. Our stakeholder groups and customers have an require a working environment free of prejudice. Our international profile. This is why good cooperation and interdiversity management plays a key role here. cultural communication are important for the success of our company. 73 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix We interpret diversity management as a long-term manageEqual remuneration for women and men ment function in order to deploy the right competences at Men and women at RWE are paid the same for equivalent the correct place in the company. The different personalities activities. The compensation is based on the typical activiand capabilities of each individual are a central focus and ties allocated to the remuneration groups. Gender is not they are regarded as an opportunity to learn from each mentioned at all in our compensation guidelines and is other. This gives every employee the opportunity to fully irrelevant for remuneration. The amount of pay is therefore exploit their potential, irrespective of their age, their gendependent on qualifications, the activity being carried out der, their origin, but also independently of their beliefs, and the experience of the employees. disability and their sexual orientation. The employee representatives ensure that equal treatment We engage with age structures and age-appropriate is maintained in the sphere of pay as in all other areas. The employment in the company, analyse the requirements assignment to a tariff or salary group is linked to the job of different generations and cooperation in mixed-age profile and is not dependent on gender. working teams. We also offer packages for knowledge transfer and workshops. Appointing more women to management positions We provide women with strategic support for entering RWE is committed to providing refugees with vocational our company structure and climbing up the career ladder. qualifications. Since 2015 we have given a total of 211 Our objective is to achieve a greater proportion of women people many different opportunities for gaining a foothold in management positions. With this in mind, we have sucin the world of work. The focus for our approach is provided cessfully continued our Executive Mentoring Programme for by internships (124), work experience sessions (36), entrywomen and our training directed towards preparation for level qualifications (28), training places (12), temporary taking up membership on supervisory boards. appointments (10) and a twin-track degree course with in-service training (1). Key qualifications, technical underThe Women’s Network at the RWE Group and innogy SE standing and craft skills in automotive, metalwork and elecbrings more than 450 women at 14 locations together. tronics are promoted in the context of projects. Attendance Group-wide communication on the latest challenges in the at vocational school is generally also part of the package. energy industry is promoted at annual conferences and workFor further information on commitment to refugees see ing groups, and motivation is provided to enable women to GRI 413-1, page 75. develop their individual career paths. We will continue to support them with more initiatives. This also includes the Our Diversity Week is held at the headquarters in Essen MINT Women initiative that brings together women in our and in many other locations in Germany and abroad. It has company who have taken scientific and engineering degrees. demonstrated just how diverse RWE already is. The week The programme strengthens the profile of women in profesalso highlights how the activities in the various subsidiary sions where they remain underrepresented. It offers them a companies contribute to promoting a culture of inclusivity. knowledge exchange platform and assists them with career development through networking activities. More than 112 We are committed to continuous knowledge exchange women from different hierarchical levels within the Group on topics related to gender and disability at work and we have taken part in the initiative. We have also launched a engage in this exchange in the ENEI network, one of the Mentoring Programme for women in MINT professions. biggest diversity networks in the English-speaking world. The active members include corporations, ministries and The proportion of women in management positions was NGOs. The exchange is carried out through workshops and 15% for the RWE Group without innogy SE at the end of with digital tools in online training sessions and online 2017. It was 19% for innogy SE. The percentage was 29% discussion groups. for the first management level below the Executive Board of RWE AG. The percentage was 17% at the second manageThe fact that we engage successfully in promoting equal ment level below the Executive Board of RWE AG. opportunity and diversity in the Group is provided by the “Total Equality” certification received by RWE in 2017. At the Supervisory Board meeting held on 23 June 2017, the Supervisory Board passed a resolution defining targets for the compliance period to 30 June 2022 in the form of 74 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix target quotas. These amount to 0% for women in the Execumeasures and appropriate workplace design and a barriertive Board. A target quota of 30% was defined for the first free approach. Employee representatives also play a role in management level. The target quota of 20% women in the structuring and monitoring the implementation of inclusion second management level takes account of the current here. The ratio of employees with disabilities at RWE in appointment situation and the difficult conditions in the Germany was 1.4% in 2017. This means that we did not employment market. comply with the statutory quota of 5.0%. The number of women on the 20-strong Supervisory Board Combining career and family of RWE AG is currently six, of which three are drawn from the Combining career and family is a top priority at RWE and the employee side. This means that the statutory regulations company promotes getting the work-life balance right within have been implemented. During the year under review, no the framework of the individual national circumstances and women were present on the Executive Board of RWE AG, see the specific opportunities available in the Group companies. GRI 102-22, page 17. Framework conditions like mobile working and flexible working hours including management positions, and up to Promotion of inclusiveness 24 months of unpaid special leave all contribute to making In March 2014, the Executive Board of RWE AG adopted it easier to combine career and family. There are additional the RWE Inclusiveness Action Plan for the German Group packages for (prospective) parents including the Lumiland companies and resolved to roll it out. RWE uses this plan daycare nurseries located close to the company’s premises. specifically to promote the inclusion of people with disabiliEmployees can now use nursery places in Essen, Dortmund ties in all the company’s activities. The agreed targets will and Cologne. Parent and child offices are also available and continue to be implemented in the companies of RWE Group a central mediation centre for childminders, nannies, emerwithout innogy SE. Their sustainable impact is demonstrated gency mothers and au pairs is also available – even in situain the constant employment rate for people with disabilities, tions when private childcare is suddenly not available at in the package of internship places for young people with short notice. disabilities and the sustainable, barrier-free establishment of workplaces for people whose ability to take part in the workThe spectrum of services is not simply restricted to childplace is compromised. Our community and social responsicare support. It also includes services for the care of relability towards people with disabilities is defined across tives. For example, employees can get advice from an online Europe through the Social Charter and the Charter of Diverportal about subjects like patient instructions and long-term sity. This commitment is also implemented in a practical way care insurance, or they can also obtain expert advice at onby campaigns to raise awareness and strategic measures in site events. We also provide support for our employees in human resource development, training, employment, health selecting care services or organising support in the home. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Proportion of gender in the RWE Group Age structure of the RWE Group in % 2017 2016 in % 2017 2016 Proportion of women in the company 27.7 27.2 Proportion <20 years 1.8 1.9 Proportion of men in the company 72.3 72.8 Proportion 20-24 years 5.1 5.1 Proportion of women in management 15.0 14.0 Proportion 25-29 years 8.6 8.5 positions1 Proportion 30-34 years 11.0 10.8 1 Encompasses the first four management levels. Encompasses RWE AG, Proportion 35-39 years 11.1 10.7 RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. Proportion 40-44 years 11.1 11.3 Proportion 45-49 years 13.7 14.8 Proportion 50-54 years 17.5 18.3 Proportion 55-59 years 15.1 14.4 Proportion ≥ 60 years 5.0 4.3 75 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix A survey of data on minorities is subject to the individual Board see RWE Annual Report 2017, page 185 ff., and national regulatory standards. Differentiation on the basis of the RWE website. The career profiles of the Members of gender and age is not therefore possible. For disclosures on the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board can also be the composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory found here. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men RWE pays women the same salary as men when they are on the basis of qualification. The employee representative in equivalent positions. The salary is calculated exclusively bodies also monitor equal treatment here. GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges mind, we enter into dialogue with neighbouring residents Wherever we have operations, our actions exert an impact and other groups which are impacted by our business operon local communities. Our power plants and opencast mines ations or whose activities exert an impact on the business offer jobs and therefore support the structure of the individactivities of RWE. Wherever we have operations, we want to ual regions. In some places, this has already been happencooperate with the local communities where we are working. ing for a long time. We temporarily take over very large areas of land for our opencast mines. This is associated with Dialogue with neighbouring residents and other serious changes in the profile of the landscape. Furtherstakeholders affected more, employee, supplier and customer traffic associated We engage in a lot of different stakeholder dialogues to with our plants also exerts an impact on the neighbourhood. communicate information and to involve neighbouring resiIn some cases, these operations may necessitate resettledents and other groups who are affected by our business ments of individual villages or parts of local settlements. activities. This is primarily related to our opencast mines and our power plants. For more information on integrating our Organisation, management and performance stakeholders see GRI 102-43 and GRI 102-44, page 21. measurement We want to operate in a socially ethical way at our operating locations and be perceived in a positive light. With this in GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes At all our major locations, we exchange views with the peoCompanius cooperates with its long-standing collaboration ple living in the region. We regularly analyse the needs of partners to develop volunteering projects in order to deliver communities and the impacts on the environment within aid to refugees. Employees throughout the entire RWE Group, the framework of the licensing procedure in Environmental from apprentices to the executive management, take part in and Social Impact Assessments. A detailed disclosure of the team and individual projects to help refugees. In 2017, a total results is not practicable owing to the large number of of 239 members of staff gave a helping hand. licensing procedures. 76 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Our aim with the programme “3malE” Education with loaned to 75 schools and 70 nurseries, 14,000 teaching Energy, is to motivate young people for topics related to packs were sent to teachers, and 60 members of staff went energy and engineering. We also discuss the energy supply into schools as energy ambassadors. of the future with them. In 2017, 600 experiment kits were GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities The operation of opencast mines is unavoidably associated community life can be continued with familiar social strucwith interventions in the landscape and with the resettletures and similar cultural life. Socially acceptable resettlement of local communities. RWE is very much aware of the ment cannot be achieved without this input. impacts of these interventions for the region. Since the 1940s, more than 40,000 residents have been Structuring resettlement with a consensus resettled in a socially acceptable way. So far, 35 new and The important issues associated with resettlement are not vibrant localities have been created in this process. In 2017, simply about fair compensation for the material assets of around 140 properties were acquired in four localities alongthe people being resettled. Intangible assets like tradition, side additional agricultural and other parcels of land. community and a sense of belonging also play a key role. So that these needs can be met as far as possible, RWE Structuring new landscapes has been committed for decades to the offer of community Extraction of lignite by opencast mining inevitably leads resettlement with the aim of finding solutions that are ethito a temporary impact on the landscape. However, a key cal and socially compatible. The people being resettled are attribute for lignite opencast mining in the Rhineland is that involved on many levels in the process from the planning simultaneous and sustainable reinstatement of the original stage to implementation. They receive comprehensive use is a constituent element of the operating process. Reculsupport through the relevant government agencies, local tivation is therefore part of opencast operations throughout authorities, and most importantly from our company. Their the entire lifecycle. It takes account of the environmental requirements also play a central role within the framework requirements and the leisure and recreational needs of the of the required licensing procedure. They are involved in local community. Today, forested areas more than 80 years selecting the location of the resettlement site and they play old can be found in recultivated former opencast mining disa key role in designing the new village. This ensures that the tricts, for example in Ville. Moreover, water meadows have majority of the people being resettled are always involved in recently been created along with areas of fertile agricultural the resettlement of the community. Vibrant new settlements land. For more information on reinstatement of opencast can be created in accordance with the ideas of the citizens. mines see GRI 304, page 52. They can be provided with appropriate infrastructure where 77 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CATASTROPHE/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges However, the commitment of the Group extends beyond As the biggest power producer in Germany, RWE provides these statutory requirements. RWE is a member of the electricity as a product. If power were not available, a modGerman Cyber Security Council (Cyber-Sicherheitsrat ern industrial and service society would not be conceivable Deutschland e.V.), the Alliance for Cyber Security (Allianz in its present form. We are therefore a constituent element für Cybersicherheit) of the Federal Ministry for Security in of the basic services known as critical infrastructure. AccordInformation Technology (BSI) and UP KRITIS of the BSI. The ing to the government’s definition, this includes “organisalatter is the initiative for cooperation between business and tions, institutions and facilities with important consequences the state to protect critical infrastructures in Germany. for the governmental apparatus. If an electricity outage occurs or supply bottlenecks impact negatively over an Group Security reports directly to the Executive Board of extended period of time, public security would be subject RWE AG. As part of its governance function, RWE defines to substantial disruption or dramatic consequences would Group-wide regulations for security. Business Continuity be entailed.” We are aware of our macroeconomic responsiManagement (BCM) and crisis management are a constituent bility to society as a whole. Security management is thereelement of this governance. An integrated approach also fore a central management function at RWE. A major incientails establishment of governance for information security dent, involving for example a cyber-attack on electricity and IT security governance within Group Security. grids or power plants, can lead to complete supply outages, with extremely negative impacts on public life, pose a threat Processes critical for our business are identified in Busito health and life in power plants and the surrounding area. ness Impact Analyses and appropriate measures are taken. Such an incident can also constitute a threat to the economic BCM plans are developed on the basis of these analyses. future of the company. This means that it is necessary to They minimise the impacts of outages and provide effective adopt appropriate planning measures and implement reinstatement. The effectiveness of these plans is reviewed relevant training programmes in order to cater for a broad every year. spectrum of potential incidents – including incidents with a low probability of occurrence but entailing substantial Measures and performance measurement impacts. Prevention of incidents like this is the primary goal. Integrated crisis organisation has been established for meeting the challenge of crisis situations. The organisation comOrganisation and management prises central and local crisis staffs that introduce counterAs an operator of critical infrastructure, reporting pathways measures depending on the individual incident. These crisis to the government agencies involved are defined in legislastaffs are supported by crisis management plans. Starting tion. We work together with government agencies to make with the Executive Board, exercises are carried out by the preparations for the scenarios entailed in an emergency. crisis staffs to deal with different scenarios. Exercises simulating emergencies are carried out at local level and these generally take place in cooperation with the In 2017, the focus of the exercises was on cyber security. authorities operating on the ground there, for example the Emergency exercises were held at RWE AG and RWE Generapolice and fire service. tion SE, RWE Power AG and RWE Technology International. This took the form of a combined cyber and environmental In accordance with the Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting exercise at RWE Generation SE. The focus of the exercise at Ordinance (AtSMV), the operators of nuclear facilities in RWE Technology International was on travel security. Two the Federal Republic of Germany must report any notifiable emergency exercises in the area of nuclear energy were held events occurring to the relevant responsible state superviat the site of the Grundremmingen nuclear power and one sory authorities. The aim and purpose of the official reportemergency exercise was held at the Emsland site. The crisis ing procedure is to monitor the security status of these teams were given special instructions and training sessions plants and to improve the latter using the knowledge (in the form of modular exercises and simulator courses). obtained from the reported events in the framework of the supervisory procedure. 78 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix The notifiable events occurring at the sites of our nuclear were reported to the responsible supervisory authority. All power plants were also reported to the relevant super­visory the events were classified under the reporting category N authority in 2017 in accordance with the regulations of the (Normal), none were allocated to the reporting category E Nuclear Safety Officer and Reporting Ordinance (AtSMV). (Express). The general public was also informed about all notifiable events through press releases. In 2017, a total of eight Furthermore, all notifiable events were classified in the nuclear power plants were operating for power generation in International Nuclear Event Scale (INES). Classification in Germany (Brokdorf, Emsland, Grohnde, Gundremmingen-B, accordance with INES is intended to provide the general Gundremmingen-C, Isar-2, Neckarwestheim-2, Philippspublic with immediate and uniform information about the burg-2). Out of these eight nuclear power plants, three safety and technical status of events. All six events relevant nuclear power plants are operated by RWE Power AG for RWE were classified as 0 on the INES scale. (none or (Emsland, Gundremmingen-B and Gundremmingen-C). only very low importance for technical safety). A total of six events from these three nuclear power plants GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) See for general Management Approach on procurement are applied when we assess the offers submitted by our GRI 204, page 36. suppliers during the course of the tender process and the value in use analysis. The regulations governing the conDepending on the requirement put out to tender, suppliers tractual relationship with individual suppliers are explicitly are also interrogated on criteria such as compliance with agreed in separate contractual clauses on the basis of a statutory regulations and RWE’s internal rules for minimum risk assessment for specific product groups. wage within the scope of pre-qualification. Relevant criteria GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria We interpret impacts on society in many different ways. To An exceptional situation arises when procurement is carried this end, we have developed a range of different measures out in the wholesale markets. Here an appraisal is not possiin order to ensure that our suppliers act in conformity with ble due to an absence of direct supplier relationships, see social and ethical principles, and in accordance with the law. GRI 204, page 37. We are only able to report on human rights in the context Approximately 1,000 suppliers were evaluated for occupaof audits carried out by Bettercoal, see GRI 204, page 37. tional safety where procurement procedures involved hazard An overview of the producers audited by Bettercoal is propotential in a pre-qualification procedure to assess their vided on the Bettercoal website. We regularly audit all our suitability, see GRI 204, page 37. suppliers for conformity with potential compliance risks. GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken The RWE Purchasing Department does not maintain any ples underlying the Global Compact. RWE is committed to business relationships with suppliers if there is information implementation of the Global Compact. in the public domain indicating that they breach the princi79 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Information “in the public domain” relates to all generally We can only report on the number of suppliers of goods, accessible sources from which information can be obtained. services and plants audited in relation to labour practices and Press reports containing merely the suspicion of a breach are within the scope of audits carried out by Bettercoal, see not sufficient in this case. Rather, we rely on legally admisGRI 204, page 38. An overview of the producers audited sible or officially confirmed facts. Furthermore, we use pubby Bettercoal is available on the Bettercoal website. We lished negative lists (World Bank Listing of Ineligible Firms regularly review all suppliers for conformity with potential and Non-Responsible Vendors) drawn up by the World Bank compliance risks, see GRI 204, page 37. When procurement based in Washington/USA. When suppliers are in contention is carried out in the wholesale markets, an appraisal is not for being included on the list of RWE’s suppliers, the backpossible due to an absence of direct supplier relationships. ground check is carried out by the relevant purchaser before any orders are awarded. In the case of existing suppliers, the review is performed centrally in the vendor accounts section. GRI 415 PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Our conduct in relation to politicians is clearly regulated A secure supply of electricity at all times is part of public in the Code of Conduct, see GRI 102-16, page 15. We service. As part of this obligation, the operation of power state there that dialogue with representatives of governplants is subject to a large number of statutory and downment institutions and political parties is indispensable as far stream regulations in the EU, at national and partly also at as we are concerned. However, we want to avoid giving the regional level. Political decisions leading to changes in existappearance of exerting undue influence in these contexts. ing regulations or implementation of new regulations thereWe have therefore made a commitment to strict neutrality fore exert a major influence on our business activity. Addiin relation to political parties and we do not make any donationally, developments outside the EU also exert an indirect tions to political organisations, or organisations and foundainfluence, for example at international level. tions which are closely related to political parties. Employees have the opportunity to report breaches of the Code of ConOrganisation and management duct through various channels, see GRI 102-17, page 15. RWE bases its actions on the applicable legal framework conditions and ensures compliance with the existing reguMeasures and performance measurement latory standards. It is equally important that we explain our The Group Communications & Public Affairs Department actions here and inform others about the impact of existing at RWE AG coordinates our contacts. The Department Head and planned legal and sublegal regulations. We also particireports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. RWE mainpate in dialogue at the political and community levels. tains two liaison offices in Brussels and Berlin as points of Communication with our stakeholders provides us with contact. Since 2010, we have been entered in the Transparhelpful ideas for aligning our entrepreneurial activities. ency Register of the European Union. We publish a number Particularly at the present time when the company is underof disclosures there including the costs for our liaison office going change, it is important to discuss expectations and in Brussels which amounted to € 2 million during the period assessments for the future of the energy supply with exterunder review. We would welcome establishment of a Transnal stakeholders. At the same time, dialogue gives us the parency Register in Berlin based on the Brussels model. opportunity to provide better communication of corporate We have already disclosed voluntarily information about our decisions and the underlying motives. We believe we have budget, the number of employees and other information an obligation to provide answers for our stakeholders and to organisations such as Lobby Control. we want to be a credible partner in the discussion on an equal level. This enables us to meet the expectations of transparency placed on us by society, see GRI 102-43 and GRI 102-44, page 21 and 22. 80 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix In 2017, we had direct contact with politicians, for example of emission regulations for power plants (BREF LCP). The through discussion formats in Berlin and Brussels. Topicfocus in Germany was on the Climate Protection Plan 2050, related “Power plant Talks” were held at the sites of implementation of the recommendations of the “Commisnuclear power plants. A dialogue with local-authority sion for Reviewing the Finance of Exit from Nuclear Energy” politi­cians has been established in the Rhineland lignite area. (KFK) and the Grid Charge Modernisation Act (NetzentgeltFurthermore, we communicate indirectly through the asso­ modernisierungsgesetz). In the Netherlands, we also ciations we belong to, for example the German Associ­ation engaged in discussions with politicians about implemen­ of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW). See also tation of the national energy agreement and the role of GRI 102-13, page 12. co-incineration of biomass as a contribution to the Dutch CO2 reduction strategy, see GRI 102-43, page 21 and In 2017, the main themes in discussions with politicians GRI 102-44, page 22. In the United Kingdom, we related to the energy transition and general climate protecengaged in discussions about BREXIT, the British capacity tion policy. The reform of the European Emissions Trading market, implementation of the new European emissions regScheme was a particular focus in the EU, alongside the ulations (BREF LCP) and on national climate protection policy. Winter Package from the EU Commission and the tightening GRI 415-1 Political contributions RWE has made a commitment to neutrality in relation political parties, or organisations or foundations which are to political parties and we do not make any donations to closely related to political parties. GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELLING GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges Organisation, management and performance We want to provide the customers numbering more than measurement 22 million with a secure and reliable supply of electricity, Transparent product labelling gas and heat at all times. It is only possible to reach an We want to provide all our customers with comprehensive informed decision about a product if it is transparently and transparent information about the energy mix of the labelled. There are different statutory regulations on labelindividual product and the associated environmental impacts. ling in the countries where we supply customers. Particularly We take into account the statutory regulations and consistdetailed regulations on the labelling of electricity are on ently apply the guidelines published by the German Associathe statute book in Germany. tion of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW). These are regarded as the industry gold standard. GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Electricity labelling is an instrument for increasing market statutory regulations. Furthermore, the data are also transparency in the electricity market. All electricity bills published on the Internet pages of RWE Supply & Trading issued by RWE Group including innogy SE throughout GmbH, for innogy SE corporate customers and for innogy SE Europe include information on the energy mix, CO2 residential customers. emissions and radioactive waste in accordance with the 81 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix GRI 419 COMPLIANCE (SOCIOECONOMIC) GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 (including 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Challenges mittee of RWE AG. However, responsibility for operational Integrity, honesty, acting in accordance with the law and content always remains with the functions bearing individrespect for our fellow human beings and the environment ual responsibility for areas such as legal affairs, employment form the basis of our entrepreneurial activity. We are subject law and Group data protection. The legal departments of to laws, regulations and comparable rules and procedures. RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE Power AG and RWE SupThese conditions and the RWE Code of Conduct form the ply & Trading GmbH provide legal advice on issues relating framework for carrying out our operations. Any breaches to company law in conjunction with investment administramay entail significant consequences for the financial result tion and joint ventures, in the context of M&A transactions and reputation of RWE. Individual employees may also be and project finance. The Legal Department is also responsipersonally liable. A top priority for our employees and subble for dealing with basic issues relating to energy law, legal contractors is that their conduct and actions should be in issues and procedures in regard to merger monitoring, comaccordance with the law and ethical principles. We have petition and trademark law, and legal support for procuredefined these principles for conduct with binding effect in ment, property management and the IT Department. All the RWE Code of Conduct. the internal experts in employment law from the affiliated national companies of the RWE Group are in turn bundled Organisation, management and performance within the employment law function. They are responsible measurement for all matters relating to personal and collective legislation. The principles of general compliance and the Compliance The employment law experts also organise the engagement Management System are defined by the Chief Compliance of external consultants for all the companies in relation to Officer of RWE AG for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE, RWE issues of employment law and any associated matters. Power AG and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH. An independent Chief Compliance Officer has been appointed for innogy Anti-competitive behaviour SE. This officer is responsible for the Compliance ManageIt is important for our company to be perceived as trustworment System at innogy SE, see the innogy Sustainability thy and transparent. We earn this trust through fair conduct. Report GRI 205, page 38. RWE also keeps within the law and complies with legislation in competitive situations. Our efforts are directed towards The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG is supported in ensuring that all our business activities are in accordance complying with his/her functions and responsibilities at with the conditions of fair competition at all times. We also the level of RWE AG by Compliance Managers and at the observe statutory requirements and anti-trust regulations for local level by the Compliance Officers of the individual unbundling. Our operations are based on these rules. In this RWE companies. The focus of activity for the content is on way, we therefore meet our responsibility as a major player prevention of corruption, see GRI 205, page 39. Alongin the economy. side this function, measures for export control compliance and prevention of money laundering are developed further In order to prevent anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, and implemented. we raise the awareness of all employees and management to this issue. Our employees receive training at attendance The compliance function at RWE AG has taken on a coordievents and online sessions on the requirements relating to nating and consolidating role for other compliance areas conformity with behaviour in accordance with competition defined for RWE such as competition and anti-trust law, legislation. The Executive Board is integrated in this training company and capital market law, employment law and enviconcept. ronmental protection, occupational health and safety, and data protection. The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG We implement neutral grid operation and thereby ensure bundles these compliance areas within integrated complithe billing-wise and legal-wise separation of grid usage from ance reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit Compower generation, trade and supply so that we comply with 82 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix the unbundling regulations. Group Auditing carries out competitive behaviour. We take any reports of potential preventive audits in the Group companies with the aim breaches very seriously, we investigate them and we take of checking implementation of our regulations on antiany measures necessary where appropriate. GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Our Group-wide survey on fines due to incidents of corruption revealed that no sanctions had been incurred in this area. 83 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix APPENDIX 84 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix ASSURANCE REPORT Independent Practitioner’s Report on a Limited Assurance Engagement on Non-financial Reporting and Sustainability Information¹ To RWE AG, Essen We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Independence and Quality Control of the Audit Firm sustainability disclosures denoted with (hereinafter the We have complied with the German professional provisions “Sustainability Information”) and the combined separate regarding independence as well as other ethical requirenon-financial report pursuant to §§ (Articles) 289b Abs. ments. (paragraph) 3 and 315b Abs. 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) (hereinafter the “Non-financial Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and Report”) contained in the sections with blue font of the Susprofessional standards – in particular the Professional Code tainability Report “Our Responsibility. Report 2017” of RWE for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors AG, Essen, (hereinafter the “Company”) for the period from (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buch1 January 2017 to 31 Januar 2017 (hereinafter the “Sustainprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality ability Report”). Control 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements Responsibilities of the Executive Directors to quality control for audit firms (IDW QualitätssicherungsThe executive directors of the Company are responsible for standard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordWirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly mainance with the principles stated in the Sustainability Reporttains a comprehensive system of quality control including ing Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (hereinafter documented policies and procedures regarding compliance the “GRI-Criteria”) and the Non-financial Report in accordwith ethical requirements, professional standards and appliance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to cable legal and regulatory requirements. 289e HGB and for the selection of the Sustainability Information to be evaluated. Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance concluThis responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes sion on the Sustainability Information denoted with and the selection and application of appropriate methods of susthe Non-financial Report contained in the sections with blue tainability reporting and non-financial reporting as well as font of the Sustainability Report based on the assurance making assumptions and estimates related to individual engagement we have performed. non-financial disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsiWithin the scope of our engagement we did not perform an ble for such internal control as they have considered necesaudit on external sources of information or expert opinions, sary to enable the preparation of a Sustainability Report referred to in the Sustainability Report. that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the Sustainability Report and issued an independent practitioner’s report in German language, which is au-thoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent practitioner’s report. 85 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix QQ the Sustainability Information denoted with in the QQ Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from data in the consolidated financial statements and in the 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has not been group management report prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with QQ Evaluation of the presentation of the information the relevant GRI-Criteria, or Assurance Conclusion QQ the Non-financial Report contained in the sections Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurwith blue font of the Company’s Sustainability Report for ance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 that causes us to believe that has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to QQ the Sustainability Information denoted with in the 289e HGB. Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has not been In a limited assurance engagement the assurance proceprepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with dures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance the relevant GRI-Criteria, engagement, and therefore a substantially lower level of or assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selected QQ the Non-financial Report contained in the sections with depend on the practitioner’s judgment. blue font of the Company’s Sustainability Report for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perhas not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordformed amongst others the following assurance procedures ance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to and further activities: 289e HGB. QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the Intended Use of the Assurance Report sustainability organization and of the stakeholder We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed engagement with the Company. The assurance engagement has been QQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the performed for purposes of the Company and the report is Sustainability Report regarding the preparation process, solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the internal control system relating to this process and the limited assurance engagement. The report is not selected disclosures in the Sustainability Report intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision QQ Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement thereon. Our responsibility lies only with the Company. We of the Sustainability Report do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. QQ Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Sustainability Report Essen, 27 March 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Michael Conrad ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch Wirtschaftsprüfer (German public auditor) 86 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix KEY SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS Economic Performance Indicators Installed capacity Power generating capacity1 Nuclear Renewable Pumped Total Total in MW Gas Lignite Hard coal energy energy water, Other 2017 2016 Lignite & Nuclear 460 11,017 2,770 23 27 14,297 15,764 European Power 14,382 7,292 261 2,792 24,727 26,116 Of which: Germany2 3,867 3,675 55 2,528 10,125 11,518 United Kingdom 6,662 1,560 55 264 8,541 8,546 Netherlands/Belgium 3,066 2,057 151 5,274 5,265 Turkey 787 787 787 innogy SE 234 10 3,864 137 4,245 4,531 RWE Group 15,076 11,017 7,302 2,770 4,148 2,956 43,269 46,411 1 as at: 31.12.2017 2 Including generating capacities which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. At the end of 2017, these plants taken together generated a net output of 2,986 MW (previous year: 4,373 MW). Power generation by primary energy source Nuclear Renewable Pumped Power generation Lignite Hard coal Gas energy energy water, Other Total in billion kWh 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lignite & Nuclear 74.2 74.3 30.3 30.1 0.7 0.4 105.2 104.8 European Power 29.3 44.2 52.9 52.6 1.1 1.1 2.4 2.6 85.7 100.5 Of which: Germany1 13.3 22.4 7.4 6.3 0.7 0.7 2.4 2.6 23.8 32.0 United Kingdom 2.6 6.7 32.4 36.2 0.4 0.4 35.4 43.3 Netherlands/Belgium 13.4 15.1 9.3 6.9 22.7 22.0 innogy SE 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.7 10.2 10.0 11.3 10.8 RWE Group 74.2 74.3 29.4 44.3 53.9 53.3 30.3 30.1 11.3 11.1 3.1 3.0 202.2 216.1 1 Including electricity purchases from power plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2017, this electricity amounted to 6.3 billion kWh (previous year: 10.6 billion kWh). 87 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Unit 2017 2016 R&D costs 1 € million 182 165 Proportion of women in the company % 27.7 27.2 Proportion of women in management positions2 % 15.0 14.0 Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high risk of corruption3 % 10.5 10.2 1 In accordance with the RWE Annual Report page 197. 2 Encompasses the top four management levels; from 2016, only RWE AG, RWE Generation, RWE Power AG, RWE Supply and Trading GmbH. 3 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Environmental Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators1 Unit 2017 2016 Specific NOx emissions g/kWh 0.40 0.47 Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.18 0.18 Specific dust emissions g/kWh 0.01 0.012 Ash thousand mt 7,746 8,201 Gypsum thousand mt 2,052 2,042 Primary energy consumption million GJ 1,362 1,478 Water consumption2 m3/MWh 1.62 CO2 emissions EU ETS 3 million mt 132.4 148.3 CO2 emissions Scope 1 4 million mt 135.6 154.0 CO2 emissions Scope 25 million mt 1.0 1.3 CO2 emissions Scope 3 6 million mt 84.0 86.5 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS mt/MWh 0.655 0.686 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 mt/MWh 0.670 0.713 Share of the Group’s power generation accounted for by renewable energy % 5.6 5.1 1 All plants were included where RWE is the operator of the plant. 2 Difference between the water consumption of the power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters up to 2015, excluding power plants with seawater cooling, including cooling-tower losses. 3 Plants which fall under the scope of the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) including power plants which are not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2017, these plants emitted 3.1 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 7.1 metric tons). 4 Scope 1: EU ETS amounts plus the emissions from plants which do not fall under the scope of EU ETS. 5 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties in our own grids. 6 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. 88 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Social Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Unit 2017 2016 Workforce1 FTE 59,547 58,652 Fluctuation rate % 8.8 10.1 Training days per employee (Germany) 3.8 3.8 Health ratio % 95.2 95.1 Work-related and commuting accidents LTIF 2 2.29 2.1 Work-related and commuting accidents without innogy LTIF2 2.49 Fatal work-related accidents3 3 7 1 Converted to full-time positions. 2 Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all accidents resulting in at least one day of absence for every 1 million hours worked); Figures from 2012 incl. reports known to us from third-party companies (subcontractors). 3 Incl. employees of partner companies (subcontractors). 89 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix PROGRESS REPORT ON THE GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants ence. The table also highlights the measures that have been to make a contribution to the worldwide implementation of taken during the period under review and the specific results its ten principles. These have been adopted word for word in obtained (achievements). The implementation of the ten the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the principles also assists us in implementing making the Susguidelines, programmes and management systems (systainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United tems) which we have also introduced to support the impleNations in 2015 a reality. The table presents the most relementation of the ten principles within our sphere of influvant SDGs for us out of all the 17 goals. Contribution Principle Systems Measures Results to SDGs Principle 1: Support of Social Charter and miniRestructuring with social Compliance with principles human rights mum standards for restruccompensation by working 1 – 5 assured through turing operations carried together with employee national legislation in Principle 2: Elimination of out for European comparepresentatives and unions Europe, cooperation with human rights violations nies in the RWE Group (p. 67) the unions, and RWE’s covering 99.8% of the own principles which apply Principle 3: Ensuring employees Assessment and audit of to all employees of the freedom of association suppliers company Principle 4: Abolition of ILO core standards are (p. 37, 78 f.) all forms of forced labour defined for the Social Pay and social benefits Charter Co-founder of the “BetterPrinciple 5: Abolition of above the relevant national coal” Initiative, auditing of child labour average Supplier Management coal mines, application of (p. 36 ff.) information for standardised and multi-stage process for “Counterparty Risk Assessment” of potential suppliers (p. 37 ff.) Principle 6: Elimination of Diversity management Diversity Week presented Percentage of women in discrimination (p. 72 f.) diversity and activities management positions was to promote an inclusive 15% for RWE Group withGroup-wide women’s culture (p. 73) out innogy SE (p. 73) network at RWE Group including innogy SE Initiative MINT women Percentage of people with (p. 73) (p. 73) severe disabilities was 1.4% for RWE employees in Germany (p. 74) Certification “Total Equality” (p. 73) 90 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix Contribution Principle Systems Measures Results to SDGs Principle 7: Precautionary Environmental manageAnnual audit for setting up Level of coverage for envienvironmental protection ment environmental manageronmental management (p. 74 f.) ment systems in conformrelated to the Group: 99%, ity with ISO 14001 (p. 63) of which 91% externally Strategy for reducing the certified CO2 emission factor Recording the interfaces (p. 64) (p. 14, 46, 56 f.) of activities with water bodies and determining Level of coverage with cerFinancial risks associated the impacts (p. 50) tified energy management with emissions trading are systems: 82% (p. 48) presented in risk manageSince 2015 RWE has a ment (p. 32, 56 f.) Biodiversity Policy (p. 52) Reduction of CO2 emis­ sions to 132.4 million mt CO2 (p. 59) Reduction of specific emissions of the air pollutants NOX to 0.40 g/kWh and SO2 to 0.18 g/kWh (p. 60) Principle 8: Initiatives to Initiative for energy educaOfferings for use of flexipromote greater environtion 3malE (p. 34, 76) bilities (p. 43 f.) mental responsibility Energy education packages for children and teenagers (p. 76) Principle 9: Development Strategy to reduce the Research on using lignite Modernisation of the and diffusion of environCO2 emission factor as a material (p. 44) power plant portfolio mental technologies (p. 14, 46, 56 f.) (p. 48 f., 56 ff.) Research on increasing Financial risks associated the flexibility and effiExpansion of the use of with emissions trading are ciency of conventional biomass in the Netherpresented in risk manageplants (p. 44) lands (p. 56 f.) ment (p. 32, 56 f.) Research and development (p. 44) Principle 10: RWE Code of Conduct and Updating and expansion of New risk-focused training Anti-corruption measures Group guidelines for precorruption risk scenarios concept for RWE compavention of corruption and (p. 40) nies will be rolled out at organisational regulations RWE in 2018 (p. 40) (p. 39) Training of the workforce with a web-based training Audited Compliance programme and on-site Management System for training (p. 40) anti-corruption in accordance with the IDW Audit Standard (p. 19) 91 Our Responsibility 2017 About the Report Content General Disclosures Material Topics Appendix CONTACT AND IMPRINT Publisher RWE Aktiengesellschaft Huyssenallee 2 45128 Essen Germany Contact persons Dr. Jens Wiggershaus Dr. Christine Negrini Dr. Marita Hilgenstock Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility Huyssenallee 2 45128 Essen Germany Phone +49 201 12-00 E-mail responsibility@rwe.com Editorial Deadline 26 March 2017 The Report is available in English and German; both versions can also be accessed via the Internet for download at www.rwe.com. Concept, text, layout and implementation in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich www.akzente.de Translation Tristam Carrington-Windo Stay in Dialogue. responsibility@rwe.com RWE Aktiengesellschaft Huyssenallee 2 45128 Essen Germany www.rwe.com
