Better health. within reach. every day. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 For more information, please visit: hikma.com © Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2018 Communication on Progress 2017 1 Content 4 CEO’s Statement of Support for the UN Global Compact 6 GRI Indicators 9 Human Rights 9 Policies and Procedures 10 Actions and Performance 14 Labour Standards 14 Policies and Procedures 15 Actions and Performance 19 Environment 19 Policies and Procedures 21 Actions and Performance 26 Anti – Corruption 26 Policies and Procedures 27 Actions and Performance 2 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2017 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. Communication on Progress 2017 3 Chairman’s Statement of Support for the UN Global Compact It is with pleasure that I present to you Hikma’s 2017 Communication on Progress report (COP). Hikma continues to support the ten principles and aligns its operations with the UNGC in all its locations and have been committed members since 2007. We make sure that everything we do is defined by quality and delivered with consistency, across the many communities we serve. We combine global expertise with our local presence to transform cutting-edge science into solutions that are relevant to people’s lives. We think creatively to develop practical solutions that make better health not only more accessible, but also more affordable. Our communication on progress report demonstrates our commitment to bring about positive change in our local and global communities. In 2017, we were ranked first for corporate governance among our pharma peers in the FTSE100. We were also awarded “Company of the Year” by the Generics Bulletin, and remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good. Investing in our communities and improving access to medicine has been a long-established principle of our business since its founding days. Today we continue to support the many communities in which we operate, in alignment with the United Nations Global Compact vital initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our vision is of a healthier world that enriches all of our communities. Throughout the past 40 years, we’ve been committed to conducting our business in an ethical manner and to being active partners in shaping a sustainable future. Said Darwazah Chairman 4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Communication on Progress 2017 5 GRI Indicators Principles GRI Indicators 1 LA7, LA10, HR2 2 LA7, LA10, HR2 3 EC1, LA7, LA10 4 SO3, HR2 5 SO3, HR2 6 EC1, LA7, LA10 7 EN3, EN8 8 EN3, EN8, EN22 9 EN3, EN8, EN22 10 SO3 LA7 rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism LA10 average hours of training per employee per category HR2 percentage of suppliers / contractors undergone human rights screening EC1 direct economic value, including employee wages and benefits SO3 percentage of employees trained in anti – corruption policies EN3 direct energy consumption EN8 total water withdrawal EN22 total weight of waste 6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Principle One Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle Two Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all. Dignity and Respect Principle, Code of Conduct Communication on Progress 2017 7 Hikma is committed to providing for its employees a safe and secure working environment. Health and Safety Principle, Code of Conduct Hikma seeks to engage with customers and suppliers whose employment practices respect human rights and whose ethical standards meet the standards set by Hikma. Trading, Customers and Suppliers Standard, Code of Conduct Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management to ensure the well-being of its employees and business partners. We ensure that Hikma complies with and exceeds, where possible, the relevant Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy legislations. We also aim to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health at Hikma. We work with our suppliers and contractors, to bring our Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management standards into alignment. Health, Safety, Environment and Energy Policy 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Human Rights Since our founding in 1978, quality is what our business was built upon. Quality in our medicines, our operations, our people and interactions. Since our establishment, Hikma has become a global health care provider by instigating the highest standards of respect and safeguarding human rights in all our locations. Our company vision is of a healthier world that enriches all of our communities, and this can only be achieved with the highest quality of talent. Our company values guide Policies and Procedures practices to increase awareness our business, our policies and for accountable procedures and As our business grows and our actions. Our values are the ethical performances. expands in different locations, collectively held principles of our We have always maintained a we must maintain a strong and people that outline the way we strong ethical structure; the unified ethical standard across think, work and behave: business was founded on family the group. We are constantly • Integrity: Acting with honesty and strengthening and improving our values and still strives to maintain honour without compromising ethical principles; we have a zeroa strong familial culture with its the truth tolerance policy on corruption employees and a positive work • Excellence: Holding people and bribery, and are strict when it environment. We have several accountable to the highest comes to such matters. customized programmes in place standards of performance that are designed to benefit The Code of Conduct1 reflects employee needs. • Respect: Showing consideration our ethical practise in regard to for one another, recognising each labour and human rights, and We at Hikma have strong other’s differences, needs and is implemented in a top down childcare and maternity policies expectations approach, from our board of and programmes for working directors to management and mothers that exceed standard • Transparency: Embodying employees, and reaches our governmental regulations. Parents openness, communication and operations and products. can have flexible schedules accountability. Operating clearly to attend to their families. and openly, making it easy for The standards of our Code apply We also have a strong health others to observe performance to our company’s external partners insurance coverage, and financial as well. We are stringent when it These values, which are embedded reimbursements for when the child comes to ethical standards and in our culture, have guided us for is home or attending day-care. transparency from our partners the past 40 years, and will continue who must adhere to strict ethical Other employee programmes in to do so. Our CSR strategy focuses standards and transparency. We do place include social committees on the themes of wellbeing and not do business with any company that provide financial support education which we implement that does not sustain strong to employees in difficult through our focus areas enabling international labour standards. circumstances, free medications our people, providing access, We regularly audit our partner for all employees and their families, protecting our planet, and global companies in regard to business first-class health insurance for frameworks in alignment with the employment practices through employees and their families themes of the Global Compact. the supplier audit procedure. All including cancer insurance in We are constantly expanding; we our company partners, suppliers some of our locations and therapy currently operate in the Middle and contractors withstand human in others. We also have strong East and North Africa, US, and rights screening. We also conduct recreational programmes including Europe, employing over 8400 Suppliers Audit Questionnaires musical and sporting activities and people and selling in more than 50 that relate to the UNGC principles language classes. countries. and aid in defining the suppliers’ We have various policies and 1 The Code is available on the corporate website: https://www.hikma.com/about/ethics-and-compliance/code-of-conduct/ Communication on Progress 2017 9 bylaws that are regularly updated concerns; and oversees our Management System – a cloudand communicated to employees Corporate Responsibility policy at based platform that allows the to ensure employee rights are the Board level. The CREC includes company to record, track, report protected in all locations, such as the Executive Vice-Chairman and and manage employee learning the Employee Human Resource four independent Non-Executive activities. The platform includes Bylaws, which encompasses the Directors. both classroom and online entire workforce. There are strong Since the establishment of the activities that cover behavioural, legal and governing structures, CREC, one of its focuses was the compliance, functional and across the group, that protect formation and application of the technical domains. The system employee privacy rights and Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) was launched with the aim of confidentiality. business integrity programme. establishing a strong culture for Health and Safety Hikma’s Corporate Social learning by providing diverse Responsibility (CSR) division works and accessible new learning Employee health and safety opportunities for employees. All is of great concern to us; as in parallel with the Committee, which sets measurements in place of our employees are currently an industrial pharmaceutical using the system to complete company we have plenty of checks to safeguard and ensure that the company is ethically compliant in online learning assignments with and balances to maintain a strong the courses delivered by various employee safety mandate in all our its business. experienced trainers. sites. Education We have a strong health and safety Education is integral to our policy that is communicated to company culture. Thorough Actions and Performance all employees. We have various orientation sessions are conducted As a global business, our strong Health and Safety Departments for new employees when they commitment to our communities in all our locations that ensure join the company. Rotation plans has always been key to our way the implementation of the policy, are encouraged and available of doing things – thinking globally which is regularly updated and for employees to expand their while acting locally. The company refined. knowledge and talents. Training has always worked with the highest Employees in our manufacturing sessions, both internal and standards of integrity and ethics. facilities undergo extensive training external, are annually conducted in We strongly communicate our to ensure that they are able to all departments. zero-tolerance policy to bribery work in a safe environment. The The company has a strong and corruption across the group, company has high levels of safety education programme; the both internally and externally. measures set in place including top Continuing Education Scheme Our policies are developed in quality safety gear and thorough allows our employees to continue parallel with our ongoing focus on training systems to guarantee their education by pursuing a education and communicating employee safety. higher degree. Founded in 2010, the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Hikma has currently aided sixty(ABC) compliance information in CREC all our locations. Our induction one employees in pursuing a Since our founding, we have been higher education programme with programmes and awareness devoted to honesty, integrity and a total amount of USD 1,051,343. sessions insure that all new achieving the highest possible employees understand our ethical standards in everything we do. We Certification Policy obligation across the group. are dedicated to the wellbeing of In addition to the continuing At Hikma we comply and abide our employees, devoted to the education scheme, the company with all relevant global and local communities in which we work provides employees with the laws, codes and regulations and determined to preserve and opportunity to develop their including (but not limited to) the protect the environment in which talents by acquiring specialized UK Bribery Act; the Foreign Corrupt we operate. certificates in their fields. Practices Act (FCPA); global antiOur Compliance, Responsibility Employees who are interested corruption standards; and local and Ethics Committee (CREC) in obtaining certifications are anti-bribery and corruption laws. is our guiding ethical hand that nominated by their managers and go through an approval procedure; In 2017, the compliance team manages our business integrity, focused on the United States and social responsibility and ethics. once approved they are required to sign an agreement stating that integrating the US compliance into Established in 2010, the CREC the global programme, which was oversees company policies where they will remain in the company for at least one year after completing previously identified as a risk; the ethical ruling is important and integration was successful and supervises our compliance team the certification. The employees are financially reimbursed for all fully achieved. The compliance and the development of our Code. team has a specific leadership The CREC also supervises our Anticosts and invoices including the examination fees, courses, books structure in place; operational Bribery and Corruption compliance responsibility and oversight for programme; issues the strategy and materials upon completion and passing the exams. ABC is allocated by the Board for the company’s response to to the Executive Vice Chairman, related risks; manages our SpeakLMS who delegates responsibility to Up system where our employees In 2017 we launched a new his management team. The Chief can anonymously raise any ethical system called the Learning Compliance Officer (CCO) reports 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC directly to the CREC on ABC develop and grow our talent. In systems, ISO 9001 for quality matters. The CCO’s leadership 2017, the budget for the group was management system or their of ABC issues is directed by $2,335,706. equivalent. Our corporate Health the CREC Chairman and the FTSE4Good Membership and Safety department supervises Executive Vice Chairman. The our environmental management head of each business function is For 2017 we have continued our requirements from ISO 14001 and responsible to be the compliance membership with the FTSE4Good reduces the health and safety leader for their department. Ethics index series, which risks by continuing to satisfy the Group and regional compliance recognises our ethical standards requirements for maintaining the officers at the operational level across the group. We are proud OHSAS 18001 certification and support the CCO. The legal, HR, to uphold its promise to high annually renewing it. financial and company secretarial corporate business standards and ethics for positive environmental, In the MENA region in 2017 we departments also advise and appointed a central HSE team who provide executional support to the social and governance practices. conducted a full assessment of our compliance department. Participants such as NGOs, MENA sites in order to improve and There is a confidential, governmental bodies, consultants, standardize our health and safety international reporting network academics and the investment standards. in place called Speak Up that is community help to outline the conditions for inclusion in Employee Benefits available to all our employees. The system is operated by an external the indices. The focus areas Our employees are offered strong third party that offers complete include; Anti-Corruption, Climate benefits such as class A medical anonymity. Toll free reporting Change, Health and Safety, and insurance for themselves and their hotlines are available for our Customer Responsibility. Our immediate families for free, travel locations, which after examination membership the FTSE4Good insurance, and specialised benefits by an outsourced third party Index Series reflects our strong modified to each company directly goes to the compliance ESG, Environmental Social and location. Other benefits include team, the VP of Corporate HR and Governance practices measured dental insurance, paid maternity the General Counsel. against internationally recognised and paternity leave, financial standards and strong corporate maternity compensation for the We are founding members of social practices. locations that don’t have nurseries, the World Economic Forum’s retirement provisions through Partnering Against Corruption SDGs social security and a provident Initiative (PACI), the foremost As a global company, we fund. Employee benefits vary business driven global antiare committed to operating according to local regulations and corruption initiative. In sustainably and responsibly. To job requirements. 2017, we have continued to illustrate our commitment to sustainable development, we have In some of our MENA locations endorse business integrity on a employee living allowances such as global level through the Partnering aligned our work with the United Nations Sustainable Development phone bills or family benefits were Against Corruption Initiative. separate from the basic salary; in Goals. We have focused on five Code of Conduct goals that align most closely with 2017 we have integrated this into Our Code is distributed to all our our business and sustainability the basic salary and employees in employees. Currently the Code is strategy. These are good health the MENA region are now on par available in all the major languages and well-being, quality education, with that of Europe and the United in which the company is located: gender equality, decent work and States. Arabic, English, French, German, economic growth, industry and In Portugal, Hikma improved the Portuguese, Italian and Russian. innovation and infrastructure. induction programme for new Annually, all our employees are We have published a report that employees to include company obligated to state that they have highlights our contributions toward values, culture, policies and how to read the Code, understood it the achievement of the UN SDGs. better integrate in a multicultural and will abide by it. Employees The report showcases how the company in 2017. We also offer also confirm in writing that they group’s external and internal Portuguese language courses for recognise their duty in reporting activities advance the UN SDGs, our foreign assignees in Portugal. any suspected events of nonthereby illustrating the private Our international assignees were compliance with the Code. In 2017 sector’s crucial role in creating also localized, and their salary we achieved 100% signatures from economic growth and addressing benefits were moved based on senior managers across the group social needs. At Hikma, we strive the country’s international labour world-wide. All our managers to serve as a model in the areas of laws. In 2017 nine employees were undergo face-to-face training for sustainability, ethics, and social localized for their international the Code then communicate the outreach. assignments. In 2017 we issued out Code at a departmental level. a new global per diem policy for Health and Safety Employee Training employee travel expenses, which Most of our locations have will be fully enacted in 2018. Employee training is an essential accredited safety standards, such undertaking at Hikma. We regularly as OHSAS 18001 for Occupational train all our employees in all our Health and Safety, ISO 14001 locations in order to constantly for Environmental management Communication on Progress 2017 11 Principle Three Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle Four Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle Five Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle Six Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining are recognised and respected There is a clear, transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion. Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC “All public affairs activities undertaken by or on behalf of Hikma must be conducted ethically, must align with relevant local law requirements and applicable industry codes of practice and be approved in accordance with internal policies. Hikma employees will: have the right to be involved in political and lobbying processes in their own time as private citizens, but must be clear at all times that these activities are not undertaken on behalf of Hikma.” Public Affairs and Governmental Interaction Standard, Code of Conduct “Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employee Personal Information Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child labour.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma operates a discrimination-free working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. The need for training and development is recognised as central to the on-going development of our people, and their skills and knowledge” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct Communication on Progress 2017 13 Labour Standards At Hikma we strive to uphold a pleasant and enriching work place for our employees. We do not tolerate any form of inequality or prejudice; the workplace is free of discrimination. There is no child labour in all our locations; the company is extremely strict in operating at the highest ethical level. We do not collaborate with union. Sites that don’t have discrimination. any company that tolerates or unions are represented by the HR departments. The company must confirm that conducts child labour. Company all its employees are aware of labour laws across the group Management is responsible for their rights including the laws clearly forbid the service of minors informing employees of their and regulations that protect under the age of eighteen. At rights and negotiating with unions the employee. At Hikma we also Hikma we enforce strong ethical as well as improving employees’ confirm that the companies we labour standards across our supply compensations. The issues partner and work with support and chain. We do not work with any covered by collective bargaining enact the anti-discrimination laws. partner, supplier, or third-party with trade unions and employee source that does not conform to representatives include financial Health and Safety international labour standards. compensation such as salary Our Health and Safety Policy is expansions, bonuses, insurance enacted in all our locations. The Policies and Procedures expansion that is reviewed per policy is integrated into health annum, the health and safety of and safety processes for all units As an international company employees in addition to training and functions. Managers confirm that is constantly growing, it is a necessity that our company values sessions for employees if required. the policies are implemented and policies are integrated in all The company provides an “Equal in their divisions. Our policies our locations. At Hikma we employ Treatment of Employees and are frequently updated and the necessary actions to guarantee Harassment” policy, which is strongly implemented to ensure all employee rights and needs are circulated to employees and our employees work in a safe present and met. As a global entity, periodically updated: environment. The health and we certify that our policies meet safety processes cover the and exceed the regulations of the [At Hikma we believe in] “equal following areas: countries in which we are located. treatment of employees and do not condone favouritism or • Employee health We maintain the freedom of association needed for a fair inequality in any shape or form. • Accident prevention representation of our employees Hikma does not discriminate • Health and safety training at the company. In all our based on a person’s race, colour, locations, employee concerns religious creed, age, sex, marital • Monitoring, reporting and are heard. Across the group, status, national origin, present or communicating we have various unions and past history of mental or physical • Training and development groups present who represent disability and any other factors employees and have a platform not related to a person’s ability to • Labour Standards to state employee concerns. In perform a job.” Employee Health and Safety sites where unions are present our employees are protected by the When hiring new personnel, Employee safety is one of the top shared negotiation agreements employees at the human resources priorities for Hikma. Safeguarding signed by the General Manager department are trained to view our employees while they conduct of that site and the head of the all applicants equally without any business in a safe and secure 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC environment is a basic right for our other characteristic. We believe the organisation, offering an inclusive staff and the duty of a responsible diversity of our people is a source platform where issues can be organisation. Our Occupational of strength for our company. addressed openly. The Committee Health, Safety, Environment and Diversity fuels our creativity contributed to the development Energy (OHSEE) policy, which and effectiveness as a global of several important company is communicated across the organisation. policies such as the increase of group, confirms that the highest nursery allowance for parents standards are maintained across Our merit based and inclusive and an extended maternity leave the company in line with industry corporate culture aids in nurturing option for mothers, as well as best practices. All our staff, a diverse workplace. Although flexible hours for nursing mothers’ especially manufacturing facility we do not set quotas, we actively leave from a year to a year and six operators, are thoroughly trained monitor ethnic diversity at all our months. with the highest safety and security US locations. Around a third of our global workforce is female, a In Saudi Arabia we have been standards in order to lessen focusing on decreasing gender hazardous risks to the employees percentage that has been annually increasing. Females also make discrepancy by gradually and their surroundings. increasing the number of women up 72% of Portugal’s workforce, Going forward, we plan to align in the company from two in and they occupy strategic top our various health and safety 2012 to fifty-four in 2017. The managerial positions across the company established ‘womenglobal departments and enhance group. In 2017 we had a 27% the communication structure only’ packaging lines and included increase in female managers, more women in our training for our global health and safety particularly in the United States, and development plan. Gender departments by conducting London and Jordan. The number diversity remains a challenge regular health and safety meetings of women in managerial positions in certain areas, and to address between the MENA, Europe and increased by 13% from 2016. this we will continue to introduce the US. We also plan to advance programmes that empower our measurement of health and Women Empowerment Initiatives women to achieve more leadership safety indicators and identify areas At Hikma we support women in the roles, and take down obstacles for improvement by updating our workplace and in the communities to achieving a more inclusive methods and procedures. where we are present. In 2017 we workforce. Grievance Procedure established numerous programmes Hikma International Professionals and policies to encourage At Hikma we have always had Excellence (HIPE) Programme gender diversity and women’s an open door policy with our empowerment. Our ‘Dare to Dream At Hikma we are aware that a major management where employees Big Programme’ is an ongoing drive for community advancement can express any concerns. As the success. Founded in 2015 for our lies in our youth; we strive to invest company grew and became more female employees in the MENA in the population’s youth. In 2017, global, official liability measures region, the programme focuses 66% of our employees were below were introduced by the human on motivational sessions where the age of 40. resource department which call successful female guest speakers In 2016 we launched a programme for quick actions for any labour from various backgrounds speak called HYPE (Hikma Young negligence. Employees inform to our employees in monthly Professionals Excellence) for the HR department of their issues workshop style sessions that recent graduates. In 2017 we and HR is legally obliged to take promote capacity building and expanded and modified the immediate action. If an employee leadership. In 2016 and 2017 we programme into HIPE (Hikma wishes to anonymously report started organising training sessions International Professionals any complaints, there is a system for woman empowerment in Excellence) programme. HIPE is in place called Speak Up which Portugal. We also conducted an a global cross-functional rotation is overseen by the compliance internal assessment for the needs programme created for exceptional department and a special board of female employees in the US, individuals, where they are which is administered by an and based on their requests have exposed to company leadership external party. conducted training sessions in values by undergoing a job rotation various subjects. We are planning schedule in various operational, on adding more sites to our ‘Dare financial and commercial Actions and Performance departments. The programme to Dream Big Programme’. We believe in equal standards focuses on a blended learning for all employees, and are proud We also established a formal experience through a combination to state that we are an equal committee tasked with addressing of workshops, assessments, women-specific issues within the E-learning courses, team building opportunity employer and do not company in Jordan. The Women’s activities, field trips and readings, discriminate based on race, age, Committee consists of various among others. The programme has religion, sexual orientation or any been extremely successful, and will women leaders from across the Communication on Progress 2017 15 be implemented internationally in et seq 2018. • The New Jersey Law Against Innovation & Leadership Advisory Discrimination, N.J.S.A. 10:5-1 Board (I-LAB) et seq., and/or under any other applicable federal, state or local In 2016, under our Chairman’s antidiscrimination law initiative, an advisory board was established entitled the Innovation • The Employee Retirement & Leadership Advisory Board Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C. § (I-LAB), with the purpose of 1132(e) and 1140 et seq maintaining an inventive culture • The Conscientious Employee across the group and cultivating Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 34:19-1 et young talent. The I-LAB is a group seq of employees under thirty-five who advise the Chairman on cutting• The Family Medical Leave Act, edge technological initiatives 29 U.S.C. § 2611 et seq (and any aimed to introduce and inspire other applicable federal or state innovation in the workplace. The leave statute) committee regularly meets and In our Portugal site, Hikma exceeds updates our management with the Portuguese labour laws, advances in digital health and which calls for a decrease in the proposals on how to implement percentage of overtime payment. these advancements in the For overtime work the company company. pays a monthly fixed amount that represents roughly 15% of Unions an employees’ salary. Company At Hikma we have labour union profits are distributed to the representations in most of our employees as well. In our Portugal locations in Europe and MENA; in site we surpass labour laws by the remaining sites our employees providing our employees and are represented by the HR their families with a strong health department. insurance system and by paying allowances, not mandatory by law, In the United States, the labour in order to recognise the effort laws that are administered in done in this specific industry that the company are in line with the can go up to 25% of the average Americans with Disabilities Act salary. The company also pays 10% (ADA) of 1990 which protects any extra to the employees’ salaries discrimination against individuals to compensate the work done in with handicaps. For 2017, we shifts. continued our renewal with the As for the rest of the locations, Collective Bargaining Agreement no changes were made regarding with Teamsters Local 201, which unions, and no incidents were came into effect in November 1, reported. All our unions abide 2014 and will remain until October by labour laws which are easily 31, 2019. In addition to the ADA, accessible along with union we conform with and work under directions that are imposed by the following Federal and State specialised company personnel. legalities: • The Civil Rights Act of 1991, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e et seq, the Civil Rights Act of 1870, 42 U.S.C. § 1981 • The Americans with Disabilities Act, 29 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq • The Rehabilitation Act of 1972, as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 701, et seq • The Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. § 621 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Principle Seven Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle Eight Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle Nine Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of HSEE Management. As a pharmaceutical company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards that we set. The purpose of this policy is… to minimize adverse impact on the environment where possible, through the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHG) inventory by reducing the consumption of energy. Hikma is committed to consider energy saving equipment and tools in any project in the future.” Environmental Principle, Code of Conduct Communication on Progress 2017 17 “Hikma expects all its units to … maintain an operation that minimizes all adverse environmental and climate change impacts associated with our activities. As a Pharmaceutical Company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards we set.” Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment Policy “Hikma is committed to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable donations, volunteering and the operation of its social and environmental policies.” Community Impact and Support Principle, Code of Conduct “We are committed to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner. We continuously monitor and review our performance to meet current environmental legislation.” Social Responsibility Strategy 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Environment Our brand promise; to put better health within reach every day, is embedded in our sustainability strategy. We’re helping to shape a healthier world that enriches all of our communities, protects the environment and contributes to sustainable development. We believe that a healthier human life is linked to a healthier environment. We are committed to our Responsibility (CSR). This policy is • Various resources and employees, their families and periodically reviewed while training programmes and communicating the community at large and we sessions and awareness material our (OHSEE) policy with all our recognise our responsibility as a on the policy are communicated to employees through numerous pharmaceutical manufacturer; the entire staff. communication means including an energy-intensive business, to training, awareness sessions, assess and monitor our related The policy dictates that our people are our most valuable team meetings, newsletters environmental impact and ensure and posters. This ensures the adoption of environmentally asset. It is fundamental for our business success to ensure that effective implementation and friendly processes throughout our business. We monitor our we are providing our people provides clear information greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with a safe, healthy workplace for employee responsibilities in all our facilities and capitalise and a sustainable environment. regarding occupational health, on opportunities to improve our We guarantee that all our units safety, environment and energy environmental performance and comply with the most stringent management systems energy efficiency. industry standards of (OHSEE) • We are committed to maintaining We take measures to minimise management to ensure the wellconstructive engagement with our environmental impact being of our employees and our stakeholders including our and enhance environmental business partners; and to maintain contractors and supply chain compliance and regulations. We an operation that minimises all on matters concerning health, incorporate environmentally adverse environmental and climate safety, environment and energy conscious practices whenever change impacts associated with our operations. performance; and shall publicly we can across our operations by disclose/maintain an open focusing on minimising waste, As a pharmaceutical company, dialogue about our policies analysing carbon emissions, we recognise that our operations and management processes monitoring and reducing energy have an impact on the local and usage, and minimising demands for regarding these issues global environment and we actively water consumption. A preventive encourage the engagement of We ensure the continuous approach is also adopted within our staff at all levels to ensure improvement of our environmental our operations towards the management system, through an the standards that we set are environment. active process including Standard fully implemented. All our OHSEE Policies and Procedures objectives are set and frequently Operating Procedures (SOPs) Occupational Health, Safety, reviewed through applying a risk and implementing environmental Environment and Energy based approach aiming to prevent programmes. Management injuries, ill health, reduction of As a manufacturing company, we environmental impact on climate are also keen to achieve the best The Occupational Health, Safety, change, air and water pollution, Environment and Energy, (OHSEE) possible results in preventing land contamination and minimising is a group-wide corporate policy and managing environmental energy performance. We aim to that is endorsed by the Vice accidents. (SOPs) are strictly achieve our set goals and targets President of Corporate Social followed for the prevention and annually through: Communication on Progress 2017 19 management of environmental • Senior Management is to safeguard the environment accidents within the (OHSEE) committed to reducing harmful Greenhouse Gases Management function. In addition, emissions, optimizing energy the environmental accidents usage and minimising risk by As a company listed in the London due to production processes setting a dedicated budget Stock Exchange, we have a that may be harmful to operators program to achieve required regulatory obligation to report GHG are minimised and mitigated targets emissions pursuant to Section by the (OHSEE) department, 7 of The Companies Act 2006 • MENA Operation VP’s have a and alternative processes are (Strategic Report and Directors’ savings objective that includes implemented where possible. Report) Regulations 2013. savings on energy. They are Continuously seeking to reduce accountable to the board The Greenhouse Gases GHG our energy costs and increase sources that constitute our • Business Unit Managers (GM) sustainability throughout all our operational boundary for the 2017 in each business unit managers facilities, we implement Energy reporting period are as follows: are responsible for reviewing all Conservation Measures (ECMs). • Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and (HSEE) activities including the ECMs consist of two types of operation of facilities (tCO2e) setting of emissions reduction technologies that enable energy target and the implementation • Scope 2: Electricity (tCO2) saving results: strategy. They are responsible • Energy Efficiency technologies: for setting up and ensuring the We report in accordance to the enables procured energy (both execution of new energy saving Defra Environmental Reporting electrical and thermal) to be projects Guidelines 2013. Results are utilised more effectively within reported in tCO2e emissions, as • Plant Managers oversee the UK Government emission factors the facility. As a result, the user processes to meet reduction for overseas electricity currently does not need to use as much targets at every manufacturing account for carbon dioxide energy to deliver the same tasks site emissions only. or processes • Engineering Managers set plans Water Usage • Decentralised Energy and processes for meeting technologies: enables energy We recognise that we have an targets to be produced at or near the important role in identifying and point of use, generally from • Sustainability Manager responding to the risks of water renewable energy sources. This is responsible of the resource scarcity. We aim to contrasts with the traditional, communication on sustainable promote a greater water usage wasteful and increasingly costly practises such as energy efficient responsibility by continuously method of buying energy that is manufacturing processes, measuring and reporting on the generated in a centralised power resource consumptions, waste company’s impact on local water station that may be hundreds of management and a policy resources and annually improving kilometres away from the point at statement on environment, the company’s performance. which the energy is needed energy and climate change We continuously search for OHSEE Architecture • Health and Safety Manager new innovative ways to reduce, advises the GM and senior recycle, and reuse water supplies The Executive Vice Chairman and whenever and wherever possible. management on OHSEE President of MENA oversees the We have installed several sewage strategies, maintaining responsibility of climate change and wastewater systems in our OHSEE certifications (ISO and energy reduction. The Health manufacturing facilities to increase 14001, OHSAS 18001) and Safety and Environment (HSE) the efficiency of water usage in technical implementation of function is governed by the senior Egypt and Tunisia. Our ability to environmental plans (ISO14001, management in each unit and reduce water consumption also Energy conservation plan, each business unit is responsible enables us to deliver significant waste management plan) in for implementing the company’s cost savings. accordance with regulations OHSEE policy at its location. and codes and developing risk Over the past three years, we Management ripples down to the management policy have developed action plans to operational level and has controls and checks at every level as per • All employees take part in assess and monitor the influence the following procedures: global CSR and environmental of our water withdrawal on the campaigns, volunteer in their environment. We avoid instances • Executive-level CSR committee where the impact of a specific communities, can attend reports directly to the CEO and is withdrawal can significantly affect awareness sessions on accountable for governing ethical the environment and have wider environmental issues that and environmentally sustainable impacts on the quality of life in the the company hosts, and are activities areas where we operate. encouraged to submit new ideas 20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Efficient Energy Management health and safety management global locations. It is aimed at system(s) raising employee health and safety Behaving sustainably is an awareness inside and outside integral part of Hikma’s corporate • Controls and measures related the workplace, tackling topics strategy and core business. We to emissions of greenhouse such as hazardous occupations, are committed to minimising gases (GHG) first aid, occupational health and our environmental impact • Human Rights policies and Anti safety, energy consciousness and by promoting and adopting Bribery laws environmental preservation. energy saving solutions. Before administrating a new project, we • Code of Conduct We are proud members of the consider energy saving equipment • Non-discrimination (equal Global Smoke-free Partnership and tools, whether it was an treatment of employees) policy (GSP), a global partnership expansion project, a greenfield dedicated to promoting effective project or an acquisition. • Animal testing policies smoke-free air policies worldwide. Ethical Suppliers • Modern Slavery Act policies Community Engagement and procedures to identify and Our supply chain process address the risk of modern We are committed to our role of integrates environmental and slavery (meaning forced or helping the communities in which social elements guided by the compulsory labour and/or we operate. We undertake a variety framework of the (OHSEE) policy. trafficking in persons) of public initiatives related to the Hikma utilises the Suppliers Audit environment and its preservation. procedure to ensure that suppliers Certified Management Systems These initiatives include: conduct ethical practises, are We strive to reduce negative • Promoting responsible environmentally responsible, environmental impacts, due to environmental practices abide by international labour laws, our operations, through green and advancing community including the Modern Slavery Act. investment and focus on reducing wellness through education and Our supply chain management the energy usage across our awareness campaigns team ensures that manufacturing business. Our consistent efforts processes comply with and exceed • Disaster relief support resulted in the achievement of where possible, the relevant local certifications for the Environmental • Partnering with government and international environmental Management System (ISO 14001), agencies, non-governmental legislations. We work with suppliers Occupational Health and Safety organisations, academia, and and contractors to bring their Management Systems (OHSAS other stakeholders health, safety, environmental and 18001) and Energy Management • Philanthropic programmes energy management standards System (ISO 50001). with environmentally related into alignment. outcomes Our Health and Safety We make sure that our strategic departments for each subsidiary Transparent Reporting suppliers are aware of and conform are responsible for steering the to the environmental provision of We deploy transparent reporting ISO 14001 management system, systems that aim to show progress our policies. We at Hikma utilise a which fulfil the environmental supplier audit questionnaire that in energy, waste, greenhouse gas requirements from ISO 14001 emissions and water consumption. includes questions pertaining in addition to managing health The company measures its direct to environmental and ethical and safety risks in accordance energy consumption and total standards to help assess the with the OHSAS 18001. The water withdrawal and aims to suppliers’ practices and increase standards related to environmental publicly disclose these figures. their awareness of responsible management help us (a) minimise Some of these are mandatory operations and business ethics. any negative environmental impact while others are self-reporting Below are the issues questioned in related to operations (i.e. adverse standards that we have chosen our supplier audit: changes to air, water, or land); to report upon in order to ensure (b) comply with applicable laws, that processes are in line with our • Published Corporate Social regulations, and other required quality standards. These include: Responsibility CSR policies and environmental standards, and (c) involvement in community or • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) continually improve its practices to charitable work and examples achieve annual re-certification. • Sustainability report as part of • Environmental policies and the company’s annual report Healthy Workplaces implemented environmental • Aligning with the UN sustainable measures and waste We support and promote healthy development goals management procedures workplaces for our employees. We yearly conduct the “You Are Hikma” • Reports to 3rd party financial • Obtained certification for campaign, an annual employee entities as part of our loan environmental, social and or welfare week, held across our agreements Communication on Progress 2017 21 Actions and Performance and dispose of them safely. Over The switch will also reduce the course of the campaign we overhead costs since, unlike Climate Change Strategy successfully disposed of more diesel fuel, natural gas boilers We are committed to doing than 4,300 pounds (1,950kg) of have a longer service life and our part to ensure that our medications, equating to more require less maintenance. Through environment is protected for than 6.4 million tablets. the agreement with the energy future generations. We developed company Central Gas, our Jordan In Saudi Arabia, volunteers a five-year climate change facilities will be provided with a participated in the ‘Dawaona strategy in 2015. The strategy capacity of up to 30,000 litres of Amanah’ (Our Medicine, Our focuses on developing effective LPG per year, an amount that will Responsibility) campaign, which techniques through measuring reduce production costs by 7–15% aims to spread awareness about GHG and setting plans to reduce based on estimated gas prices. In the importance of proper drug emissions. The strategy guidelines addition to reducing our carbon disposal. The campaign took place include monitoring and setting emissions, using natural gas will across several locations, including goals and targets that adhere to improve safety. hospitals, universities, malls and environmental issues that involve stadiums. In Tunisia, our substitution to climate change, water pollution, natural gas use was an incentive land contamination and energy HSEE Management for the Tunisian government to use. Environmental impacts are develop underground gas pipelines Wastewater Treatment recorded through effective for the entire village of Sidi Thabet. measurement, monitoring and This investment will enable other In 2017, we completed the reporting across our operations. businesses and households to construction of a wastewater We disclose our greenhouse gas access natural gas, substantially treatment unit in Egypt that will (“GHG”) emissions which helps extending the environmental enable the manufacturing facility us reduce our negative impact on return of our investment. The to reduce wastewater effluents climate change. We continuously pursuit of cleaner energy in our by up to 90%. The wastewater develop energy conservation production and manufacturing is treatment unit, operating at a and efficiency in our operations; part of our wider effort to consider maximum capacity of 200m3 improve employee engagement the environmental impacts of of treated water per day, uses and product/process innovations our business, reduce our carbon the treated water for irrigation in our business. Throughout the footprint in cost-effective ways purposes, reducing use of year, our operators are trained and to maximise the efficiency of domestic water consumption periodically on Standard Operating our production. by 15%. We are seen as leaders Procedures (SOP) to ensure in environmental compliance in This year, our Columbus facility that environmental procedures Egypt. undertook multiple projects to and hazards are mitigated in Sewage Treatment Infrastructure improve energy efficiency and manufacturing processes. lower carbon emissions; the most In 2017, we also successfully In 2017, we continued to achieve notable was the installation of LED upgraded and renovated our the targets of the ISO 50001 for lighting fixtures. By investing in the sewage infrastructure at our Energy Management System replacement of 32W fluorescent facility in Tunisia to reduce water (EnMS) for our main manufacturing tubes with more efficient consumption and mitigate the site in Jordan. Hikma was the first substitutes, we have halved the environmental impact of our pharmaceutical company in the energy consumed in lighting the operations. The treatment unit Middle East and the first Jordanian facility. The installation of 1,625 will isolate industrial water from manufacturing plant to achieve fixtures (6,500 tubes) will result in rainwater and sanitary water, this certification in 2014. This energy savings of 789,690 kWh per enabling us to recover industrial resulted from several years’ work year, equating to annual savings of wastewater for treatment and in energy improvement and energy around 360 tCO2e.1. reuse. Our sewage treatment management. project will improve the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Energy Efficiency and Cleaner environmental footprint of our Our reported greenhouse gas Manufacturing facility and reduce operating costs. emissions increased by 25% in In 2017, we finalised agreements 2017, compared with 2016. The Drug Disposal Campaigns that will enable our Jordanincrease was primarily due to the In 2017, we undertook several drug based facilities as well as our inclusion of West-Ward Columbus, disposal initiatives to address the manufacturing facility in Tunisia our largest manufacturing facility, challenge of prescription drug to convert from using diesel in our analysis for the first time. It abuse. In Columbus, our employee fuel to liquefied petroleum accounts for 23% of total emissions volunteers worked alongside a gas (LPG). This will result in in 2017. Excluding West-Ward local grocery store and pharmacy significant improvements to our Columbus from our US results, chain, Kroger, to collect and environmental performance by our greenhouse gas emissions remove unwanted and expired reducing the carbon emissions decreased by 5% in 2017. There medications from customers of our production processes. was a slight increase in Europe due 22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC to the expansion of our Portugal in emissions from electricity currently account for carbon manufacturing facility. In the MENA at the site. We are focused on dioxide emissions only region, our emissions decreased reducing our emissions and have • Emissions are calculated by 8% due to investments made implemented several initiatives this in alignment with the WRI’s in energy efficiency. Our emissions year. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol per full-time equivalent (FTE) Data notes: Corporate Accounting and employee increased by 3.6%; this Reporting Standard was primarily driven by increased • Emissions from the consumption manufacturing in Portugal of electricity are reported in • Emissions are reported from sites and Germany. For example, a tCO2 rather than tCO2e since which represent 92% of total production increase of 40% in the International Energy Agency employees Germany led to a 16% increase emission factors for electricity Measuring our emissions The table below shows our emissions performance for the last three years. 129,260 105,533 103,191 92,421 79,061 76,456 36,839 26,472 26,735 Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Total Scope Scope Total 1 2 1 2 1 2 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (tCO2e) Scope 2: Electricity (tCO 2) Supplier Practices addition to the OHSAS 18001 for In 2017, Hikma encouraged the Occupational Health and Safety use of innovative ‘smart syringes’ In 2017, we expanded our auditing in Jordan. Needle reuse is often Management Systems. Our main procedures by identifying responsible for the spread of operations in Jordan, the Jazeera our significant suppliers and blood-borne diseases such Pharmaceuticals Industries (JPI) conducting a widespread audit on as hepatitis B, hepatitis C and facility in Saudi Arabia, Hikma environmental issues in Europe, HIV. To address this challenge, Egypt and more recently the EPCI the US, and the MENA region. we undertook a multi-faceted facility are ISO 14001 and OHSAS The ‘Modern Slavery Act’ related campaign of awareness and 18001 certified. questions were incorporated to distribution of ‘smart syringes’ the Supplier Audit Questionnaire Corporate Initiatives across Jordan in collaboration with in 2017 to identify and address the the ministry of Health. The ‘You are Hikma’ campaign risk of modern slavery; compulsory is held every year across all our The innovative design of the labour and/or trafficking in locations, bringing employees ‘smart syringe’ includes a persons. together to promote health retractable safety feature that Certifications and safety both internally and makes it impossible for healthcare across our wider communities. professionals to inadvertently In 2017 Hikma in Jordan maintained In 2017, more than 80 employees use the same syringe more than its ISO 50001 certification for in our Jordan locations and 250 once, protecting patients from energy management, the first site employees from across our US needle-stick injuries, possible in Jordan to receive this certificate locations volunteered and took infections and the spread of and the first pharmaceutical part in the campaign’s activities blood-borne diseases. To promote company in the Middle East. which included awareness greater use of the ‘smart syringes’, Hikma is upholding ISO 14001 lectures on waste recycling and we distributed 500,000 ‘smart for sustaining an Environment occupational health and safety. syringes’ to public and private The event also included a blood hospitals around the country and Management System as we drive, firefighting training and trained 400 doctors and nurses on passed the surveillance visit their use. medical testing. with zero nonconformity in Communication on Progress 2017 23 Principle Ten Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Hikma has a zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. All directors, officers, employees, and other individuals working for Hikma and joint ventures in which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or giving, either directly or indirectly, money or anything else of value, as a bribe or inducement: to make, (or as a reward for making or not making), a decision that is favourable to Hikma’s interests; or to seek to gain an unfair business advantage or otherwise influence business activities; or which compromises their judgment or their ability to act objectively. This standard applies to interactions with to all individuals and corporate bodies with whom Hikma does business – healthcare professionals, customers, suppliers, professional bodies, regulatory authorities, and NGOs – regardless of where they are located geographically. At Hikma we will: Act honestly, ethically and with integrity in all company interactions Not engage in or condone bribery or any other form(s) of corruption Not give or receive gifts or hospitality where this could give rise to a perception of a corrupt purpose. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard, Code of Conduct 24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Hikma does not condone or participate in any form of corruption and refrains from doing business with those who do not meet its standards. Integrity Principle, Code of Conduct Hikma wishes to encourage an environment in which full, free, and frank discussions can be held on issues that concern our employees. Therefore, Hikma has always had an open door policy regarding communication. Furthermore, we must hear from those who have any concerns about the ethics and integrity of our business. As part of your commitment to this Code, you have a duty to report to the Company as soon as possible any suspected violations of the Code, its supporting policies or any applicable law or regulations of which you become aware. Speaking Up Standard, Code of Conduct Communication on Progress 2017 25 Anti – Corruption At Hikma we continuously promote our core values of Integrity, Excellence, Respect and Transparency. Good business ethics is embedded in our culture to ensure ethical behavior across our businesses and geographies. We believe that a solid reputation for ethical values, in how we conduct our business is vital to our company’s reputation and success and ensures our business remains relevant and sustainable. We are very proud of our Policies and Procedures sets the overall strategy for the commitment to the highest Group’s response to anti-money We follow the UK Bribery Act 2010 standards of business integrity, laundering, bribery, corruption and and the Share Dealing Code and including the zero tolerance trade sanctions risks, compliance Disclosure policies, which prohibits of bribery and corruption; our with criminal finances act, modern the use of internal information for performance and leadership on slavery, CSR and is responsible for personal gain or insider trading. business integrity is admired approving the contents of all of Hikma has zero tolerance of bribery amongst our regulators, customers our policies in areas where ethical and corruption, which is clearly and suppliers. judgements are important. communicated to our people. Our commitment is both ethical The CREC oversees the Group’s Our employees are aware that and practical in nature. As a ABC compliance programme, the company will not penalise any publicly listed company on the policies on ethics and business individual for complying with the London Stock Exchange, we abide conduct and the development principles enshrined in the Code by the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the of the Code of Conduct. The or in our ABC policies, even at Share Dealing Code and Disclosure CREC also oversees Hikma’s the cost of foregoing a business policies. Our Code of Conduct sets speak-up process for employees opportunity, losing revenue or the tone for our activities. to raise ethical concerns, and, profit or disobeying a superior’s where relevant, oversees their We are constantly seeking to instructions. We implement strict investigation. develop and strengthen our global disciplinary measures on staff partnerships and initiatives to for ethical breaches in order to The Chief Compliance officer stay at the forefront of combating maintain our high standards of (CCO) reports to the CREC. He is corruption and advancing integrity. supported by local compliance healthcare and human wellbeing. departments in each major In addition to being a signatory operational jurisdiction and local of the UN Global Compact and Compliance, Responsibility and representatives at the smaller sites. supporting the UN Sustainable Ethics Committee (CREC) The CREC has a long-established Development goals, we are a The Compliance, Responsibility relationship with the CSR founding member of Partnering and Ethics Committee (CREC) Committee, which oversees the against Corruption Initiative drives the Company’s commitment Company’s work on charitable (PACI). As participants of this to business integrity and human and humanitarian issues, global initiative, we commit to zero dignity. The CREC is a boardenvironmental initiatives, tolerance of bribery and to the level committee that is chaired sustainability and community successful implementation of an by one of four board members; engagement and development. antibribery and corruption (ABC) John Castellani, Chair of the programme. Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee. The CREC 26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Responsible Sales Anti-Bribery and Corruption We ensure that responsible sales (ABC) Architecture are maintained through the Code Board of Conduct and the induction training for new employees. CREC Medical representatives undergo extensive induction training when Chief Compliance they join Hikma. The Induction Ofﬁcer programme focuses on the MENA region where pharmaceutical Branded Injectables US & Generics sales mainly depend on direct Division Division Division contact between the business and Champion Champion Champion doctors through medical and sales Group MENA US representatives. Hikma boasts a Compliance Compliance Compliance strong team of over 2000 sales and Ofﬁcers Ofﬁcers Ofﬁcers marketing professionals for our branded segment in the region. Our Supply Chain Code of Conduct corruption risks and increases the In order to ensure our suppliers penetration of compliance issues The CREC continues to oversee and partners uphold our standards, into the decision-making process the development and promotion our supply chain management for business departments as they of the group’s Code of Conduct, team conducts regular audits consider existing and new business which embodies the important that assess compliance in areas structures. moral and ethical values that the including business ethics, labour company seeks to promote. The Speak Up standards and environmental Code guides all the Committee’s protection. We have ensured that Hikma has an open-door policy activities and is the key reference all of our suppliers follow Good regarding communication, point for all our employees. It Manufacturing Practices (GMP) questions or concerns about is benchmarked against good and that our major suppliers are the ethics and integrity of the industry practice and a peer group ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 business. If, for any reason, of international companies. The certified or equivalent. employees cannot report to line Code is available in all of the major management, they may make languages in which the company conducts business: Arabic, English, reports confidentially to any senior Actions and Performance manager within the business. French, German, Portuguese, Code of Conduct Speak-up includes anonymous Italian and Russian. Each year all In 2017 employees continued reporting lines that report directly employees are required to confirm signing the Code of Conduct, to the Compliance department and that they have read the Code, have available in seven languages; Chair of the CREC. The procedures understood it and will abide by its English, Arabic, Portuguese, include a committee of senior terms. They confirm in writing that French, German, Italian and group employees that undertake they understand their obligations Russian, confirming that they have proportionate investigations and to report events of suspected nonunderstood it and will abide by implements appropriate corrective compliance with the Code. All new its terms. Employees also confirm action. In 2017, the regional speakemployees are also trained on the in writing that they understand up facilities were consolidated into Code of Conduct as part of their their obligations to report events one group-wide application. The induction training. The training of suspected noncompliance with anonymous web and telephone plan for the Code includes face-tothe Code. In 2017, we achieved reporting lines are in place across face training for top managers, and 100% signatures from all senior all our operations. As part of training and discussion sessions managers across our locations the employees’ commitment to at department level for employees world-wide. the Code, they have a duty to and lower management. The report any suspected violations. CREC Code is available on our website: Hikma remains satisfied that the https://www.hikma.com/about/ The CREC continued focusing policy and procedures enable ethics-and-compliance/code-ofon the on-going development proportionate and independent conduct/ and implementation of Hikma’s investigation of matters raised Training and communication including non-compliance and compliance programme through on ABC policies and the Code that appropriate follow-up action training and education of continues to enhance employees’ is taken. employees to strengthen their understanding of bribery and understanding of compliance Communication on Progress 2017 27 issues across the group. A localized FTSE4Good Inclusion through our ‘open-door’ policy and ABC programme was developed ‘Speak Up’ whistleblowing platform. As recognition of our quality and implemented to fit the standards and ethical business Supporting local communities specific needs of each location practices, we are pleased to have through: and to comply with laws and maintained our inclusion in the regulations of the different markets • In kind donations FTSE4Good sustainability index in in which Hikma operates. In 2017, It is important to us to support 2017. The FTSE4Good recognises recommended enhancements the communities in which we companies listed on the London were implemented to the ABC operate. Every year, we donate Stock Exchange that demonstrate programme from a recent risk medical supplies to institutions strong Environmental, Social and assessment. and agencies that are responding Governance (ESG) practices as The successful transition of measured against internationally to natural disasters or addressing the CREC’s Committee Chair recognised best practices. other difficulties. This year, we was also completed in 2017. In The focus areas include: antideveloped a donations policy addition, the US compliance corruption, climate change, through which we streamline function was Integrated into health and safety, and customer the medicine donation process Hikma’s global programme and responsibility. across our sites. In 2017, our local manuals were produced for donations exceeded 340,000 the US operations and training Ethical Suppliers units – valued at more than $2.5 sessions were conducted to In 2016, we introduced staff million – which were distributed guide employees in using the training measures and the to people in need across Jordan, manuals. The CREC also promoted development of specific standard Libya, Sudan, Gaza and the US. and further developed online operating procedures (SOPs) We are working to expand our training tools for all employees to ensure that we, and our donations to assist more people and advanced the anti-trust, partners, are not involved in across more of our markets. anti-money laundering and trade forced or compulsory labour or sanctions programme. • Global partnerships human trafficking. In 2017, we Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) strengthened our ability to address In 2017, we also agreed a global Programme this issue, incorporating modern partnership with Direct Relief, slavery clauses into our Code a global NGO dedicated to Due to the ‘top-down’ commitment providing tailored medical of Conduct and Supplier Audit of our senior management and the solutions for vulnerable and Questionnaires – the latter being effectiveness of our compliance mandatory for all of our new and at-risk populations by improving team, our ABC programme is major-spend suppliers. Currently, maternal and child health, now well embedded into the we do not screen all suppliers. We preventing and treating diseases organisation. The CREC Committee are working to increase the number and assisting emergency receives regular reports on issues arising and oversees the continued of those that we engage through preparedness and response. Our improvement of the programme. our questionnaires. partnership with Direct Relief Our US ABC efforts are now emphasises the importance of Responsible Business Initiatives fully integrated into our global creating tangible health benefits programme. Under the guidance We are committed to upholding on the ground, which we will do of the General Counsel, we have ethical standards including by providing our employees with brought the ABC activities into honesty, integrity and volunteering opportunities as the internal audit programme. The transparency. We are a founding well as leveraging our logistics ongoing monitoring and review by member of the Partnering Against expertise to deliver regular and the internal auditors ensures that Corruption Initiative (PACI), an timely in-kind donations to those the ABC programme continuously offshoot of the World Economic that need it most. improves. In the view of the CREC, Forum (WEF), and a leading voice • Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) the implementation of internal on promoting anti-corruption awareness audit practices demonstrates that and transparency across different we have successfully taken our industries. As the second largest ABC programme from initiation to manufacturer of anti-infective We joined the Business 20 (B20) the current fully operational phase. medications in the MENA Anti-Corruption Working Group During 2017, the Compliance region, we believe that we (ACWG) since 2015, which operates department developed and tested have a responsibility to raise under the umbrella of the G20 a new process and platform for awareness of the risks and dealing with the complicated international forum and is tasked dangers of the rising threat of challenges associated with thirdwith helping companies improve AMR. Over the course 2017, party risks. The system will be their ethical conduct. Our culture we sought to address this implemented during 2018. at Hikma is one of transparency challenge by organising several and respect, which we support activities targeting multiple 28 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC stakeholders. The correct Key measures in support of this usage of antibiotics by patients goal also include training our staff is critical to controlling AMR. on labour standards and how to We have developed simple recognise and respond to any instructions, which we include incidences of modern slavery, inside our packaging, to ensure undertaking periodic analysis patients understand how to and management of any modern use our products. We also slavery risk in our businesses or participated in the World Health supply chains and carrying out Organisation’s (WHO) ‘World appropriate due diligence and Antibiotic Awareness Week’ by engaging on the issue with supply promoting their campaign on chain partners. our social media channels and Employee Training distributing awareness posters. We held numerous events for All our employees in different healthcare professionals, where locations undergo mandatory we invited experts to present and training sessions on compliance raise awareness on AMR. and conduct. In 2017, we introduced an e-learning training • Education of doctors and module to more effectively train pharmacists our employees on how to identify We provide education to doctors and act on instances of bribery and and pharmacists to improve the corruption. The module was rolled delivery of healthcare to patients. out globally. The module covered In 2017, we collaborated with the following topics: the Department of Leukemia · Code of Conduct at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center to host · Compliance Overview our first annual ‘Hikma Cancer · Sales and Marketing Policy Network – Middle East Forum of Hematologic Malignancies.’ · Speak Up Through the forum we succeeded · Conflict of Interest in attracting more than 100 blood cancer specialists from around · Interacting with 3rd parties the MENA region. We provided · Interacting with governmental information on new technologies entities and treatments. In Tunisia, we launched a series Recognition of training programmes for · In 2017 we received the Company pharmacists and their support of the Year” award, at the Global staff. Our training programmes Generics & Biosimilars Awards addressed issues such as improved stock management, · In 2017, we secured the highest finance and accounting basics, ranking of any pharmaceutical human resource management, company in the UK’s Institute as well as the soft skills necessary of Directors’ Good Governance to improve the overall patient Report experience. · In 2017 we maintained our Modern Slavery Act (MSA) membership in the FTSE4GOOD We are committed to ensuring index series; an index designed that modern slavery in the form of to identify companies forced or compulsory labour and that demonstrate strong human trafficking does not take Environmental, Social and place in any of our businesses or Governance (ESG) practices supply chains across the globe. In 2017, we included MSA provisions in our Code of Conduct by updating our COC in coordination with the Compliance department. Communication on Progress 2017 29 © Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2018 1 New Burlington Place London W1S 2HR T 020 7399 2760 For more information, please visit: hikma.com 30 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
