The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Limited Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2017 to December 2017. Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of the UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with the company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what SQUARE had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 2018. Page 2 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  Informing Physician Community on Latest  These clinical meetings and seminars have the following Human Rights We at SQUARE strive to Development in Medical Science impacts: ensure that our activities Being in the pharmaceutical sector, the company  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical Businesses support the fundamental maintains a very close relation with the physician professionals should support human rights, set out by community. The management believes that a better  A close relation with the physician community is and respect the the United Nation’s Bill informed and educated doctor community creates a maintained protection of of Rights. win-win situation for all the stakeholders. For this  Knowledge of products is increased significantly internationally purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives under its  Medical professionals receive updated information proclaimed Continual Medical Education (CME) programs for the on different drugs and other relevant information human rights physician community to share medical updates and to  A better informed and educated community of and make sure upgrade the day-to-day developments in the medical doctors creates a win-win situation for all the they are not sector. In 2017, the major topics were stakeholders complicit in Neurodevelopmental Disorder & Autism, Chikungunya,  These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the human rights Acute Kidney Failure, Update Management of Diabetes, day-to-day developments in the medical sector. abuses. Male Infertility, Uterine Myoma and Its Management These meetings act as a forum for training and etc. knowledge-sharing among the medical professionals (UNGC Principles Our AgroVeterinary Division also conducts seminar and and often attended by experts on the respective 1-2) clinical meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary subject as key-note speakers. Doctors, Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regularly updated information about different drugs. These meetings are organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary Services Department (VSD).  The number of Continual Medical Education (CME) programs conducted in 2017 by Medical Services Department were 597 and the number of participants were 49587. The number of plant visit was 18 and numbers of participants were 645. Page 3 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  In 2017 we have conducted several CME  SQUARE conducts CME programs in different corner of the (Continual Medical Education) programs in world to maintain a close relationship with the global abroad. physician community and to share medical updates.  08 CME at some major hospitals in Uganda, where total participants were 180.  484 CME programs conducted in Nairobi, Kenya and participants were 1,452 persons.  Total 19 CME programs conducted in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania and participants were 250.  06 CME programs In Cambodia, where gathering of doctors with participants 30/each program and 06 Professional Conference. We Human Rights also create consumer awareness in 07 locations of the Phnom Penh's busiest intersections. (UNGC Principles 1-2)  In Yangon, Mandalay and Monyar region of Myanmar, total 03 Continual Medical Education (CME) programs were conducted where participants were 400 in six different hospitals.  Our Veterinary Services Department and Aqua  These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the day-toServices of AgroVeterinary Division conducted day developments in AgroVeterinary & Aqua sectors. These total 304 seminars and clinical meetings with meetings act as a forum for training and knowledge-sharing quacks & village doctors in 2017 & the among the professionals. numbers of participants were 9120 (approximately). We have also conducted around 50 special seminars by veterinary doctors (Private & Govt.), intern doctors and farmers (Aqua, Dairy & Poultry). Page 4 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes  As a result of this initiative, the physician community is bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis, supported with contemporary and critical issues related to which are distributed among the physicians of medicine, disease, medical innovation, etc. Bangladesh. These are Product Guide (Oshudh Nirdeshika), The SQUARE, Diabetes Newsletter, American Family Physician Journal, Women's Health, Neurotale, Insight Heart, GI café, Dermatological Newsletter etc. In 2017, SQUARE published 16 journals & provided different Journals/News Letters to the doctors. “The SQUARE”-journal has been published in both English (102000 copies) & Bengali (18000 copies) languages and also published e-SQUARE (2600 copies). Human Rights  This initiative has been taken to increase awareness about  SQUARE arranged Free “Diabetes screening & awareness program” on 14 November ‘2017 in Diabetes, Blood Pressure. (UNGC Principles 3 famous jogging spots of Dhaka city: Ramna 1-2) Park, Dhanmondi Lake & Gulshan Niketon Park. In these events, different medical tests have been conducted e.g., Blood Glucose Level (Fasting/Random), Blood Pressure & BMI (Body Mass Index).  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing  Employees can take a home loan at a nominal service charge Housing Scheme for the employees with a & with longer repay time to fulfill their dream of owning a fund of USD 12000. Till now, 17 persons are enjoying this facility. sweet home.  The employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals  Employees and their families are getting quality treatment Ltd. are enjoying 50% discount on treatment from world class standard hospital in Bangladesh and for self, spouse, parents & children at SQUARE reputed doctors at affordable cost. Hospitals Ltd.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. donated  This program was arranged to help the Rohingya patients medicine worth 1 lac taka to the Medical about finding required medicine in the shortest possible time Camp arranged by BMA (Bangladesh Medical for the quick recovery. Association) for the Rohingya people. Page 5 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. donated Burna  It is a part of our commitment towards society and on-going Cream (prevents bacterial colonization and support during disaster. infection in burn wounds) to the fire-victims of Korail slum area in Dhaka city on 18 March ’2017.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. provided Blood  This initiative has been taken to increase the awareness Pressure Monitoring pad for patients on World about monitoring blood pressure, BMI & Blood sugar for Hypertension Day 2017 and Health Monitoring Card for Patients for monitoring Blood healthy life. Pressure, Weight, BMI & Blood Sugar (FPG+PPG) in all over Bangladesh. SQUARE also organized a BMI measuring campaign for 1000 doctors & 500 Guests in Cardiac society program.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. provided Patient  This program was arranged to help the patients about Human Rights Helping card on Ticalog 90 (prevention of finding required medicine in the shortest possible time. atherothrombotic events in adult patients with acute coronary syndrome) in all over (UNGC Principles Bangladesh. There is an option to mention 1-2) names and mobile no. of our concern sales colleagues in the card. This product is available in the very selective chemist shop so patient might face problems finding the product. For this reason, doctors attach this card with prescription & provide to the patients so that patient communicates with our sales colleagues to collect the product.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. provided  This initiative has been taken to increase the awareness Awareness Creating Leaflet to maintain a about maintaining a healthy heart. Healthy Heart (In Bangla) for patients and mass people of Bangladesh. We have distributed this leaflet to the mass people at different Super Shops also.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides pick & drop  Boosts the morale of the student. services with school buses for the children of Creates future customers for SQUARE. factory employees. Currently, total 190 The service generates employee satisfaction. students are enjoying this service. The children enjoy a hassle free journey. Page 6 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has launched a  SQUARE HEALTH TALK helps to create awareness as well as corporate office based health awareness practical knowledge on “HOW TO LEAD A PRODUCTIVE AND program “SQUARE HEALTH TALK”. In 2017, this HEALTHY LIFE”. health awareness program conducted in the corporate office of Grameen Phone, Nestle Bangladesh, SQUARE Hospitals Ltd. This is a health awareness program conducted by a team of reputed physicians of SQUARE HOSPITAL.  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has donated Fresh  Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) is used to treat rare bleeding frozen plasma (2 times) in Burn & Plastic disorders when specific factor concentrates are not Surgery Unit of Dhaka Medical College Hospital available.FFP is a costly ingredient and this initiative helps in 2017. the DMC (Dhaka Medical College) colleagues to enrich their Plasma Bank.  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has participated in  This initiative helps the visitor to learn about our services as GrameenPhone (GP) Health Fair 2017 at GP we provided vital signs check-up including free blood sugar House on 09.05.17 to showcase our services measurement. Visitors also got the information regarding Human Rights and facilities. We received overwhelming Executive Health check-up, Psychology counseling, hospital response from all GP, Telenor and Accenture registration and other services through brochures, banners employees at the Fair and more than 350 and video showed on the program. (UNGC Principles persons took services from our booths. 1-2)  SQUARE Kindergarten, High School & College  This initiative enables the children of the employees to provides educational facilities for the boys & receive quality education at a subsidized rate and creates girls of the employees as well as to the children employee satisfaction. The children of the local of the local community. As of 2017, there are community are equally benefitted with standard 577 students in SQUARE Kindergarten, High education. School & College out of which 298 are female and 279 are male. Total 61 teachers out of which 17 are male and 44 are female and 23 staffs are there to provide adequate services. Page 7 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE established Dishari Computer  This initiative offers an alternative training solution to the Training Institute in Pabna to train the community who are unable to afford costly training underprivileged community and enable them programs. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of to build their future with contemporary future technology enabling them to build their future with knowledge in computer science. In 2017, a contemporary knowledge in computer operations. This also total of 420 students received training out of helps to get them a better job and to become self-employed. which 252 are female and 168 are male. 20 students trained from Dishari Training Institute are working at the SQUARE group at present.  SQUARE operates a fuel station named Eakub  The station generates employment opportunities to rural Filling Station, which is run by women women allowing them to be self-sufficient. Women are employees. empowered so that they are able to have their own source of income.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is partnering one of the  This ensures product awareness and demand increases in projects of CARE by empowering women of rural areas and helps the poor rural women to experience Human Rights JITA and BRAC. CARE, JITA and BRAC are the better & a safer way of living. humanitarian organizations committed to (UNGC Principles helping families in poor communities improve their lives and alleviate poverty. The project 1-2) enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), keeping the margin (not less than 10%) for themselves. At present, 3500 JITA women and 90000 BRAC women are empowered as they are able to have their own source of income.  Under a joint initiative by Netherland-based  This is an attempt to ensure an improved life of a worker in organization SNV, Kingdom of Netherland and every aspect work, social & personal life while increasing SQUARE Toiletries Limited, we are running a productivity for the factories. The beneficiary RMG industries project ‘Go Bangladesh’ for RMG industry are also enjoying the real term business benefit by ensuring workers. Under this project, workers got basic good SRHR practice among their female colleagues. An Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR) education. In 2017, we covered 3 awareness telefilm is also developed and showcased under factories with approximate 5800 beneficiaries. this project. Page 8 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. provides health &  This campaign educates them about menstruation facts and hygiene information for adolescent girls under the brand “Senora” & “Femina”. This is a free made them ready for a healthier future. It also introduced campaign in association with “Campaign for our products to them. Popular Education (CAMPE)” that creates awareness among High School girls. Female garment workers are also covered under the campaign. Our comprehensive flagship program for school girls, their parents & teachers is named as Senora School Activation under which we covered approximate 76,000 school girls in 2017. And we covered approximate 65,000 households of Savar, Gazipur, Ashulia (Dwelling areas of RMG workers) with Femina brand.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has introduced a  This initiative provided a great opportunity for pool pool table & gymnasium in our residential enthusiast and for those who want to maintain a good facility as the recreational facilities for our health. Regular physical activity is one of the best things a employees living in our residential building at our Kaliakoir plant. person can do for his/her health that significantly lowers the risk of multiple health diseases, increase stamina, reduce Human Rights stress and improve physical & mental health. (UNGC Principles  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  Mothers are benefitted with adequate knowledge about 1-2) Ltd.) takes initiatives to make life better for Bangladeshi mothers by informing them of breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy breastfeeding benefits and by helping them future. guide their babies to a healthy future. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also disseminates vaccination information for Polio elimination from Bangladesh. 3.7 million mothers were benefitted under this program. SQUARE also arranged breast feeding & a diaper changing room at International Trade Fairs and Bus station & Rail station of Dhaka and helped at least 50 thousand mothers with infants over last 3 years. Page 9 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. along with ‘Save the  Mothers took advice for their babies’ health problems Children and ‘Bill & Melinda Gates foundation’ initiated a 24/7 helpline system for young through this helpline. mothers named ‘Supermom’. More than 1.5 Lac mothers took advice through this helpline in 2017.  Maasranga Television (a sister concern of  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass SQUARE Group) broadcasts live “SQUARE population. Valuable information and advice on various Hospital Doctor’s Chamber” every Friday. This is a program where Doctors and senior important topics related to diseases & treatment are consultants communicate directly with patients provided through the program. over the telephone, providing valuable information and advice on various important topics related to diseases & treatment. In 2017, some important topics were Chronic Kidney Diseases, Newborn baby's breathing problem, World cancer day & modern treatment, Hypertension, Child fever & febrile seizure, Infertility treatment in Bangladesh, Tobacco related cancer etc. Human Rights  Maasranga Television also on airs some TVC  These TVCs creates awareness among mass people. (UNGC Principles regularly to make awareness among people. For example, Careless Driving, Food Poisoning, 1-2) How to behave with domestic workers, Road Cleanliness, Traffic Awareness, Sexual Harassment in Workplace.  Bangladesh has one of the highest rates of child  The situation has started to change. Slowly but gradually marriage in the world. This survey shows that in some Girls & their Mothers /Relatives are letting the girls Bangladesh, 64% of women currently aged 20– read/ go to school instead of pushing them to get married 24 were married before the age of 18. So, early. Some of them really showed above average maturity SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. created awareness to to stop child marriage. stop child marriage among the parents by informing them about the negative impact of early marriage and help girls to go forward through Press, Digital Communication, TVC and School Activation. Page 10 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. has been a part of  Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) declined by 66% over the postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) reduction past 10 years; the Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) in intervention of ICDDRB. Bangladesh is now 170 per 100,000.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also took a stand against  This initiative creates awareness among the mass population a very common phenomena which is domestic against domestic violence of the women violence where many women are getting tortured and living a life of despair. 80% women in Bangladesh suffer from some sort of violence in her life. In many cases, hair is an important weapon used to torture them. Jui – the shining hair care brand of SQUARE, stands and promotes the uncompromising spirit of women. From Jui we’ve developed a campaign communicating girls not to remain silent and step forward. They can use our helpline number for assistance & psychological counseling.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. started 'Hashun  This campaign educates them about the reasons behind lip, Pran Khule' campaign in last December’17 cleft and palates while pregnancy and its treatment. Also as the joint initiative of Merill Lip Care and free treatment helps the poor patients for a healthier future. Smile Train USA to create awareness among the common people regarding the reasons behind lip cleft and palates while pregnancy and its treatment. Under this campaign, free lip or palate treatment is being provided through specialist doctors. Meril Lip Care’s helpline is providing detailed information about the child with this problem. Page 11 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  “Meril Splash” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  There are a limited number of psychiatrists against a huge Ltd.) engaged Dr. Mehtab Khanom, an eminent number of patients (10 million). As a result, everyone does educationist and an activist in the field of not get easy access to this few psychiatrists. Through this initiative, SQUARE made it easier for people to receive psycho-social counseling for psychological psycho-social counseling. counseling through Supermom number & website regarding various complexities and problems related to health and psychology of babies that parents face during rearing them. She and her associates’ advice not only about baby’s mental health, but also about mental health of elders.  SQUARE Toiletries provide free blood pressure  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass check-up & 7 Lac Zerocal sachets (free) to the population. morning walkers in the last couple of years.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. took initiative to  This program is helping children to make a habit of washing educate children about germ cleaning of hands their hands when they are exposed to dirt and germs. through “Hand Sanitization Program” in different schools. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also placed Sepnil Hand Sanitizer & Sepnil Hand Wash for free in the washroom of around 23 premises of 12 schools in Dhaka city.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged a competition  This program is helping children to be socialized and for children from age 0 to 5 named “Supermom make a habit of physical sports rather than engaging Baby Olympiad”. In 2017, More than 1500 with computer and mobile games. participants played 6 different games and for each game 3 kids were winner.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. and Dhaka University jointly started a 3 year fellowship program  This fellowship program is very much helpful & named “CGS (Center for Genocide Studies) encouraging for the meritorious students. SQUARE Fellowship 2015-2017”. This fellowship is provided to the meritorious students who studied genocide studies. From 2015-17, total 18 students were entitled for this fellowship. Page 12 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged Folk Fest &  These festivals encourage the teenage girls & boys to listen Bengal Music Festival. “Magic”oral care brand, and practice classical as well as folk music so they can have SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also arranged Folk the essence of the richness of our traditional culture. Competition (a talent hunt program) called “Magic Bawliana”. Through “Magic Bawliana”program the hidden talents of folk music got the limelight.  SQUARE Food & Beverage arranged an award program to celebrate International Women’s  This award is provided to those women who achieve Day. In 2017, 3 women got “Radhuni Kirtimoti success in their relevant field. It’s the recognition to Shommanona 2017”. The award is given under show respect to their work & achievements. the areas of journalism, entrepreneurship & social welfare.  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has launched” SQUARE Child Development Center” with the  This initiative helps the child having Neuro aim of working for those children who have Development Disorder to get better treatment for Neuro Development Disorder. In the leading a healthy life. preliminary stage the children having autism, epilepsy, speaking problem etc will be under supervision of pediatric Consultant and gradually there will be dedicated CDC doctors, Developmental Therapist, Child Psychologists, Speech & Vision Therapist and Child Counselor will be taking care of the children. Page 13 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results Labor Standards  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  The door to negotiation with management is open as a result We respect the right of Workers’ Trade Union named “SQUARE of this Trade Union. Various concerns of the workers are Businesses workers to join an Kormochari Samity” (Registration No: 1322). There addressed. association and engage in are around 1553 members of the Trade Union. should uphold the freedom of constructive dialogue with  Continuation of Gratuity policy, Provident Fund  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee association, the the workers’ (PF) has been in our practice for the benefit of the satisfaction. effective representatives. We employees as per the labor law. recognition of follow ethical practices the right to and labor standards at the  Detail medical check-up and reference verification  This initiative helps to eliminate the risks of hiring child collective workplace. At SQUARE, is done as a part of recruitment & selection labor. bargaining, the we do not have any child process to ensure no child is employed. elimination of labor and forced/bonded all forms of labor engagement policy.  The competency based hiring system is carried  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or We also provide safe out. Employees are selected based on their skills religion at the time of recruitment & selection is eliminated. forced and working conditions for all. and competence. Last year a total of 556 compulsory We appreciate the employees were hired under the system. labor, the individuality of our effective  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the program  All unionized employees can take a loan to purchase workers and treat them abolition of “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under which all necessary home appliances to improve their standard of fairly, equally and child labor and unionized employees can take a loan to purchase living. respectfully regardless of the elimination necessary home appliances with a small service personal characteristics of charge. In 2017, a total of 474 employees were such as nationality, discrimination gender, age, ethnicity, benefitted by this scheme. in respect of religion, or disability.  We don’t allow any female employees during night  This ensures security as well as work-life balance of the employment and shift operations. female employees and compliance with the law. occupation.  Female employees are enjoying maternity benefits  This initiative provides the female colleagues proper job (UNGC Principles as per the Bangladesh Labor Law. Total 24 female security while enjoying Maternity Benefit and also can take 3-6) employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. good care of the newly born babies. enjoyed this benefit in 2017.  All employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. are  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee covered under mandatory Group Life Insurance. In satisfaction and job security. 2017, total 7390 employees were covered under this benefit. Page 14 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. strictly maintains  This initiative helps the employees to maintain workthe labor law in terms of working hour & over life balance. time.  Disbursement of salary & wages of the employees  This practice helps the employees to lead a tension has been done on the first day of the month. free family life.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. allows festival leave, sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for the  The policy has been implemented as per the recent Labor Standards employees. amendment in the Labor Law. (UNGC Principles  Factory employees get free medical, medicine & 3-6) ambulance facilities for sudden sickness in the  This ensures primary medical help to the employees in case workplace & also maintain regular health check-up of emergency & regular health check-up helps the through the medical center by dedicated plant employees to lead a healthy life. physicians for the betterment of the employees.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing profit sharing through WPPF (Workers’ Profit  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship. Participation Fund) which is a direct payment & The plan is an additional earning for employees as it is paid equally distributed to the employees depending on in addition to salary and bonuses. the company's profit. In 2017, total 7390 employees got the WPPF.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established “Safety  “Safety Committee” helps to maintain proper safety of Committee” & “Participation Committee” in which employees and “Participation Committee” helps to develop the number and responsibilities of Owner & sense of belonging & commitment between workers and Worker Representatives are equal. employer, improve productivity, and jointly solve any critical issues by taking ownership.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides day care & Breast  Employees are satisfied and give proper concentration at feeding center facilities to the children of female work, as they feel tension-free about the proper care of their workers. There are 3 babysitters taking care of 20 children. children from 8 am to 5 pm. There is a breast feeding center, where near about 20 female workers are availing this facility right now. Page 15 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in our  Our stakeholders are satisfied and there are no formal Environment We strive to be a leader in manufacturing plants. Treated purified water complaints regarding the environment. ETP’s treated water all aspects of through ETP is used to maintain Green belt around is re-used for gardening & car washing purpose. It is reducing Businesses environmental protection plants. SQUARE’s Environmental license has been the use of underground water consumption. should support and systematically identify updated on a continuous basis. Chemical Oxygen a precautionary and manage Demand (COD) of our 02 ETP’s are 77 mg/L and 66 approach to environmental risks in our mg/L. (International Standard for COD has to be environmental activities and over the less than 400 mg/L for the efficacy of ETP). challenges and entire value chain of our products and services. We  We use incinerators for disposing solid wastes to  Incinerator protects the environment from pollution and the undertake make efficient use of protect the environment from pollution. The cooling of exhaust temperature prevents the atmosphere initiatives to natural resources and exhaust temperature is cooled down to 200 deg C from warming. promote greater minimize the from 1100 deg C during operation using a cyclonic environmental environmental impact of water scrubber. In 2017, a total of 61144 kilograms responsibility. our activities and products waste was disposed through incinerator. Businesses  Soil erosion is prevented. should also over their life cycle.  The successful establishment of large greeneries encourage the around SQUARE premises has been accomplished. Increases aesthetics around the compounds. development Landscaping & rooftop garden have been Helps to protect from global warming. and diffusion of developed on different floors, levels and also in environmentally different units. More than 165,000 sft areas have  It Increases aesthetics around the compounds & also friendly been developed & about 1, 64,000 sft areas are maintain diversity among and within plant and animal technologies. under development. More than 8000 plants of species in the environment. different types have been planted all over the (UNGC Principles premises. A garden with some rare medicinal 7-9) species has been planted in order to have more variety inside the premises. Nearly 3000 species have been planted in that area.  In the office areas, canteen, café & reception  This ensures daylight in those areas. areaslarge glass wall panels have been placed Page 16 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  An artificial lake has been developed for storing  It will be used as a reservoir of fire water and also to increase surface water. Establishment of this lake has some the aesthetic beauty of the plant. It plays a vital role of other benefits also. Such asdiversity. Allocated 1, 00,000 sft area for reservation of  Servers as a reservoir of fire water natural water will help to keep biodiversity at plant  Enhance the aesthetic beauty of the plant premises.  Plays a vital role of diversity.  Energy saving & motion sensors for lights have  Reduced the power consumption and saves energy. been introduced in big corridors of the building & other places where there is less personnel movement. As on 2017, total 9500 numbers of Environment energy saving lights & 2300 numbers of motion (UNGC Principles sensor lights has been placed. 7-9)  All exhausts from the production buildings during  No environmental pollution is being taken place from the the production process are HEPA (high-efficiency production process since all airborne particles are arrested in particulate air) filtered and water scrubber HEPA (High-Efficiency Particulate Air) filter & in water controlled. scrubber.  All generator & boiler exhausts are made as per  Environmental friendly practices ensure the protection of standard height. Exhaust is being released at a environment. high level (24 m) from ground level.  In recognition of outstanding achievement in keeping healthy environment and protecting environment from pollution SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has been awarded “National Environment Award-2017”. In addition, the “President Award” from Ministry Of Environment was also awarded as the recognition of our continuous efforts.  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd. (a sister concern of  Sabazpur Tea Company Ltd. has been received Organic SQUARE Group), we use organic fertilizer to Certificate (EU & NOP) from Lacon GmbH Germany in 2017. produce tea. The tea garden uses natural pest & This is the first time green tea (along with black tea) has controls weed manually. It uses only renewable been incorporated & certified as well in the certification. resources and maintains the soil’s fertility. Our  Environmentally friendly practices ensure protection of garden established 6 toilets (Men & Women) in wildlife and maintenance of biodiversity. Soil fertility is the garden field. Labor quarter has 210 toilets and increased. Use of the toilets is ensuring the proper sanitation it accommodates 1020 garden workers. & hygiene of the garden workers as well as protecting the environment from being polluted. Page 17 of 18 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SAP ERP Systems integrate the core business  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. Anti-Corruption At SQUARE, we do not functions/processes  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation tolerate any forms of Businesses bribery and corruption. and fraud.  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” against all should work Our employee code of  Operations of the company run effectively and efficiently. kinds of corruption & we have an “Internal Audit” against conduct describes various department which specifically deals with this issue.  The cost of the company is optimized. corruption in all policies and practices The head of “Internal Audit” directly report to the its forms, regarding appropriate  Built awareness among newly joined employees. Managing Director to ensure better control. including conduct that are aimed to promote acceptable  Fair and legal transactions are processed end-to-end and extortion and  Regular external and regulatory audits (both local standards of the business data inconsistencies are eliminated. bribery & foreign) are conducted in SQUARE. and provides the  Every transaction is monitored. (UNGC employees a professional  All newly joined employees went through an  In recognition of corporate transparency & accountability, Principle 10) work environment. We orientation program on business ethics & antiSQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. got the “National Corporate observe the highest corruption. Governance Excellence Award” in 2017 from ICSB (Institute standards of of Chartered Secretaries of Bangladesh). professionalism in daily business activities. Page 18 of 18
