CSR REPORT 2017 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 a and 99 b Radiometer CSR Report 2017 2 I 30 Contents 1. Introduction ...................................................................................................................4 • President’s Statement ..................................................................................................................................................... 5 • Company Profile..............................................................................................................................................................6 • Improving Global Health Care..........................................................................................................................................8 • Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility.........................................................................................................9 2. Business Conduct...................................................................................................... 10 3. People........................................................................................................................... 14 4. Environment, Energy and Climate.........................................................................20 5. The Fight Against Sepsis.........................................................................................22 6. Expanding Global Access to Health Care.............................................................24 7. How HemoCue Improves Global Health Care......................................................26 8. Supporting Our Communities.................................................................................28 Scope of report This Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report is the Communication on Progress (COP) of Radiometer under the United Nations Global Compact initiative. This report gives the information and data on CSR activities of the Radiometer Group. Third parties, such as distributors, are not included in the reporting, except in relation to our Standards of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy which apply to our distribution channels. This CSR report also covers the statutory reporting on Corporate Social Responsibility and the gender composition of management as prescribed by section 99 a and 99 b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report covers the twelve-month period ending 31 December 2017. With this progress report, we would like to express Radiometer’s continued support to the UN Global Compact initiatives, the ten fundamental principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 3 I 30 1. Introduction Radiometer CSR Report 2017 4 I 30 President’s Statement At Radiometer, continuous improvement is at the heart of However, CSR is more than compliance to us. As a company our business. Through our mission to help caregivers make committed to continuous improvement, we want to take an diagnostic decisions that save lives, we work passionately to increasingly strategic approach to corporate responsibility make a difference for our customers and to contribute to and sustainability. That is why we have taken the first steps the improvement of global healthcare. towards defining which CSR issues are the most important to us as a company, as an employer and as part of the We have been committed to the United Nations Global health care sector and society. In 2018, we will be carrying Compact since 2010 and developed our CSR policy rooted out a cross-organizational materiality assessment to lay the in the ten principles for human rights, labor, environment groundwork for consolidated CSR goals, strategies and plans and anti-corruption. We run our business with integrity and for the future. This way, we are confident that all the good respect for the environment and the communities in which things already taking place across the organization, as well we operate and we have a long history of supporting our as future initiatives, will have the greatest possible impact. local communities. On behalf of the management team, Along the lines of our CSR policy, we expect our associates and business partners to conduct business in an ethical Henrik Schimmell manner and in full compliance with applicable laws, President, Radiometer operating policies and procedures as well as our Standards of Conduct. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 5 I 30 1. Introduction Company Profile Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Copenhagen, intensive care units, emergency departments and operating Denmark, Radiometer Medical is a pioneer in blood gas rooms. testing, introducing the world’s first commercially available blood gas analyzer in 1954. Since 2004, Radiometer has been part of the Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) diagnostics platform, which offers Today, Radiometer develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of analyzers, consumables and software used solutions for blood sampling, blood gas analysis, transcuin the diagnosis of disease and to aid treatment decisions taneous monitoring, immunoassay testing and related IT at pathology labs, hospitals and other critical care units. management systems under the PICO, CLINITUBES, ABL, Radiometer has approximately 3,700 associates worldwide TCM, AQT, AQURE and QUALICHECK brand names. and is directly represented in 32 countries. We also have more than 100 distributors globally and production and With a leading position within blood gas analysis, R&D companies in Denmark, the United States, Switzerland, Radiometer is dedicated to improving global healthcare Finland, Poland, Sweden and India. by ensuring reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses at hospitals, clinics and laboratories in over 130 countries. Our solutions help caregivers make life-saving diagnostic decisions by accurately offering information on the most critical parameters in acute care testing, in settings such as: Radiometer CSR Report 2017 6 I 30 Radiometer CSR Report 2017 7 I 30 1. Introduction Improving Global Health Care Every year, millions of lives are touched by the information OUR VISION our solutions provide, and this is why we strive to be our very best every day. Building on the value of continuous improvement and an ambition to meet customer needs, our vision is to improve global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient OUR MISSION diagnoses. At Radiometer, our mission is to help caregivers make This is who we are and the essence of why we come to diagnostic decisions that save lives. work every day. To provide caregivers with the insight and confidence that Only by understanding the needs of caregivers can we help them arrive at the right diagnostic decisions, which develop the right products and solutions to fulfill our vision help save lives. of improving global health care. The more critical the setting, the greater the requirement and that is why we It is a matter of pride and humility for us that the strive to provide solutions that are reliable, fast and easy to information our solutions provide are often the difference understand and use. between life and death. And this is what drives and unites us as a company. We are blessed with ambitious and innovative colleagues that continually work hard to meet the needs and even surpass the expectations of our customers by bringing new and innovative life-saving ideas to the market. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 8 I 30 Our Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Our commitment to CSR, compliance and continuous Standards of Conduct improvement is grounded in our CSR Policy and Standards of Conduct. Each of these elements is essential to our Our Standards of Conduct is the cornerstone of our approach to conduct business in a responsible and fair compliance culture and applies to all associates at all manner. Danaher operating companies worldwide. We expect our agents, distributors, representatives, independent Our CSR Policy contractors, consultants, suppliers, business partners and others who support our business to comply with Our approach to corporate social responsibility is based on our Standards of Conduct. They provide a framework our responsibility to conduct business with respect for the for our associates within which to develop and nurture a triple bottom line: people, planet, and economy. We are compliance culture that guides and assists them in making committed to ensuring responsible and ethical business fair and honest decisions. processes throughout our organization and our activities. Since 2010, we have actively supported the UN Global Compact initiative and its focus on the key principles of environment, anti-corruption, human rights and labor rights. In practice, our commitment means that we work to identify, prevent and mitigate adverse impacts on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We communicate transparently about how we manage this work on an annual basis, about our progress, challenges and goals. Our annual report is a tool of evaluating our progress. We will work actively to manage potential and actual adverse impacts, which we cause or contribute to, or to which we are directly linked through our business relationships. Read our full CSR policy on Radiometer.com. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 9 I 30 2. Business Conduct Radiometer CSR Report 2017 10 I 30 Business Conduct Anti-corruption and Integrity Integrity and Compliance Training Radiometer is committed to do business with integrity. In addition to our Standards of Conduct and in order to support our associates in making the right choices, We are known and respected for dealing honestly and Radiometer and Danaher have developed a number of fairly with our investors, channel partners, customers and detailed compliance policies, which our associates must competitors. We see our Standards of Conduct not only as follow. The policies regulate our relationship with business a document that provides clear guidance to our employees, partners, government officials and health care professionals, but also a document that describes who we are as a and are supported by a mandatory Integrity and Compliance company and what we stand for. Our Standards of Conduct training program. is a playbook for our management and leadership. In 2017, 94% of Radiometer’s associates went through As Radiometer is owned by a US-listed entity, we place the online training program. Failure to complete the online significant focus on implementing measures against compliance training program has a direct effect on the corruption in order to avoid Foreign Corrupt Practices Act individual’s performance appraisal. Furthermore, compliance violations, which include maintaining and continuously training is also provided throughout the year via tailored, improving a global compliance program. in-depth, face-to-face training of specific associate groups such as management, newcomers, and sales and marketing Our compliance program includes three main elements: associates. 1. PREVENT: As part of preventing misconduct, we ensure our leaders across the organization are committed drivers of an ethical culture. We perform quarterly risk assessment meetings. Additionally, we provide e-learning and face-to-face training to help build an ethical corporate culture and leadership with a high level of integrity. 2. DETECT: We support an open, honest and transparent work environment, where everyone should feel comfortable speaking up if they observe misconduct. Our “Speak Up!” program plays an important role in the detection of misconduct. We believe every associate has the right and the obligation to use this vehicle. It is also key to highlight that Radiometer has a zero-tolerance policy against those who retaliate against any associate using the Speak Up! channel. 3. RESPOND: All reported cases of possible misconduct are investigated thoroughly and swiftly. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 11 I 30 2. Business Conduct Speak Up! Transparency and Interaction with Health Care Professionals At Radiometer, we value an open and honest working environment where associates know that any compliance As a medical devices manufacturer, Radiometer collaborates concerns will be dealt with in a fair and transparent with health care professionals across the globe. Health care manner without fear of retaliation. Our Speak Up! organizations receive promotional material from Radiometer, program is a reporting mechanism, which allows associates and can submit requests for educational grants, research (anonymously, if preferred) to raise their concerns via a grants, donations and sponsorships. While the collaboration dedicated telephone line or via our company intranet. All is an important aspect of making safe, innovative and concerns raised are tracked and investigated in a thorough reliable technology and services available to more patients, and respectful way. it is also important to us that the collaboration is done in a transparent way. In 2017, a total of 37 concerns were raised, which exceeded our target of having 1 report per 200 employees. Following All promotional material must encourage the intended use investigation, 12 were validated, and corrective actions of Radiometer’s products and present them objectively and were taken including dismissal of associates. Several of the without exaggerating their properties. All claims must be non-validated cases also included actions to be taken in substantiated. All interaction with health care organizations order to support a culture of integrity and general training. and professionals must respect the medical profession’s ability to make independent decisions regarding treatment With 37 concerns raised, 2017 marked yet another year of of patients. Moreover, under no circumstances can there be increased reported cases through the Speak Up! Program. any interaction with the purpose to influence the profession We believe this is a consequence of more invested resources through undue or improper advantages given to be in training and increasing awareness of the need to report contingent upon sales transactions, or use of Radiometer’s misconduct. With the spirit of continuous improvement, products. Radiometer has set the ambitious target of 1 report per 100 employees for 2018, which also reflects the medical device Radiometer tracks and reports all collaborations in industry benchmark. accordance with existing global disclosure requirements. As reporting requirements increase worldwide, so does Radiometer’s focus in this area, and we continue to work to enhance our reporting procedures. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 12 I 30 Responsible Procurement The Future Radiometer’s continued growth requires a solid and The priorities for 2018 will be on: responsible supplier base. We strive to address responsible procurement throughout our value chain and we expect our 1. Interaction with health care organizations and suppliers to do the same. Partnering with Radiometer is an professionals opportunity to compete in a dynamic global environment. 2. Transparency We award our business to the suppliers who deliver the best 3. Due Diligence of our distributors quality, value and service responsibly. Constantly looking at how we interact with health care Radiometer’s commitment to Responsible Procurement is set organizations and professionals will ensure an improved out in the Danaher Supplier Code of Conduct. We expect process to respect rules relating to payments reflecting fair our suppliers to understand and comply with the Supplier market value and safeguarding the independence of the Code of Conduct when doing business with us. The Code medical profession. Implementing a new software system to reflects our commitment towards our suppliers to comply support the transparency when transferring value to health with all applicable laws and regulations within Anti-corcare organizations and professionals will ensure that all local ruption, Labor and Employment, and Environmental Health laws are respected and disclosure deadlines are met within and Safety. each country in which Radiometer operates. The Suppliers must be committed to the highest standards An in-depth review of our due diligence process of channel of integrity in conducting their businesses. The integration partners has resulted in improvements to be implemented of responsible procurement is done through Radiometer’s throughout 2018 to ensure that Radiometer performs a high Supply Base Management process. The approval and level of due diligence and training of its channel partners. evaluation of our suppliers includes assessments of social and environmental performance. Finally, our Speak Up! program will continue to be promoted internally to ensure Radiometer meets its new ambitious target for total number of reports and to improve the number of reported concerns in specific regions. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 13 I 30 3. People Radiometer CSR Report 2017 14 I 30 People For our CSR focus, the most significant indexes are: Engaged Associates “performance enablement index,” “diversity and inclusion,” and “safety”. The “Performance enablement index” is At Radiometer, we believe that a winning team is a team about our level of service to Radiometer’s customers, the where all members are fully engaged. Every year, we conduct quality of our products, and having the right tools to do an engagement survey in which we invite all Radiometer our jobs. The “Diversity and Inclusion” index is about associates to share their voice and evaluate their experience associates’ perception on Radiometer’s efforts to enhance working at Radiometer. At the heart of this effort is our vian environment and culture where people are accepted sion of building a winning team of fully engaged associates. and treated with respect regardless of age, race, gender, In order to achieve this we need to listen and respond to the lifestyle, physical capabilities, sexual orientation, etc. The feedback of the associates. To us, engagement is all about “Safety” index is about safety as an incorporated factor at passion, commitment and responsibility in driving the success Radiometer, when it comes to safety-related training and of Radiometer, and we want to ensure that our associates conducting our business in a safe manner have the right tools, resources, training and development opportunities to succeed and grow. We strive to be among the Top 25% highest scoring companies within Danaher, and with all dimensions at or The engagement survey provides our associates with a above 2016 level, the results motivate us to continue our platform for confidential feedback to help identify and journey towards making Radiometer an even better place to shape areas of improvement. Based on the results of the work. yearly survey, action plans are developed at the leadership, group, and individual levels in order to cooperate on improvements in all areas of the business. We believe that the best results are reached through collective action. In 2017, 91% of our associates made their voices heard and invested time in making Radiometer a better place to work. We saw an increase in our overall engagement score moving from 69% to 70%, and 10 of the 15 dimensions we measure have increased while 5 stayed at 2016 level. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 15 I 30 3. People En ga ge m Di re ct en tI nd ex Pe rfo Su pe rv iso Be rm an ce rE ffe ct ive ha vio ur En a bl e m en ne ss Co m m ch an ge I nd tI nd ex Co m un ica tio n e x Da pl ia nc e na he rB us Di ve rs ity an in es sS ys Fu tu re d I nclu te m (D BS G ro vis io n s i on ) In w th an d De no va tio n ve lo pm en Invo lve t Re co gn m en ta nd Be Trus Sa fe ty iti on long in g t 2017 70% 72% 73% 71% 73% 73% 83% 80% 69% 68% 71% 77% 77% 87% 77% 2016 69% 72% 71% 70% 72% 72% 83% 80% 69% 67% 70% 76% 75% 86% 77% 2015 66% 69% 71% 69% 70% 67% 80% --65% -75% 75% 85% 76% IBM Global Danaher 65% 71% 67% 67% 67% 71% 77% 79% 64% 66% 69% 72% 71% 87% 72% Norm Overall 71% 70% 71% 62% 67% --78% -67% 67% 73% 64% 82% 73% Diversity & Inclusion workforce, and throughout the markets we serve. Inclusion creates a work environment that is open-minded and respectful without judgement. We are committed to create and sustain inclusive practices and having a bias-free culture. We believe that diversity is As emphasized in our personnel policy, the working climate important to us, as members of society, and to our business, at Radiometer is based on mutual respect. All associates as it creates a competitive advantage in the markets we serve. – regardless of nationality, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic background, etc. – must have the same By maintaining a culture with inclusive norms and values, we opportunities for employment, training and promotion. create an environment that supports innovation, increases our growth, and ensures that our technologies and products Furthermore, our Performance-for-Growth process reflects serve a global customer base. We are sure that having a our continuing commitment and obligation to ensure diverse and inclusive workforce is a driver for continuing the that all the associates have equal opportunities. An open, progress and success on all indexes. It strengthens us and continuous dialogue between managers and associates ensures that we fulfill our mantra of ‘Best Team Wins’. supports candid and timely feedback on performance and progress. Diversity enables us to recognize the existence of similarities and differences, both seen and unseen, within our Radiometer CSR Report 2017 16 I 30 We acknowledge that discrimination is a general human According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, section rights issue, which is why we have zero tolerance for 99b, Radiometer defines “other management levels” discrimination in our Equal Treatment Policy. Any conduct as all positions at or above manager level. With women that violates human dignity in the workplace, or conduct representing 32.9 % of the management level, we have that violates current legislation on equality and discrimiincreased the percentage of female representation in nation, will not be tolerated. management roles with 4.5 points and are continuing towards getting equal representation of men and women in Gender Diversity and Women in the management. Management For our top management, which includes our President and Vice Presidents, women make up 45% in 2017, which is a To further strengthen our commitment to Diversity and decrease from 2016. The Board of Directors, not including Inclusion, we have formulated a three-year strategy that employee-elected members, consists of 5 members. Women will help us increase gender diversity in Radiometer and make up 40% and men 60%. strengthen our leadership pipelines with diverse talent. Furthermore, we have joined the Danish Diversity Council in order to collaborate with other Danish organizations who face diversity-related challenges to share best practices and combat this issue collectively. At Radiometer, we continuously invest in the growth and development of our people and take meaningful action in the process of building a culture of diversity and inclusion. We believe that we build the best team by developing leaders at all levels of our organization, recognizing outstanding performance and shaping our culture to meet the needs of our customers. We seek out a wide range of unique experiences, perspectives and talents, ensuring that diverse voices and viewpoints are heard and celebrated. 45 % women in 32.9 % Top female Management managers Radiometer CSR Report 2017 17 I 30 3. People Work-life Balance Health Insurance In 2016, Radiometer formulated a work-life balance policy We are continually concerned with improving our processes as part of our Personnel Policy covering the Danish organiand procedures in order to prevent any negative impact zation: to our associates. However, we find it essential to have measures in place to manage cases where prevention has “We want capable, well-motivated associates. We can not been successful. These cases covered both the physical achieve this by creating conditions that make it possible for and psychological working environment. For that reason, the individual employee to create a natural relationship and Radiometer has introduced a mandatory, company-paid balance between work, family life and leisure. Radiometer health insurance that gives our associates located in wants to enable associates to tailor their working lives to Denmark access to a range of treatment alternatives both strike a good balance with family life and leisure time. While targeting physical and psychological issues. taking the company’s needs, collective agreements and legislation into due consideration, we take a positive view As part of our health insurance policy in Denmark, we also of requests for flexible working hours, leave of absence for have a ‘Stress-Free’-program aimed at ensuring that early family, educational or political activity, reduced working stage stress does not develop into anxiety, depression or hours, etc.” physical ailments like cardiovascular disease. Radiometer encourages all associates to contact the Stress-Free line Moreover, Radiometer wants to improve and maintain if they or one of their colleagues are showing symptoms a stimulating, open and safe working environment that of stress to make sure that they or the person in question promotes the health and wellbeing of all associates and gets help as fast as possible. The Stress-Free line also to ensure that associates in need are offered help on an embraces family, providing associates with a safe place to individual basis. We also want to create an environment receive advice and guidance if a family member is showing where it is natural to talk about personal wellbeing and symptoms of stress. Guidelines and a list of early symptoms where individual team members have an appreciative and are available for all associates on the company intranet. respectful approach to each other. In the countries where Radiometer operates, besides All associates in Radiometer have a responsibility to create, Denmark and the US, we are working towards maintain and develop a safe, healthy and open working implementing a work-life policy, a health insurance policy environment, but managers have a special responsibility to and a “Stress-Free” program, which are in line with the do so and are empowered to take action if needed. national legislations and the culture of these countries. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 18 I 30 Health & Safety Performance our culture and performance. We use DBS to guide what we do, measure how well we execute, and drive a continuous cycle of improvement. Radiometer is committed to provide a healthy and safe working environment and continuously improve the health At Radiometer, we have a special focus on DBS and and safety performance of the company. An important KPI advancing our associates’ competencies within DBS through is the Days Away From Work Rate (Lost Day Rate), which the Radiometer DBS Academy. illustrates how many days associates have been off work annually due to work related illnesses or injuries per 100 The cornerstone of the academy is the Advanced Lean Full-time Employee. By the end of 2017, Radiometer had a Education (ALE), a formal training program on the Lost Day Rate of 18.12. A focal point for Radiometer’s health fundamental tools of the Danaher Business System. and safety work is to reduce the lost day rate and various Supporting our belief that the success of our associates is initiatives have been implemented in order to achieve this. key to the company’s success, ALE creates job satisfaction and results at Radiometer and has proven to be a key In 2017, a global program for reporting and addressing driver for continuous improvement and development at environmental, health and safety observations, such as acts Radiometer. Radiometer encourages associates at all levels or conditions that may result in an accident, was launched to attend the DBS Academy, which offers the possibility to and this will be developed further in 2018. develop their personal and professional skills. The academy An internal EHS auditing program covering the Radiometer concept has been successfully exported in 2017 from production sites was implemented in 2017 and this program its origin in Copenhagen to our sites in Finland, Poland, will continue in 2018. Sweden, USA and India. The DBS Academy In total 400 associates have graduated from the program. We expect an additional 450 to graduate in 2018. The Danaher Business System (DBS) is our proven system for achieving success at Radiometer. It drives every aspect of Radiometer CSR Report 2017 19 I 30 4. Environment, Energy and Climate Radiometer CSR Report 2017 20 I 30 Environment, Energy and Climate Environmental Performance Energy and Waste Toolkits Radiometer is committed to continuously improve the A new set of DBS tools has been designed to improve environmental performance of the company. The significant environmental performance and lower costs for the facilities environmental aspects for Radiometer include: across Danaher. The most important aspect of these toolkits is that they are designed to be used by any facility personnel • Use of energy – there is no specialized EHS knowledge required. • Generation of waste • Use of hazardous chemicals and substances • The Energy Toolkit has been designed to: o Help facilities improve energy efficiency, which In 2017, Radiometer used 22626 MWh of energy at yields both cost savings and lower greenhouse production sites globally and generated a total of 1004 tons gas emissions of waste. More than 95% of the non-hazardous waste was o Be self-paced and help users identify and prioritize sent for recycling or disposal with energy recovery. where to focus o Be flexible and help users identify opportunities and goals o Provide simple means for tracking energy performance over time and chart progress toward goals • The Waste Toolkit has been designed to: o Provide both qualitative and quantitative tools to help facilities prioritize waste and recycling efforts o Allow customized quantitative tracking for a facility’s specific needs o Provide resources for recycling programs o Provide resources for team building and stakeholder involvement Radiometer CSR Report 2017 21 I 30 5. The Fight Against Sepsis Radiometer CSR Report 2017 22 I 30 The Fight Against Sepsis We continue our commitment to the fight against the potentially life-threatening medical condition, sepsis. Radiometer has donated $10,000 USD, partly raised by our associates, to the Global Sepsis Alliance. The donation is part of our continued commitment to improve global health care and to help save lives – the essence of our mission and vision. Throughout September, we helped raise awareness of sepsis with a month-long internal and external awareness campaign. As part of this campaign, we sponsored this year’s World Sepsis Day, a global initiative by the Global Sepsis Alliance. World Sepsis Day is held on September 13 every year and is an opportunity for people worldwide to unite in the fight against sepsis. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 23 I 17 6. Expanding Global Access to Health Care Radiometer CSR Report 2017 24 I 30 Expanding Global Access to Health Care In 2017, we continued our ‘Access to Health Care’ program that makes used analyzers available to developing markets that could otherwise not accommodate our offering. We rebuilt 359 instruments that were returned by customers globally and supplied to emerging markets from Latin America to Asia. Through this program, Radiometer is finding new ways to take advantage of our resources to further improve the treatment of patients in less privileged parts of the world. To ensure quality, all analyzers go through standard procedures before they reach the end user. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 25 I 30 7. How HemoCue Improves Global Health Care Radiometer CSR Report 2017 26 I 30 How HemoCue Improves Global Health Care An important member of Radiometer Group, HemoCue The project was launched together with UNICEF, the global develops, produces and markets medical diagnostic products advocate for the protection of children’s rights, and the for point-of-care testing. The fundamental concept behind Minister of Health in Malawi, in collaboration with the the HemoCue products is to perform important common Swedish drone supplier GLOBHE. blood and urine tests that offer lab quality results at the point of care without sacrificing the accuracy and precision offered by a central clinical lab. HealthTrender Today, there are numerous programs to fight anemia in Global Call to Action: Fight developing countries. Many of the programs are executed by village clinics, health care centers and NGOs in rural areas against Anemia under harsh conditions with limited access to electricity and pure water combined with poor infrastructure. Under these Anemia is one of the most serious challenges that global conditions it becomes virtually impossible to collect data, to public health is facing, and HemoCue has joined the fight review, act or evaluate the programs in a timely and effective against anemia to help eradicate the condition globally. way. This is something that has been requested for a long HemoCue has initiated a Global Call to Action campaign with time but never adequately solved. the purpose to shed light on the importance of screening and treating anemia. The campaign is created in support of the HemoCue HealthTrender Anemia offers easy access for World Health Assembly’s (WHA) target to reduce anemia by project managers to instantly review and monitor progress 50 % by 2025. HemoCue has chosen to focus on pregnant and decide on immediate actions to ensure the desired women, women in the reproductive age, and children, as outcome of a local, regional or country-wide health care these are the groups have an increased risk of anemia with program in the fight against anemia. serious and lifelong consequences as a result. In addition to creating awareness, HemoCue is establishing WBC project relationships with NGOs actively fighting anemia and malnutrition in developing countries. HemoCue offers devices The White Blood Cell (WBC) project focuses on improving for hemoglobin testing, a key denominator for distinguishing the use of WBC devices with the aim of creating impact in between anemia, a normal blood count, and polycythemia. the primary care clinics in the rural areas of Asia. The WBC With the help of HemoCue analyzers, nurses and doctors are Analyzers make testing easier and faster for caregivers, able to detect risk of anemia at the point of care. thereby enabling faster and more accurate treatment. In We are proud of HemoCue’s efforts to partner with large 2016, 101 primary care clinics in the counties of Chongqing, global and local NGOs in the fight against anemia, as well as covering 79 village doctors, were trained in the use and the broad network of local distributors who allow HemoCue practice of the WBC devices, helping save lives in this vast to make a true and lasting difference in healthcare by offering area of China. During 2017, the WBC project has expanded HemoCue solutions. in a significant way, due to the installation of 550 WBC units in the province of Qinghai. Qinghai is located in the northwest of China, and while it is one of the largest Embrace Health provinces in China, it has one of the smallest populations. The installation of 550 WBC units, covers more than 500 village As part of the Embrace Health initiative in HemoCue, we doctors, who provide primary health care for people who live launched a new “drone-corridor” in Malawi to deliver health in these remote areas. supplies in rural areas which lack appropriate infrastructure. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 27 I 30 8. Supporting Our Communities Radiometer CSR Report 2017 28 I 30 Supporting Our Communities Radiometer has a long tradition of supporting our local In addition, our global sites and subsidiaries contribute to communities. their local communities, among which are: Radiometer is the biggest company in the community Germany – Joining the fight against blood cancer surrounding our headquarter offices. The causes we In 2017, Radiometer in Germany started an activity to supported through financial donations in 2017 included: support the German non-profit organization DKMS with the fight against blood cancer. DKMS recruits and registers stem The Night Ravens in Husum and Tingbjerg cell donors for the chance of saving patients’ lives. With this A NGO of volunteers with the purpose of increasing the activity, the project could generate 48 new potential bone feeling of security in the streets of Husum and Tingbjerg marrow donors, in the hope of saving lives and defeating areas at night. blood cancer. Igne:oya Design workshop for women and girls Japan – Helping disabled children An initiative with the aim to create a social space for women During 2017, Radiometer in Japan made donations to and girls new to the Danish society. The creations of these the“Japan-Mother Ogyaa Donation Fund.” The Ogyaa women have been presented at several exhibitions, and Donation Fund was founded in 1964 by Dr. Toya. The vision two of the women are now enrolled in internships at a of the Ogyaa Fund is to save and help disabled children well-known design house. in Japan. Furthermore, one of the main objectives for the Ogyaa Fund is to raise public awareness regarding mentally Danish lessons in Tingbjerg and physically disabled children. We supported a local initiative offering Danish lessons to foreigners. Poland – Supporting local activities Radiometer in Poland supported a number of activities in Brønshøj Football Club 2017, including donations to the Stargard Young Talent A club with a long history as the social gathering point Festival, a business run of international companies, and an for people of all ages in the area of Brønshøj. In 2017 international Senior Choir Contest. Radiometer supported the payment of training clothes and participation fees for vulnerable children. United States of America – Sharing our products During 2017, Radiometer in the United States has donated Copenhagen Cricket Club products to the Texas Children’s Hospital’s medical mission Established in 2011 and has more than 200 active members trip to Santa Cruz, Bolivia and to the medical tent of representing 14 different nationalities, many of whom has Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics in the Ironman Triathlon in cricket as their national sport. The Management of CCC Madison, Wisconsin. believes that one of the secrets behind the club’s success is that many feel that the cricket club is more than a sports club. CCC is committed and convinced that cricket as well as other sports and activities are suitable for successful integration. Radiometer CSR Report 2017 29 I 30 OUR MISSION We help caregivers make diagnostic decisions that save lives OUR VISION Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses Contact Siri Teilmann-Ibsen siri.teilmannibsen@radiometer.dk +45 38 27 22 10
