SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT INTEGRITY SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HEAD OFFICE 2 A message from our CEO | 102-3, 102-53 | 3 About Noble Group 4 Board Statement Noble Group Limited 11th Floor, 33 Cavendish Square 4 About This Report London W1G 0PW, United Kingdom 5 Understanding Our Responsibility For enquiries and feedbacks 6 Our Material Topics Investor Relations: 8 Targets and Performance nobleinvestorrelations@thisisnoble.com Highlights 9 Identifying Opportunities to Advance Sustainable You can find more information about Development Goals our corporate responsibility work at http://thisisnoble.com/responsibility.html 11 Our People 12 Maintaining motivation 12 Building a balanced team 14 A safe and healthy workplace 14 Community outreach 17 Business Integrity 18 Roles and governance 18 Risk governance and internal audits 19 Precautionary measures to prevent corruption 20 Ongoing training and communication 21 Environment 22 Energy and emissions 24 Pollution prevention and mitigation 24 Towards sustainable palm oil 26 Responsible Supply Chain 27 Community and growth 27 Social and environmental risk management in project finance 28 Due diligence for minerals supply chains 31 GRI content index 36 ernst & young’s assurance statement 1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A message from our CEO | 102-14, 102-12, 102-13 | Dear Stakeholders, During 2017, with a view to enabling us to return to growth, we undertook the very complex task of repositioning the firm to focus on its key Asian activities, while rationalising our cost base and raising liquidity. We are building the foundations for future success and have initiated, what we believe to be, an appropriate and fair financial re-structuring proposal. Meeting these challenges has been very demanding for all involved, especially for We work towards the United Nations the people at the firm, but the resilience Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 and resolve of our colleagues has been through outreach and through environmental exceptional. Despite these challenges, we have and supply chain initiatives. We support continued to ensure that our entrepreneurial efforts to reduce the environmental and culture is not an obstacle to maintaining the climate change impact of coal as an affordable highest standards of integrity, ensuring that and reliable fuel source by supporting flows sustainability remains embedded into our of low ash, low sulphur coal from Australia, core businesses. which burns more cleanly and efficiently. We are mindful that Environmental, Our efforts also help address regional Social and Governance (ESG) factors, or inequality and inequality between nations sustainability criteria, are increasingly used are also facilitated by our status as a physical as inputs in the investment decisions of commodity trader originating trade flows professionally managed assets. We work from developing countries. relentlessly to bring these commitments to We remain committed to building on the life, ensuring that we create value for all our ten UN Global Compact pillars in the coming stakeholders, while we also seek, and value, years, and to contributing to the Sustainable constructive feedback. Development Goals. Since 2010 we have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and we again reaffirm our commitment to its 10 principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption, principles that remain at the core of Noble’s approach to how we conduct business. As an example, in 2017 we implemented a Group level health and William James Randall safety policy to consolidate information on Chief Executive Officer a quarterly basis, re-inforcing our emphasis and Executive Director on safety. May 31, 2018 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 About Noble Group | 102-1, 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 | Noble Group (SGX: CGP) is a supply chain to consumers. Comprehensive due diligence manager focused on purchasing physical ensures that our trading activities are fully commodities and transforming these into compliant with all applicable economic customised products for our customers. sanctions laws. Our business consists of logistics and Noble Group’s key assets are its extensive transportation, price risk management business relationships with customers and and hedging, commodity processing and clients, mid-stream supply chain resources, blending, as well as structured and trade and our people, whose mission is to provide finance products. our customers and clients with value-added Our business is oriented towards services. partnering with, rather than competing Our objective is to deliver value for against, producer customers and with shareholders, partners, customers and investors looking to invest in producing our people over the long term, based on assets. We provide best-in-class execution as developing sustainable global franchises and we aim to be the best company in the world at business relationships. moving physical commodities from producers ASian regional trade flows ENERGY COAL LNG FREIGHT CARBON STEEL MATERIALS METALS HEAD OFFICE Domestic Trading Hub 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Financial Highlights FY 2017 (US$ million) | 201-1 | Revenue Employee Corporate Adjusted loss Tonnage Benefits Taxes from continuing Expenses operations 6,241.5 180.6 11.9 601.1 77.8 mil tonnes Board Statement | 102-46, 102-50, 102-52 | This sustainability report provides an annual Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. update on important ESG topics within The report was submitted to the GRI the Group’s global operations and majority Materiality Disclosures Service which verified owned subsidiaries for the calendar year that the General Disclosures GRI 102-40 to ending 31 December 2017. The Board of GRI 102-49 from the GRI Standards are Directors acknowledged the alignment of the correctly located in both the GRI Content prioritised topics with our strategic objectives Index and the text in this report. Importantly, and approved the content presented in this this report complies with the Rules 711A and report. 711B of the Main Board Rules of the SGX-ST This report has been prepared in Listing Manual, and its 2016 Sustainability accordance with the Global Reporting Reporting Guide. About This Report This sustainability report serves multiple culture of integrity. Each principle is marked communication functions. It enhances our in the beginning of its reporting section. internal efforts towards transparency and Performance data is accompanied disclosure and supports communication by a brief description of our policies and with many of our external stakeholders. management systems, as well as our activities This includes many of our shareholders and their impact on our day-to-day business. and banks that have aligned themselves Minority investments and associated with the Principles for Responsible companies that are not consolidated in the Investment and the Equator Principles Group’s financial statements are excluded and seek to understand the ways in which from the statistical summaries provided in Noble addresses environmental, social, and this report. The Group has limited control governance matters. over these operations. However, these The report also serves as our annual relationships are covered in our broader Communication On Progress (COP). Noble responsibility programmes, through product continues to support the 10 principles of stewardship processes, pre-investment due the United Nations Global Compact as an diligence and supplier policies and standards. important part of its business strategy and 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 External assurance | 102-54, 102-56 | We seek to provide reliable information on Option” of the GRI Sustainability Reporting sustainability to our intended readers and Standards. A copy of Ernst & Young’s use an external assurance process to support assurance statement is on page 36. our efforts. Internally, these reviews have The focus on reporting the most relevant assisted us to improve the robustness and matters has led us to identify and prioritise completeness of our reporting practices. topics that are core to our business and key The Board requested the Group’s external stakeholders. auditor to review the annual sustainability In addition, the company’s greenhouse report. Hence, Ernst & Young has provided gas emissions figures for year 2017 were independent assurance on our sustainability independently verified by TÜV Nord data and disclosure for this report, which has according to the ISO 14064 standard. been compiled in accordance with the “Core Understanding Our Responsibility | 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 | Responding to the concerns and expectations meetings with investors, fund managers and of our key stakeholders is a strategic focus analysts, and quarterly conference calls which for our business. Throughout our supply are entirely open to anyone who wishes to use chain operations, we maintain a constructive the publicised toll free numbers. dialogue with our stakeholders across a spectrum of topics to improve decision Relevant topics in 2017: business making and the accountability of our repositioning, debt restructuring plan partnerships. We endeavour to grow our business, BANKS benefit from our sound compliance and at the same time, drive economic and standards and risk management systems social progress by moving essential materials when providing services to us. Banks enable to where they are needed, whilst managing Noble to secure stable and flexible financing the complexity of the process. It is our directly and through syndicated prepayment responsibility to create long-term value for facilities, co-financing and project finance. shareholders, which cannot be achieved Our extensive relationships with banks without balancing the myriad interests of in different markets allow us to maintain our customers, banks, employees and the adequate liquidity in challenging periods and communities we impact. to invest in new opportunities as they arise. SHAREHOLDERS invest in Noble’s business Relevant topics in 2017: debt restructuring model, commodity market insights and plan, credit rating, management practice of robust governance and risk management our palm oil plantations. systems. The Board welcomes the views of shareholders on matters affecting the CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS partner with Company, either at shareholders' meetings, Noble because of our understanding of their or on an ad hoc basis. Queries may be raised requirements and needs. Supported by our with the Director, Corporate Affairs via customer-focused culture and global supply the Company’s website. There are regular networks, we engage with our customers 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 | EMPLOYEES share our values in recognising entrepreneurialism and the benefits of high on a daily basis. The formation of strategic performance teamwork. Town hall meetings, marketing agreements between Noble and emails and employee surveys ensure good joint venture partners delivers competitive information flows within Noble. Our focus advantages. Ensuring a smooth flow of is on improving staff development and products and capability to deliver a diverse performance as well as providing a safe range of products is vital to the goal of and healthy workplace. These drive our building long-term relationships across our aspirations to attract and retain the best. global customer and supplier bases. Relevant topics in 2017: business Relevant topics in 2017: business repositioning, career prospects, health and repositioning, credit rating, environmental safety performance and social performance of our asset operations LOCAL COMMUNITIES are impacted by our operations. Dedicated personnel lead GOVERNMENTS AND REGULATORS set relationship and engagement programmes the legislative frameworks and statutory in our key locations to serve and benefit the requirements for our sector, covering communities. To minimise our environmental market access, product flows, labour and footprint, our operations follow international environmental standards, property rights standards in environmental management. and taxation. Our governance structure We regularly meet with our communities and Board procedures ensure appropriate via formal and informal consultation to supervision and control over these processes. understand their interests and concerns, and Where possible, our business activities aim to safeguard our corporate reputation. Close build greater recognition and goodwill with interaction with the communities in which we governments. operate continues to shape our programmes addressing the key challenges of poverty and Relevant topics in 2017: debt restructuring underdevelopment. plan, financial disclosure, share price movement, governance framework, Relevant topics in 2017: business environmental and social performance of repositioning, environmental and social our asset operations impacts of our asset operations, community investment Our Material Topics | 102-46, 102-47 | Our approach to responsible business changing context of our business and key reflects our desire to focus resources on those stakeholders. The Group’s CSR Advisory areas that will have the most significant Committee, comprising senior executives sustainability impact. Health and safety, from key functions in major locations, workplace wellbeing, environmental impact, leads the engagement processes. We and compliance are examples of topics that adopt internationally recognised reporting are relevant to both the business decisions frameworks (GRI Sustainability Reporting and our corporate responsibility efforts. Standards and UN Global Compact) in setting We undertake periodic materiality the boundaries for reporting, and to guide assessments to identify pertinent topics our thinking on business and stakeholder and consider their relevance to the relations. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 102-46, 102-47 | Our current material topics were mapped in risk management are covered in both the 2016, using input from internal and external annual report and this report. stakeholders, including media coverage of The materiality matrix shows the our peers and the commodity sector more relative priority of the 14 non-financial broadly. The CSR function developed surveys topics that were a priority for our internal to obtain feedback from Noble's senior and external stakeholders. The topics relate functional managers, key customers, analysts to four focus areas – our people, business and investors on the relative importance of integrity, environment and responsible different sustainability topics. supply chain. To assist users of this report, This report reviews material nonwe have provided a mapping of our material financial topics, with disclosure on overall sustainability topics to the GRI Standards management approach and relevant terminology and framework. performance indicators. The surveys Ernst and Young benchmarked the key were broader and included economic issues raised in external media reports, the and operational topics, such as financial sustainability reports of Noble’s peers and performance, brand management, and dialogue with Noble’s stakeholder, as a part of customer satisfaction. the limited assurance procedures. The results We communicate on these in Noble corroborated our disclosure on material Group’s annual report and quarterly topics and performance indicators. announcements. Corporate governance and Our materiality matrix Supply chain management Risk management Board leadership Product quality Corporate governance Importance to stakeholders Legal compliance Talent attraction Greenhouse gas emissions and energy Human rights Employee training and development Diversity and equal opportunities Pollution prevention Indigenous rights Occupational health and safety Our People Business Integrity Environment Reponsible Supply Chain Impact on business success 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Targets and Performance Highlights Sustainability is an integral part of Noble table presents performance against these Group’s business execution and governance indicators, highlighting our efforts to drive systems. To track performance against our continuous improvement in managing our strategy, we began to set measurable targets most material topics. This is in line with in 2016 with our global business divisions the SGX’s requirements on sustainability and corporate functions. The following reporting. TARGETS / KPIS PERFORMANCE IN 2017 OUR PEOPLE • Occupational health and safety • Zero harm across our operations • Zero fatalities. During April – December 2017, lost • Human rights time injury frequency rate and total recordable case frequency rate were 6.59 and 30.49 respectively.1 • Talent attraction • Employee training and development • Diversity and equal opportunities • All key offices and assets routinely report health • The Group level health and safety data has been and safety metrics consolidated since April 2017. • 100% of employees paid at least national minimum • 100% of employees paid at least national minimum wage for their country wage for their country • Percentage of new hires that are recruited from • 77% of our new hires with a known birth region their local region were local hires • Number of positions that were filled internally • 33 employees took the opportunity to move to a different business unit or job function • Percentage of staff voluntary turnover • 23% staff voluntary turnover rate • Zero credible complaints of discrimination reported • No credible complaints of discrimination reported in Noble's offices and/or assets in Noble’s offices and/or assets BUSINESS INTEGRITY • Corporate governance • More than 50% of the Board comprises independent • 43% of our Board comprised independent non• Board leadership non-executive directors executive directors2 • Legal compliance • Zero breaches or non-compliance of applicable laws • No breaches or non-compliance of applicable laws or regulatory requirements in Noble’s operations or regulatory requirements in Noble's operations • Risk management • More than 80% of employees attend compliance • About 67% of employees attended compliance training annually training • Numbers of relevant business units audited • 8 audits were conducted across Noble Group internally operations ENVIRONMENT • Pollution prevention • Zero spills across our marine fleet operations • Zero spills across our marine fleet operations • Greenhouse gas emissions • 10% reduction of CO2 emissions per product traded • The transition has changed the business mix and and energy (MtCO2e /Mt) between 2013 (base year) and 2018 the carbon intensity baseline in 2013 is no longer (target year) comparable with the ongoing business. Hence, this • 10% reduction of CO2 emissions due to business target is no longer applicable travel per full-time employee between 2015 • There was a 2.8% increase in carbon intensity from (base year) and 2020 (target year) business travel RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN • Supply chain management • 100% of minerals traded from the Democratic • 100% of minerals traded from the Democratic • Product quality Republic of Congo and adjoining countries comply Republic of Congo and adjoining countries comply with the iTSCi responsible production requirements with qualified traceability program initiatives • Indigenous rights • 100% compliance with our customer requirements • As a normal operating procedure we test the quality and our contractual commitments on bulk of our shipped bulk commodities at load port, commodity shipment in order to ensure compliance with our contracts • Zero formal complaints reported on any violations • No formal complaints reported on any violations of of the rights of indigenous people the rights of indigenous people 1 The frequency rates are calculated per million exposure hours 2 By the end of May 2018, 78% of our Board comprises independent non-executive directors 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Identifying Opportunities to Advance Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Across India, we have been partnering Goals (SDGs) are a universal call to end with Room to Read since 2013 to eradicate poverty, protect the planet, and build peace. illiteracy and gender inequality in some Countries around the world are given of the most underserved communities. In guidelines and targets to stimulate actions in primary schools where educational materials areas of critical importance for humanity and and training for teachers are lacking, our the planet. funds have been used to support children’s It is our aspiration to play an active role books publication, assist in curriculum in promoting prosperity through trade and development, set up libraries and provide innovation. Adding to our commitment to the teachers with workshops on reading and United Nations Global Compact, we pursue writing instruction. In 2016-2017, six primary opportunities to address social challenges schools benefited from our programme and and contribute to the delivery of SDGs that 5,900 books were donated to help children are relevant to our activities. This year, our obtain reading skills and develop the habit of sustainability programme aligned to these reading. SDG goals where we believe we can make the most positive contribution. ENSURE ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND MODERN ENERGY FOR ALL ENSURE INCLUSIVE AND EQUITABLE QUALITY Energy access is crucial for EDUCATION AND PROMOTE LIFELONG achieving almost all the LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL Sustainable Development We promote access to Goals. As a fuel source, coal quality education through provides an affordable, safe sponsoring specialist and reliable energy supply that has allowed therapies and teacher the advancement of billions of people out training programmes in from poverty. However, it has significant our countries of operation. Scholarships environmental consequences and can cause are offered in multiple locations and air pollution as well as contribute to climate beneficiaries range from primary school change. pupils to postdoctoral researchers. Here are Asian countries are addressing these two examples of our work. direct impacts through shifting to coals In Hong Kong, limited governmentwith a higher calorific value and lower subsidised services on special education environmental consequences. Our energy for autistic children combines with a long coal division maintains our flows of top waiting time. As a result, children from low quality thermal coal with low ash and low income families who cannot afford private sulphur content from Australia, which treatments and therapies are failing to helps mitigate the impact of coal burning receive necessary training before going to and improve efficiency in coal-fired power mainstream schools. In 2017, we started generation. to fund an early intervention support In our Indonesian palm oil plantations, programme led by the charity Operation we have invested in a processing system to Blessing Hong Kong. Through a series of turn the fibre and shell of palm into useful cognitive and speech trainings, and parenting biomass materials to fire our boiler plant workshops, we aim to help families with and replace our dependency on diesel to autism children to get an equal start of their produce steam and power. Also, we have lives. recently installed solar panel and battery 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 sets on the rooftop of a number of worker and improve access to primary social services. accommodation units to harness this clean In 2017, we funded multiple renovations and energy. facilities upgrades. More than 20 schools and a local health centre benefitted over the year. REDUCE INEQUALITY WITHIN AND TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT CLIMATE AMONG COUNTRIES CHANGE AND ITS IMPACTS At Noble, we apply an equal Since 2007, Noble has sought employment opportunity to mitigate environmental and non-discrimination issues in our value chains as policy to ensure our staff are well as work systematically on hired and rewarded based climate and environmental on their ability and contribution. Being a risks across our corporate offices and physical physical commodity trader, we originate operations. trade flows from various developing countries We initiated the Carbon Neutral Project and endeavour to advance equality through to reduce the Group’s greenhouse gas (GHGs) infrastructure investment and social renewal emissions and raise awareness on climate projects. change at our global offices. In 2017, we Rural roads play a critical role in achieved carbon neutrality in all Noble offices connecting people to facilities and services. worldwide and printed publications. Since the In Kalimantan and Papua, Indonesia, we inception of the project, we have offset more support ongoing road development in than 1,257,000 tonnes of carbon emissions. hard to reach villages by providing heavy We set reduction targets across our equipment and embankment materials for operations, including for energy and key road maintenance. The improved quality of material inputs. These targets are aggregated the roads allows better connection between at the Group level. Our Group GHG inventory towns and villages, so helping to widen the has been certified to the ISO 14064 standard economic participation of local communities. since 2010, as a commitment to consistent In Jamaica, we have been funding and transparent communication of our a 3-year comprehensive community climate mitigation actions. empowerment programme. Facilities upgrade See the Environment chapter on page 21 and social renewal are priority elements in for more details. the programme that promote social inclusion In Hong Kong, Noble supports a special education programme for autistic children from low income families. An initial assessment is conducted to assess individual training needs for each beneficiary. 10 Our People In 2017, a significant component of our people and HR activities were focused on Noble’s transition as we repositioned the company. We continued to focus on reducing significant costs, including headcount. Throughout, we have continued to keep our core workforce motivated and loyal as we worked toward achieving the objectives laid out in our Strategic Review. We continue to value diversity at every level of our organisation and respect the rights of all our employees. Beyond this we have rooted the wellbeing of our people in our day to day activities to assure safe workplaces and enhance a culture of good health. We enable our staff to volunteer and give back to the community through our outreach programmes. Principle 3: businesses should uphold the Our Commitment freedom of association and the effective | 102-16 | recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Noble Group is committed to achieving Zero Harm across our business. Zero Harm means Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of zero fatalities, accidents and injuries, and forced and compulsory labour; taking all possible steps to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all employees and other Principle 5: the effective abolition of child persons engaged in work for the organisation. labour; and Our Equal Opportunities Policy applies to every employee in the Group and commits Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination Noble to eliminating discrimination, in respect of employment and occupation. harassment and victimization in the workplace. We support freedom of association and collective bargaining for our employees and diligently comply with local labour laws and regulations in the countries in which we conduct business. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | | 102-41 | Forced or compulsory labour of any Noble abides by local minimum notice kind is not tolerated, nor do we exploit child requirements for informing employees labour in any of our global operations. The when there are significant changes in our majority of Noble’s staff are office based operations. Noble’s Code of Conduct includes with permanent contracts, hence forced and our employees’ right to exercise freedom child labour are not an issue in our direct of association and to have representation operations. The chapter titled Responsible of their choice. As of 2017, most of our Supply Chain covers potential human rights workforce was not covered by specific topics in product origination. collective bargaining agreements. Maintaining Motivation Building a balanced team | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-3 | | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 406-1 | The commitment and dedication of our A culture of diversity and equal opportunities people remains vital to our success as does is one of our greatest strengths, which the leadership team that shapes our future. allows our people to work cohesively across One part of motivating our workforce relates multiple functions, locations and languages. to compensation, and at Noble Group we We have clear policies on equal opportunity offer our permanent employees (representing to embrace different cultures, ethnicities, 99% of our workforce) a competitive genders and backgrounds in our workplace. compensation and benefits package. Pay for Female representation was 41% in our global performance underpins our compensation offices (2016: 37%) and 38% of our overall strategy, which we believe, enhances the workforce. culture of partnership and teamwork across Our people managers are responsible for the company. ensuring that the Equal Opportunities Policy We offer benefits programmes that and other labour principles are adhered to in include medical, health and disability covers, their departments. In our offices, employees pension plans, parental leave, and wellness receive mandatory training on workplace programmes. In Singapore and Dubai, conduct and business ethics. We encourage we offer flexible benefits programmes that and promote procedures for reporting any enable employees to adjust their coverage unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. levels and spend any remaining funds on Moreover, Noble takes any alleged breach a range of health related products such of discrimination standards seriously. In as gym membership or health screening. 2017, we received no credible complaints of Noble Group operates a number of defined discrimination in any location. contribution plans (including mandatory and We prioritise recruiting and developing voluntary schemes) throughout the world local talent. By doing so, we bring in local – in 2017, employer pension contributions knowledge that is crucial for our business totalled US$2.7 million. growth and contributes to human capital development in our operating locations. More CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE than 77% of our new hires with known birth region in 2017 were local hires. | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 402-1, 404-3, 407-1 | Communication has been key during this transition process. We have kept our employees up to date through regular emails 41% Percentage of women in Noble’s office from our Chairman and CEO, as well as updates on our intranet portal. We gather feedback through town hall meetings in the major offices and provide opportunities for employees to directly interact and ask questions to our senior leadership team on a regular basis. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 | TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | BY REGION AND GENDER Our award winning Global Associate F M Total Programme continues to develop staff, APAC 149 223 372 which in 2017 identified six high potential EMEA 11 29 40 individuals for on-the-job training. Mentored AMER 64 121 185 by managers and former participants in the Programme, they worked across several 597 business units and countries to obtain extensive insights into commodities markets, global supply chains and risk management BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER over the course of the year. Many of the alumni from previous F M Total years are quickly advancing through Permanent 219 371 590 the organisation. We embed leadership Temporary 5 2 7 development as a part of our succession planning. To support personal and career 597 development, our comprehensive review and succession planning initiatives cover key leadership roles and top tiers of the senior BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND REGION management team across the Group. In 2017, 33 employees took the opportunities to move APAC EMEA AMER Total to different business units, job functions and Permanent 366 39 185 590 increased job scope. We reward the loyalty Temporary 6 1 7 of our employees by providing long service awards to honour their many years of service 597 to the company. The restructuring of our business platforms, as set out in our Strategic Review, BY MANAGEMENT LEVEL & GENDER had an impact on our turnover. The majority of the turnover represented employees of F M Total business that were sold during the year. The Directors 1 19 20 voluntary turnover rate in 2017 was 23% and (executive or remained consistent with the prior year. above Manager 24 91 115 Professional & 181 201 382 support Not declared 18 62 80 597 * Noble Group’s human resources data and processes are maintained over a robust software application. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 | 401-1 | A Safe and Healthy Workplace | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-2 | NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER F M Total Noble Group is committed to achieving Zero Harm across the business. The health <30 6 10 16 and safety policy and related guidelines 30-50 18 17 35 are implemented to ensure the necessary >50 1 3 4 focus on safety systems at work, response Not declared 1 1 to incidents and appropriate provision of 56 medical aids. Published in December 2016, the Group level health and safety policy built onto our regional policies to monitor and streamline reporting, exceeds legal health NEW HIRES BY REGION AND GENDER and safety requirements applicable in the F M Total countries where we do business. Health and safety coordinators are appointed at each AMER 10 12 22 asset and office location. APAC 15 19 34 Starting April 2017, safety figures have 56 been recorded and consolidated quarterly at the Group level. Reported incidents are classified to assess the level of investigation required and measures taken to prevent TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER recurrence. In 2017, we had zero fatal F M Total occupational accidents. During April – December 2017, the lost time injury <30 34 62 96 frequency rate (LTIFR) and total recordable 30-50 113 254 367 case frequency rate (TRIFR) were 6.59 and >50 20 38 58 30.49 per million hours worked.3 Not declared 7 7 14 We take health and safety matters 535 seriously across our investment portfolio. However, the operations at these projects are often beyond our sphere of operational control. To minimise health and safety TURNOVER BY REGION AND GENDER risks, we partner with reputable production F M Total facilities in developed regions, conduct site visits, and exercise board oversight where AMER 65 153 218 appropriate. APAC 86 141 227 EMEA 23 67 90 Community Outreach 535 | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 | Noble endeavours to reach out to the communities in which we work and live, helping numerous healthcare, educational, environmental and charitable efforts to enrich our lives and the lives of others. We have a vision to work for the greater good outside of our daily activities it is in our culture to contribute and give back to society. 3 During the initial implementation of the new health and safety procedures, safety coordinators at some locations were not yet fully familiar with the reporting requirements. Hence, we noticed gaps in the data collected in the second quarter. These were addressed from the third quarter onward. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our people lead many community sending recyclables to a nearby recycling initiatives, identifying where help is most centre. In 2017, eight charities benefited needed. We volunteer and aim to inspire. This from our dollar-for-dollar matching gift includes community volunteering schemes programme in the United States, which such as fundraising, providing teaching and supports qualified charities. mentoring services, as well as participating Regular site visits and meetings with in charity runs and challenges. For example, local government officials are also an our Noble team won the challenge to race up important complement to our evaluation Mount Fansipan, Vietnam to raise funds for of community needs. Throughout 2017, we the Sailors’ Society in April 2017. In Jakarta, invested various community programmes we hosted an annual blood donation day and in nine countries focusing on literacy, rural volunteered in the Clean Up Jakarta event, infrastructure, medical and family planning nearly 30 staff and their families embarked assistance and boosting local employment on a street clean-up, collecting rubbish and opportunities. On May 13, 2017, 7 of Noble’s Mongolian staff joined hands with 15 children with Down’s syndrome and their family members to plant trees in the national park of Ulaanbaatar. This is the third year we celebrated the Mongolian national tree planting day with these children. Noble Foundation review programmes, and welcome applications year round from our Founded in 2007, the Noble staff. To enable the stable delivery of Foundation provides philanthropic services and activities that align with contributions to address the root cause our visions, the Foundation generally of poverty and underdevelopment. makes grants to programmes that Through collaboration with local are brought to our attention by staff, organisations, we are dedicated to offering support over one to three year acting at the grassroots level. periods. Two examples of our projects We have put in place a formal are shown on the following page. procedure to select, monitor and 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Safeguard Australia’s unique fossil heritage At the newly opened Australian Age of Dinosaurs Museum of Natural History in Queensland, the two Noble sponsored carriage shuttles begin to take visitors on a spectacular dinosaur discovery tour. The donation from Noble Foundation was one of several that helped the museum qualify for a funding package from the Queensland dinosaurs that lived in Australia over State and Federal Governments. 95 million years ago. Situated at the south east of The two shuttles are solar powered Winton, Australia, the museum and each transports 27 visitors. Visitors features an outpost perched on a can learn about Australia’s natural cliff overlooking a gorge 300 metres history. Children and families can below. Four outdoor dinosaur galleries board the shuttles for a 90-minute tour positioned along the gorge contain to see life-sized dinosaurs, a dinosaur life-size bronze reconstructions of stampede and a Cretaceous garden. Helping Migrant Mothers environment. They are also building a network of key influencers, government The PathFinders organisation is officials, community and religious dedicated to protecting the rights leaders for longer term preventive of migrant worker women and their efforts in Indonesia. children in Hong Kong. It assists both undocumented and documented women who are pregnant or have children in Hong Kong to make informed decisions, understand their legal rights and obligations, and access critical humanitarian services and support networks. Importantly, its service empowers the mothers to make decisions based on the children’s best interests. Often these decisions include leaving Hong Kong and returning to the mother’s home country – often Returned migrant worker acquires essential skills in Indonesia. mushroom cultivation to enhance livelihoods The Home Country Integration Programme was launched in 2014 In 2017, the programme supported with ongoing support from Noble 37 families to return home, and Foundation. Since the programme almost 100 mothers attended home began, Pathfinders has identified a preparation classes in Hong Kong. number of service providers to deliver With the reintegration support culturally appropriate reintegration provided by Pathfinders, the babies support and educational materials, and children and their mothers are such as skills training on mushroom now able to access essential medical cultivation, in order to equip these services and re-integration support mothers with the tools they need that is culturally and linguistically to care for their children in a safe appropriate. 16 Business Integrity Business integrity is firmly embedded in Noble Group’s values and underpins the way we operate. We implement systems and processes to ensure accountability and responsibility throughout the organisation and across our relations with our stakeholders. This includes the structure of governance and oversight set through the board of directors and the risk governance and compliance measures that apply to operational teams. We take precautionary measures to address key business integrity risks from corruption or bribery, including investments Our Commitment in IT systems to assess counterparty risk | 102-16 | and ongoing training for staff. We view these measures as critically important to ensure a Noble is committed to operating with the strong foundation for the business. utmost integrity. Noble’s Code of Conduct sets out compliance requirements and Principle 10: businesses should work guidelines on key ethical issues. Our against corruption in all its forms, including policies and management systems explicitly extortion and bribery. emphasise anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust behaviour. At a minimum, Noble acts in accordance with its statutory or regulatory requirements and expects all employees to comply with the law in every jurisdiction in which we operate. We hold onto our core values of being accountable and responsible, which extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and misconduct. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Roles and Governance standards of personal and corporate integrity when dealing with the Group, its customers, | 102-11, 102-16, 102-18 | suppliers, competitors and the community. Our policy is in line with our commitment Our Board of Directors is committed to to the United Nations Universal Declaration maintaining a high standard of corporate of Human Rights and the principles of the governance within the Group. We take pride United Nations Global Compact. in having a deep and high quality Board, In keeping with our dedication to whose objective judgement on corporate professionalism in our operations, risk, affairs and collective experience is invaluable compliance and internal audit functions are for our decision making, and is responsible mandated to oversee the implementation for the strategic direction of the Group and of our policies regarding ethical conduct. has oversight of senior management. At the As part of our efforts, the Group has end of 2017, there were a total of 7 directors, adopted and implemented a policy 3 of whom are Independent Non-Executive whereby employees may, in confidence, Directors. By the end of May 2018, we have raise concerns regarding unlawful activity, increased the number of independent Nonpolicy or practices, suspected fraud, Executive Directors to 7, with a total of 9 corruption, dishonest practices or other directors. More information is available on matters. Senior management in global our website and at the Report of the Directors human resources and technical operations of Noble Group Annual Report 2017. implement Noble’s environmental, health The Board maintains close consideration and safety management programmes. This is of investment, financial risks, governance, complemented by locally defined and asset remuneration, government relations, specific requirements, depending on the health and safety, and environmental and operating activity of the respective business social matters. The directors constructively line. challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, review the performance of | 405-1 | management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of BOARD OF DIRECTORS4 performance. Good corporate governance establishes and maintains a legal and ethical F M Total environment that seeks to promote and 30-50 1 1 preserve the interests of all stakeholders. >50 0 6 6 The committee structure of our Board enables separation of duties and differentiates 7 responsibilities to focus on critical functions. 4 By the end of May 2018, 78% of our Board comprises The Audit Committee provides oversight independent non-executive directors. on financial accounting and reporting obligations; oversight of the external and internal auditors and their work; adequacy Risk Governance and of internal controls and the financial risk management system. The Corporate Internal Audits Governance Committee identifies, monitors | 205-1, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | and implements good corporate governance practices and procedures for the Group. Noble’s holistic approach to risk governance Business integrity is a responsibility for underpins our strong risk management all employees. Consequently, the Noble Group culture. A clear segregation of duties for risk Code of Conduct applies to all directors, managers and business managers ensures full officers and employees of the Group and accountability and ownership within our risk each of its subsidiaries. The Code of Conduct management structure. sets out principles to guide employees, directors and officers in carrying out their duties and responsibilities to the highest 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Noble’s Risk Committee comprises | 102-13 | senior managers and division heads. It meets on a weekly basis to discuss significant risks We pay close attention to evolving and progress against strategy. Among other laws and regulatory frameworks, and mandates, the committee reviews Noble’s actively support reforms that require higher policies and internal controls to ensure standards. Often, collective actions by appropriate procedures are in place. More investors, companies and regulators helps information on Noble’s risk governance to promote better standards of governance framework is available in the Notes to in Asian companies and counter corruption Financial Statements (section B7) of Noble and malpractice. Noble was a member of the Group Annual Report 2017. Asian Corporate Governance Association We have a dedicated internal audit team (ACGA) and participated in their conferences staffed by experienced industry professionals. and advocacy initiatives. The team conducts systematic audits across all of Noble Group’s operations. Its role is defined and overseen by the Board Audit Precautionary Measures Committee. The review and audit of Noble’s to Prevent Corruption operations is a continuous process. The team | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 | engages in discussion and consultation with the various business units addressing price Our Group-wide policies state clearly that risk and credit risk management, operational all our business functions must comply risks, health and safety risks, environmental with the legal obligations and laws in every risks, and information technology risks. jurisdiction in which we operate. Noble’s The internal audit team also works Code of Conduct imposes specific obligations closely with the compliance team to ensure in respect of anti-corruption, anti-trust, compliance with the various regulatory anti-money laundering, combating financial frameworks that we operate under; with crimes, counter financing of terrorism, International Sanctions Legislation; and with sanctions and fraud. We regularly review Anti-bribery and Corruption measures, such our policies and procedures to adapt to as the UK Bribery Act. The internal audit the changing regulatory landscape. Taking team evaluates whether the current Noble into account these developments, industry Group Policies and Standard Operating guidance, customer experience and societal Procedures are sufficient to mitigate expectations, we implement internal controls identified risk and recommends changes or that safeguard our operations against enhancements if required. regulatory and reputational risk. Our experienced Compliance Team | 419-1 | is dedicated to ensuring that our business In 2017 the team conducted eight audits conforms to applicable laws and regulations. across the Group with activities in all the Compliance Team personnel are based in major business streams. We had no fines or our trading offices and serve as a valuable non-monetary sanctions relating to the nonresource for providing technical assistance compliance of laws and regulations. The 2018 and training in the regulatory sphere. Audit Plan has been approved by the Board Before entering into any contracts with Audit Committee and is the first year of a new counterparties, we undertake a World3 year plan cycle with higher risk businesses Check risk search as a key component of our being audited annually and lower risk mandatory risk screening. business being audited twice in 3 years. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Noble employees worldwide are given Ongoing Training and explicit guidance on ethical business Communication practices, such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts. Every employee | 205-2 | must acknowledge they have read and understood Noble’s Code of Conduct and Every Noble employee is informed about our policies, as part of their induction and on an policies and practices. Corporate policies are ongoing basis. Regular refresher training is reviewed and updated on a regular basis. organised to maintain the effectiveness of Training on business ethics and conduct compliance programmes and highlight some is regularly held in our offices to reinforce of the perception gaps and possible “grey the procedures for reporting any potential areas”. violations. Specific rules on securities trading All relevant staff are given regular when in possession of internal, confidential updates on rules and regulations relevant to information are circulated among employees their particular markets and jurisdictions. and set out in a separate policy. This includes Important notifications are communicated a procedure for the good faith reporting of via compliance emails to employees globally. any infringement of the Code of Conduct or Education and refresher trainings on other Noble policy. Concerned employees compliance, financial crime, anti-bribery and are encouraged to report without fear to the anti-money laundering (AML) are delivered Compliance or Legal departments when any via e-learning programmes and classroom suspicions arise. sessions. Across Asia, 85 employees attended face | 205-3 | to face training in 2017. Among these, around 10% of attendees were management level Noble has adopted and implemented staff. This programme caters to the different a whistle-blowing policy through which needs of different business functions. For employees may, in confidence, raise concerns example, front office members receive regarding matters not only about work place training on financial crimes, bribery acts misconducts, but also any unlawful activities, and market abuse, which is less relevant in policies or practices, suspected fraud, other business areas. Other training includes corruption, dishonest practices or other regulations related to illegal conduct and similar matters. There are also arrangements references on anti-corruption laws and for an independent investigation of such published cases. issues and for appropriate follow up actions where necessary. During the reporting period, we had no confirmed cases of corruption in our operations. 20 Environment Land and water use, air and soil pollution, and resource depletion are some of the major environmental pressures caused by the production and transport of traded commodities. Noble understands the fundamental importance of managing our impact on the environment, as our core business inherently relies on natural resources. We seek to operate responsibly to prevent pollution and minimise our environmental footprint across our supply chains. Energy access enables development and can bring life transforming benefits. However, International Energy Agency scenarios highlight that countries face increasing pressure to secure access to affordable energy while boosting low-carbon energy supply. Noble pursues opportunities to supply conventional fuels as well as LNG to meet rising energy demand. Principle 7: businesses should support a Our Commitment precautionary approach to environmental | 102-16, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 307-1 | challenges; We support a precautionary approach to Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental challenges and work hard to greater environmental responsibility; and minimise our environmental footprint across our supply chains. We do this by deploying Principle 9: encourage the development resource management systems and controls. and diffusion of environmentally friendly Regional environmental policies and plans are technologies. complemented with site-specific requirements. Technical staff, quality managers and dedicated staff are present in all key locations and play a leading role in their implementation. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 In line with legal requirements and principles, we conduct environmental Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions decreased impact assessments before purchasing new by 0.5 Mt CO2e installations to manage the environmental risks to our investments. We also work in Total carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) collaboration with industry associations in 2017 amounted to 1.92 million tonnes to address broader environmental issues. CO2 equivalent, a decline of 0.5 million During the reporting period, we received tonnes CO2 equivalent from last year. One no significant fines and no reports of nonof the reasons for this decline is the disposal compliance with environmental laws and of group businesses. We had set a carbon regulations across our wholly-owned intensity target across the group with a operations. baseline year of 2013. Initially we made good To secure our long-term flow of energy progress in meeting the targets. However, products and help our customers to reduce the ongoing businesses have a higher carbon their greenhouse gas emissions, we support intensity than those that were sold. As a alternative fuel development and the diffusion result the carbon intensity baseline is no of environmentally friendly technologies. longer comparable with the ongoing business and the target is no longer applicable. Energy and Emissions At our individual asset operations | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 305-5 | and shipping business, we have intensity reduction targets to manage our energy Under the Paris Climate Change Agreement, use and carbon emissions. These targets, countries have made national climate include energy and key material inputs. We targets to keep a global temperature rise this have continued to make good progress in century below 2°C and pursue efforts to limit reductions at the individual asset level. For warming below 1.5°C above pre-industrial more information about our energy efficiency levels. Strong government leadership is initiatives in chartering, see the section key for a smooth transition to a low-carbon Pollution Prevention and Mitigation. future. Businesses can play a role to mitigate In our offices, we encourage staff to the environmental impact of their physical reduce greenhouse gas emissions through operations, by switching to lower carbon making conscious daily choices. We raise fuels, and advocating for actions through awareness and promote eco-friendly habits business associations. through our publications and with our regular Thermal coal with high caloric value, commuting and business travel survey. In and with lower environmental consequences some of our major offices, bike storage and remains in strong demand in many Asian shower facilities are available to facilitate countries. In our energy coal business, we cycling or walking to work. We established emphasise the flows of top quality coal a Group level travel policy in 2010, which with low ash and low sulphur content from has also been effective at reducing overall Australia, which helps mitigate the impact of business travel and encouraging the use of coal burning and improves efficiency in coalvideo conferencing. In 2015, we endeavoured fired power generation. to further reduce our staff business travel for Since 2007, Noble has sought to mitigate an additional 10% reduction per full-time environmental issues in our value chains as employee in 2020. well as work systematically on climate and We make every effort to improve environmental risks across our corporate resource management across our offices, offices and physical operations. We initiated including energy and fuel use, paper, water the Carbon Neutral Project twelve years ago and waste. Our efforts save costs and enhance to measure, reduce and offset the Group’s productivity. As the final step to neutralising own greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions. the remaining emissions, we retire verified This covers all Noble offices worldwide and carbon credits from renewable and low publications. We launched a centralised carbon energy projects that bring positive environment data assessment system in socio-economic benefits. Since inception of 2010. the Carbon neutral Project, we have offset more than 1,257,000 tonnes of carbon. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 In Hong Kong, we are a corporate and we are a long-term supporter of their member of World Wide Fund for Nature wide-reaching conservation initiatives and (WWF). We recognise their vision in creating environmental education programmes in solutions that serve nature and people, Hong Kong and the South China region. | 302-1, 302-3, 302-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 | CARBON AND ENERGY PERFORMANCE IN OUR OPERATIONS1 2017 2016 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions (Mt CO2e ) Total emissions2 1.918 2.373 3.066 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 1.871 2.332 3.034 Gross location-based energy indirect 0.047 0.042 0.032 (scope 2) GHG emissions Gross market-based energy indirect 0.047 0.042 (scope 2) GHG emissions3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions4 0.005 0.009 0.011 CO2 emissions per products traded 0.0239 0.0107 0.0113 (Mt CO2e / Mt) CO2 emissions on business travel per employee 5.37 5.23 5.29 (t CO2e /office employee) Energy consumption (MWh) Fuel 6,738,446 8,233,040 10,736,419 Electricity 86,436 78,352 73,002 Heat 21 40 29 Steam Cooling 726 1,252 1,093 Energy intensity per products traded 0.088 0.0375 0.040 (MWh/Mt) 1 Noble Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory is defined by adopting the operational control approach in the GHG Protocol. The GHG inventory includes Noble Group’s beneficiary ships, chartering, assets, worldwide offices and publications. The GHG inventory is assured by TÜV NORD CERT GmbH according to the ISO 14064 standard. This GHG emissions calculation covers all relevant GHGs: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). The inventory has been maintained in a centralised environment data assessment system since 2010. 2 Data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of Noble Group 3 The calculation of market-based GHG emissions is supplemented with location-based emission factors, in case the emissions data of the purchased electricity is unavailable 4 Data includes business travel, commuting, water and waste, paper use and publications in Noble Group’s offices 5 Adjusted for the tonnage figure in Annual Report 2016 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Pollution Prevention and bearing fruit, in 2017, Noble’s owned ships emitted 24% less CO2e emissions (scope 1) Mitigation per nautical mile compared to 2010. | 302-4, 305-5 | Towards sustainable palm oil While ships are universally recognised as the most fuel efficient mode of bulk | 102-13 | transportation, the shipping sector has been working for decades to mitigate its We take a pragmatic approach in operating impact on climate change, air pollutants and our two Indonesian palm plantations and ballast water pollution. Noble Chartering is in developing them in an environmentally recognised for providing high-quality, safe friendly manner. Our conservation efforts and efficient logistics solutions. We have been ensure that not only we meet certification upgrading our fleet including installation standards for sustainable palm oil production, of fuel efficient engines and ballast water but also create long-term structural treatment systems, which control and improvements to lessen our environmental minimise the introduction of nonindigenous impact. We are a member of the Roundtable species to marine environments. on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and both plantations are on track to achieve the RSPO | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-3 | certification. More information about our management practices, product traceability We partner with ISO-qualified fleet and certification status is available on the operators that place safety and pollution Responsibility section of our website. prevention high on their agenda, and which In 2017, we attained a score of 73.1 hold International Safety Management percent from the London Zoological Society Code compliance certification in line with under its SPOTT (Sustainability Policy International Maritime Organization (IMO) Transparency Toolkit) assessment, which requirements. In addition, Noble adopts assesses palm oil producers and traders on an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan to the availability of their ESG (environmental, respond in the event of oil spills, and we are social and governance) information, making pleased to report that in 2017 we had no spills Noble Group one of the top 10 organisations overboard across our owned fleet operations. in this sector. All Noble’s owned ships have Nevertheless, we have an ongoing received IECC (International Energy complaint logged at the RSPO Complaints Efficiency Certificate) appropriate to their Panel relating to one of our subsidiaries. We classifications. Our ships also comply strictly have been cooperating fully and appointed an with the latest IMO regulations to reduce the accredited independent consultant to assess the emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxide status of land on PT PAL’s concession. We are and particulate matter by switching to low disappointed that this complaint came up five sulphur content fuels in Emission Control years after the relevant information was made Areas. publicly available and the consultation had We seek to increase fuel efficiency closed without public comment or objection. and optimise vessel speed. Noble’s owned It is worth noting that a previous complaint tonnage has been, depending on various prompted by claims from the same activist party factors, frequently sailing at the “Super Eco was not substantiated and was closed. Speed” and/or “Eco Speed” since 2012. A Beyond our plantations, we participate monitoring parameter “Energy Efficiency in a conservation programme for orangutans. Operational Indicator” is applied across our Across Borneo and Sumatra, the Orangutan fleet to measure and improve our overall fuel Project helps to restore the habitats for this use efficiency. endangered species, rescue and rehabilitate During ship selection for chartering, we displaced orangutans, and educate and optimise the carbon footprint of our vessels empower local villagers on the value of through the use of RightShip Greenhouse conservation. Gas (GHG) Emissions Rating, alongside We continue to implement our with their safety rating. We also voluntarily conservation programme and look closely to use this mechanism to rate our own fleet’s our energy use, here are some of our initiatives environmental performance. These efforts are in 2017. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONSERVATION AND EDUCATION seedlings (including 800 trembesi and 100 durian) for children to look after. The A dedicated team of conservation field staff children have planted 400 trees around manages over 14,000 hectare of conservation the schools, homes and peoples’ vegetable area and conduct inventory counts regularly gardens. on flora and fauna within and adjacent to the plantations. The ongoing biodiversity monitoring is supported with the use of ENERGY USE automatic field cameras and mist netting. | 201-2 | Information is catalogued in an extensive database that tracks species distribution and Energy efficiency and an increased share of abundance, among other data points. energy use from sustainable sources are our In 2017, we raised 9,140 seedlings ongoing priorities. We have been reviewing from 24 species of plants in our forest alternative sources of renewable energy to nurseries. We planted 2,899 saplings in reduce greenhouse gas emissions, diversify High Conservation Value areas. All areas our energy supplies, and identify cost savings. where trees had been planted in this year and Palm oil fibre and shell are waste byprevious years were maintained by control of products of oil palm production. This readily competing weeds and replacement of trees available biomass is a valuable source of that had died. energy generation and as an opportunity Our community education programme to reduce waste and save costs with fibre is a key component to the success of our disposal. With an investment of almost conservation and sustainability efforts. Staff US$10,000, we installed an empty fruit bunch exchange knowledge and best practices with shredder in November 2017, a processing local villagers to promote sustainability, machine specially designed to crush the fibre including the preservation of traditional into small pieces. After crushing, the waste ways of life. Throughout the year, we can be used to fire the boiler plant, reducing monitored the conservation areas and our dependency on diesel to produce steam installed boundary markers and informative and power from the mill’s boiler that supplies signs. This monitoring sometimes reveals electricity for staff housing. damage by villagers and workers who wish We also set up 14 solar panel units on to pursue their own horticulture activities in the roof of our workers’ accommodation areas where it is not allowed. We rehabilitate units. With battery capacities at about 4,800 damaged areas through our tree planting WH, these installations have helped us to programme. reduce the run time of our diesel generators. In the ongoing schools’ tree nursery In addition to cost savings, these lowers the programme, we have given out 1,000 overall carbon emissions of the plantations. At Timika’s plantation, solar panels are installed at a number of workers accommodation units. 25 Responsible Supply Chain We create value for our customers and society at large through our in-depth knowledge in moving raw materials from the place of production or extraction to the place of consumption. Wherever we source products, we believe the workers that have produced them and the communities living near the sourcing locations should be treated with dignity and respect. We want to ensure that there is no link between our business activities and adverse human rights impacts through our business relationships. We take a holistic approach to managing these supply chain risks. This includes implementing robust due diligence and continuous monitoring programmes to evaluate and manage foreseeable risks and social impacts from our supply chains. Through ongoing community involvement and consultation, we tailor engagement programmes to address community concerns; in particular, we acknowledge the rights of indigenous people to customary land. We support rural social infrastructure and improve access to quality education, healthcare, clean water and sanitation to benefit host communities. Together, these steps help us develop supply chains in a responsible manner. Principle 1: businesses should support and Our Commitment respect the protection of internationally | 102-16 | proclaimed human rights; and Noble is committed to uphold the United Principle 2: make sure that they are not Nations Universal Declaration of Human complicit in human rights abuses. Rights. The Declaration proclaims fundamental human rights principles, while at a community perspective, the access to public services are the foundation for growth and economic development. Our effort to prevent, address and remedy human rights issues is guided by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our policies set out ethical principles programmes are designed to respect the to guide employees in carrying out their significant cultural values of the areas where duties and responsibilities. These principles we originate resources, conforming to our require the highest standards of personal and Sustainability Policy. Regular meetings with corporate integrity when dealing on behalf indigenous groups in the host regions provide of the Group with its customers, suppliers, an open platform to align business practices competitors and community members. with community needs and expectations. We Since 2016, we have published an are pleased to report that in 2017 we received annual statement on the efforts we take no formal complaints of any violations of the to address human rights issues, following rights of indigenous people. the introduction of the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015. The statement Social and environmental underscores our commitment to supply risk management in Project chain accountability. Together with our sustainability report, it illustrates how we Finance prevent slavery and human trafficking at | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 412-3 | Noble and in our supply chains. Strategic investments along the supply chain Community and Growth enable greater flexibility to meet our needs for infrastructure, logistics, storage and | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 | transport access. In line with our asset-light strategy, we assist our origination partners When we build out our supply chains into through participating in funding solutions new territories and activities, the business and using our financial expertise, networks and financial service functions are responsible and know-how to bring product to world for investigating any past, current or potential markets. liabilities and breaches of human rights as a When we participate in a project, we part of the due diligence process. Alongside ensure our partners are conducting their these reviews, we identify and subsequently business in a socially and environmentally support infrastructure improvements and sound way, and free from the risks of modern address basic needs such as education, slavery and human trafficking. Our asset health and wellbeing, in order to serve our development team and technical consultants employees and community members. (in-house and external) visit target locations In 2017, we continued to make significant to evaluate the inherent risk factors for each community investments in Jamaica and transaction. These assessments include Indonesia, amongst other places. At a global consideration of risks arising from past or level, we have invested over US$ 636,000 in potential environmental damage, including our global outreach and community projects, any possible negative impacts on community not including the costs of administration. health, wellbeing and livelihood. Through our outreach programmes we We have a formalised process to review undertake community investments in 75% of and approve capital investment, and internal the countries in which we have a significant experts are involved to evaluate the analyses presence. Our partnerships on the ground and consider any issues that arise. A typical provide local understanding and networks to transaction may include the acquisition of a allow us to identify and deliver services that small stake in a production asset, a preferred surrounding communities need the most. offtake or marketing partnership, or may involve working capital financing which INDIGENOUS RELATIONS sometimes results in an exclusive provider agreement for supply chain management and | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 411-1 | logistics services. We typically work in partnership with Noble recognises its responsibility to foster market-leading asset managers and owners, a respectful and enduring relationship with who originate product for us. The vast traditional land owners near our activities. majority of whom are public companies, We are committed to obtain their Free, this of itself provides an additional source of Prior and Informed Consent in advance transparency. We also usually will have Board of any development. Our engagement 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 representation and, where necessary, we There are particular concerns in Central commission further external industry experts Africa that mineral sales can provide possible to conduct detailed assessments on the health funding for armed groups. For Noble, these and safety, and the social and environmental risks are relevant to our minerals trade performance of our potential investments with the Democratic Republic of Congo and origination sources. Following the and adjoining countries. Consequently we assessments, we collaborate with our continue to focus on this area of concern partners to implement recommended policies to mitigate potential reputational risks and or processes. In 2017, we made no significant conform to the Organisation for Economic transactions5 (above US$5 million) that Co-operation and Development (OECD) due required enhanced human rights screening. diligence guidance to assure we source solely with responsible supply chain participants. Due diligence for minerals In 2012, we formalised our Conflict Minerals Policy and created a mechanism supply chains to implement the policy. Both our policy | 103-1, 103-2, 103-3| and due diligence framework are reviewed annually. All minerals trades are vetted Noble trades a variety of physical commodities through Noble’s know your counterparty and provides value-enhancing solutions to procedures. It focuses on reducing potential our network of customers across the globe. reputational and compliance risks, including Our scale provides certain benefits and human rights practices of suppliers, by economies as well as challenges. Naturalimplementing further integrity checks to resource use, environmental concerns, and complement existing risk systems. customer expectations are among the top Noble’s employees and their independent challenges in supply chain management. representatives are regularly visiting mines in As our teams unlock new opportunities Africa to witness and manage risks at points to secure long-term physical flows, we of extraction and processing. Noble also form strategic partnerships with marketaccumulates, through its network of offices leading raw materials producers and asset and service providers such as independent developers with a strong focus on supply inspectors, detailed information on the chain integrity and sustainable sourcing. production profile of our suppliers. These collaborations enable a high level of product traceability and transparency across | 102-13 | our value chains. Our partners also have explicit policies We support a joint industry approach to in place to manage the environmental and address concerns over mineral traceability sustainability risks associated with the and promote local economic development. raw material production. Those policies Noble is a member of the ITRI Tin Supply are aligned to international management Chain Initiative (iTSCi) Programme and and essential performance standards. International Tungsten Industry Association, These process standards help us, and our we continue to work closely with other partners, meet demanding bulk commodity traceability program initiatives, and all our specifications and standards. receiving smelters meet the criteria of being conflict-free under the Responsible Minerals | 417-1 | Initiative. The minerals industry continues to address human rights issues, especially when extraction takes place in regions of conflict. 5 The threshold of above US$5 million is used to define transaction as significant. A committee made up of senior management executives participates in the review process for such transactions. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Prioritise education, improve the quality of education across the island. Our staff and trusted NGOs social renewal and staff carry out renovations and raise funds volunteering to upgrade facilities at needy schools. In Jamaica, our community Here are a few examples of projects we development and empowerment supported in 2017. programme has entered its third year. At Broadleaf Primary School in South From building skills to supporting social Manchester, the classroom for Grade renewal, we are playing an active role in 6 students became overcrowded and the Jamaican mining community. Our run-down. The school received a grant efforts are supported by the strong culture and in partnership with the Ministry of staff volunteering at the Jamalco of Education a new classroom block is bauxite mining and alumina refinery. Our now under construction. The Education employees contributed more than 7,300 Ministry’s funding will cover the cost of hours in the community to build and window and door installation, electrical renovate dilapidated rural schools and work and painting. social facilities in 2017. At Winston Jones High School, we sponsored the renovation of the welding FACILITIES UPGRADE AND SKILLS laboratory. This enables the school to TRAININGS facilitate training in welding and metal fabrication that meet the national Education across Jamaica faces technical qualification requirements. infrastructure challenges due to low In Clarendon & Manchester, we levels of funding. Many institutions lack donated 100 computer tablets and basic facilities and classrooms, while supported teacher training in 12 primary unskilled workers are engaged in lowschools. The training was necessary to income jobs as the unemployment rate assist the students to take full advantage is high. We collaborate with the Ministry of the new programme. of Education, Youth and Information to New tools for metal fabrication are donated to the welding laboratory of the Winston Jones High School. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 A school greenhouse is a good way Primary, Mile Gully High and Richmond to reconnect students with nature and Park Primary schools. Starting in 2018, teach them valuable lessons on the origin trainings will be arranged for both of their food and about horticulture. teachers and students to plant their first Three greenhouses were constructed crops. with our funding at the Mitchell Town SUPPORT STAFF VOLUNTEERING IN SOCIAL RENEWAL PROJECTS Every year, staff from Jamalco organise themselves to embark on sponsored refurbishment and renovation projects in the nearby schools and social facilities. In 2017, various projects received funding and voluntary support. The teams helped with decorations and painting at seven schools to create an attractive environment for children to learn and grow. A new bus shed was built at the Blenheim and Bethel Isle subdivision, to benefit the community as a whole. At Pratville Primary School, there are plans to build a multi-purpose court. One bus shed will be built in the Sheckles community. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI Content index | 102-55 | EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE REMARKS / OMISSIONS ASSURANCE GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Noble Group About Noble Group (3) Primary brands, products About Noble Group (3), 2017 Annual Report 102-2 and services (8-12) Noble Group's 102-3 Head Office (1) headquarters About Noble Group (3) 102-4 Countries of operations 2017 Annual Report (8-12) 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Noble Group (3) About Noble Group (3) 102-6 Market served 2017 Annual Report (8-12) About Noble Group (3) 102-7 Scale of the organisation Our People (13) 2017 Annual Report (2, 40-45, 138) Employee and workforce 102-8 Our People (13) information 102-9 Supply chain description About Noble Group (3) Significant changes to the 102-10 2017 Annual Report (4-6) organisation 102-11 Precautionary approach Business Integrity (18) External charters and 102-12 A Message from our CEO (2) principles A Message from our CEO (2) Memberships of Business Integrity (19) 102-13 associations Environment (24) GRI 102: General Responsible Supply Chain (28) Disclosures 2016 STRATEGY 102-14 CEO message A Message from our CEO (2) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Our People (11) Values, principles, standards Business Integrity (17, 18) 102-16 and norms Environment (21) Responsible Supply Chain (26) GOVERNANCE Roles and governance (18) 102-18 Governance structure 2017 Annual Report (22-37) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Understanding our Responsibility (5, 6) Noble’s workforce being mostly officeCollective bargaining 102-41 Our People (12) based is not covered by specific agreements collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Indentification of stakeholders Understanding our Responsibility (5, 6) Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Understanding our Responsibility (5, 6) engagement Key concerns raised by 102-44 Understanding our Responsibility (5, 6) stakeholders REPORTING PRACTICE 2017 Annual Report (138) Entities included in the http://www.thisisnoble.com/images/ 102-45 financial statements investors/financialInformation/ annualReport/ar2017.pdf 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE REMARKS / OMISSIONS ASSURANCE Report content and aspect About this Report (4) 102-46 boundaries Identifying material issues (6-7) 102-47 List of material aspects Identifying material issues (6-7) 102-48 Effect of any restatements No restatements from previous year Significant changes to scope 102-49 No significant changes from previous year and aspect boundaries REPORT PROFILE 102-50 Reporting period About this Report (4) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of previous report May 31, 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report (4) 102-53 Contact point Head Office (1) This report has been prepared External Assurance (5) 102-54 in accordance with the GRI GRI content index (31-35) Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index (31-35) External assurance policy and External Assurance (5) 102-56 practice Ernst & Young’s assurance statement (36-38) MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach 2017 Annual Report (4-6) Approach 2016 103-3 Direct economic value 2017 Annual Report (38-39) 201-1 generated and distributed Financial Highlights (4) Financial implications and other risks and opportunities GRI 201: Economic 201-2 Environment (25) for the organization's activities Performance 2016 due to climate change Coverage of the organization's 2017 Annual Report (152) 201-3 defined benefit plan Our People (12) obligations ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Business Integrity (18-20) Approach 2016 103-3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks 205-1 Business Integrity (18-19) related to corruption and the significant risks identified GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Communication and training 205-2 on anti-corruption policies and Business Integrity (20) procedures Confirmed incidents of 205-3 Business Integrity (20) corruption and actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Environment (22) Approach 2016 103-3 Energy Consumption Within 302-1 Environment (23) the Organization GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy Intensity Environment (23) Reduction of Energy 302-4 Environment (22) Consumption EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Environment (22) Approach 2016 103-3 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE REMARKS / OMISSIONS ASSURANCE Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 305-1 Environment (23) Emissions (Scope 1) Energy Indirect Greenhouse 305-2 Environment (23) Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) Other Indirect Greenhouse GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Environment (23) Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 305-4 Environment (23) Emissions Intensity Reduction of Greenhouse Gas 305-5 Environment (22, 24) (GHG) Emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Environment (24) Approach 2016 103-3 GRI 306: Effluents and Total number and volume of 306-3 Environment (24) Waste 2016 significant spills ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Environment (21, 22) Approach 2016 103-3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of GRI 307: Environmental non-monetary sanctions 307-1 Environment (21, 22) Compliance 2016 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Our disclosure includes both Management Approach Our People (12-13) Approach 2016 103-3 employees and contractors. Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 Our People (14) turnover by age group, gender and region LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12) Approach 2016 103-3 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, GRI 402: Labor/Management 402-1 including whether these Our People (12) Relations 2016 are specified in collective agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (14) Approach 2016 103-3 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, GRI 403: Occupational Health lost days, and absenteeism, 403-2 Our People (14) and Safety 2016 and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12-14) Approach 2016 103-3 It is our regular practice to include permanent employees who are employed on 30 September of the Percentage of employees performance year in our appraisal receiving regular performance GRI 404: Training and process. In 2017, we did not enforce the 404-3 and career development Our People (12) Education 2016 appraisal process for all employees, as reviews, by gender and by we focused on macro changes around employee category our business, and secondly, there was wider dialogue on the effectiveness of this process. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE REMARKS / OMISSIONS ASSURANCE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12-13) Approach 2016 103-3 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 category according to gender, Our People (13, 17) Equal Opportunity 2016 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12) Approach 2016 103-3 Total number of incidents of GRI 406: Non406-1 discrimination and corrective Our People (12) discrimination 2016 actions taken FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Our disclosure includes both Management Approach Our People (12) Approach 2016 103-3 employees and contractors. Operations and suppliers identified in which the right GRI 407: Freedom of to exercise freedom of Association and Collective 407-1 association and collective Our People (12) Bargaining 2016 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD LABOR GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12) Approach 2016 103-3 Noble’s major operations are officeOperations and suppliers based, therefore child labor is not identified as having significant a significant risk to us. Having said risk for incidents of child GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 that, we make routine visits and labor, and measures taken to due diligence on Noble's origination contribute to the effective partners to minimise supply chain risk abolition of child labor on child labour. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Our People (12) Approach 2016 103-3 Operations and suppliers Noble’s major operations are officeidentified as having significant based, therefore forced labor is not risk for incidents of forced a significant risk to us. Having said GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 or compulsory labor, and that, we make routine visits and Compulsory Labor 2016 measures to contribute to due diligence on Noble's origination the elimination of all forms of partners to minimise supply chains risk forced or compulsory labor on forced or compulsory labor. RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (27) Approach 2016 103-3 Total number of incidents of GRI 412: Human Rights violations involving rights of 411-1 Responsible Supply Chain (27) Assessment 2016 indigenous peoples and actions taken HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (27-28) Approach 2016 103-3 Total number and percentage of significant investment GRI 412: Human Rights agreements and contracts that 412-3 Responsible Supply Chain (27-28) Assessment 2016 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (27) Approach 2016 103-3 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE REMARKS / OMISSIONS ASSURANCE Percentage of operations with implemented local community GRI 413: Local Our People (15) 413-1 engagement, impact Communities 2016 Responsible Supply Chain (27) assessments, and development programs MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Responsible Supply Chain (26) Approach 2016 103-3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 information and labeling, Responsible Supply Chain (28) Labeling 2016 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management 103-1, 103-2, Management Approach Business Integrity (18-19) Approach 2016 103-3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonGRI 419: Socioeconomic monetary sanctions for non419-1 Business Integrity (19) Compliance 2016 compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement | 102-56 | Independent Limited Assurance Report in relation to Noble Group Limited’s Sustainability Report 2018 TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY OF NOBLE GROUP LIMITED The Report has been prepared by management of Noble (the “Management”), SCOPE who are responsible for the collection We have been engaged by the management and presentation of the information of Noble Group Limited (“Noble”) to perform within the Report in accordance with the a limited assurance engagement on the reporting criteria, namely the Principles in information in Noble’s Sustainability Report AA1000APS(2008), and the specific criteria 2018 (the “Report”). Noble has defined the from the ‘Core Option’ of the GRI Standards. scope of the Report in the GRI Content Index Further, Noble’s management is on pages 31-35 in the Report. responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation SUBJECT MATTER AND APPLICABLE CRITERIA and presentation of the information contained within the Report that is free from The Subject Matter for our limited assurance material misstatement, whether due to fraud engagement included: or error, selecting and applying appropriate • The selected sustainability performance criteria, maintaining adequate records and indicators listed on pages 31-35 making estimates that are reasonable in the (except for indicators under “Energy” circumstances. and “Emissions”) for the year ended 31 December 2017. ASSURANCE PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY • Disclosures on stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment. Our responsibility, in accordance with Noble • Reported alignment to the self-declared management’s instructions, is to carry out ‘Core Option’ of the ‘in accordance’ a limited assurance engagement in respect requirements of the Global Reporting of the Subject Matter contained within the Initiative’s (“GRI”) Sustainability Report, and to express a limited assurance Reporting Standards. conclusion based on our engagement. Our assurance engagement has been The following criteria have been applied: planned and performed in accordance • The principles of Inclusivity, Materiality with International Standard on Assurance and Responsiveness (“the Principles”), Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Standard 2008 (“AA1000APS(2008)”) Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by AccountAbility. issued by the International Auditing and • Specific criteria from the ‘Core Option’ Assurance Standards Board and in accordance of the GRI Sustainability Reporting with the requirements of a Type 2 assurance Standards (the “GRI Standards”) issued engagement in AA1000 Assurance Standard by the GRI. 2008 (“AA1000AS(2008)”) issued by AccountAbility. The reporting criteria as set out in the ‘Core Option’ of the GRI Standards and the Principles as set out in AA1000APS (2008) have been used as criteria against which to evaluate the Report. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 WORK PERFORMED INHERENT LIMITATIONS The limited assurance procedures performed There are inherent limitations in performing included, but were not limited to: assurance. Assurance engagements are based • Conducting a site visit to Noble’s on selective testing of the information being headquarters in Hong Kong and examined, and it is possible that fraud, error, interviewing selected business units and or non-compliance may occur and not be group level personnel to understand the detected. Adherence to AA1000APS(2008) current overall status of sustainability and the GRI principles is subjective and activities and the report information will be interpreted differently by different collection and compilation approach; stakeholder groups. • Determining whether material topics Our assurance was limited to Noble’s and performance issues identified during Sustainability Report 2018. We have only our procedures had been adequately sought evidence to support key information disclosed, by benchmarking against and data contained in the Report. We did not the key issues raised in external media assess the accuracy or fairness of financial reports, sustainability reports of Noble’s information or forward-looking statements peers and Noble’s stakeholder dialogues; made by the Management. • Understanding the expectations and needs of Noble’s major stakeholders, LEVEL OF ASSURANCE how Noble responds to these Our evidence gathering procedures have expectations and needs, and the been designed to obtain a limited level of communication channels between assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) to draw the stakeholders and Noble through our conclusion. The procedures conducted interview and checking related do not provide all the evidence that would supporting documents; be required in a reasonable assurance • Performing analytical tests and detailed engagement and, accordingly, we do not testing for material qualitative and express a reasonable assurance conclusion quantitative information on a sample or an audit opinion, as the level of assurance basis; obtained in a limited assurance engagement • Checking the arithmetical accuracy of is substantially lower than the assurance the calculations performed; that would be obtained had a reasonable • Checking if data and statements assurance engagement been performed. had been correctly transcribed from While we considered the effectiveness of corporate systems and/or supporting the Management’s internal controls when evidence into the Report; determining the nature and extent of our • Sample testing of reported data, procedures, our review was not designed to performance statements, claims and provide assurance on internal controls. case studies in the Report, against the relevant reporting criteria as set out in LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION GRI Standards; and • Assessing Noble’s disclosures associated Based on the limited assurance procedures with the alignment to the Principles in specified above, nothing has come to our AA1000APS(2008). attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 USE OF REPORT Our firm applies Hong Kong Standard on Quality Control (HKSQC) 1, “Quality Our responsibility in performing our Control for Firms that Perform Audits and assurance activities is to the directors of Reviews of Historical Financial Information, Noble only and in accordance with the and Other Assurance and Related Services terms of reference for this engagement Engagements” which conforms with as agreed with them. We do not therefore International Standard on Quality Control accept or assume any responsibility for any (ISQC) 1, “Quality Control for Firms that other purpose or to any other person or Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical organisation. Any reliance any such third Financial Information, and other Assurance party may place on this report is entirely at and Related Services Engagements”. its own risk. The applicable criteria are designed solely for the purpose of the preparation of the Subject Matter included in the Report and, as a result, the subject matter information may not be suitable for another purpose. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL We have complied with the independence and ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Code of Ethics issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and Ernst & Young due care, confidentiality and professional Hong Kong behavior. 31 May 2018 38 www.thisisnoble.com
